

GAELIC WHISKY.
■
LAMB’S RUM
The Bulletin
V01.24.—N0. 1227.]
[Thursday, August 20, 1903.
Kegistered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
I£. <Gr. WATKINS &Z 00-,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application*
Most
Up-to-Date 1
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L, HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
*
•‘e*rs,**ci Prix,” PariB, 1900.
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
THE WORLD’S RECORD
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
AGENTS :
co
&
z
g
5m
!: BBH
tfc3
C9
P
3
■o
5
w
CD
©
CO
Hi
■ I
.
ancfard
roken
17 Years’
RACKAROCK
.
(an Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
: s >
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
SUCH IS LIFE!
SUCH IS LIFE!
SUCH IS LIFE I
Now Beady.
A new book in The
Bulletin Library.
A story of Riverina’s
early days.
In handsome cloth,
decorated: price,
4s. 6d.
Send postal note or
stamps to
The Bulletin office,
and the book will be
posted to any address
immediately on pub-
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, shoeing sufferers how they may OURIJ
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St,
USB
<>>vv v;>
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
m,
the Clyde Engineering Csr, Lt°
Hopper Waj
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing'.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 Iss. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the beat and strongest in .Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms whc say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
'*ent. more for 3’our
requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfem, SYDNEY
«TOB SFECIAL No. a
nelirered at any Wharf 9r
N.B.W. Kailways, Station
£lO 10/-
SCEPTICS
OR
The following report by
two of Sydney's leading
Accountants ought to con-
vince the greatest sceptic
that
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
MUST have some merit
in it to command this big
increase in its sales
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt St., Sydney.
16th, June, 1903.
We hereby certify that we have ex-
amined the books of The Capilla Pro-
prietary, and find therefrom that,
comparing’ the period March to May,
1903, with that of 1902, the sales of
RICHARDS’ CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
show the large increase of over 48 per
cent., which means that the demand
has increased one-half--in other words,
for every 94 bottles sold last year 140
are now being sold.
(Signed) W. ROBERTSON, P.S.I.A.
(Signed) W. E. JOHNSON, A.S.I.A.
CAPILLA is obtainable at all Chemists throughout
the Commonwealth and New Zealand at 2s. 6d. a
bottle, posted for 3s. 3d. ; full course, 17s. 2d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND INVENTOR,
164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Ftory Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d,
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes.


THE RED PAGE.
The Psalm of Life and Death.
111.
OFT have I sat within the quiet shrine
Of some old master of autumnal calm,
To win the very spirit of their psalm
Of victory, to sit like them divine
Crowned with undying palm.
Nobly they speak : if thou wouldst be at rest
And bathe in stillness, losing life’s sick fear,
Uueager, wise, thy soul a golden sphere,
Have no opinion, and let thy best
Depart without a tear.
JAMES
HEBBLETH WAITE.
Or yet another: bear
with all thy foes,
Have leisure, look as
from a window sill.
For recollection life
with being fill,
Love silence like a lion
in repose,
And move by perfect
will.
Bring in their last per-
fection all thy powers
In action to a point; or
let thy deeds
Fall as the ripened
olives for the needs
Of man ; or be as
clustered grapes in
bowers,
Not fruitless as the
weeds.
A lamp take from thy sacristy and burn
Before that elder silence, very wide
And deep, anterior to all man’s pride
And shuffling earthward pomp of his return
With pismires to abide.
The round of Death! Ah, what shall keep us
calm
In front of that great doom ?, The island place,
Dear to old Egypt’s queen, called Samothrace,
Philse, Eleusis, have no chant or psalm
To soften that dread Face.
There is an ancient land, a nook of earth
Older than old antiquities, where go
In childhood’s dream, the camels, devious, slow,
By palm and well, and One came to his birth
In dwelling very low.
And now a man I read the Life again
And feel its perfect beauty : very sweet
The mild pure virgin ; beautiful the feet
Of Gabriel; and glad the angel strain
The shepherd men repeat.
Softly I go with those who come from far
Mesopotamia, though not a king
With gifts of spices rare and massy ring
Of purest gold : beneath the burning star
My heart’s true love I bring.
I share his growth, and make with him the plough,
The yoke, the, staff ; and learn of springing corn,
Lily and asphodel, and lamb new-born ;
And watch swept by the waves the great reeds
bow
In wilderness forlorn.
I trace his footprints from the farthest fount
Of Jordan, by the lake of Galilee,
To Moab and the shores of that dark sea,
And, as thou goest to the west, a mount,
World’s sorrow, Calvary.
And on he leads me till I find out God, —
I feel him in my soul and am at rest;
He is an instinct sure, a glorious guest;
And though he slay in doom, the valley clod
Is sweet upon my breast.
His kingdom is within : there he is known
In growing revelation to the pure
As man evolves to spirit, slow and sure,
And knows with laughter he is not alone —
God and the soul endure !
So perfect is Christ’s being he can hear
God speak as Father, and the Gospel grows
Within his heart, yea, blossoms as the rose,
And opens to all those who shed the tear
Of penitential woes.
There is no other guide: he is the Breath
Of Spirit life; the Satisfaction given
To all who hunger for the Bread ; the Leaven ;
The Stream ; the Light; the Shepherd who ir
Death
Shall pen our souls for Heaven.
But leave the mystery : to those who love
His will is clear The naked, hungry, worn,
The feeble, and the captive wan and torn,
Are prisons of him : look not thou above ;
In them he dwells forlorn.
The long delay is ours, on us the blame,
For he is crying with a love-torn face :
I am earth’s sorrow, open, give me place ;
See, I am all that falls, that sinks in shame —
Me arid my wounds embrace.
And over all the world his sound goes out
In wailing ; he is voice for those who weep
By Babylonian waters, those who sleep
Before their noon, for all who sit in doubt,
In cold and anguish creep.
The shadowy doors of death are thick with souls
Who never knew that God’s dear Fatherhood
Makes all men brothers : taste the bitter flood
Of their salt tears ; and, O, what ocean rolls
Its foam and froth of blood ?
0, hear the phantom drum and see them rise,
Innumerable armies ; every sod
Is quick with them ; and foul ambition’s. rod
Is helpless as they march with fearful cries
Right to. the throne of God.
No time of love had we, no light, no fire,
We clapped the rocks for shelter, and our bones
Were wet with mountain rain, and our sad moans
Were all our music, as we went in mire.
And died on desert stones.
The mighty slayers thrust us down to crime,
And poverty, and cut us off from all
Of pure and noble thought, and made us fall
For their feet's treading—is it not the time
The truce, O God, to call?
Thus saith the Lord, is bassed through all my
dream,
Ye haughty ones who say life would be dull
Without the trodden poor, I will annul
Your covenant with Death : see, by the gleam
My cup of wrath is full.
I made them upright, £>roke their cruel bands
Of sense, and gave them beauty for a dower, —
Not faces seamed with grief, not backs that cower
To earth in longing—broad and beauteous lands,
And fruitful sun and shower.
Their voices whisper to me from the dust ;
We have no part with thee ; we are not thine ;
We have no Father. Children, ye are mine ;
And to mankind I gave this earth in trust
To make a world divine.
But you, ye rich, who dream beneath Life’s tree
Beside the slum, the scaffold, and the jail ;
My workman Christ is saving ; ye shall pale
When the oppressed shall say, why I am free;
No longer will I ail !
Your face shall gather darkness as ye reap
Your sowing : share with all of Life’s delight
Before the whirlwind break from blackest height,
And sweep you down with shouting to Death’s
sleep
And shades of endless night.
The Bush sinks into silence, and mine eyes
Are wet with tears that man in his decay,
After his toil and woe, should have no day
Of quiet at the end, while sunlight dies «
And shadow fills his way.
0, ye sad rich, give to your brother man
The little that now makes his heart’s desire ;
A few short hours before the winter fire
To think upon the vernal time and scan
The road that leads him higher.
The road ! Look on that face remote in death,
Quiescent, mute, its parting with the sun
And human tears and love for ever done,
Truly at home—has that which here drew breath
Another life begun ?
If death be all, alas, for those who lie
Forgotten with a waste and broken heart,
Who knew of life naught but the pang and smart,
And spent their moment here in one long sigh,
A sad and dreary part.
If death be all, O let him come as friend
And gift of nature —even as our birth—
Who after we have lived in love and mirth
Unarms us in some day’s most glorious end
To sleep in quiet earth.
And this were well! But yet as shadows creep
The yearning comes and we are fain to soar
On wings of hope, abreast with Him who bore
Our sorrow, and for those who sigh and weep
Still opens wide a door.
IV.
The sheoak log has fallen into dust,
The candle has a shroud, the wattles peep
Into my window, and the fall of sleep
Weighs down my lids, but ere I go I must
Bring something from the deep.
The fruits of autumn lie in Spring’s sweet bloom
Uncankered : so with us the child if pure
In all his being and in truth secure,
Has promise of those things that ’scape the tomb,
Forever to endure.
O, early teach him of those awful powers •
In which we stand oppressed until we know
That God is our great Father, —so shall flow
Peace grave and beautiful in all his hours,
And fruits of duty grow.
If God be Father then all men are one
In Brotherhood, and dream and purer flame,
And keener sight, are for the sons of shame,
The weak, the lost, in service never done,
In spite of scorn and blame.
And he must ever watch at side
Lest any man should fall again and bleed,
Remembering that solemn rite and creed,
And royal crown, have most his life denied
And ranked him as the weed.
Let him not shame, but in his heart confess
His dearest kin with those who suffer dearth
For Song leaving the world’s loud noise and
mirth ;
And on their graves within the wilderness
Scatter the kindly earth.
His native land is holy, he must fill
Its heart with recollections pure and high,
Memorial; so shall he dreaming lie
Beneath the altar, knowing vale and hill
Are sacred with his sigh.
J.H.
Man and Super-Man, a new play by Bernard
Shaw, was copyrighted in London in June. Based
apparently on a book with the Same title, for issue
presently.
*l*o WRITERS.— The Critic, the premier
South Australian weekly, wants Christmas
Number contributions.
Send short stories, not exceeding 2500 words;
or interesting articles (those dealing with holiday
vacations, accompanied by good photographs,
will be particularly welcome).
Special remuneration for good matter.
Address, before October SI, “The Editor, The
Critic, Adelaide, S.A.”
BOOKFELLOW'S FUNERA L
The sad news communicated to-day will be
received everywhere with profound grief. Et tu,
Brunelysa ! Such a catastrophe was not entirely un-
expected. Vous I’avez voulu, Georges Danilin!
The attendant circumstances render it poignantly pa-
thetic. Sic transit gloria mundi! One thinks of the
ephemera, living only for the nuptial embrace. Vita
cum feminis mors est! One remembers the gallant
Wolfe, dying in the moment of victory. Sic itur ad
astra ! Flesh is grass : flowers fade : poor shuttlecocks
of destiny are we all. Vat victorious! The individual
dies, the race endures. Dux fetriina facti !
The account of the tragedy at the Solomon Islands is
fortunately full and precise. The writer, James Harri-
son, is plainly a man of great intelligence. He appears
to be established as a trader on the island of Choiseul.
His story is substantially as follows :
“ Singular as it may seem, some remarkable occurrence
has been expected by the natives for several months past.
They had a tradition of a kind of Messiah, a vanished
chieftain who should return to them out of the South,
and bring all the scattered tribes of the group under a
common rule. This personage was called in the Choiseul
dialect Magwa-Terao —the Bed Conqueror.
“ Yopr friend came on a Saturday. On the Wednesday
before his arrival I was surprised by a visit from Buhaga
—‘ Brown Cactus ’ queen of the tribe whose head-
quarters are in the west of the German island of Buka
She is a real Amazon, and what you would call a very fine
woman. I have had dealings with her in sandalwood and
tortoise-shell. She came accompanied by twenty of her
chiefs, in two canoes, and told me that she had certain
intelligence from her agagar, or witch-doctors, that the
advent of the Red Conqueror was immediately to be ex-
pected. She declared, further, that the Red Conqueror
would seek her out and make her his bride, and that it
was for this that she had remained single since the death
of her father, three years ago.
“This was explained to me with great circumstan-
tiality, and the chiefs evidently believed every word she
said. They made a camp near the beach, and every
night and morning Buhaga went down to a spot facing
the south, and sang a plaintive song which may be
translated thus—
“ My person is sacred, very sacred.
Awake, some favouring breeze ;
1 am longing for my husband.
41 Oh, for a steady breeze
Directed by the god s!
Great is the misery of her
Who counts her maiden moons.
“ In all thy might
Awake thou favouring wind ;
Yes, awake thou favouring wind ;
Some southerly breeze ;
So that Magiva-Terao may come
And be united to the bride
Who is longing for her husband.
“So they passed the time till Saturday, The Choiseul
natives offered no opposition, for Buhaga is a kind of
heroine in these islands. Your friend came about mid-
day on Saturday, having sailed over in a canoe from
Guadalcanal'. It really looked as if the meeting had been
pre-arranged. Buhaga rushed into the breakers to meet
him, and they came up the beach together. Everything
was settled that night. They were to be married on the
next day (Sunday), and then your friend was.to return to
Buka, and commence his mission of bringing all the
islands under one sway.
“ I can give you no idea of the impression made upon
the natives. They were simply fascinated, and grovelled
in the sand before him. Of course they could not under-
stand a word he said, but when he spoke they listened as
if they really heard the voice of a god. If the marriage
had taken place that night, all would have gone well. It
was the delay that was fatal.
V He spent the night with me, and we had a very
happy time. He recited some of his poetry, and told me
stories of his life in Australia. We went to bed about 3
a.m. At dawn I was roused by a knocking, and going to
the door I saw the biggest chief of Bougainville, Upoko-
Marama. He pointed to the beach. There were no fewer
than four hundred canoes drawn up there, and there
must have been over a thousand natives. They had just
arrived. There were representatives of nearly all the
tribes of the islands—Guadalcanar, Jlalaita, Mohaga',
Kausagi, Bougainville, and the islands to the east. They
were all armed to the teeth. I saw one or two of
Buhaga’s men ; they were lost in the crowd.
“ Your friend was still asleep. I was invited to a
council, where Upoko explained that their intentions
were peaceful, but the arrival of the Red Conqueror was
a matter of national regeneration, in which the whole of
the islands were concerned. All ought to share his bless-
ings. The heads of the tribes had consulted, and decided
that Buhaga could not he permitted to monopolise him.
Buhaga, who was present, protested fruitlessly. All that
she could gain was that she should be permitted to he the
Red Conqueror’s first wife. I was told to'inform him that
each of the thirty-three tribes there represented had
selected a chief’s widow or chief’s daughter, and that the
marriage must take place that evening.
“ Expostulation was useless : I never saw natives so
unanimous before. Hundreds of them immediately set
about felling coco-palms, and by noon a large pavilion
was built. The Choiseul natives had thrown in their lot
with the others, and had nominated a bride ; and their
women prepared the marriage-feast. No fewer than a
hundred pigs were slaughtered, and those of the largest
size.
“ When I told your friend, he seemed astonished ;
but quickly recovered and went and fraternised with the
natives. I never admired a man so much. His ascendancy
over them was complete. But it was in vain for me to
try and alter their plan. Towards evening, however, I
managed to get a man off to Guadalcanar, with an urgent
note to the Commissioner, asking him to come at once.
I could not hope, however, that he would arrive before
morning, and then I feared it would be too late.
“The banquet was a wonderful spectacle. The Red
Conqueror made several speeches, and the natives
literally hung on his lips. It lasted five hours. At sun-
set the pavilion was cleared, and the thirty-four brides,
with Buhaga at their head, were brought up. They were
a splendid lot of women, the pick of the islands. Chief
after chief spoke, exhorting the Red Conqueror, and
prophesying a new era in the'Solomons. He could not
talk very well ; but he was very erect and proud. He
shook my hand and murmured “ Hercules. . . Ireland
expects. . . Good-bye, old fellow.” Then they were led
away. Buhaga was crying ; but the Red Conqueror
looked glorious. A great man !
“ I was kept under a kind of surveillance : the chiefs
were afraid I might interfere. I went to my house, but
did not get to sleep till nearly daylight. When I woke,
it was about eight o’clock. The foreign natives,
with the exception of Buhaga’s lot, had all disappeared.
The Red Conqueror was sitting down near the beach, with
his back against a coco-palm. Buhaga was coaxing him
to eat; but it was too near the end. A ghost of a smile
welcomed me. I gave him a little • whiskey, and he
recovered somewhat. He handed me some manu-
script, with the ink still 'wet, and requested me to
forward it to you. xVn hour later he breathed his last.
Buhaga rushed into the sea, shrieking, and would have
drowned herself, hut was rescued by her chiefs. They
spoke to her of the future of the tribe. That calmed her.
She was put into a canoe, half-unconscious, and they
sailed off.
“At noon the Commissioner came in his launch. I
gave him the body, embalmed by a native method which
gives it all the appearance of life. It will he taken to
Sydney in the Ovalau.”
Victor James Daley.
TO Victor Daley fell a spark of the fire that
glowed in the bards of Ulster more than a
thousand years ago. A spark only: yet it has
warmed many a bosom in a land that the fairies
never haunted, in an age when poetry is but the
shadow of an ancient dream.
Victor James Daley was born sth September, 1858, at
the townland of Navan, county Armagh, Ireland--in the
very seat and centre of romance. Beneath Navan rath
lies the ruin of King Conor’s palace of Emania that con-
tained one hundrpS and fifty rooms, each large enough
for three couples to sleep in, built of red oak and bor-
dered with copper. In the king’s own chamber, decorated
with bronze and silver, perched golden birds with eyes
of precious stones ;'and there the king and thirty of his
chosen warriors would sit, and hearken to the bards who
sang the prowess of the knights of the Red Branch. And
a large vat, always full of good drink, stood ever on the
palace floor.
At a little distance was the mound commemorating
Orasibh Ruadh or Creeve Roe—the palace of the Red
Branch, where the heads and arms of vanquished enemies
were kept. On every knoll around grew the lonely
thorns that had watched the good people dancing on the
banks of Navan lough. They have grown few and shy,
alas ! —but on May eve a boy could watch them fearfully.
He might even see the snake who guards the golden
treasure in the depth of the lough, disturbed in his long
slumber, rise to shake a menacing head at the fairy
tumult.
In such a land of legend Daley grew up. He knew
every rath and cairn, every ruined castle, every haunted
house and fairy ring, for ten miles around. He had little
schooling ; but often at night, with every aperture in the
house closed or darkened, he helped to cast Fenian
bullets. All his father’s family were Fenians : his uncle
a sub-centre. His father was a Daley or O’Daley, alto-
gether Celtic ; his mother a Morrison, of Scottish descent.
The O’Daleys were among the chief of Irish bardic septs,
and the family motto was given in Burke as “ Laudes
cano heroiim.” “ They were always poor and improvi-
dent."
When about fourteen years old, Victor Daley was taken
to Plymouth. He went to school for a year, and then
became a clerk in the Great Western Railway office,
remaining three years. At the instance of. friends in
Adelaide, Daley came to Australia bpfore he was twenty.
“Australia” was the vague name of a vague country ;
and Daley landed in Sydney by mistake. lie had little
money, and took employment as a gardener in Darling-
hurst. He held the place a fortnight—a week’s work and
a week’s notice.
Going to Adelaide, he became a correspondence clerk,
and gave satisfaction ; but grew tired of the work, and
left for Melbourne on his way to New Caledonia. At
Melbourne he went to the races, lost his money, and
remained. Presently he tried his hand at writing for
The Carlton Advertiser— about race-horses. He was
taken on the staff, and wrote leaders about Bismarck and
verses about Ireland. Then, with a friendly musician,
he started “tramping over Australia.” With swag up,
he got as far as Queanbeyan, N.S.W., and for five months
was editor of The Queanbeyan Times. Coming to
Sydney, he was employed on Punch, and then on 2he
Bulletin. For the last fifteen years he has been in Mel-
bourne and Sydney* writing for a dozen papers. His
book of verses, At Dawn and Dusk, was published in
1898. The greater part of his work in verse and prose
has not been collected.
&
Considered in their full extent, "Victor Daley’s
verses represent the most substantial poetical perfor-
mance yet completed in this country. In essential
poetry, in Australian character, and in some of the com,
ponents of technical quality, he has been surpassed fre-
quently. But there is no one who has written so well
and so continuously during so long a period. The
magnitude of his accomplishment outweighs isolated
achievement that is slenderer, though finer. With
many rills he has made a river, and his influence and
inspiration have been felt none the less because they ha\e
been exerted little by little, from time to time. In a
summary of verse, we owe more to him than to any
other local writer.
The chief poetical qualities of Daley’s verse are fluency,
spontaneity, colour of phrase, and charm of allusion.
His sense of the values of words is deficient ; often he
fails in inelodv ; he lacks high imagination, and very
rarelv exhibits "poignancy or passion. His work is based
rather on vision than on feeling. His mind is decorative :
he illuminates his theme as Columba might have illumi-
nated a missal. But his taste is faulty, and his ornament
is often overdone. Thus he misses the strength of sim-
plicity : when he is simple, it is usually an artificial sim-
plicity caught from Heine. Swinburne, Tennyson Cole-
ridge and others are echoed in his verse : his fabric of
hereditary fancy is shot with rich threads taken from
many a shuttle. He is an original writer, j’et not crea-
tively original : his fresh current flows between the time-
worn banks.
Daley’s work is tinctured with a tribal melancholy—
the tears of old, unhappy, far-off things and loves of long
a~o. He has the failing.pulse of a fading race. He
paints the dream of joy upon the canvas of l egret.
Touch after tender touch he adds, image after image,
until one forgets the artifice in emotion. His means are
almost purely pictorial, but his effect is poetry. His
dexterity, and the persistence of his dexterity, are re-
markable. In. 1900 he was writing as gracefully as in
1885, and with a fancy even more profuse. His art was
o-reater, and his life was scarcely less. And his serious
work during fifteen years, never rising to the highest,
rarely falls below his own height. He was artificer rather
than artist, but he was no mere artisan. Always there is
a little ebullition, a play of phrase or a flight of fancy, to
differentiate his work from journal-verse, to make it rare
in reading and worthy in memory.
&
Physically, Daley was of the medium height,
with a large head set on rather heavy shoulders. His
face showed his mixed ancestry : the eyes large, soft, and
dark in colour ; the nose strong, the mouth and chin
weak His hair and heard were brown, inclining to
reddish. Colour counted for as much in his physiognomy
as in his poetry; the plaster bust modelled by Illingworth
meets one strangely, so pronounced is the loss, lhe
features are those of a shrewd, even cynical person-
good-natured apparently, but leaving an impression quite
different from that of the man himself.
Personally, Daley was most estimable. There was no
strain of meanness in him, no taint of malice. The sad-
ness of his verse was an under-currertt; he was tempera-
mentally joyous, a cheerful comrade. His faults were
obvious"; his rare merits were often overlooked. He ivas
keenlv satiric, but I never Heard him say a word really
unkind. For a man, he was curiously virginal, with a
notable repugnance for gross thought or expression.
The heroines of his idylls were pure abstractions, with
bodily attributes only so far as necessary for the decoration
of verse. Very sane, very tolerant, with a very just idea
of the value of his own work and the work of others. A
true Bohemian, born beyond his time : a wanderer and
roisterer, a lover of art and beauty. Humourous, elo-
quent, with infectious high spirits and a fund of wonder-
ful experience, in his prime he was the height of good
company.
There is no one to replace him. ;
A.[?].S.
A.ROSE OF REGRET
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets. Royal
Bvo., enveloped ; price, Is. 6d.
Verses by Victor J. Daley
Cloth, gilt top, with portrait
price, ss.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S HAIL. —^
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
Snyder, New Conceptions of Science, 9s, postage Bd.
Morison, The Service of Man, Is 3d, p. 4d,
Newton, Book of Country Houses, 255, p. Is 6d. .
Bouehette, Kngine Tests, l‘2s 6d, p. Is 3d.
Benson, The Valkyries, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Oxenham, Bondman Free, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
M'Carthy f J.H.), Marjorie, 6s, p- 6d.
Rosenberg, Electrical Engineering, 6s, postage Bd.
Wrixon, Jacob Shumate, or the People’s March, 255, p. Is 9d
Bonar, Political Economy, 4s 6d, p. 6d.
Fites, Study of Ethics, 6s 6d, p. 6d.
Dale, House that Jack Built; 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Tireb'uck, ’Twixt God and Mammon, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hudson, Law of Mental Medicine, 7s 6d, p. Bd.
1 CA3TLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of Kin? Sfc.) &at
uopuo-| sy eußtjsus ‘apjßiapv ‘aiunoqiaiAj
Hudson’s Eumenthbl Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
GS
(REGISTERED).
so''
!N TINS, Is. 6d
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of A
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OE POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpfulin Indigestion and Dyspepsia.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and GO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE "X".
FUR SKINS L
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores—PYRMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
SYDNEY.
Sole Wool-Selling Commission
to the Growers—
-1
Per Cent.
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns.
SBSTO TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESnEN.
Ltd.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT, 231
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants.
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
t
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
[fee
Leola.
Si&s'X
sc®
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
nS&
(y
A/?/MANILA
No. 1 Manila.
‘Opuntv 13
SOHH OCHiQif
£
G UARANTEE.—EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS ..
LA PAROL A, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS .. ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
‘ ‘ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P, de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
Post Free Post Free
In box.
“PERLA” BOUQUET 50
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) .. .. 25
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds) .. .. 25
“PERLA" (Rothschilds) 25
“ MINERVA ” No. 1 MANILA .. .. 100
“ WINDSOR LADY " (Manila Regalia) .. 60
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qual. 25
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .. 100
HENRY OLAY (Havana Oouchas, extra) 60
REVOLUTION ” IN THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
IS n Ar | Coal » Dark Plug \O/ per lb.
nt?ll Cecil strong & Medium/ O/ Post Free
(I DaH Coal M Bright Plug 1 Oft per lb.
lieu OCdl Mild Smoking/O/O Post Free
“Red Seal ” Brlg 2oz. C Packets } 4/3 Post Free
“Red Seal” 4oz. Patent Post Free
“RED SEAL” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
We RECOnriEND Smokers to give “RED SEAL” Tobacco a Tni A 1
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE."
Price £6 12s. Gel.
NUI
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney,|
To those suffering from Weak-
ness, Loss of Energy, Insom-
nia, Nervousness, etc. ; to
those in pain with Rheuma-
tism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Weak
Back, Indigestion, “ Come-
and-Go ” Pains, Neuralgia, &c., we offer Fl*ee AduiCG- To anyone
calling we will make a Free Diagnosis of their ailment. To those
living at a distance, and unable to visit the city, in addition to
our Illustrated Book, which is full of interesting matter, we will
Send you a Diagnosis Chart
in which you can describe the symptoms of your ailment. Return
same to us, and we will then let you know what you are suffering
from, and whether our Belt will cure you. In every case under-
taken by us we guarantee an absolute and permanent cure, no
matter if it be
of long stand-
or not.
Remember we
use No Drugs
and if the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt fails to cure you nothing in the world
will. It will do for you in two months what Medicine will not
do in a lifetime. It pours a soothing current of Electricity into
your system that after a few days’ wear you begin to feel
New Life Returning, Old Pains departing.
Send for our Advice to-day ; the longer you delay the worse your
complaint becomes. The first cost of the Belt is the only expense
you incur, and with proper care it will retain its great healing
TO THOSE
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
Cv/ee/?
Old Fellow. Throw away those
up
v/lg Concoctions & wear this D?M°L A UGHL /NS
ELECTRIC BELT. n will <s oou Build
as IT
YOU UP
it
0/0
ME
inn!.. III!
. y
im
■>Mrio
li, !
! 11l
W it
Oo
I'i
2*35
<2
Us
m
ih
«■ ps
*
¥.
WaM
77%.
YLtL
nNW 111
r.
fl
Cin|, S (^
C'dU'ine
y*
=fc=S
cyp^/ r^
SP
■:-p- *
ELECTRIC BELT
is the ONLY SAFE, SURE and SPEEDY
REMEDY, and can be worn without the
slightest inconvenience by man, woman,
or child. —«
power for years. We have made thousands of wonderful cures in Australasia alone,
and to sceptical people w r e can produce any amount of convincing proof as to the
great merits of this world-wide Remedy. “ Electricity is Life,” and, as applied by
our Belt, is recognised by the leading Physicians of the Old World as the only
means of restoring the vital power which has been wasted in the body.
Mr. M. Bourke (ex M.L.A. for Tamworth, N.S.W.) of 100 Albion Street,
Surry Hills, writes under date July 27th, 1903: “Dear Sirs, —Eight years ago I was stricken down
with pneumonia, and so bad was I that for three years I never laid my head upon a pillow. The
pneumonia left me with asthma and bronchitis, and for eight years I suffered the greatest agony, and
AILING
have been unable to work during all
that time. I saw your Belts adver-
tised in the paper and came down and
saw your expert, and purchased a
High-Grade Belt in April last. I have
received constant and consistent re-
covery ever since, and I will gladly at
all times recommend it to others.
Thanking you for your courtesy to me.”
Do not Buy an Electric Belt until you
have decided to take No More Drugs
CAUTION.—Do not con-fuse us with an advertisement
offering a Belt “Free,” and who, upon your request fjr
same, place obstacles in your way and try to induce
you to part with a few shillings as a sign of good
faith, which, however, amounts to many times the full
value of the appliance. “Free Belts” are never Free in
any sense of the word. Write us for fu’l particulars.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. Market Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE OFFICE—I67E SWANSTON CTPSCT .nt


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour. Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA
.
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
THE
THE
PLUM’
rm
pro
PLUM’
O.ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
' like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had ihem in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick / Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Bair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2|s.
IrRiCL single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful C no, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any tart of tiie World.
|sgT' Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
Ask for ...
KNORR’S
Ready
Made
Dried-
It is . .
Known
as the
Best..
DOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
U MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. llow to Mesmerise, 1/-; Maoio
Up-to-Datk, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6 ; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Plat Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 13;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book op Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
l'bz Poultry Keeping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/. ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang op Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 13;
How to Dance, 1/3; Art of Boxing, 1/3;
Art ok Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3; Ven-
triloquism, 1/-; Comic Reciter, 160 Rems,
13; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6 ;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 13; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/- ; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1 Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE, S£° A K D A E ™ M ™ c . 201 Bourke-st.. Melbourne.
HAIMERLESS DOUBLE BARREL SHOT-GUNS
Are made at all prices to suit every pur ,c Each Gun Guaranteed*
ASK YOUR DEALER TO QUOTE YOU PRICE.
REMINGTON ARMS CO., ILION, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
itlulika
! \wniwiimnimmiifM ff/H! £
agists:
Noiseless Underwater. .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
WITH THE KINU ENuINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
J. F. m: cDE £1 IVX OTT & CO 3VE PA.NY,
Telephone 2671. 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES” and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•X'O r>WFY competition.
WINES 1 ,kd »£* ““' SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS. CORDIALS, Sn.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER
ITTL
IVER
PI LLS,
r Absolutely CUT 6
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price#
Carter's
TATTE RS ALUS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 14, 50,000 at 5/1.
DEMONSTRATION H’CP, Warwick Farm, KS. W, Oct. 5, 50,000 at 5/1.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic, Oct. 17, 100,003 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,0 30 at 10/2.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 1 C 0,000 at 5/1-
i-lELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will ’ please note that GEORGE ADAAIS (“TATTER3ALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST, cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Notice.— NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
DIBINFECTORB
INHALERS
FUMIOATORS
NIT
lISINFECTIN6
fluid.
. I/-
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
BTAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \ KINGZETT’S
Formic Fumigators / PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E:
DIMJWJ
SANDOW’S
Mark
Trade
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I fear there has been some misunderstanding as
regards the method of using my
PHYSICAL CULTURE APPLIANCES.
In the first instance, my SPRING GRIP DUMB
BELL should be used according to the Charts accom-
panying it. This gives an all-round and symmetrical
development of every muscle of the body, rendering
them firm and strong, and my DEVELOPER, or
OBESITY REDUCER, should be used afterwards,
in conjunction with the Grip Dumb-bells. . . . fc
Yours faithfully, EUGEN SANDOW.
8. HOFFNUNC A CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced, me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Brass Well.
’Tis a legend of the Bushmen from the days of
Cunninghame,
When he opened up the country and the early
squatters came ;
’Tis the old tale of a fortune missed by men who
did not seek,
And perhaps you haven’t heard it —the Brass
Well on Myall Creek.
They were north of running rivers, they were
south of Queensland rains,
And a blazing drought was scorching every grass-
blade from the plains;
So the stockmen drove the cattle to the range
where there was grass—
And a couple sunk a well and found what they
believed was brass.
“ Here’s some bloomin’ brass ! ” they muttered,
when they found it in the clay,
And they thought no more about it, and in time
they went away;
But they heard of gold, and saw it somewhere
down by Inverell,
And they felt, and weighed it, crying “Why ! we
found it in the well.”
And they worked about the station, and at times
they took the track,
Always meaning to save money, always meaning
to go back —
“Always meaning,” like the Bushmen, who go
drifting round like wreoks,
And they’d get half way to Myall, strike a pub.
and “ blew ” their cheques.
Then they told two more about it, and those other
two grew old,
But they never found the Brass Well, and they
never found the gold ;
For the scrub grows dense and quiokly, and,
though many went to seek,
No one ever struck the lost track to the well on
Myall Creek.
And the story is forgotten, and I’m sitting here,
alas!
With a woeful load of trouble and a woeful lack
of brass;
But I dream at times that I might find what
many went to seek—
That my luck might lead my footsteps to the well
on Myall Creek.
N.S.W.
HENBY LAWSON.
A Reverie.
Threads of silver moonlight straying
Through the gum-leaves softly swaying
To the drifting of the night-wind, as among the
trees it wails;
Down the flat the bells are clinking
While I lie here—lie here thinking
Of the night I kissed you, sweetheart, close
beside the stockyard rails.
Phantom shadows softly shaking,
Nature’s dainty lace-work making
(Filmy lace of airy lightness—fit for fairy brida
veils)...
Comes the dawn-light, softly breaking—
But my empty arms are aching
For the girl they held that evening when I kissed
you at the rails.
From the eastward, faintly glowing,
Comes the sound of cattle lowing;
In the west the silver crescent slowly sinks and
swiftly pales;
While the stars die out above me,
And I wonder — did you love me
When I kissed you, dear, and left you standing
lonely at the rails.
SPINIFEX.
All Thing's to All Men.
Where the soldier-bird wags its sleek grey head
And the “ twelve apostles ” seek their bread ;
Where the wattle waves its yellow plume
And roseate blossoms shed moist perfume ;
Where fallen logs lie mossy by our feet
And hands, too shy before, thereon may meet t
Ohi, for the scented Bush, the sunlit day,
To beat the time to love's young roundelay —
The young, gay Bush /
Where the bones bleach white on the moonlit
plain
And the curlew cries like a soul in pain,
Or through arching aisles the grey skies loom
And the south wind moans through the leagues of
gloom;
Where silence falls upon our grief and scorn,
Where tension hushed awaits a race new-lcrn.
Oh, for the lonely Bush —its insight keen,
Its pulsing throb for all that might have been —
The old, sad Bush l
Its breath is as fresh as the ocean surge,
Its melody deep as a funeral dirge;
Its benison falls on the lowered head
That dreams of its idol or wails its dead—
Young love's caress, or old life's wormivood gall —
It has its inoods for each and spell for all.
It is our own dear Bush —its moods are free,
We will forgive its “weird expectancy" —
The wild, free Bush /
N.S.W.
JOHN CAEEW.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
cuts out the phlegm and germ-infested mucous,
and lets the life-giving oxygen enrich and vitalise
the blood, heals the inflamed cough-worn throat
and lungs, and always cures and cures quickly.*
Stop
C QJLL&JLLN G!
Why?
because cgo ?/?/ng br/n */$ on coupb/nj /r?cr eases
/nf/amatio??, '/ears the t/n/nps of the a/r passages ,
stra/ns tie w/?o/e a/a /err? , pro votes //emorrage, <???//
/e jo's to consujnpt/on and every form of throat and
*"V*f*f WhaC slops a Cough?
fekJg Bonningfon's Irish Moss
on o' a 3/770 // one 0/ /ha/. tv/// subdue /be most
violent ape//, and a moderate use of tb/s prep-
■oration w/// do away bo//? w/tt? the coup,/?
and the cause.
■#
Make a r\ole of /be name
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
HMOU&w
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 lOfe
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
tZST Send for a
Catalogue.
Wont Shaft sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE fcfl
buyers of Light Vehicle!
The Best and Cheapest.
H: HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send lor Catalogue.
/
SMITH
BRISBANE
P=3
YOU «
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send for my New Catalogue— FßEE
H. F. SMITH
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
n.
r
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
It’s the modem and systematic manner of loading that makes
Winchester Shotgun Cartridges shoot stronger, give better
pattern and penetration and more uniform results generally than
any other makes. No black powder shotgun cartridges compare
with Winchester “ New Rival ”in any way; while Winches-
ter “ Repeater ” Cartridges, loaded with smokeless powder, are
far ahead of all other makes, when the price is considered.
INSIST ON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE.
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue. Post Free.
PERRY BROS.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
fixed
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or
without notice or payment of any fine.
made repayable by Instalments,
HARRISON, JONES* DEVLIN/"
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stook Salesmen,
Stock # Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
2 Per
Cent-
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., &c.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stores and Offices: Circular Quay, Sydney.


PI A|D’Q
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMSACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
MOtiSA
Reader, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in hook form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON OT Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
<9
II
you
are
suffering from
1 exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street. Melbourne.
VEGETABLE]
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures- Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, Ac. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels, gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks ol Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG'S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations, please see that each Bottle or Tin bearß
the Trade Mark' J.L.8., in monogram,’on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
'I'jEAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
* ' bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is
The. Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties .
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and Inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes*
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright?
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalledhead; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,'
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin, (
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify?
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery
PIITIPIIRK DPCniVFMT Dll 1C (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
UU I lUUnn riLOULvE.II I IILLO odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as tor all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticuba Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns ft Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue do la Ruiz, Paris. Puiiek Drug and Chem.
Cokp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
*-
r+\
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, member of the Ro.val
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the'doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life. I am bringing joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility,insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, m rvousriess, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted ; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
E3T I WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACIHa
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Db. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a. superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the iriforiji'ation embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy • is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. ’ 1
Dr. Carvbr’B Thicks and Diversions with Cards illus
is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted"
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. ’
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc ) Is 3d post
Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted"
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappiio, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big 1 Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney
O (T\ DET SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
\Jr It Li for sore and weak eyes, blight, and
RESTORES EYf LASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLED.
IN ELVEIR FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the I ittle Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
AN receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King:, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
“ ACTS UKB A CHARM.”
JONES’
Khenmaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER PAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. PER. BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINCE
Injection and Suction. The best,.
safest and most convenient..
Jit Cleanses Instantly,:
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. * Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y..
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored Ini
Four Weeks by using
p£ RICOR O's
v \ ft-
The on y Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,.
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently r
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength andl
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the •
important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped)
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St,,
Melbourne; If.S.F.— Faultling & Co., 16 O’Connell'
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
NOTICE ;
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy ■
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingijkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
By ob& application only, effectually destroy*
all -Parasites of Head or Body.-
sai-D in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6cL
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poikgdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
References' throughout Great Britain and CoUntH.
ASTHMA!
taken from the System.
Nothing remain* which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerval
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Ee-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. HAROLD HAYES’ ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
ASTHMA CURE
I GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who- suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION. , i
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAPLT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists,
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subject*
relating to Examinations tor Certificates ot Com-
I'.etency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustratiofta;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Oonsulttnjr
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne, Also COLE'St
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney. -


Before Taking Clements Tonic,
MISERY & HELPLESSNESS.
After Taking Clements Tonic,
CHEERFULNESS & ACTIVITY.
A Very Convincing Narrative.
The Case of Mr. P. B. HUNT.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
The ready compliance of Mr. Percy
Bordon Hunt, of No. 8 The Terrace,
Bourke-street, Redfern, with the request
of a special interview, illustrates a
series of difficulties and complica-
tions from which there was no immediate
pro-pect of escape. After mentioning that
he was a nativo of London and a resident of
these colonies for the last ten years, Mr.
Hunt went on to say :
“ It was when I came out to this country
that I had a very bitter experience with bad
health, and I hope I shall never have to go
through anything like it again, as once in a
life-time is quite enough. I had previously
suffering from a complaint called locomotor
ataxia, and I had never felt really well since.
The change in climate evidently did not
suit me, for my head started to ache most
unmercifully, making me feel quite unfit to
take part in anj thing- I was so drowsy
and low-spirited, too, no pleasant thoughts
ever coming to give mo a moment’s happi-
ness, and J did not seem to care what
happened.” 1
“ Did you receive any medical attention?”
askod the writer.
“Yes. I had been to several hospitals,
where the doctors prescribed physic for me,
but it could not have been suitable for my
complaints, as it took no effect upon me.
Their medicines were so useless that I might
as well have thrown them down the drain.
The doctors said it was next to impossible
to properly recover from the complaint
which bad made a wreck of me, and this was
and awful reflection for one who had always
been so hale and hearty before, and naturally
making me more sad and hopeless than ever ;
but I thought I would try some other
medicine before giving up all hope, and
when I had done so my condition was just
as bad as ever. I could not get my breath
freely owing to the heavy sensation in my
chest, and 1 could not sleep at all well. If
I did doze off I was made restless by
dreams that were most repulsive, and, once
more finding myself awake, I dreaded the
thought of falling asleep again because the
dreams were so unpleasant. That was
through being so nervous, I suppose, for I
trembled at the slighest noise and was
excited at every turn. My mouth had a
nauseating taste which I imagined came
from the white coating on my tongue, and
there was such a strange feeling about my
eyes—a heavy sensation as if they had
swollen during the night. When in London
I was secretary to one of the most eminent
Congregational ministers in the city, and con-
sequently had a great amount of brain work
to do, so that when I came here and felt so
brain-weary and fagged out I felt my position
all the more keenly. There was no life in
me, and I gave myself up as helpless to
throw off the utter deadness of vitality
under which I was existing. Simply through
excessive weakness my limbs were racked
with aches. It was just the same in the
morning after lying down all night, for my
legs were as tired as if I had been climbing
steep hills instead of trying to rest myself,
and the mere thought of going to work made
me shudder in despair. There was something
radically wrong with my loins, too, as the
painful aches across them caused me no end
of inconvenience, and more so when I had
to walk to any place. But so far as that
goes there was nothing that I could find any
pleasure in doing, as my loss of energy was
so great that it was almost a trouble to dress
myself. * For a man whose temperament is
naturally active and energetic it was a
terrible hardship to be in such a weak and
powerless condition, but the most melancholy
phase of the situation was that I could get
tm medicine to help me out of my difficulties.
It seemed a forlorn hope to think of recover*
ing my health again, but was there anything
I had not given a trial to T I asked myself. A
little reflection told me that Clements Toni«
had escaped my notice up till now, and a!
my deplorable state of feebleness required
immediate attention I said I would give it
a trial.”
“ Were you pleased that you did so.”
“ My word I was, for Clements Tonis
acted on my system as no other medicine
had done. Do you know that I had no real
appetite from the time I was taken ill until
I took Clements Tonic, which made me so
hungry that I was always wanting food. I
was overjoyed at this success, especially a*
my pains were diminishing with each bottle
of Clements Tonic,which made my digestivo
apparatus able and willing to assimilate my
food and fill my veins with pure, rich blood,
and with my heart strong and vigorous to
pump that blood to every part of my body.
As time went on it became apparent that 1
was on the road to recovery, as my head-
aches and giddiness were gone and my sight
was good. I breathed freely owing to chest
pains being relieved, while the flatulence
which had affected my stomach did not
trouble me after using a few bottles of
Clements Tonic. Would it be possible for
me to speak too well of a medicine which
did so much for me when all others failed !
My opinion is that I will never be able to
liquidate my debt to Clements Tonic for its
miraculous influence over me, for it actually
raised me from misery and helplessness to a
life of cheerfulness and activity. This was
done by degrees, of course, for I got
stronger because I was getting plenty of
rest, my sleep being sound and dreamless,
and the morning life found me equipped for
the duties of life as I had not been for many
a day. I was no longer sickened by a bitter
taste and a dry tongue when I woke up,
neither was I troubled with that weariness
of limb which had made all my movements
so irksome. I had reason to look at life in
an entirely different aspect then, thank God,
as the pain-killing properties of Clements
Tonic gave such prompt relief thut I was
soon free from all my torments, and as a
remedy for invigorating the nervous system
I am suie that medicine is the best in the
world. My nerves were so ready and keen
that my daily work became a pleasure, and
a capacity for physical and mental exertion
{u'oportionally increased. I did not re-
inquish the use of Clements Tonic until my
health was as sound as it had ever been,
being an entirely new man, and as I have
since enjoyed immunity from the ailments
waich nothing but Clements Tonic could
cure it is only fair t.o my fellow colonists
that I should tell them by what means I
was released from wretchedness.”
“It will be necessary to print your
statements, then.”
“ Of course it will; and you may publish
them in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Perct Bordon Hurt, of 8 The Terrace, Bourke-
street, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish
in any way my statements—which I give volun-
tarily without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing
the sauie to be true, and by virtue of the provisions
of The Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty-
second day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
two. before me. PATRICK STANLEY, J.P.
S. freeman SONS limjjee
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
bathos baking powder,
freemans prize pickles.
EXTRACT OP SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
Head office : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Second
. Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RBNAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
FOB THE BOSH WOUKBR
'Bute
am
ABOOTHINC BALM and EMBROCATION. be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Bums, Boils, Barooo,
Eozema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Musoular Affeotlons eto.
From all Chemists, 1/8 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM- BU K CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp (or postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTTCE TO MMEfjBOURNB VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Ttltphon* No. tons.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with conQdeuco guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Publio and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Study Evenings
JMQMiE Mor< ‘ P *T
Courses offered by mall;
Mechnnloal. Marin*. Civil.
Electrical. Snnllary.
Stationary* Locomotive.
Telegraphy. Architecture.
Short Metal Work.
Modi. A Fcrapectlve Draw’s
American School
AT
Armour Inst.ofTechnology
Chicago, 111.
1 Write for Handbook.
160 VICKERY'S CHAnBERS,
BOX 629, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “ The secret of
American industrial success is emphatically the
application of brains and knowledge to work, even
in the smallest detail; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’s advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition.”
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing'to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., Is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONB. “W|
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
©RATEFUI*—COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
w E^
DEBILITATED
an, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Vlotoria Chambers, Ellzabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
. CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government, <
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. Bn*.
129 Colllns-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
CURED
without opera-
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
only humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.5., ENQ.,
129 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
rhr#w. away
JAYNE'S EXPECT ORAN T
CURES THE WORST COUGHS*
ALL CHEMISTS
pP™M
Anemia. 'yjL
W Poverty of Blood*
Vj and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
PER BOX
,AT 3/6
8
THE 48th ...
-Hour Demonstration
Jrt Union
(Under tanMim of
the Attomef-Gentrmi)
Monday, 5th Oct., 1903.
Prizes value £1250,
First Prize, valua £500 ; 8econd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, valua £60 ;and 160 other valuable Prizes
The Prize Drawing is open to the public and the
press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal |
chance whether present or not.
Last year a number of applications for tickets wero *
received too late for participation In the drawing, ,
and their moneys had to be returned. People from a '
distance should apply early and avoid this disap- i
pointment.
Tickets to be obtained from !
A. McDougall, Secretary, (
Trades Hall, Sydney, j
or from Local Agents everywhere.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 600 sovs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadllng, of Edden-street, I
Leichhardt, Sydney. |
Buy your Ticket* Early. (
Only One Shilling. <
TUghU
Jrifan ts
TRY
FOOD
&K&
JC'cjL
fief usd a//Z/n/tat/ons .
Satisfying. Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable.Digestible. Nourishing
AG£N75 FOP SYD/VFY.
SAYFPS AILPOPF 6 POTFFP
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Enc
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of onr
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, whioh is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA." Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrie
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that oan be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
wilFnermanentlv cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say. and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that yo
for our Electrio Era and Price List free),
Illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
German Electrio Appliance Agenoy
Kuiabxth Str*kt, SYDNEY.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d. ;
INSIST ON GETTING IT.
FITS CURED
permanentl^the°very
other remedy has failed English Prices, 4/6 snd UK
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, e
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nioholl, Pharmaceutical Chemlsl
P 25 High-street, Belfast Ireland.


Mini
USSHIII
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is Known
and
Appreciated
all
the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
WOOLLEN UNDERWEAR
...0F...
VERTEX CELLULAR
FABRIC
is the healthiest, most comfortable to even
the tenderest skin, and most hygienic of all
materials for Winter.
It is, in its construction, a-copy of Nature, and
acts as a supplementary skin, regulating the heat of
the body, and allowing the exuded vapours and
deleterious gases to dissipate without hindrance.
It is economical, most easily washed, and does
not felt up or thicken as a result of that operation.
Stocked in Under-garments of every kind for
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's wear. Special garments
made to order. Fabric by the yard.
Call or write for full Illustrated Price List—post
free.
PAVIP BRANAM ft CO.,
73 & 75 King St., Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Cellular Clothing Co. in N.S.W.
A Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers.
The
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved from the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food No. "|,
From birth to three months.
Milk Food no- 2.
From three to six months.
Malted Food No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TSIalaEN & HKNBURVS latd., laONlDON.
YOUR CIGARETTE
is just as important a thing for choosing as your dinner, and if you smoke anything offered you,
instead of selecting the best, so ought you to eat everything set before you, without grumbling.
Your digestive organs require suitable food and your nerves require soothing not stimulating
to put it mildly, you want I •
CAMEO CIGARETTES
and you know it.
WOOD
PRESERVING
OIL
If you have
a Jibbing
HORSE,
Try it on
its
MANGER.
"AVENARIUS!
Avenarius enters particularly and with avidity
into the sappy parts of wood, rendering
such perfectly hard, thus converting what may
be called a weak part into one of the strongest
parts of timber.
It is an excellent and efficient remedy against
house fungi, and therefore especially recom-
mended for all wood work in Buildings, &c., in
damp situations and damp climates.
Avenarius fulfils all the conditions of an
efficient preservative of wood against
all external and internal injurious influences.
By its own action, without any pressure being
applied, it penetrates into the wood,
drives out the moisture) makes it im-
pervious to damp, and thus protects the wood
from decay. It does not stop up the pores of
wood, therefore does not cause dry rot.
WHITE
ANT
COMPOUND
Spread it on
your
FOWL-HOUSE,
and so
get rid of
CHICKEN LICE
Sole Agents for
Australasia:
Fullest Particulars from
E. RieH & e©.. Ltd
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
> WHITE ANT’S %■*.,
HEAD.
O
ll
V'
/f
Head of a Worker, largely magnified.
Steel
M/c.cf
A perfect Pulley for all purposes.
SAFE! SIMPLE! SURE!
“ l et go the rop-e, the lever does
the rest.”
URR LIFT
A perfect Pulley for all purposes.
AUTOMATIC!
ADJUSTABLE! ABSOLUTE!
Blythe Dale Station, Wallumbilla.
Messrs. E. Bich & Co., Ltd.
Brisbane.
Dear Sirs, —Herewith please find cheque
for £1 Es. 9d , in payment for the Burr Lift
s*ntiue. The lift answers tin vork I want
it for, (namely, lifting boggvd cattle out of
creeks) < apitally. It is the best 1 have seen
and I thank you for your kind attention.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) A. S. MACLELLAN.
No. 2. For J-in. rope. Weight, 22 oz. Capacity, 250 lbs. 6/9
No. 3. For f-in. rope. Weight, 4£ lbs. Capacity, 300 lbs. 10/3
No. 4. For J-in. rope. Weight, 6£ lbs. Capacity, 3501b5. 18/9
No. 5. For f-in. rope. Weight, 11 lbs. Capacity, 400 lbs. 23/9
No. 6. For f-in. rope. Weight, 17 lbs. Capacity, 450 lbs. 28/9
No. 4J. For J-in. rope. Weight, 10 lbs. Capacity, 600 lbs. 33/6
No. SJ. For f-in. rope. Weight, 20 lbs. Capacity, 700 lbs. 40/-
No. 6J. For|-in. rope. Weight, 28 lbs. Capacity, 850 lbs. 47/6
The above Prices and Weights include lower block, no rope.
Orange, 4th January, 1903.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —At the request of our Mr.
Bernasconi, we are pleased to inform you
that he as well as ourselves are greatly im-
pressed with the Burr Lift, so much so that
we intend.tp put one in use in our produce
store for the purpose of stacking grain, etc.
Yours faithfully,
DALTON BROTHERS.
Fullest Particulars from
Sole Agents for
Australasia:
E. IRISH & SO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
Made of
Steel


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Yob. 24,— N0. 1227.
THURSDAY, - AUGUST 20, 1903.
Price 6d.
THE N.S.W. BIRTH-RATE COMMISSION.
The Commission (having examined Sairey Gamp, to the next witness): “NOW, CUPTD, IS IT YOUR FAULT?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-pearly ... ... ... 0 IS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tine Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence" column all contri-
butions siibmitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand . that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mate,unt in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
_■ i.e., 'any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Bout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 2! Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, 1903.
Our Public Enemy, the Importer.
The news that two importers, Robebt Reid and
William M‘Millan, intend dropping out of
Australian politics this year is the best that
Australia has heard for some time. The importer
in politics is a curse by reason of his occupation,
and a disaster through the exigencies of his bread
and cheese, and, even if M ‘Millan is only partly
an importer, the fact that he is one at all
makes his departure a national blessing. No
other man occupies exactly the same position as
the industrial alien who lives by bringing foreign
goods into the country. His business depends
on the lack of the be3t class of local industries
and the repression of local manufactures. If
Australia commences to make almost anything
in the way of manufactured goods, it necessarily
reduces the opening for imports and damages
the importer’s trade, consequently the importer
must be—either openly or secretly, consciously
or unconsciously—the enemy of Australian
industry. In other words, he is the public enemy
—his living depends on it. Whenever a new
manufacture starts, to furnish employment and
wages for the hungry Australian people, it is the
importer’s business, if he can so contrive by any
means, to kill that business and deprive those
people of their means of livelihood—because the
work which is their means of livelihood interferes
with imports, and he lives on imports. If he
isn’t constantly alert to every opportunity to
destroy local industries that interfere with his
business, to shut up local factories, to deprive
local people of the wage that stands between
them and starvation, then he isn’t likely to
be a success as an importer. The fact that
all importers are Freetraders is significant.
It is wholly improbable that so large a class,
accidentally and out of absolutely unbiassed
conviction, arrived at the opinion that
Freetrade was the best thing for the people.
The fair inference is that they simply arrived at
the opinion that it was the best thing for them-
selves. Being by the very nature of their occu-
pation public enemies, they naturally take to the
fiscal doctrine which is also the public enemy,
and the only fiscal doctrine by which they, being
public enemies, can prosper.
* * * *
The importer is the one individual in the com-
munity who represents the interests of the foreign
worker as against those of the local worker. He
is either a man who buys and brings here on his
own account the goods of many foreign manu-
facturers, or he is the paid agent of one
foreign manufacturer. In either case he is
for the foreign manufacturer all the time.
His hopes, prospects, profits, boodle, and
affluence—his worldly all, in fact —depend
on promoting the use of British, French, German,
Americin, Chinese, Japanese, or any other
foreign goods rather than Australian goods. His
existence, his percentages, his paunch, and his
loot depend on promoting the industry of any
foreigner, any national enemy, rather than the
industry of Australians. He is a foreign spy and
a foreign agent, and he would be no less the
enemy of Australia if he were hired by a foreign
Government to destroy our political liberties than
when he is what he is now—an individual hired,
indirectly but none the less certainly, by foreign
manufacturers to destroy our industrial progress.
The importer employs little labor—where the
manufacture of a certain quantity of good 3 might
employ 1000 workers their importation em-
ploys ten. It is his business to deprive the
other 990 of their employment. It is his
business, no matter how poor the coun-
try may be, to see that as much money
as possible is sent out of it —in payment for
imports. It is his business to see that the Aus-
tralians do not learn to become clever artisans and
make this country’s name respected in crafts and
industries; if they do they can dispense with the
importer. The country which is best adapted to
him is the one where an ignorant people follows
the coarse and simple pursuits that are adapted
for a semi-civilised race, and depend for all better
class wares on foreign supplies He is the superior
person who furnishes the Gibeonite, for a large
consideration, with the things which the Gibeonite
—being a Gibeonite —can’t, of course, expect to
make on his own account.
* * * *
In a vast proportion of cases the importer, as
we know him, is merely the agent of a firm whose
headquarters are abroad, and not only does Aus-
tralian money go abroad to pay for the importer’s
goods, but the profits of the business go to other
countries likewise. Therefore, this fetcherof foreign
products has no deep roots in the country, as the
manufacturer has. The manufacturer has a small
fortune invested in machinery ; he generally lives
here, spends his profits here, and must sink or
swim with Australia. If this country sinks, his
business is gone, his machinery is probably scrap
iron, because it wouldn’t pay to send it abroad,
and his all is a vanished quantity. The importer
has a warehouse, which is probably rented; he
has no machinery; he gets his goods by each
steamer; and if Australia shows signs of
sinking he can cable to headquarters to
send no more goods, and concentrate his
business at other branches. He can suck the
blood of the community and then shift else-
where. He may lose in the shifting process,
yet he is a comparatively light bird of passage
compared with the manufacturer. The Aus-
tralian manufacturer has to be Australian. The
Australian importer, in many cases, has just
as much permanent interest here as the Roman
procurator who went to bleed a conquered
province for a few years, and then return with
the spoils.
* * * *
In politics the importer is a subtle and per-
sistent poison. Imports represent the industries
we haven’t got, the work we can’t get, the
wages for want of which men are unemployed
and women are hungry and tattered, and
children are gaunt and white and shoe-
less and prematurely aged. And in his own
interests the importer has to preach the lying
gospel that an immensity of imports is the true
sign of national greatness and the most reliable
evidence of progress—that not being able to make
things, and not having work, and not knowing the
arts of civilisation are proofs of progress, and that
having German goods brought here in English
ships manned by Scandinavian sailors, while our
own people break stones for the Government, is
the summit and pinnacle of all true national
ambition. He, and the papers which have
sold themselves to him, and the politicians
who have taken his thirty pieces of sil-
ver, do not, of course, put the matter
quite so publicly as this, but under a cloak
of hypocrisy and a veil of glozing lies, that
is their case. They glorify commerce—just as
if the bringing here of foreign goods in foreign
ships manned by foreign sailors, and dumping
them down on the wharf that was built out of
foreign loans, and selling them afterwards through
the medium of traders who are mostly only the
agents for foreign firms, was our commerce. They
cultivate the diseased sentiment of contempt for
mere “ colonial ” products, for out of that senti-
ment they make their wealth. The kind of country
which they want our Australia to be is one which
grows wheat and wool and beef under almost hope-
less climatic conditions, and makes bricks, and hews
down trees, and digs out ores, and pursues any other
of the coarser and less skilled industries that
don’t interfere with imports, and which, by these
devices, and by borrowing, makes enough to buy
his imported goods. The people have to do some-
thing, of course, in order that they may have
money to buy his imported goods, but when it is a
choice between being a very poor and wretched
and ignorant people who buy some imports, or a
very rich and prosperous people who don’t require
imports because they are so advanced in the
material arts that they can supply their own
necessities, the importer is for poverty and
wretchedness all the time. All his interests lie
that way. Therefore he teaches the doctrine of
depending on “ the magnificent natural resources
of the country ’’ —the doctrine of living by drag-
ging miserable crops of wheat from a barren soil,
and working in poisonous silver-lead mines, and
trying to raise sheep in a desert, and otherwise
being a beast of burden on the face of the
earth. These things don’t interfere with imports.
And when Australia tries to rise, to better things
he is ready with his hired foreign sneer and his
stipendiary foreign scoff at the “coddling of
exotic industries,’’ and such-like vicious and
mercenary trash. And all the time he
teaches the doctrine that we are a poor,
miserable people who are debarred by some-
thing not specified from all hope of compet-
ing in the skilled industries with the superior
Frenchman or American or German. He has to
tell us that, because he lives by selling us the
goods of the superior Frenchman and American
and German. His conduct may be a gross and
shameful treachery to the British tradition, and
a sordid attempt to degrade, by false teach-
ing, what should be a sturdy branch of the
old Saxon race, but the interest of the import
business must be considered.
* * * *
All over Australia —even in the States which
have, in recent years, made some very inefficient
attempts at creating local industries by Protection
—the importer has been a vast political influence.
As a visible result, A ustralia is now, in proportion
to population, the most indebted country on earth
and the most financially discredited section of the
British empire. - It lives on loans. The Common-
wealth nowadays requires to import about
£13,000,000 worth less per annum than it exports
in order that the difference may pay interest on
its public and private foreign debts. It really im-
ports about £7,000,000 worth less than it exports,
and that £7,000,000 pays about half the interest
on its foreign debts. It pays the other £6,000,000
by new borrowings. If it imported £6,000,000
worth less it wouldn’t be reducing its foreign
debt, but it would at least prevent the debt
increasing; only the importer would much rather
see the country plodding along on the road to
bankruptcy than see <£6,000,000 worth of his nefa-
rious business vanish away. If Australia manufac-
tured £6,000,000 worth of the goods we now import,
there would be not only no further accumulation
of debt, but there would be, so tar as £6,000,000
a year would go, so many less unemployed men
and starving women and perishing children ; but
to the importer it is better that men should be
unemployed, and women should starve, and
children should perish than that local indus-
tries should take the place of imports. Australia,
in proportion to its population, has for many
years imported more than almost any other
country on earth. As a result it has the largest
debt per head on earth. It has about the largest
proportion of unemployed among civilised white
races, because the industries which should main-
tain its people have not been established —the
goods were imported instead. It is always
borrowing to pay for imports while its own
people break stones. It is always selling its
public estate to pay for imports, while its people
haunt the Ministerial doorstep for jobs on more or
less useless public works paid for with borrowed
money. It has got more public works and less
visible means of support of its own than almost
any other civilised white race of its size. And
having more imports than almost any other com-
munity of its size it has more importers than
almost any other ; also, more importers’ news-
papers to delude its people, and more importer
politicians to degrade its politics.
• • • *
The importer politicians promise that if they
get into Federal office they will greatly reduce the
Customs duties, and that the reduction will be
accompanied by such a great increase of imports
(whereby they will make great personal profit)
that the revenue will be as large as it is now.
There is to be more importing, more money paid
to the foreigner for imported goods, more neces-
sity to borrow in order to pay for imported goods
and at the same time to cover the interest
on our foreign debt; less chance for Aus-
tralian industry, more unemployed men and
starving women and perishing children, and
more stone-breaking. The importing crowd
promises all this, and scoffs with its hired British
scoff, and jeers with its stipendiary German jeer,
at the “narrowness” and “conservatism” of
those Australians who fail to appreciate the pros-
pect. It is time, and more than time, that the
importer, as a man whose interests lie in the re-
pression of Australian industry, was declared in-
capable of sitting in the Australian Parliament.
When the Boer war was at its height Britain
would assuredly not have allowed Botha or De
Wet to be elected to the British Parliament, and
the parallel between the industrial enemy and the
political enemy is complete in every particular
save one—the political enemy doesn’t profess to
be a friend. He has at least the virtue of honesty
—not the grin of Judas.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Capital.
In a rally of the foolish State-frights, anti-Federal
crowd in Sydney last week—called to demand that
the Federal capital be placed in Sydney— The
Bulletin notices with regret there were two
prominent members of the Labor party. These
two members shared with Mr. Owe’Sullivan the
distinction of making eminently silly speeches.
Mr. Dacey, Labor M.P. :
Gould not see any gain to N.S.W. by placing the
Federal capital in the bush, and throwing away thousands
of acres at the cost of the taxpayers. Sooner than see the
Federal capital being built for the convenience of a few
wealthy people, who could go into the bush in the season
when Parliament was sitting, and for the benefit of the
particular locality selected for the new city, he would
say, “ In God’s name Melbourne can have it."
Mr. Holman, Labor M.P., in an outburst of per-
nicious blatherskite:
The public had originally been misled by the press on
the subject of Federation until every man and woman
became impressed with the idea that Federation was the
one pressing problem of the States. That same mighty
organ, the press, which had led the people astray, now
repented in sackcloth and ashes, and the people were
beginning to realise how they had been betrayed by the
false advisers of some four years ago. The real object of
certain Victorian patriots was to wrest the Federal
capital from Sydney, and give it to Melbourne. There
»had never been any necessity for a mushroom capital at
all. He maintained that a legislature planted in the
bush, cut off from contact with the mass of the citizens,
and having only a small population, would necessarily
tend to become corrupt and sink into degeneracy.
Both these gentlemen profess to believe in the
State ownership of the land ; yet both scream for
the enrichment of Sydney or Melbourne landlords
by the increment which the Federal capital will
give to land values. Under the scheme of the
Constitution, the Federal capital will be chosen
away from any great city, and the Government
will be the sole ground landlord of its area. The
increment in value created by the building of the
city will thus remain in the hands of the people.
Mr. Dacey and Mr. Holman would scatter it
among private landlords. As to Mr. Holman’s very
original remark regarding the corrupting influence
of remoteness from a great city, that may serve
very well to tickle the ears of Sydney groundlings,
but does he talk in that way to his own electors
at remote Grenfell ? Mr. Owe’Sullivan capped
the parade of oratorical absurdity with a detailed
calculation as to the expenditure which would be
“immediately necessary” for a Federal capital.
He put it down at £2,ll7,soo—including <£750,000
for a Parliament House and £lO,OOO for the
Premier’s official residence. That might be a fair
calculation, if Mr. Owe'Sullivan were to be the
builder: but, fortunately that is not the case.
Moreover, if it would cost £750,000 to build a
Federal Parliament House at Bombala or Tumut,
it would cost still more to erect it in Sydney,
where land is vastly more expensive. And what-
ever Federal offices would cost at Bombala or
Tumut, they would cost more at Sydney by
reason of the ground values. And if the Austra-
lian Government spent £2,117,500 on building a
new city on the waste places of Monaro, it would
probably thereby add £10,000,000 to the value
of its own adjacent land and secure a large
revenue; the same amount spent in Sydney would
increase the value of privately-owned land, but
it wouldn’t bring a cent of extra profit to the Com-
monwealth, The Owe’Sullivan’s theory is based
on the silly assumption that if the Commonwealth
has its centre at Monaro it must build a marble
city, and if it comes to Sydney it will hang
out gratis on a barrow in the street. The
Bulletin is sorry to see any section of the Labor
party lending itself to this landlords’ conspiracy
The Australian Parliament is the only absolutely
and wholly popular Legislature in the continent.
The Australian Constitution is the only deed of
Government drawn up by the Australian people.
The proposed Australian capital will be the only
city in the continent belonging to the people and
not in any part to the private landlord. No
Australian democrat can consistently stand
against that Tarliament, that Constitution, or
that city. Mr. Holman and Mr. Dacey must
amend their views or get among the Tories.
The “Reform” Position in N.S.W.
The antics of the “Reform” parties in N.S.W.
are powerfully amusing. Parliamentary Oppo-
sition leader Joseph Carrutheks is the nominal
leader of one; a Mr. Johnson Stin or Simpson
Johns of the other. They agree that the See
Government is an unholy thing, and there agree-
ment ends and discord begins. Joseph sees a
remedy in replacing the See Cabinet with a
Joseph Cabinet; a few months ago Iris remedy
was to join the See Cabinet and share its in-
iquities; but his ideas have grown since. The
Simpson, or Stinson, or Sampson people—
they number in all about 30, it is said,
but they have the active support of the
morning newspapers—wish to go the whole Irvine*
Bent hog; and they have a lively distrust of
Joseph, partly because they know how eager
Joseph was to join the Ministry he now denounces.
Moreover, Joseph, as an eminently practical poli-
tician, does not wish to pledge himself to a violent,
Kyabram policy, recognising, as he does, that that
is not the way to get or keep office in N.S.W., and
it is his prospective office, not the prospective office
of Stinson or Simpkins, that is involved. The
Stinson people have so far not been able to oust
Joseph from his position as Parliamentary leader
of the Opposition, though they have been
manoeuvring to put the hopeless Solemn Lee in his
place, and are now said to be cherishing a hope that
M'MiLLANwill cometo theirrescue. But they have
succeeded, with the aid of the daily newspapers,
in spoiling Carruthers’ game. Left to himself,
Joseph, who, to put it mildly, does not carry
devotion to principle to the degree of fanatic-
ism, would very soon worm his way to the Pre-
miership. He has nimbler wits than most of his
opponents, and is quite capable of carrying on
the Reid tradition. But the morning newspapers
and the Stinson crowd have forced him into
declaring hostility to the Labor party, and into
identifying himself with Kyabram to some extent;
and thus have made his chance of success
almost hopeless. They may never oust
Joseph from his leadership of the Opposi-
tion, but if they can always keep him in
Opposition by forcing him into impossible
positions, then to Joseph the result is practically
the same. The Opposition is a cold, unpaid terri-
tory, and being leader there only means that he
hungers and thirsts under a little more limelight
than falls on the pinched features of his fol-
lowers. The position is unfortunate for Joseph,
but as it doesn’t matter very much to the country
whether See or Joseph rules—one being six
pennies and the other twelve half-pennies—there
is not much sympathy for him. It is his
hard luck that both the morning newspapers
in Sydney should be just now dominated by
the Argus tradition and plump for Kyabram ;
but it is not his hard luck, but his own fault, that
he is not the man to stand up boldly against all
existing forces of evil, and declare for a policy of
strict honesty and genuine democracy. An
honest, able democrat in N.S.W. would wipe out
the Stinson crowd and the See-Owe’Sullivan
crowd, and (The Bulletin makes this statement
with some sorrow) the Labor crowd, unless the
Labor party promptly abjured Owe’Sullivanism.
He could also wipe the floor with the Sydney
daily press. N.S.W. has had so much of George
Reid and Bill Lyne and Owe’Sullivan that it
would pretty well worship a man who came with
a clean financial policy and a platform of genuine
progress. Bnt Joseph is not that man, and he is
getting the proper reward for being the sort of
man he is—contempt and continuous cabals
against his mock leadership.
Kyabram’s Lunacy.
The tale told by an influential deputation that
called recently on Victorian Chief Secretary
Murray, re the subject of lunacy reform, was a
chapter of horrors, suggestive of the old English
bedlams of two and three centuries ago. Ihe
charge thrown at Murray and the Icicle Govern-
ment generally was one of cold, callous neglect;
of studied indifference to the advances of science,
and of repeated ignoring of the recommendations
of competent authorities. The big metropolitan
asylum at Kew contains 200 patients more than it
was built for, each patient in the sleeping dormi-
tories having but 300 ft. of air space instead of the
recognised minimum of 1000 ft. There is but one
trained nurse for 850 patients. On the night-
staff there is one attendant in charge of 106
patients, another in charge of 241, and a junior
in charge of 113 (including epileptics). In the
female division one attendant has charge of 74,
another of 54, and a junior of 241 (including
refractory patients). All the patients are locked
up at night and there is no telephonic communi-
cation between the wards. Four different medical
men have had charge of the male division during
the past 12 months, and there are at present but
three acting-medicos for the whole division.
There is no system of training attendants, nor are
they replaced if incompetent. There is no
receiving-house, consequently suspected and inci-
pient lunatics are habitually sent to gaol--in
defiance of the law—to herd with criminals, or
wear away the remnants of their brains in separate
cells. There is no proper classification of the
insane, even to the extent that criminal lunatics
are mixed with non-criminal. The salaries paid
to the medical staff and attendants are grossly
insufficient, and the hours worked by the latter
disgracefully long—ranging to 85 and 90 per
week. There is no hospital in the proper
sense of the term, and hardly any appliances
for ordinary surgical procedure. The condi-
tions in which the patients exist are such as
would be reckoned indecent in a Whitechapel
slum ; the dining-halls are used as dormitories,
the dormitories are dens; there are wards of 80
women patients who have to wash themselves in
three basins —these being insufficient, they have
to use the scullery sinks ; the putrid atmosphere
of the dormitories is such that the attendants on
duty frequently vomit; there are yards and rooms
which no ray of sunlighj has reached for 30 years,
since-the Asylum was'built (imagine that in a
Hospital for the Insane); tuberculosis, pneu-
monia'and erysipelas are rampant; the death-
rate at Kew was 11’37, 10'35 and 10’88
per 1000 in ’97, ’9B and ’99, as against
the New South Wales average of 6’83
per 1000. Seeing that Murray was not im-
pressed —his habitual attitude in Lunacy matters
is one of stolid unimpressment—the deputation
gave instances of unspeakable savagery. One
related how he had seen a man in a
straight-jacket tied by a rope round his
waist to an iron bar; another told of
a woman ill with pneumonia sleeping on a
straw mattress in a stone cell without a fire.
Another (a medico) told of a piece of adminis-
trative bestiality almost impossible of belief—of
a ward of 41 women being undressed, marched
naked through the scullery, where the meals
were being prepared, to the bath, washed all
together, then marched back again, naked and
dripping, to be dried. At Yarra Bend, with its
755 patients, the state of things is as bad, if not
worse. In addition to these general charges,


specific instances are also given of gross cruelty
to patients by attendants—one being so severely
man-handled, kicked and garotted that his
removal to the hospital for surgical treatment
was necessary—and of improper use of drugs to
quiet refractory patients. This agitation for
reform has been going on since ’B6, but of late
years—and especially the last year—the authori-
ties have shown a tendency to defy public opinion
and revert to the state of things that disgraced
allegedly civilised nations in the dark ages. Forced
at last to move, Murray promised a Bill—which is
a piece of paper with some ink on it. What is
wanted is not more power to do this, that, and
the other (there is no Bill needed to provide a
Receiving House, or sufficient accommodation for
patients, or adequate attendance and nursing),
but sympathetic administration and the finding
of sufficient funds to treat the mentally diseased
in a rational, scientific, and profitable manner.
Nobody expects humanity from the Kyabram
Government, but such thrifty persons as Irvink
and Shiels ought to have sense enough to see that
by letting insane persons continue so, when a mere
copying of the methods of other countries would
cure them, they are deliberately throwing away
revenue with both hands. Victoria is beginning
at last to realise what mercenary, bloodless
incapables it put in office when it followed
the ’Pootra’s lead to “reform.” They haven’t so
far begun to drown their sick, aged, and insane;
but, if Kyabram continues to “reform,” all that
may come.
Carruthers, the Friend of the Absentee
Landlord.
Carruthers complains that the new N.S.W.
Land Bill doesn’t legalise dummying. He does
not, of course, say so in those words, but that is
the gist of it. He thinks that “a false value has
been put upon the condition requiring the land-
holder from the State to personally reside on his
selection.” The D.T. supports him: “Provided
the land is settled, and used in a bona-fide manner,
what concern is it to the State who the occupier
is?” it asks. “When the State gives a man a
mining lease it insists that it shall be effectively
worked, but makes no stipulation that the holder
shall perform the labor with his own hands.” So
the city man, or the company in London, should
be allowed to take up what little decent land is
left-or what decent land may hereafter be
made available—and farm it out to somebody
else. What profit there is in working it
would, of course, in that case go to the city or
London. Instead of breaking down the curse of
large landlordism the evil would thus be extended
and perpetuated; and we should be given quite a
new class of persons privileged to sweat and levy
toll on the workers. The case of mining leases is
mentioned in support of this abominable proposal.
Of course, there is no likeness between the two.
The mining lease is supposed to require the initial
expenditure of capital—often of a great deal of
capital. Shafts have to be sunk, sometimes a
thousand feet or more, and hauling, pumping and
ore-treating machinery provided. Therefore it is
necessary to let men of large capital, even if they
are absentees, hold mining leases. The selection,
however, calls for no large initial outlay. What
is required to be done the selector can do, in
almost all cases, with his own hands. If he does
require financial assistance (and the less he gets
the better for him in the long run, as a rule) the
State should give it to him ; and it has already
provided the means. Nothing more than that is
needed. If he cannot succeed under those condi-
tions, he certainly will not succeed with an
absentee landlord taking rent from him on top of
all his other troubles. So far as this curse of
landlordism has been eliminated, the condition of
personal residence has been responsible for it ;
and the paper that can complain because a Land
Bill doesn’t reverse that policy needs watching.
Also a politician, the pretended leader of a
“Liberal” party, who can say that that policy
has been over-valued, needs watching. He needs
more than watching, in fact; he needs putting
somewhere where he cannot do any damage to
absolutely the best, the most democratic, the
most humanitarian principle in the land laws of
the State.
4
Victorian Factories.
A summary of the report for 1902 of the Victorian
Chief Inspector of Factories published in the
daily papers badly upsets the fairy tales of the
Chamber of Sweaters, run by a person called
Derham and other opponents of the Shops and
Factories Act. It is a peculiar feature of the
Sweater that, like the wicked, he loveth the dark-
ness. He never comes out in the daylight with
the theory that the Factories Act is hurting him
in his tenderest part —the pocket. His argument
against industrial legislation is that it injures the
worker, and that it drives capital out of the
country, and thereby leaves the worker without
employment. The Chief Inspector’s figures make
interesting reading alongside of these assertions.
They prove that, instead of the Act limiting the
scope of employment, it has resulted in a steady
increase in the number of factories in the State
and the number of hands employed therein. The
Inspector does not deal with all manufacturing
industries, but as regards those which come within
his scope the number of hands employed has in-
creased from 34,268 in 1894 to 59,440 in 1902. This
is a good record for the period covered by
the allegedly ruinous and nefarious minimum
wage law. Taking all manufacturing industries
into account, the situation for the past five years
(under the nefarious and ruinous Minimum Wage
Law) has been about as follows:
Hands employed in
Victorian manufactures.
1898 .. .. 54,778
1899 .. .. 60,070
• 1900 .. .. 64,207
1901 .. .. 66,529
1902 .. .. 73,063
Never in Victoria’s history have industries in-
creased so rapidly as under the Minimum Wage
Law, declared by Derham and his friends to be so
destructive to the interests of the worker, whose
interests Derham and co. have constantly at heart.
And inasmuch as a factory can’t well be established
without capital, and inasmuch as the factories
have lately increased faster than they ever did
before, it would seem that when the same Chamber
of Horrors alleged that the Factories Act was
driving capital'out of the country it was telling a
bald, undecorated lie. A set of figures published
by the Chief Inspector, further on in his report,
may explain somewhat the attitude taken by the
Chamber of Sweaters on this question. This
table shows that since 1896 the wages of operatives
have been increased in 28 trades by an average of
ss. 6d. a week. The increases made under the
Boards ranged from 7d. a week to 12s. lid. a week.
In three trades only are the wages lower than they
were in 1896. In those trades the average decrease
amounts to Is. 7d, a week. It would, of course,
be simply outrageous to suggest^that the Chamber
of Svyeaters opposed the Factories Act because it
had increased the wages of the employees. The
employer has always shown such a feverish desire
to jump up wages that such an idea would be mani-
festly unfair. His grief is that the high wages which
he loves are bad for all parties concerned. I he
said employer, being blind as well as prejudiced,
quite fails to realise that high wages are good for
himself, however bad they may be for the worker.
When he cuts down the worker’s remunera-
tion so low that he can’t buy things, then the
employer can’t sell his goods, and v, aen he
reaches that blessed state of the lowest possible
wages all round, which is his heart’s desire, then
he generally has to close up. People don t
buy Derham’s biscuits when wages are low-
bread is cheaper; and Derham should be able to
recognise a small thing like that. Unfortunately
the Derham type of man wants the effect without
the cause. When wages are low and trade de-
pressed he is sorry. When wages are high and
trade good, and profits large, he immediately
starts figuring out how much larger the profits
would be if he had the go<pd trade and the old,
depressed wages along with it. The fact that he
can’t have the good trade and the old, depressed
wages simultaneously lies altogether outside the
range of his narrow, biscuit-making imagination.
The Minimum Wage Law gives the Victorian
manufacturer the biggest lift he has had for
years, and his inability to realise the fact is a
pathetic circumstance. He is all broken up with
thinking of the money he would have made if he
had had the lift without the Minimum Wage.
The ’Pootra Parmers Discover a New
Dodge.
Melbourne Age lately gave a timely exposure of
another tricky caper of the swindling Victorian
farmers. The said farmer has of late been wailing
about the awful state of his roads, and demanding
that the State shall forthwith borrow several
millions and make them for him—and pass the
bill'on to posterity. Now the farmer habitually
estimates his land for rating purposes at far below
its value, and he seldom strikes a higher rate than
one of a shilling thereon —often he strikes less.
His shilling rate, being charged on a value which
is about half or quarter the real value, is really
about a fourpenny rate, or a twopenny one. Yet
even this paltry contribution he has diverted from
its proper uses and is monkeying with for his own
advantage and to the State’s loss. When, in 1899,
the State relieved the Irrigation and Waterworks
Trusts of over a million-and-a-half of their liabili-
ties —£1,068,459 of their borrowed capital and
£574,252 (almost every penny) of accrued interest
—it was strictly stipulated and thoroughly under-
stood that they were in future to do their best to
be honest—to make their now very light payments
of interest and redemption funds regularly.
So they do —and this is how they do it.
First, let it be recollected that the Irri-
gation or Waterworks Trust and the Shire
Council in any district are practically one and the
same body. A full meeting of either one will
almost always form a quorum of the other. So
the scheming farmers put their heads together
and evolved a plan worthy of the spieler or the
three-card man. Instead of honestly paying their
water rates in addition to their council rate, they
took half of their shilling rate—which is really
about a fourpenny rate or less—and, by permission
of the Governor-in-Council (practically with the
Government’s connivance), voted it away to
the local waterworks trust, and to save themselves
from paying for the water they used. Thus, the
Arapiles shire generously gave the Western
Wimmera Water Trust half its revenue, £553 55.,
and thereby left itself with an overdraft of £559
14s. This blessed shire contains 769 square miles
of country, and expects to maintain its roads on a
sixpenny rate. The Wimmera shire, out of a
revenue of £6225 —little enough for 1043 sq. miles
of territory—calmly handed over £3534 to the same
trust. Why this unnatural generosity? This shame-
less Irrigation Trust, in ’99, repudiated £132,835
out of its £212,835 of boriowed capital, and every
penny of its £51,218 of accumulated interest.
There are a dozen other shires and trusts carrying
on the same disgraceful swindle. As regards these
alleged poor farmers, the position is that they are
actually paying not one penny more in rates than
they did when the land was all bush —before the
State had spent millions in providing them and
their lands with water. Even the promise to
pay, given in ’99, is only kept nominally—by a
contemptible trick. They have tricked the State
to get their water : now they want to trick it to
mend their roads. And not only are they guilty of
a piece of shabby meanness to the State generally,
but of an unconscionable dirty fraud on, perhaps,
the most helpless class in the State —the real “poor
farmer" —the neighbor in their own shire living
outside the irrigated area. This unfortunate has
to pay the same local rate as-before, but instead
of it being spent on making- and maintaining
roads to the outlying parts of the Shire, the
greedy boss robbers vote it away to pay for water
for the wealthy farmers in the irrigated area.
These farmers pay but a shilling rate, on a very
low valuation ; no sewerage rate, and their water
rate they don’t pay ; against this the grimy, but
honest, worker of Footscray is at present paying
2s. 6d. on a high valuation, and an Bd. water, and
sewerage rate in addition. And the wormy rich
farmer wants the Footscray toiler to be taxed
extra to pay for the farmers’ roads.
The “Independent Commission’’ Craze.
The idea that everything which is wrong may be
made right by putting everything in charge of
“an Independent Commission,’’ is growing in
N.S.W. An “Independent Commission” is a
comforting shibboleth like “socialistic legisla-
tion” or “the magnificent natural resources of
this great country ” or “ Mesopotamia,” and it is
very popular just now. Sydney was governed by
a Commission once and the city went bankrupt.
The N.S.W. railways are run by a Commission ;
the Commission did well while Eddy was at the
head of it, but it is now doing worse and worse
every year. The N.S.W. Public Service is run
by a Commission with dreadfully stupid and
wooden results. The Water and Sewerage of
Sydney are in charge of a Commission, and the
chief results are a great financial failure and a
broken aqueduct. It was under a Commission
that ruin fell on the Victorian railways—in
. fact, the whole evidence is that political
management is good if it is a good politician
who manages, and a Commission is good if
it is a good Commissioner who manages, and
both are darned bad otherwise. Just now
there is a feeble proposal afoot to put the N.S.W.
Public Works Department under “an Independent
Commission,” and lately Sydney Telegraph got
the same old shibboleth very badly as regards the
Lands.
By an overwhelming majoiity the Farmers’ Conference
yesterday carried a resolution in favor of the management
of the public estate being taken out of party political
hands, and vested in an Independent Commission. The
tide of opinion amongst those best versed in the land
question has for a long time been noticeably setting in
this direction. . . . The whole history of land adminis-
tration in New South Wales has been that of a political
pull-devil-pull-baker scramble between different classes
of settlers for advantages over each other. And what is
the result? A chaotic mass of legislation, now tending
one way and now another, according as this or that
section succeeded for the moment in getting the stronger
Ministerial pull, which it is now impossible for anyone to
understand or interpret. There has been no continuous
policy Of administration such as we would have got from
an expert Commission, acting from beyond the reach of
political pressure.
These remarks have all the sonorousness of such
words as “usufruct” and “Mesopotamia”—in fact,
they almost reach to the level of “ Popocatepetl.”
But all the same, the reasoning they embody is a
silly delusion. This is the other side of the case :
The country pays a Minister of Works £1370 a year.
For that he is expected to look after half-a-dozen or a
dozen large public departments, and to do it honestly and
intelligently. He is supposed to do that during the day,
and be in Parliament most of the night. It probably
costs him a dozen years of hard work, during which time
his salary is mostly absorbed by election expenses and
gratuities to cadging constituents, to get to be a Minister
—and even then he may not arrive. If he does arrive, he
has a billet from which he is liable to be sacked at a
moment’s notice. A reasonably successful politician
probably averages £5 or £6 a week during his whole
career.
If the country can’t get a brilliant man on these terms
it says that political management is a failure, and gives
the bulk of the Minister’s work to half-a-dozen Com-
missioners with salaries ranging from £BOO to £3600 a
year and with a fixed engagement for three, or five, or
seven years. And even if the Commissioners are a worse
failure' than the Minister, they are practically exempt
from attack because they are out of politics. Exposing a
Minister may get Carrutiiers into office, or may lead to
the abolition of the duty on M'Millan’s calico. Exposing
a Commissioner does none of these things. Therefore a
Commissioner needs to be a lot worse than a Minister
before there is half the scandal.
The Commission idea, if carried to its legitimate con-
clusion, means the abolition of Parliament. It is based
on the theory that the people are unable to govern ; that
their representatives must necessarily be incapable and
dishonest; that self-government is necessarily a failure ;
and that the only good thing is to place one department
after another under a possibly incapable and possibly
corrupt despot. No man can be really beyond political
influences unless he is able to hold his billet in defiance
of all the protests of Parliament and people, and be a
despot.
As regards the N.S.W. public lands, it is actually sug-
gested that the power of legislation should be taken out
of the people’s hands. The people’s land legislation, it is
complained, is chaotic, and the remedy for the people’s
chaotic legislation is to be the good old Independent
Commissioner. This is a further and most dangerous
expansion of the Commission idea.
The old, corrupt, villainous, swindling, rum-deal-
ing, convict-time Governors of Australiawere Com-
missioners of a kind, and quite free from political
influence, and Australia didn’t appreciate them
much. There are drawbacks about the Inde-
pendent Commission business. Perhaps if Minis-
terial salaries were fixed at a high enough figure
to make it worth a really brilliant man’s while to
be a Minister—if they represented as much, say,
as he might earn as a bank manager—better men
might be obtainable. If Ministers were elected
by the House for the duration of Parliament, so
that the job wouldn’t have so many possibilities
of instantaneous sack—if the Minister, though
liable to have bis acts reversed by Parlia-
ment, had something like the same fixity as the
Commissioner —that might also make it possible
to find better men. Ana most assuredly most of
the follies and extravagances now complained of
would disappear if borrowing were aboli'shed—if
no Minister could buy popularity by a sinful
waste of money without also buying much greater
unpopularity by levying extra taxes. That reform
would be worth more than 2500 Independent Com-
missioners.
Private Enterprise and Public
Bankruptcy.
Bull’s refusal to advance more money just now
on Australian securities has been followed by
the usual wheeze; as the D.T. puts it—“ The
bubble has burst, and we can now look forward
to private enterprise being permitted to develop
the country.” But what’s been stopping private
enterprise all this time? It can’t be the
“ socialistic ” party ; that only came into being 10
years back, and has been a poor little minority ever
since, exercising only a leavening influence. What
was stopping private enterprise in the 90 years or
so before it came along? Why didn’t private
enterprise rely upon itself then, when there was
nothing to stop it, instead of borrowing close
upon 200 millions? So-called private enterprise
had a free reign between 1880 and 1890. There
never was a time when employers’ associations
were more militant or when the alleged private
capitalist flourished so exceedingly. What fol-
lowed from 1890 to 1894—bitter labor struggles and
the appearance of the Labor party —was, in fact,
merely the swing back. Yet, in those 10 years,
when private enterprise had this free fling; when
there wasn’t any “socialistic party” to interfere
with it; when M’llwraith and Griffith had
their own way in Queensland, and Spruce Myth
and M'Millan were Ministers in N.S.W.; and
O’Loghlen and Service and Gillies were Pre-
miers of Victoria-—when private enterprise, in
fact, could go on developing as hard as it liked,
it ran up the Australasian public debt from
£95,965,582 to £193,962,687. In ten years, when
private enterprise received every possible encour-
agement to go ahead and develop the coun-
try, it showed its self - reliance by borrow-
ing £97,997,105. Almost its one idea of enter-
prise and the development of the country was
to promote a “bank,” and get from the public
enough deposits to buy some lard with, and then
hang round Parliament till it got a railway built
(with borrowed money) to put up the value of that
land. On the other hand, whereas in that private-
enterprise 10-year period just upon 100 millions
were borrowed, in the next 10-year period, Only
£74,792,921 were borrowed, including 13 millions
for the practically new State of Westralia.
Clearly, then, the party that professes to want to
rely on private enterprise has been the party
that has leaned up against the State most
heavily, and has taken the public credit
oftenest to the pawnshop, and has used
the proceeds mostly to promote the interests
of its own swindles. Moreover, the trouble of
the man who has lent money to the State isn’t
that the coin has been used to develop the country
to the exclusion or detriment of private enter-
prise; his trouble is that it hasn't been used for
that purpose. His trouble isn’t that private
enterprise has not got a big enough chance in
the country; it is that the public money, has
been spent on things that don’t pay, while private
enterprise collars the things that do pay. And,
finally, so far as “private enterprise being now
permitted to develop the country” goes, it
is as well to remember that Bull’s refusal
to advance any more coin is directed in
the first place to Queensland, which, except
for one week, has had in power for the
last 20 years Governments (or practically one
Government) which have allowed private enter-
prise to do what it darn well pleased. It is the
only State, in fact, which has pursued the old
policy thrbughdut— which has smiled upon pri-
vate railways and every other -form of syndicate-
ism. It is the State where, except for one week,
the private enterprise party always has ruled ;
and it is also the State in which private enterprise
has shown its true. character by piling up the
largest public debt per head (the largest in all the
world, in fact). Also (which is natural enough,
too, considering what a living lie the private-
enterprise party is) it is the first State to be de-
finitely told that its credit has flickered out.
Yet, in the teeth of all that, we have the wheeze
repeated that “the bubble has burst, and we can
now look forward to private enterprise saving
the country.” Truly, it might doit; but it will
have to be a different brand of private enterprise
from any we have had so far.
♦
N.S.W. Arbitration Law.
N.S._ Wales Upper House did a violent and
stupid thing in rejecting the Amending Arbitra-
tion Bill of Attorney-General Wise. The Bill
contained no new principle of law; it was partly
a machinery measure to enable arbitration to
move a little more quickly—partly an interpreta-
tive Bill to clear up a misconception as to the
powers of the Registrar, which the arbitration
Judge had favored, but which was contrary to the
spirit of the original Act. There is not the
least doubt that when the N.S.W. Upper
House passed the Arbitration Act, it had
no idea of vesting in the Registrar of
the court—a mere official —absolute jurisdiction
without right of appeal, in cases of registration
and cancellation of registration. But the Act
could be twisted to mean that; and was so inter-
preted—mistakenly in the opinion of most
lawyers. Mr. Wise’s Bill mainly aimed to correct
that mistake. But it happens that the mistake
has been of great advantage to some of the
squatters in N.S.W.—the sweating squatters who
are the leading spirits of the Pastoralists’ Union—
and it is these squatters that the N.S.W.
Upper House largely represents. Sooner
than disoblige its friends the Upper House
killed the Amending Arbitration Bill. It was
an eminently stupid act of violence, for the motive
was so palpable. There was no public good to be
served by hampering the Arbitration Court—only
the private malice of the Pastoralists’ Union ; and
when a House of Legislature lends itself to serve
the private malice of its friends, it is providing
an excellent reason for its abolition.
Old Simon Fraser is Worshipful Grand Master
(though he doesn’t look at all grand) of the
Orangemen in Victoria, and Worshipful Simon
“did himself proud” at the recent 12th of July
upheaval. Said Worshipful Simon, among other
things:—
Protestant countries ruled the world. (Cheers.) Long
might they continue to rule it, for they did so not only
for their own benefit, but for the benefit of all the people.
This is brilliant, perhaps, but not quite accurate.
The most strictly Protestant countries still on
deck can hardly maintain their hold on the scraps
of their once great empires, and the most intensely
Protestant countries of all have been knocked out.
The Transvaal and the Orange Free State, just
wiped off the map amid foul abuse of their Protes-
tant people from Simon Fraser and his friends,
were the most unflinchingly Protestant States on
this earth. After them come Norway, Sweden,
and Denmark, all tottering on their political base.
Finland, which is almost wholly Protestant, was
conquered long ago. Roughly speaking, the coun-
tries which bulk most largely in the world’s eye
now are Russia (Greek Church), Britain (about
five-sixths Protestant and one-sixth Catholic as
regards Britain itself, though mostly Moham-
medan, Hindu, &c., as regards the empire at
large); Germany (two-thirds Protestant, one-
third Catholic); United States (five-sixths Pro-
testant, one-sixth Catholic); France (Catholic);
and Japan (Buddhist and Shintoist). The absorp-
tion of the Transvaal and the Orange Free State
by the mostly Mohammedan, Hindu or Pagan
British Empire amid fearful abuse of the Protes-
tants by old Simon Fraser, has seriously reduced
the list of purely Protestant States, and the pro-
posal of Simon Fraser’s Tory friends to flood
these Protestant countries with Buddhists and
other Pagans is evidently part of a scheme to put
Joss on top of Luther.
4.
At a recent Sydney meeting the Federal shipping
restrictions were roughly handled, and an Aus-
tralian-British protest was angrily recorded. The
voice of Britain and Australia worded itself for
the most part thus :
Eet ees abominable dat free men should pe dreated in
dis vay. Eet ees un-Pritish. (Cheers.) Eet ees not
Australienne. (Cheers.) Eet makes von Englishman’s
ploot to poil. Down mit Barton. Federation is von
gigantic hoomboog. (Continued cheering.)
The next patriot put his thumbs in the arm-holes
of anewly-laundered waistcoat and worded the cry
thus :
I vas alvays proud to be called von Englishman. Ven
me started pizness in Australia me said, ‘ Now me is.von
Australienne also moreofer.’ I vas duly prout. Boot,
vatcooms after? Dis—dis horrible outage on der rights
of citizens. (Cheers.) Me sav, ‘No more prout, mein
friends, no more prout.’ Shamed—l vas ashamed.
Down mit Barton. (Cheers.)
Britain and Australia bid fair to produce a brand
of a novel type, so far as language is concerned.
♦ —
The Victorian coal-miners’ strike is a fine lesson
in the gentle art of settling disputes between the
employers and employees unaided by socialistic
legislation. It was not really a strike but a
lock-out. The employers have been the aggressors
right along. When the men declined to accept
the reduced wages and endeavored to bring about
conferences between themselves and the em-
ployers, the employers arrogantly refused to
confer. Then when the men in self-protection
tried to prevent blacklegs going into the mines to
take the bread out of the mouths of their wives
and families, the employers called in the aid of
the police department. They had 30 or 40 police-
men sent to the mine, and that is what is called
settling an industrial dispute solely between man
and employer, without State interference. Not
satisfied with the State interference of 30 or 40
policemen, the Argus rushes into print with a
demand that all the powers of Government should
be set in motion to finish off the remnant of the
strikers. And yet Tory J. A. Boyd, member for
Melbourne in the State Parliament, who is also
one of the directors of the coal companies, is
allowed in the same issue to say that there should
be no interference on the part of the State in
industrial disputes. Boyd is the man who wore
out several pairs of boots trudging to the Chief
Secretary’s department to demand State inter-
ference.
, ,
The administration of the Neglected Children’s
Act, as carried out by direction of Victoria’.s
Minister of Justice-eum-Premier-cum-Treasurer-
cum-&c., &c., Irvine, is a disgrace to a civilised
community. Until recently, in cases where.it
could be proved that a mother was incapable of
properly feeding or clothing her children, it was
customary for a magistrate to commit them to her
care as State children boarded out to her, in
place of taking them from her and sending
thorn to a public institution ; and a small
weekly dole was allowed for their sustenance.
Premier Irvine, in pursuance of his usual policy
of robbing the charities and stripping the last rag
from the poorly clad, was struck with the brilliant
idea, a few days ago, that this procedure was out-


Bide the letter of the Act and that a few pence
might be saved by its abolition. He accordingly
issued instructions that no such orders were in
future to be made, and now the papers are teeming
with tales of distress that make the average man’s
heart bleed. A child may be starved to a skeleton,
but if no absolute neglect or ill-usage can be proved
a magistrate dare not now make an order. Things
have reached a bad state when a mother who can’t
find food for her family must drive her children
out into the world to shift for themselves, or beat
them so cruelly as to attract attention, before the
State will come to her aid.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEES.
Her Majesty’s. “My Lady Molly.”
Royal “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
CRrrERTON-.;-.::::::::::
Palace «* The Girl I Left Behind Me.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Phillip Park Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK
Princess’s Nellie Stewart Farewell Per-
formances.
Her Majesty’s “If I Were King.”
Theatre Royal ‘‘Going the Pace.”
Opera House Marzella.
Talk about wine making glad the heart of
man! Comic opera has the effect of sparkling
Burgundy on the Australian heart. It does the
gladdening quite as well and without any cork-
screw. At first production of “My Lady Molly”
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) last Saturday, there
wasn’t a vacant seat, or a spare elbow rest on the
back of the circle’s plush fence. Nearly all the
characters in this comic opera are reminiscent of
other characters in other operas of the same
family, but the other characters of whom the
“Lady Molly” characters reminisce are mostly
of a kind that we are glad to have recalled.
The music is. always in high spirits, and
when, as often happens, the company breaks
into a frantic dance, the orchestra goes tune-
fully, deliriously mad. “Lady Molly’s” musical
creator, Sydney Jones, has dressed his opera fora
picturesque past—the past of powder and patches,
when minuets wei'e danced, and love-locks and
swords worn by gallants, and ladies went riding in
voluminous skirts, which skirts they reefed in when
they went walking, with cords and tassels. It was
the time of the picturesque, wreathed with Vir-
ginian creeper and wistaria ; and with that other
creeper in it—the servile old man in apron and
flowered waistcoat, who abased himself before
the lord and the squire and the parson, .and
bobbed abjectly to their feminine belongings,
* * * *
A chorus of maidservants starts the opera—
a host of fascinating chambermaids, high-heeled,
Paris-corseted, and lawn-aproned, wearing heart-
breaking little caps (and diamonds). They sing a
saucy song and wave brooms and feather-dusters.
The story makes for the usual matrimonial com-
plication. A marriage is arranged between their
respective son and daughter by two high-placed
fathers. But the young people, who have never
seen one another, love elsewhere, and are beloved.
The rest of the story is a humorous boggle,
musically showing how the heroine, Lady Molly,
assumes the attire of the man she loves, and
masquerades as him, and causes great confusion
thereby. In the grand finale every man gets the
maid he desires, aiid the maid wins the gentleman
with the special back-hair she fancies.
* * * *
Miss Florence Young, who, as Lady Molly,
has charge of the principal part, is a triumph
as a young gallant, clad in white satin small
clothes and white brocade court suit. When an
audience sees a woman “ wearing them ” it feels
sure of its money’s worth of outrageous compli-
cations. As Captain Romney, Miss Young has to
pose as the future husband of that gentleman’s
betrothed, and the spectacle of anything wearing
a gallant’s clothes “hating to kiss women” and
strongly objecting to a golden head being laid on
“ his ” shoulder makes an audience laugh itself to
death. George Lauri, as the broadly smiling Irish
servant (his brogue is execrable), who has “dis-
charged his master for drunkenness” and
who does eccentric songs and dances, is a
cheering person to meet. Harold Thorley, as
Captain Romney, and Reginald Roberts, as
Lionel Bland, are fine and fierce. The solos, “To
You, Sir Miles” and “Just Because I Love Her
So,” which they respectively render, will have a
great vogue for the next two months in pianoed-
boarding houses, for Norman Cohen and Percy
Gilhooley just dote on the current comic
opera gems. P. Bathurst is a corner-stone
of the opera, and Celia Ghiloni, Marietta Nash,
Maud Chetwynd, and Evelyn Scott are the star-
dust thereof. The piece is superbly mounted.
If The Bulletin had a bouquet of dandelions it
would divide the posy between Henry Bracy and
Leon Caron.
** * *
After an absence of many years, Florence
Menkmever, a pianiste of note, started her Aus-
tralian concert tour last Saturday in Sydney
Centenary Hall. She marches under the high-
aspiring banner of the Great Masters, and has
a spiritual apprehension of their force and
beauty. Her rendering of the Appassionata
Sonata filled the classicists with great
joy, and they spoke together in the space that
is called the interval, saying: “Lo, the damsel
playeth with fire and power and understanding,
and her touch hath strength as when a sculptor
strikes with a chisel, and softness as when dew
falls on the waratah! Of a surety, though, she
will not please the populists, they who bow down
to Sydney Jones and sit in seats fronting the
choral comedians, and gaze upon tubular silk
attire well-filled withal by the limbs of the
ballet, and who smite their palms one upon
another blithesomely crying ‘The song pleaseth
us, oh jocund ones, for it is catchy and bright.
Sing it again, we pray you, so that to-morrow
we may whistle it as we go on our way, rejoic-
ing, to the grocery store.’” Miss Menkmeyer
also contributed three of her own compositions—
sweet dreamy pieces—which were flatteringly
received. Her last concert occurs on Saturday.
** * *
The Frawley co. got back on to a good
wicket at Sydney Palace last Saturday, and in
“Brother Officers” scored well. This comedy,
which has won some success in England and
America, is a well-constructed bit of somewhat
snobbish sentiment with situations of fine drama-
tic intensity. The first act is spoiled by the absurd
lengths to which the social mistakes of the pro-
moted ranker in the officers’ mess are carried, but
what is poor art is very good farce, and leads
up to a situation which is, perhaps, the most
attractive of the play—the Baroness Roydec
(Miss Van Buren) skilfully and effectively cover-
ing over the gaucheries of John Hinds, V.C. (who
is Daniel Frawley off the stage). The yarn of the
play is a simple one. Hinds, V.C., has won a
commission from the ranks, and joins the First
Lancers as lieutenant. Lieut. Pleydell, whose
life he has saved, is an officer in that haughty
regiment. The Lancers, who are, for English
“johnny officers,” unnaturally good fellows, are
resolved to treat Hinds really well—which, since
he has merely done something, whilst they have
achieved the greater merit of being born some-
where, is very kind of them. Hinds makes a
conspicuous ass of himself in Act 1, and is saved
from ridicule by Baroness Royden, with whom,
naturally, he falls in love. She loves Pleydell, her
cousin, and the story shows how Hinds makes way
for him, saving him, too, from the consequences of
a dishonorable adventure at the card table. All
thus ends happily, a Baroness (in her own right)
being naturally better married to a young
aristocrat who has been card-sharping, than to a
gallant officer who had risen from the ranks, and
has a clean and honest record.
* * * •
The acting of “ Brother Officers ” is good.
Daniel Frawley has the best chance, that has
so far come his way in Sydney, of showing his
capacity, and makes a fine study of John
Hinds. His lines are against him in the
first act, but subsequently he gives a
forcible and quietly natural picture of the
promoted ranker. Harry Plimmer is also con-
spicuously successful as Lieutenant Pleydell,
playing with a lightness which he used to lack.
He is gradually working away from the traditions
of heavy melodrama. Wallace Shaw, in a strong
character part as Robert Hutton, is another good
feature of the cast. The feminine parts are com-
paratively unimportant. Miss Van Buren and
Miss Blanche Douglas have characters of almost
equal size, or want of size, and fill them well.
“Brother Officers” should be good for another
fortnight; nevertheless, a change of bill is an-
nounced for Saturday.
** * *
At Sydney Royal the “ Midsummer
Night’s Dream” has abated none of its love-
liness, and the bray of Nicholas the Ass is
as sweet as of yore. Undoubtedly much of the
charm of the fairy kingdom in Musgrove’s
“ Dream ” production lies in the genuine youth-
fulness and beauty of Titania, Oberon, and the
incidental singing fairy. A manager might travel
the world round without finding another three
girls who could support the illusion so effectively
as these three, Dora Rignold, Nora Kerin, and
Gladys Ure. The she Oberon is uncommon tall,
dark, impressive, and deep-voiced ; the Queen and
her musical attendant are blonde and just lovely.
That trinity of winged visions is the dramatic
“ treat of a lifetime,” as a stout gentleman ob.
served when he went out between the acts to get
another drink.
** * *
“Greed of Gold,” in which there isn’t
much more greed of gold than usual, continues to
fill Sydney Lyceum; but on Saturday of this
week Willard will regain his power of speech,
and will forthwith lapse into villainy. During
the last few days a league of Sydney Parlia-
mentary reporters has been formed to lure J. C. L.
Fitzpatrick, Dan Levy, Eden George, and a few
others round to the Lyceum, so that they might
learn from Willard how to be eloquent though
dumb, but the scheme has not met with any
success. “The Worst Woman in London” will
be next staged ; Miss Linda Raymond will be the
fascinator who gets rid of her husband, tries to
grill her step-daughter, and does other strange,
dark things.
## * *
“ The Shadows of a Great City ” proved
a greater success than even Charles Holloway had
bargained for, and it has been kept on at Sydney
Criterion a week longer than was originally in-
tended. The performance runs a dead heat with
“Two Little Vagabonds” as the best of the
season so far. On Saturday of this week “The
Shadows ” will be dispelled by “ The Price of
Sin.” The subject seems familiar enough, but the
piece is alleged to be new to these parts, and the
price is said to be something extra.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus is due on Saturday at
Phillip Park, Sydney, and great is the glory
thereof. The list of its contents is too vast for
repetition, but one act, which includes two lions,
two ponies, a lamb and a dog, promises well; and
13 other different kinds of animals are mentioned
by the advertisement in the blase fashion of a
show that has the shelves full of animals, and
takes down some baboons and alligators and
gorillas to show to a customer just casually.
In fact, it suggests a show that can throw away
half-a-dozen elephants any morning and not
miss them, and which isn’t sure to within a
quarter of a mile how much python it has.
The list of human performers looks equally for-
midable ; in fact it is alleged that the Wirths
count the contortionists every night, and if not
more than 15 Boneless Wonders, Yes-Noes, and
J. C. MAYNARD, the retiring N.S.W. Under-
secretary for Public Instruction.
Photo, by Kerry & Co. , Sydney.
Whatisits are missing, they reckon it is near
enough. It is also rumored that the only real live
fantod ever captured is in this show, but definite
information on this point is unobtainable.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, W. C. Fields, the
clever eccentric juggler, has changed his pro-
gramme, and in a freakish billiard table act
shows more comical agility than ever. The De
Wynne Bros, re-appeared this week, but too late
to allow of criticism. As theirs is a balancing act
it probably doesn’t throw much new light on the
theory of dramatic art, anyhow.
** * #
Donizetti’s “ Daughter of the Regiment,”
appointed for the farewell night of Musgrove’s
Comic Opera Co., drew a large attendance to Mel-
bourne Princess’s. Many ancient citizens, grey
or hair-dyed, came along to revive their faded
recollections of the old, old work, and in between
the acts (the second had been made into two acts
that it might seem longer) these earnest pilgrims
talked of Julia Matthews and other artists who
were not dead a long time ago. Some of them
even mentioned Jenny Lind. This unique per-
formance of “La Fille du Regiment”interested
one half of the audience and didn’t hurt the other
half very much. ' It was quite handsomely
staged and well rehearsed. The chorus sang
its best. Lempriere Pringle, as the roaring
Sergeant, made a particular success, and May
Beatty, with the music cut to fit her vocal pro-
portions, rattled through the name-part in a
remarkably free and plucky style. She introduced
herself with a confidential smile that seemed to
say “ I’m all right, if you don’t expect too
much ” —and she fulfilled her smile to the letter.
Then there was Mrs. G. B. Lewis, as a Countess
by birth, showing her fine ability to act and her
splendid inability to sing; also, Edward Lauri, as
a sometimes comic and sometimes serio person,
who didn’t seem to know 7 t’other from which ; and
Henry Hallam, as a reckless young devil
of a mountaineer, beloved of the bounc-
ing Beatty. Veteran Hallam had contem-
plated an overwhelming triumph in the tenor
part, but he finally caught two colds on the chest,
and his poor sore little warble was nearly as droll
as his reference to his youthfulness. When he
slapped his poulticed bosom and called himself
twenty-two or even younger—well, the house
enjoyed a loud smile. Everybody concerned in
this one-night show was vehemently applauded.
At the finish Manager Musgrove had to commit a
spasmodic speech ; likewise Edward Lauri, who
said he was an Englishman himself, but wanted
to make it clear that the young lady principals of
the Co. were just as good, or even better, for not
being English like himself. Then May Beatty
thanked everybody very much for all their kind-
ness, and the Opera season was no more. All this
demonstration happened on Friday.
*# * *
On Saturday night “Dolores” took the
floor, and Melbourne was present in the greatest
profusion. Melbourne had heard that the moral
tone of “ Dolores ” is questionable, therefore
hundreds of inquiring ladies were turned away
from the doors after s.r.o. was exhausted, and
some of them stood awhile on the pavement out-
side, bewailing their bad luck. Perhaps there is
no sadder sight in life than a disappointed spinster
shut out from the chance of forming her own
opinion about a drama’s moral tone. But she will
have six chances in Melbourne, and before the sixth
performance of “ Dolores” falls due the rejection
of money at the doors will probably cease. Every
play by Haddon Chambers, except the “Tyranny
of Tears,” has been stagey and unconvincing in
its so-called strongest scenes. The last two acts
of this play strike the note of insincerity so loudly
that it can’t escape ordinary notice. A canting
young woman sells her “honor” to a pale,
amorous Bertie for the sake of the means to pro-
vide her sick sister with luxuries. Because her
extravagance has reduced her man to embezzle-
ment she loathes him and preaches at him, and
tells him to get out of the country. Then
she remarks sneerfully that she knows he
hasn’t any money left to clear out with,
and she seems to take great credit to herself
for offering him her own residue of the ’bezzled
coin, whereupon he protests that he hasn’t sunk
so low as to accept any assistance from the sweet
harpy who has been bleeding him for 12 months.
But he takes it and goes. Being now left without
a Bertie, and not having made up her mind to
sell her second-hand “honor” to an adoring
money-lender, Dolores amuses herself by testing
the virtue of a Wesleyan journalist, and when her
hypocrisy has triumphed over the hypocrisy of
the scribe and Pharisee, she denounces him as a
humbug to some giddy girls from the adjacent
supper-room. The giddy girls and Bertie (until he
clears out), and the devoted money-lender are always
popping into the front room, or popping out
again. At last the white-haired boy of the drama
who loves Dolores with a pure Christian En-
deavorer’s love walks unseen into the apartment
for the purpose of popping up. The young En-
deavorer checks his idol when she is about to
say something spiteful; also he pops up in time to
stop her from taking poison (this is a situation in
“ The Dancing Girl ” reversed as to the sex of the
sinner and guardian angel) and finally he saves
her from the persevering capitalist who would
marry her. The end of Dolores in the play
is salvation and a cheap black frock which
she must have been saving up in readi-
ness for her day of repentance. No sus-
picion of genuineness attaches to Dolores, but the
character gives Nellie Stewart full scope for the
display of her resources in the merely decorative
forms of theatrical art. Harcourt Beatty repeats
his clever, amusing study of the drunken father,
the one live-looking character in the drama, and
E. B. Russell is the usurer who might look natural
if he were more artistically presented. On Satur-
day night, Webster Lawson didn’t play the part
of the guardian angel, although his name figured
on the programme. The substitute for the missing
Lawson was Vernon Steele, a tall, handsome
fellow, who made a good impression.
** * *
“ Sweet Nell ” is to be revived on Satur-
day for two nights, followed by “ Mice and Men ”
and ‘ ‘ A Country Mouse, ” also for two nights each.
*# * *
At the Royal an improvident Baker con-
tinues to squander the leavings of his deceased
relative in order that he may start married life
with a clear conscience and twopence to go on
with. Also, he still returns from the fox-hunt
with Albert Norman’s unresisting body slung
across his saddle, and all things connected with
“ Going the Pace ” are going well, including Bland
Holt’s ankle and the weekly receipts.
** * *
At the Opera House they are giving two
matinees a week in token of Madame Marzella’s,
popularity. The next extra matinee happens on
Saturday, and is specially dedicated to parents
and guardians of all children who love birds, and
can rejoice to see an able-bodied cockatoo turning
somersaults backwards. Hallen and Fuller are
still playing the comedy which terminates in
Hallen’s removal of Fuller’s generous proportions
on a barrow. >
*# * *
The Williamson musical co., which is not,
the other co., concluded a dull season at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) with a respectable produc-
tion of “San Toy.” Take it altogether, “San
Toy ” showed the co. to rather more advantage
than any of its previous efforts. Lillian Digges is
very light and likeable in a soubrette part,
although she gets somewhat carried away by a
sense of her own activity. Rose Musgrove, too,
is a dainty and tender San Toy, as different from
Carrie Moore in the same character as cream cheese
is from Dutch ditto. But an actress of her special
qualifications is misplaced in musical cornedy,
unless she has a large singing voice. Miss Mus-
grove strikes one as being “called” to domestic
drama of the Dickens order. She could shine as
Little Nell or the Marchioness in “Old Curiosity
Shop.” Oliver Twist and Smike are waiting for
her impersonation, and Jo is a part that Rose
Musgrove might re-create on the stage. Her
Majesty’s is closed for two or three nights to re-
open on Saturday with “If I were King.” Mel-
bourne thus far has only seen Cuyler Hastings’
calm, chilly treatment of the chemicalised detec-
tive, and it will be glad to see him and Professor
Moriarty in another drama.
** * *
Nothing very notable has happened at
Melbourne Town Hall for some weeks past, but a
series of Saturday Promenade Pop. concerts is
proceeding at the Exhibition Building, and pro-
mises to prosper.
*# * *
At Adelaide Tivoli (with Manager Larkin,
back from Maoriland, in command) the Grace
Emmett Co. ’s sketch proves an agreeable surprise.
“Mrs. Murphy’s Second Husband” has been a
success all through Seddon’s islands, and the
acting of the leading lady would make it go any-
where. To see a Widow O’Brien part played,
and played well, by a pretty woman is a novelty.
The piece is not much, but it is sufficient
joy to hear Mrs. Honora Murphy talk Irish -
American. The imitation of J. F. Sheridan,
given by James Harvey elsewhere in the
programme, gains a special interest by com-
parison. The Comic Opera Co., at the Royal,
passed on to Sydney after giving a curious little
season of eight nights, including five plays old
enough to be almost fresh. The co. ended with
one performance of “ Dorothy,” and the same of
“Patience,” and departed much regretted.
Florence Young scored heavily all round. Dan
Barry has succeeded, with the moving story of
“A Gilded Sin.” There is plenty of gilding in
the mounting, and plenty of sin in the play, and
Dan Barry himself has a fat comedy part.
A few days ago Sydney D.T. gave pro-
minence to a painfully inconsistent correspondent
who wanted to explain why he was leaving Aus-
tralia. The worst thing that had struck him, he
said, was the Federal tariff, which was so high
that it was impossible to make money under it.
Then the foolish, vain person, to prove that it
wasn’t his fault that he hadn’t succeeded, ex-
plained that he had made one fortune already.
And of all countries in the world he mentioned
the United States as ; .the place where he made it
—the United States, with a tariff beside which
the Australian one is only a beginning !
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 BY ... .. £6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, eto.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINS, Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market prioe is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For fwiher particu ia rtt address-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE— NARANDERA
70 PITT ST., SYDNEY or YOUNG.


The Wild Cat Column.
Sydney Telegraph has always urged that Aus-
tralia can’t adopt the Canadian system of requiring the
banks to hold part of their reserves in Government notes,
because in some way or other the two cases are not
parallel. (The helpless theory that Australia can’t do
anything except float a new loan has become so much
a part of the newspaper gospel here that something of
this sort was inevitable.) The chief reason why the cases
are not parallel is said to be that Canada is so much
nearer the world’s monetary centres than we are.
Judging from some figures which the Telegraph pub-
lished a few days ago, however, the cases are parallel
enough to show' that the Australian banking system is
wasteful to the last degree. Here are the figures
Paper. Canada. Australia.
Notes in Circulation .. .. £11,304,170 £3,344,681
Government Notes held by
Banks 4,832,919 665,772
Total Paper .. - .. £16,137,089 £4,010,453
Coin ' £3,096,617 £20,332,990
Short Call Loans outside
Canada .. .. 16,685,865
The Canadian external short call loans are mostly in the
United States, and the bulk of them could be got back in
time to meet a sudden demand, so they may be, to
some extent, regarded as cash. The Australian banks’
short call loans are mostly in London, and the
money couldn’t be made available here in less
than five weeks, and, though they would be just as good
as cash if there were five weeks’ notice of a run, they are
not reckoned in the above statement. But even on this
basis the situation is this : Canada has £3,000,000
coin and £16,000,000 notes in the country, or £18,600,000
coin and £16,000,000 notes reckoning the Canadian money
invested in the United States. And Australia, with a
much smaller population, keeps over £20,000,000 coin
against only £4,000,000 notes. For a country whose coin
all represents borrowed money, and whose £20,000,000 of
gold stored in the banks means a loss of about £750,000 a
year in interest, this habit of hoarding up coin, where
paper could be so largely used instead, is a hideous waste.
* * * ♦
During the past four years Queensland has paid
£499,300 more in interest on its public debt than it paid
in the preceding four years. And yet, when the Govern-
ment begged Cohen and Co., the other day, for a trifle, it
was on the plea that the last few years had been a period
of non-borrowing.
• • * •
Maoriland railway returns for the last year are
better than most of those of the Commonwealth States ;
nevertheless the trend is not satisfactory. Compared
with the previous year’s results the net increase in
earnings over expenditure was £8274 ; but, as the capital
cost had been largely increased, there was really in the
past year a larger shortage in the amount required to
pay interest —and that is the crucial test. Expenditure
is also increasing very rapidly. The returns for the last
few years show up :
Expenditure to Net Revenue
Revenue. to Capital.
1897 .. .. 61-35 per cent. £3 310 per cent.
1898 .. .. 62-30 „ 3 410
1899 .. .. 63-26 „ 3 510 „
1900 .. .. 64-80 „ 3 8 5 „
1901 65-30 „ 3 9 8 „
1902 .. .. 66-80 „ 3 8 6 „
1903 .. .. 68-05 „ 3 6 0 „
The development of the country has been responsible for
a very fine increase in the gross earnings. Ten years
ago, they were only £1,181,521; last year, they were
£1,974,038, or 67 per cent. more. (The increase in N.S.W.
during the same period was from £2,927,056 to £3,314,893,
or 13 per cent.) But, unfortunately, though the improve-
ment more than kept pace with the increase in working
expenses for some time, the latter have now got ahead of
it, and are getting further and further ahead ; and serious
trouble is looming unless a change is made somewhere.
* * * *
A story that is becoming familiar is told over
again in the annual report of Maoriland railways.
Though the huge debt which the lines represent is as
good as new, the lines are not; so “if our railways are to
keep pace with the rapidly-increasing demand for quick,
safe, and cheap transport,” tracks must be relaid and
bridges strengthened' “at a greatly increased rate.”
When that happens, unless the alterations are paid for
out of revenue, the one line will be carrying two lots of
debt, and it will have to earn enough to pay two lots of
interest. And that is a large contract.
* * * *
Queeensland Treasurer Cribb makes next year’s
public accounts square on paper by deciding on his own
authority that Australian Treasurer Turner will pay his
State £895,000, while Turner himself, who ought to know,
says the payment will be only £790,870. It is an easy
way to square things, and characteristic of Oribb.
* * * *
The National Bank of New Zealand, for ten
years past:— ,
Net Carried to Re-
March, Profits Dividends Reserves serves
1894 .. ..£16,997 5 p.c. = £12,500 £4,497 £15,175
1895 .. .. 16,432 5 „ 12,500 3,932 19,107
1896 .. .. 18,089 5 „ 12,500 5,589 24,696
1897 .. .. 21,461 5 „ 12,500 8,961 33,657
1898 .. .. 25,538 6 „ 15,000 10,538 44,195
1899 .. .. 38,466 7 „ 17,500 20,966 65,161
1900 .. .. 42,348 8 „ 20,000 22,348 87,509
1901 .. .. 55,785 10 „ 25,000 30,785 118,294
1902 .. .. 64,933 10 „ 25,000 39,933 158,227
1903 .. .. 54,533 10 „ 25,000 29,533 187,760
On capital alone (£250,000) the profit for the past year was
equal to £21165. 3d. per cent., as against £25 19s. sd. per
cent, in the previous year. On the entire shareholders’
funds as at the commencement of each year the recent
record of profits is as follows :
1900 .. £l3 13 2 per cent. I 1902 .. £l7 12 7 per cent.
1901 .. 16 10 6 „ „ | 1903 .. 13 7 2 „ „
Certainly- the return for the past year is the lowest of the
four, but-it is a remarkable return for all that. The
Westralian Bank (and Westralia is the State where they
are tearing out the gold at the rate of millions a year)
made only £lO 15s. 6d. per cent, in its last term ; and the
Bank of Adelaide (South Australia being the State which
has been having an unusual burst of prosperity) made
£8 9s. sd. per cent. Socialistic legislation seems to be
good for banking profits; anyway, the banks of that State
which has the-most of it make the most money. Com-
paring the National’s position with what it was 12 months
previously, these results are reached :
Mar., 1902, Mar., 1903. Increases.
Cash and Liquid
Assets .. .. £756,850 £770,809 £13,959
Deposits ..- .. 2,732,951 2,838,524 105,573
Advances .. .. 2,901,929 3,005,773 103,844
Reserves .. .. 158,227 187,760 29,533
Decreases.
Notes and Bills in
Circulation .. 585,865 565,417 20,448
Real Propertv .. 83,265 77,619 5,646
Profits .. .. 64,933 54,533 10,400
The cash and liquid assets are equal to £22 13s. per cent,
of the total liabilities to the public, which is a few shil«
lings less than the figure of 12 months ago—a figure
below which it would probably be inadvisable to go. One
improvement has, however, been made ; instead of keep-
ing almost the whole of this reserve in coin and bullion,
holding- of productive public stocks has been in-
creased! in home and for«|n securities
stand at £118,078 as compared with £49,'08 a jear ag
“T 1 TT A ”• Re par., Wild Cat column, B.
9/7/’O3 about Iliawarra Co. In the sixties, and right on
2/7/ 03, about nia had its own means of
to now, ShdlhMbor (»•*«•> “ g gtarted by
communication vvitn ) . ~ i j in i cutter
Captain Baxter a sea dog of theoM breed, >n « .tter,
oppoSi went merrily until the local co got a steamer
built (also called the Dairymaid), and soW the schooner
to the Chinese and the Peterborough hauled out. That
Dairymaid coined money ; the only paid person on
shore was the agent. Manager and directors gave
their services free. Then that Dairymaid was sold
to the Chinks, and went to the South Sea glands
and the present Peterborough was built, and is
still going Strong, although of the original starters
only a few are still topside, one being Captain Wilson.
Th/old Iliawarra S.N. Co. began very flashly, with fast
boats regS time tables-quite Holyhead-Dublin mail-
boat fashion. To see the Hunter leaving for Southern
ports those days would outshine the departure of the
Oroya to-day. The shareholders were men of substance
and standing in the city. They bought up boats origi-
nally brought out for the Hunter River trade also, they
bought-up the Kiaina, a threatened opposition boat,
brought out by present Captain Charles, M.L.C.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas-
mania) . Dividends and Surplus for
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
June, 1896.. £4602 5 P-c- =£4429, „ ■ £173 £9161
Dec., 1896.. 4444 5„ „ 4429 15 9146
June, 1897.. 4428 6., „ 4429 - 9147
Dec., 1897.. 4429 5„ „ 4429 - 9147
June, 1898.. 4450 6„ „ 4429 21 9126
Dec., 1898.. 3129 3„ „ 2658 471 8655
June, 1899.. 2668 3„ „ 2658 10 8645
Dec., 1899.. 2375 3„ „ 2658 89.8
June, 1900.. 3108 3 „ „ 2658 450 8478
Dec., 1900.. 2998 3„ „ 2658 340 8138
June, 1901.. 3354 3„ „ 2658 696 7442
Dec., 1901.. 4035 3„ „ 2658 1377 6065
Reserves.
(£60,760 capital written off, out of which
£7500 was applied to wipe off goodwill,
leaving a credit balance of £1435 .. 1485
June, 1902.. 4981 6p.c.= 3402 1579 3014
Dec., 1902.. 3788 6„ „ 3402 386 3400
June, 1903.. 4786 6„ „ 3402 1384 4,84
The company, which has a paid capital of £lOB,OOO is
trading with no less than £118,843 of borrowed money,
including fixed deposits, debentures, and overdraft; ana
this appears to be costing all round a trifle over 5 per
cent. Practically the whole of the money is sunk in free-
hold properties, premises, &c. ; and though at present
the return easily pays the interest, a change for the
worse might land the co. in difficulties. The reduction
of the load of borrowed money out of profits seems to be
therefore desirable. The progress of business is good ;
the profit for the half-year has only once before been
exceeded.
* » * *
It ought to open the eyes of those who are
addicted to proprietary medicines to notice, from a recent
Sydney customs case, that pills valued at £BBMor con-
sumption in Australia were sworn to be of an American
value of £2 18s. 4d. The great pill business very largely
consists of selling to the public a farthing’s worth of some
well-known medicine for a shilling under a fancy name.
* * * *
The N.Z. Farmers’ Co-Operative Association
of Canterbury, Ltd., for a few years past:
Unex-
Writ- plained Total
Visible Dividends. Bonus, ten Addi- Re-
Profit. off. tionsto serve.
Mav Reserve. /
1900’£16,459 10 p.c.= £5674 £7164 £260 --
1901 14 169 9) 5799 6207 258 £843 33,112
1902 8!091 9 ” „ 5859 5188 1535 777 29,398
1903 16,632 9£ ~ ~ 6284 6500 400 250 33,096
In the last line the figures as to the total of divi-
dends and bonus and the amount written off are
more or less conjectural; the amounts paid respec-
tively in dividends and bonus on business are never
separated, and the totals for any one year are not
known until the end of the next year. Even the bonus
paid to employees (usually 31 per cent, on their wages) is
lumped with the dividends, although it should more
strictly be reckoned with the expenses, and deducted
from the profits. Apparently (though there is nothing to
show it), the unexplained additions to the reserves men-
tioned above arise from the issue of new shares at a
premium. The paid capital is now £65,109. Generallj,
the business appears to be flourishing ; the one bad year
shown in the table above was mainly the result of the low
price ruling for crossbred wool, and consequent depression
among the otherwise usually prosperous farming com-
munity of Canterbury. The company trades in a large
wav ; its liabilities to the public on May 31 (including
£7i,693 deposits) amounted to £181,743, against which it
held £45,353 cash, £79,437 goods in store, and £39,583
freehold and leasehold property ; the balance of assets
was chiefly represented by advances (£87,861) and sundry
debtors.
* * * *
The Perth Gas Co. (W.A.)
Added
—Dividends— N Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Paid. Contributing, off. serves, serves.
Nov.,’ol £9,'30
May, ’O2 /10 p.c. = 30 P- c - = \£i»6l £l3OB 11,038
£7669 \ £2500 £2500
N0v.,’02 jlop c = 30 p.c. = \ 2109 4891 15> 9 2 9
£12,000 \ £2500 £2500 /
May, ’O3 (20 p.c. = 60 p.c. = \ 4743 14,294
£lO,lll \ £5OOO £5OOO /
This company adopts the somewhat unusual plan of
paving an equal Is. or’2s. per share upon paid-up and
contributing; shares. The latter are now paid to only
6s. Bd. ; but, as the company is trading a good deal
beyond its capital, and has been doing so for some time,
it is now proposed to call up some of the unpaid
13s. 4d. This step might well have been taken
before ; a company which, even before paying
the current dividend, had no cash or credit balance, but
an overdraft of £18,223 and a mortgage of £l5OO, cer-
tainly could not afford to pay out a 60 percent, dividend.
The profits are, nevertheless, very fine indeed ; after
writing off £1746 for depreciation, they amounted last
half-year to £8365, or £25 Is. lOd. per cent, per annum on
the paid-up capital. The electric light department is,
however, much more profitable than the gas department,
after allowing for depreciation the former returned
£7138 and the latter £1227. Probably, however, as the
result of a reduction in the price of current, profits may
be temporarily affected.
* * • *
Premier Seddon, of M.L., has put his State Fire
Insurance Bill before Parliament, and the House of Reps,
has passed the second reading by 33 votes t 0.9. It con-
tains no element of compulsion. A former Bill provided for
the compulsory insurance of buildings in any district in
which a majority of the people decided, on a poll, that it
should be so ; but that project has been abandoned.
Further, the surplus profits are not to be forthwith
divided among insurers. For three years there is to be no
division ; after that, half goes to reserve, the other half
to the insurers. If some inducement must be held out
in order to attract business, the plan adopted by some
accident insurance companies of making the rebate
dependent upon the number of annual premiums paid
without a break looks better. There seems to be no reason
why a man who only insures with Seddon in the fourth
year of the department’s existence should get a rebate
right away because some other people have been paying
in for three years previously. And why shouldn't the
man who never has a fire on his premises, and who prhna
facie is a careful person, and whose risk is prima facie
unusually good—why shouldn’t be derive some superior
advantage ? As to the management of the new business,
Seddon proposes to have a general manager, to be
appointed by the Government, assisted by a board con-
sisting of the Treasurer (chairman), rhe Government
Insurance Commissioner, and two outsiders appointed by
the Government. The general manager will also have a
seat on the board.
» * * *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. (Sydney) :
Pasto-
ralists’
Loss on subsidy Added
Busi- re- Written to Re- Re-,
ness, ceived. off. serves, selves.
Dec., 1898.. £66,474
June, 1899.. £2136 £2346 £2lO 66,684
Dec., 1899.. 2714 3726 1012 67,696
June, 1900.. 5526 4074 66,244
Dec., 1900.. 8011 6514 64,747
June, 1901.. 7660 5518 62,605
Dec., 1901.. 3544 4749 1205 63,810
Profit.
June, 1902.. 280 4827 6107 68,917
Loss.
Dec., 1902.. 3732 3222 £5OOO 63,407
June, 1903.. 4366 3718 5000 57,759
The co. has made no profit for shareholders ; but in-
directly, being mostly cow-owners, the shareholders have
benefited through the co.’s operations—its “ unremitting
competition at the sab yards has contributed largely to
the maintenance of the high values which have pre-
vailed.” The co.’s paid-up capital is only £20,315, so
that, even after recent losses and the liberal writing-off,
the reserves are equal to £2 16s. lOd. for every £1 em-
barked. ~ ■
* * * *
South Australia’s surplus, which had been esti-
mated at something over £23,000, has been whittled
down to £3317. This, however, is after deducting
£lO,OOO, the amount required by the Treasury Bills Act
to be set apart annually for the extinction of the old
accumulated deficit of £239,174. South Australia had
the remarkably good luck to get £39,000 more in succes-
sion duties than it expected ; otherwise, in spite of its
unusual prosperity, the usual deficit would have come
along. As it is, the same rich people can’t die twice ;
and, in a sense, a deficit has been dodged this year by
discounting the prospects of years to ci me.
3|(
Walkers Limited, engineers, ironfounders,
shipbuilders, &c., of Maryborough, Queensland :
Dividend and Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Written off. serves.
1894.. £2,828 £5126
1895.. 4,670 9/96
1896.-10,368 10 per cent. =£6371 £7500 6293
(£3620 forfeited capital written off assets.)
1897.. 922 Nil 7215
(£4O forfeited capital written off assets.)
1898.. 4,702 5 per cent. =£3344 £2500 6073
1899.. 2,(03 5 ~ „ 3344 4732
1900.. 4,126 5 „ „ 3344 5514
1901.. 6,113 5 „ ~ 3363 8264
1902 . 1,629 Nil 2000 7893
1903.! 1,484 Nil 9377
Of the profits, £lOOO has to go to the fund for the redemp-
tion of debentures, making the total now held on that
account £2OlB ; this money is invested in Queensland
Treasury bills. The co. has a paid capital of £64,302,
and its debenture debt amounts to £21,150. Evidently
the business of contracting in iron work is a precarious
one ; probably with a little more Protection it might do
better. At present, anyhow, while it finds steady
emplovment for a large number of Australians, the
“ bloated manufacturer ” can’t average more than 3 per
cent, out of it, and, as the figures show, a good many
shareholders have sacrificed their capital rather than risk
any more calls. The “ bloated manufacturer ” will take a
lot of finding in Australia ; the bloated importer, who
employs no Australians worth mentioning, is a lot
commoner.
* * * *
It is a remarkable fact that during the week
immediately succeeding Kingston’s retirement from the
Customs the revenue amounted to only £190,000, as com-
pared with £230,000 received during the same period
last year- a falling off of £40,000! No wonder the
importing class threw its belltopper recklessly into the
free Australian atmosphere and shouted “ Hooray ! ”
when Kingston’s resignation was announced. One can
almost imagine the head shipping clerk being called into
the manager’s office and instructed as follows:—“Of
course, Mr. Slinyjim, we will expect a considerable profit
from your department in the future —as before this
disgusting Labor fellow commenced interfering with our
business.” What a terrible lot of “ unavoidable clerical
errors ” seem to have been perpetrated during that one
short week !
* * * *
The Standard Mutual Builping Society
(Melbourne)
Profits
on Pro-
perty Written Re-
Profits. Sold. Dividends. Off. serves,
Jan., 1897..£446 £896 £[4,367
July, 1897.. 885 - - [[ll [3,541
Tan 1898 476 1 190 12,827
July, 1898’.! 657 2250 [1,234
Jan., 1899.. 904 [2,138
July, 1899.. 1011 - =- 692 [2 45/
Jan., 1900.. 739 - - 73 [3.1 A
Jul v, 1900.. 1269 , 660 13,732
(£49,600, being one-half paid-up capital, written off.)
Jan., 1901. 1451" £l2OB 6942 9,449
July, 1901.. 1541 609 10p.c.=£2401 474 8,/24
Jan., 1902.. 1952 1277 6 ~ „ 1434 10,519
July, 1902.. 1803 793 6 „,, 1434 485 11,196
Jan., 1903.. 2072 412 6 „ „ 1434 12,246
July, 1903.. 2041 339 6 ~ ~ 1434 200 12,992
The reserves are used in the business, being represented
bv either loans or properties in possession- This to some
extent impairs the value of the reserves as reserves ;
nevertheless, in proportion to the capital (£47,798), they
are fairly substantial, and their recent growth is excellent.
* * * *
H.C.8.: (1) You will apparently be entitled to
a paid policy for £lso—that is £3 7s. 6d. less than you
have paid in. A 20-year policy in the other co. will cost
you about £3 a year less. Probably hetter take it on
those terms. (2) That accident co. is one of the best.. ...
Constant R. : The map (65.) was published by the Socibte
Belgique de Mines d’Or, and is the best extant .
The N.S.W. Shalb and Oil Co. (Sydney) i
Applied
Written to
Profit Dividends. off. Re- Re-
serves. serves
Dec., 1897.. £519 £519 £741
June, 1898.. 284 284 1025
Dec., 1898.. 591 2J per cent. =£B33 783
June, 1899.. 625 nil £3OO 325 1108
Loss. „,-f ’ Deficit
Dec., 1899.. 1575 nil 467
June, 1900.. 432 nil 899
Dec., 1900.. 382 ml 1281
Profit. Reserves.
June, 1901.. 2128 nil 812 1316 35
Dec., 1901.. 474 nil 474 509
Loss. Deficit.
June, 1902.. 1073 nil 564
Profit. Reserves.
Dec., 1902.. 662 nil 662 98
June, 1903.. 107 nil 107 205
It was a precarious business at the best; and during tha
past few years it has been worse even than precarious.
The best hope for the future seems to lie in the economi-
cal application of new appliances and processes, especi-
ally with to working up the waste by-products.
The Broken Hill Proprietary people have done
remarkably good work in keeping the mine going full-
handed in spite of the water famine. The only break
which occurred was between June 23rd and July 4th, and
that would not have occurred if the Water Co. had given
timely notice of the impending failure of its supply. The
three weeks’ break was occupied in rushing up a con-
densing plant, consisting of 35 iron tanks, 6ft. in diameter
and 20ft. high. These receive all the steam from the
engines, compressors, etc. ; it is condensed there, flows
back to the boilers, and is used over and over again, with
hardly any waste. In practice it is found that the mine
can do with only one-fifth of the water formerly used ;
and the condensation costs practically nothing. It is
naturally intended to continue the process even after the
famine is over ; and, as the'other co.’s will probably
follow, this will seriously affect the Water Co.’s profits.
* * ’ .* *
B.H. Block 14 has decided on erecting a plant
to produce a zinc concentrate from the waste dumps on
the mine. This material, which is not only at surface but
is also already crushed fine, contains up to 25 per cent, of
zinc. The directors have decided to test a plant of an
entirely new design, the result of a lona series of experi-
ments on the co.’s own ore. The B.H. Prop., Central
(Sulphide Corporation), and Australian Metal Co. are all
doing satisfactory work in the production of a zinc con-
centrate, to which, in view of the spelter market, more
attention is now being given than to anything else.
* * » »
“Scutum”: No reason why “Sessil” should
rave so over mineral conditional purchases (B. 23 7/’O3).
Under section 13 of the Lands Act of 1861, application
could be made for a conditional purchase at £1 per acre, a
deposit of 25 per cent, being required. If the selector paid
the balance within 3J years and complied with conditions
of residence and improvement, he got the freehold, with
minerals reserved. Balance might be deferred, providing
5 per cent, interest was paid. Section 19 provided that
C.P.’s for mining other than gold (M.C.P.’s) could be
made under section 13, the price being £2 per acre ; and,
instead of the residence and improvement conditions, it
was required that £2 per acre should be spent in mining
within three years. When the balance is paid, freehold is
granted without reservation of minerals other than gold.
The Act also provided for the conversion of O.P.’s into
M.C.P.’s. Section 7, however, provides that any O.P.
made under the ’6l Act may be converted into a M.C.P.
“ A single payment years before ’’ enables the holder of
any C.P. made under the’6l Act (including the M.C.P.
“shark”) to hang on as long as he pays interest on the
balance of the purchase money.
(Continued on page 30.)
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES _
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horae Aiwl dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHIN^..
- SSf Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Pans.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
In the case recently brought by the Wilfley Ore
Concentrator Syndicate against the Central Cookmah
Gold Mining Company, the Victorian Chief Justice has
granted an injunction restraining the defendants from
making or using any concentrating table constructed in
accordance with the Wilfley specification or in colorable
imitation thereof. The Sole Manufacturers in Australasia
of the Wilfley Ore Concentrators are the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, South Melbourne.*
* * * *
Insurance Agents’ News, August, 1902, writes:
“ We congratulate the Directors of the Colonial Mutual
upon the highly gratifying results of last year’s operations,
especially as these results have been achieved during a
period of exceptional depression and difficulty,” *
lo'empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope with
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may be effected by
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps, manufac-
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works of New
York ; and represented by Messrs. W, & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various other
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct from any other make of so-called “Cameron’
Pump. They work automatically, and have po dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*
# * », *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Gr}m-
wade and Co,, Melbourne, 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
* • * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
-Australasia requiring further capital for developnient arid
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
With a constant sensibility of l/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “ Gai.opin ” Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you claim for it,”
writes a .customer to de Beer, Silberberg and po., of
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
**■ * *
H, Brandpn Skertphly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane-*
* * * *
George Morpison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 37-7 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all papts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
If yon want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since f;he new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works js one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Gr.eenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are,to,stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
-—* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
' “Olmo”: Just from a visit to Stannary Hills
(Q.). The Ivanhoe is the only show working ; the ore
looks richer than ever. The battery is pot yet in place
•properly; bad foundations led to a break-down, and
then the co. was guilty of the folly of sending a boiler
along that was only half strong enough to do the work.
After spending so much on the tramline (about £125,000),
to blunder over a few hundreds on about the most impor-
tant part of the machinery was inexcusable.
$
BRAND
SUN
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
HIGHEST
OUMJTV
SCHWEPPES DRY CINGER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company m the World. _
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834.


SOCIETY
Another ancient colonial mansion is a
derelict, that of John Jamison, near Penrith
(N.S.W.). The mansion was, perhaps, the finest
ever built in the State, of course by convict labor.
The house proper had 15 rooms, with an iron bal-
cony all round. There were spacious cellars
underneath, an immense coachhouse, with exten-
sive stores above, and in the left wing was an
extensive billiard-room. Outside the house area
were stone stables with 14 stalls, and other accom-
modation appertaining to a large establishment.
Here Henry Parkes worked as a laborer for six
months when he arrived first in New South Wales.
Regentville, the name given the place by Jamison,
was the scene of many an orgy, to which persons
of thirst and distinction were invited from far and
near. Now the mansion is going as old material.
* * * *
“Melb.” : The Queen’s Arms Hotel,
Swanston-street, has a queer relic in its yard—
the first Melbourne Wesleyan chapel. From this
dog-box structure the Wesleyans moved to the
corner of Collins and Queen streets. Their big
white chapel existed there for a number of years,
but: finally the stock, lock, and barrel were sold to
the Bank of Australasia for £40,000. With this
the Methodies built their horrible White Ele-
phant, or rather Blue Elephant, Wesley Church.
Stipendiary Magistrate Donaldson enun-
ciated a curious principle of law at the Central
(Sydney) Police Court the other day. A young
man was charged with having behaved in a black-
guardly way to a barmaid —using to her, without
provocation, insulting and obscene language. The
magistrate found the case proved, but refused a
request for an exemplary penalty, as “he took
into consideration the fact that barmaids knew
very well what they were liable to in their occu-
pation.” A more stupid or more cruel remark
could hardly be imagined. The law, as a rule,
treats crimes which circumstances tend to make
common with special severity, the idea being that
a greater penalty is required to deter from a
greater temptation. Thus sheep-stealing in
Australia is punished with far more severity
than the larceny of any other chattel of
the same value as a sheep. If, then, barmaids
are specially liable to be attacked by blackguards
with obscene language, it is clearly the business
of the law courts to give them some special pro-
tection by punishing offenders, when convicted, in
exemplary fashion. The barmaid’s occupation is
a lawful one, and she has a just claim to the
effective protection of the law in carrying it on.
If Mr. Donaldson were bashed violently by a
reckless ruffian attending his police court in the
way of business, and the Attorney-General refused
to prosecute on the ground that Mr. Donaldson’s
occupation necessarily brought ruffians into his
presence pretty frequently, and that he should
nave considered that when taking on his job,
Mr. Donaldson would be a very astonished stipen-
diary indeed.
* * * *
Larry Foley, in his official capacity as
Expert Demolisher of Public Buildings, at £6 a
week, was the subject of some suspicious question-
ing recently in N.S.W. Assembly, and Owe’-
Sullivan’s assurance that Foley, as an expert
demolisher, was worth the money, was received
with suspicion. The very next day a George-
streeb building that was being privately demolished
came down with a run, killing one man, injuring
others, and frightening half the street out of its
wits. That was, indirectly, a streak of luck for
Foley. So far, he has got all his old buildings
down without anybody being killed.
A MARRIAGE ANNOUNCEMENT.
MAUDIE FLUFFYNUT : “ Oh, you sly thing, to go
an’ get married an’ never tell a body.”
If his definition of the common, or har-
dened, lawyer as “the saviour of the weak ” was
Crouch’s own original figure. of speech, then
Grouch, M.H.R., deserves immortality, and will
probably get it. But he spelt Shaver very badly.
A CESSATION OF HOSTILITIES.
PAPA : “Been quarrelling with George again?"
DAUGHTER: “No, indeed , I haven’t! It’s too near my birthday for me to quarrel with anybody.”
Premier See, of N.S.W., did a pretty large
thing when he appointed some doctors and a
Eolice functionary to inquire into the diminishing
irth-rate. The birth-rate trouble exists all, or
nearly all, over the civilised world, and to bid a
police functionary to tackle a world-problem at
such short notice is a large order. After all, it is
difficult to see why N.S.W. should rush headlong at
this job. Australia has a larger increase of popula-
tion by excess of births over deaths than any other
country in the world of which accurate records
can be found—except Russia, and we keep very
close up to Russia. The birth-rate problem isn’t
our problem so much as it is almost everybody
else’s problem. What is our problem is to find
out why, in this empty country, there isn’t work
for the people who are born. As the owners of
the emptiest white man’s land on earth that ques-
tion belongs exclusively to us.
• * * •
In a recent case, Marquis of Downshire v,
Seabright (financier), the English courts took
another opportunity of say-
ing something unkind of
Britain’s old nobility. The
downy Downsliire had
signed P.N.’s for £11,500,
and when called upon to
pay up, pleaded that he
didn’t know they were
loaded and thought that by
putting his signature to
them he was really ac-
cepting a present of
£lOOO from Seabright.
If any ordinary fool came
into a court of justice
with that plea his head
would bump every step
to the pavement as he
was kicked out. But a
British lord is no ordi-
nary fool; he is often so
exceptionally idiotic that
be must be given a vast
deal of consideration. In
this case Downshire’s
plea was accepted and
the financier had to can-
cel the bills. About the
only thing a peer’s intel-
ligence is equal to —in
the eyes of the courts
of his own country—
seems to be law mak-
ing for the Empire.
An Auckland
(M.L.) hotel has a
notice posted in
each room notify-
ing charges, etc.,
and concluding:
“ Visitors are re-
quested to give notice of leaving as soon as pos-
sible.”
The noisome private detective person is
now notifying the new woman voter of N.S.W.
that he is prepared, on very moderate terms, to
supply information about the morals of candi-
dates. It is to be hoped this abject, keyhole spy
will be rejected with the contempt he deserves.
'There are four good reasons why he should be
rejected : (1) The most conventionally “ moral ”
persbn is often the most useless and ignorant
legislator. (2) There is no guarantee that the
private .spy is moral himsejf, and to hire a detec-
tive'without being sure about his morals is sinful.
(3) The detective’s report is often a lie ; he must
supply shocking revelations about somebody to
show that lie is giving value for his money and to
ensure further engagements, and the idea of an
immoral detective lying about a moral candidate
for sordid remuneration (which lie may spend in
pursuing an evil life) is too shocking to be seri-
ously contemplated. (4) The ’tec is always liable
to get his eye injured through the cold wind
blowing on it through the keyhole.
Prom Adelaide Advertiser :
Mr. A. W, M. Young, winner of big store walk, wishes
to contradict rumors that he has died from paralysis of
the heart, as result of recent walking competitions.
There is an old libel, invented in Melbourne,
which runs thus :—Adelaide man (proudly):
“ Well, you can’t deny that Adelaide is a
beautifully laid-out city.” Melbourne man
(scornfully): “ Well, why shouldn’t it be laid
out beautifully. It’s been dead long enough.”
Now that individual inhabitants have taken to
advertising that they are not dead, some color is
given to this scurrilous story.
* * *
The latest big Sydney embezzlement case
concerns a cashier in a large firm, who was in
receipt of the princely income of £2 a week. How
much honesty does any employer expect to get for
£2 a week? And how much does he deserve to
get?
PRESS CENSORSHIP.
“The assertion emanates from the American Legation
at Pekin that the Chinese journalist Shen chieu was
beaten for four hours, and then strangled.”
MR. OWE’SULLIVAN : “My dear Dowager, I wish
you'd come over and give us a hand with
these Sydney journalists! ”
“A.H.C.” writes re the development of
the upper lip of female teachers (B. 5/8/’03):
Teaching is an occupation that tends to disfigure any
woman’s mouth. Half of teaching is.composed of nag-
ging, and nagging never yet gave a graceful expression
to anyone. In any lesson the conscientious teacher—-and
nearly all women instructors take themselves seriously—
is liable to be annoyed at least 60 times. It’s not to be
wondered at that, when the uncertain age is reached, the
female pedagogue has an upper lip that is first cousin to
a Wesleyan parson’s.
CREEPING UP THE WALL.
FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A story old hath oft been told
Of Scotland’s Robert Bruce,
When all the power he once controlled
Seemed drifting to the deuce.
He flung himself upon the floor
And wept and cursed, withal 1
But soon descried a
Little spider
Creeping up the wall!
A simple thing for Scotland’s king
To look to as a guide !
And yet an insect small may bring
Great shame to human pride 1
Still up the wall the spider sped
And down again he’d fall !
But still brave-hearted
Once more started
Creeping up the wall!
It shamed the king to watch the thing
Crawl up a yard or so
And strive with all its might to cling—
And fall once more below !
It crawled and fell, and crawled again,
Determined, spite of all,
To still persist in
Crawling, twisting,
Creeping up the wall I
King Bruce of Scotland cried : “ Oh, what
A lesson here is set;
This spider does not fear his lot,
He’ll reach the ceiling yet!
Shall Scotland’s king show courage less
Than this poor insect small ?
Shall I lie weeping
While he’s creeping,
Creeping up the wall ?’’
His fears all fled 1 He raised his head;
Grew once more brave and stern.
And knocked the stuffing out of Ned—
King Ned, at Bannockburn !
He swept the land from foemen clear,
And Scotland broke her thrall
For Freedom wider,
Through a spider
Creeping up the wall ?
And now you’ll say : “ What int’rest, pray,
Has this old tale for us ? ”
Well, I will tell you, if I may,
And will explain it thus :
“The House is in Macquarie-street,
A dingy house and tall ;
There are Oarruthers
And his brothers
Creeping up the wall 1
He’s cried and crept, and crawled and wept,
And strived to reach the top,
And every time the wall is swept
He gets another drop !
But still he tries and tries again
In spite of every fall,
And goodness knows if
Creeping Joseph
Thinks he owns the wall !
W.T.G.
The lawyer in his little d?n
For clients lies in wait;
He is the very best of men
Who labor for the State,
E’er ready with his righteous aid
For all who succor seek,
They hail him, when he’s watched and preyed—
The Saviour of the Weak.
They come to him in doubt or stress
Of sore financial ill.
He mutters fateful “ No” and “ Yes,”
And runs them up a bill.
In righting the oppressor’s wrong
His methods are unique.
O ! Terror of the fat and strong ;
O ! Shaver of the Weak.
IN THE KITCHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the hearing of a dispute between the Hotel and!
Caterers’ Employees’ Union and the Caterers’ and Res-
taurant Keepers’ Association, in the Arbitration Court,,
two chefs informed counsel that decayed barristers, doc-
tors, poets, &c., often worked in hotel kitchens.
I have pondered long and deeply when a hair nine inches'
long
Was discovered in my soup plate, what the devil hadl
gone wrong;
Was the chef a sweet-faced maiden, who had ringlets'
dense and black ?
Did the man who stirred the sop wear gleaming tresses-
down his back ?
But the cause has come to light,
And it tells the sorry plight
Of the genius who is mighty, but who cannot get a show ;;
For a chef the tale unrolled,
And a grinning world he told
How the sculptor and the poet dish the dinners dowm
below.
Below there in the kitchen, where the furnaces are-
burning,
There, pondering o’er the hash, are those men of light!
and learning—
Barristers of weight and logic, poets breathing songs of
love,
Dishing up the beef and “ taters ” for the clod who dines;
above.
And I never, never knew,
When I found it in the stew,
That it was the hair of Homer that had dropped upon the’
plate
When Titian and the rest,
Hot, and partially undressed,
Were rushing round with Rembrandt and the chops were 1
rather late.
I have heard the waiter calling, and his voice was coldl
and calm,
Bidding Tasso send up promptly another slice of ham.
And I sat in gross contentment, and ate my meal ini
peace,
While Petrarch in the kitchen was all covered o’er withi
grease.
And how was I to know
(It was years and years ago)
That the row and smash uplifted on the pinions of the-
gale,
Sounds of broken crockery
That came faintly unto me
Meant that Michael Angelo had dropped the dish of fried 1
ox tail.
JAMES F. DWYER.
David Jones & Co.’s
celebrated “ORIENT TO fIEASURE”
SAC SUITS
In Tweed
or Serge
Send for
Patterns and
Self-
Measurement
Forms ...
TO MEASURE
• ’ -- " -- ■ •;
Delivered Free to any Railway Station or Seaport in the States*
George and Barrack Sts., Sydney
WATSON’S WHISKY.
'* f \ . . ... l -
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.


The Yellow Pup paused the other day on
the doorstep of a great advertisement. It likes to
think of the Scarlet Woman as a fiend who goes
round with a dagger hidden in her bosom and a
bomb concealed under her cloak, looking for
Orangeman, such as Dill Macky, to destroy. The
other day somebody suggested to some minor limb
of the animal that if Dill’s life really was in
danger it would be the prudent thing to
insure it—the prudent thing, and in the interests
of Dill’s family, the only proper thing, ihe
small limb, who probably believes that the Scarlet
Woman is really liable to slay Dill at any moment,
thought it was a very wise suggestion, and
mentioned it at the next Yellow meeting. And
then the Pup scratched its head and thought.
On one side, what an advertisement it would bej
Dill Macky so great a person that “Rome
conspired to take his life; “Rome” so vile an
institution, so unscrupulous, that the life of
a peaceful citizen was plotted against. By
taking out an insurance policy it could give
some guarantee that it really believed in these
things. But then there was the cost. It would
mean six or eight pounds a year. The Pup
stopped at that —stopped dead. It wanted to
convince the crowd that it was a very important
pup whose life was plotted against; but six or
eight pounds—well, it didn't feel. sure enough of
the Scarlet Woman’s bad intentions to risk that
much. Then the boss of the crowd suggested a
way out. Why not “ trust in the Board ? ’ Ihat
saved the situation. It was the very thing, of
course ; for the Pup could still go on thinking of
itself as the important pup whose life was in
danger, and yet hang on to the six or eight
pounds.
♦ ' * ■ * *'
The other day, at Hobart, a whole family
and their friends were convicted of conspiring to
get damages from a local draper for having said
that one or more of them stole eighteenpenny-
worth of art-muslin from his shop. They all
went in a crowd to Warner’s gaol. But it was
found that one of the women was going to become
a mother, and Attorney-General Nicholls recom-
mended that there should be a gaol-delivery, as
far as she was concerned. And then he said he
didn’t see why one of the conspirators should have
an advantage over the others, just by ohance like,
and so he let the whole crowd out.
WARMING UP.
VOICE PROM WITHIN: “ I'm sure it must he too cold for you out there, Kitty.”
KITTY: “ Oh, no, mother, Pm very comfortable.”
At present, there is but one woman in
Hobart gaol—which is the gaol for all Tasmania —
and she has two women-in-waiting—a matron and
a sub-matron. This lonesome representative of
her sex, in necessarily solitary confinement, has a
sentence of four years to serve, and if some of the
female population of the Flyspeck don’t assault
Dobson for his Divorce Bill and get into gaol, the
poor creature will have a lonely time. The prison
female staff take turns watching her, to see that
she doesn’t wreck the establishment.
• • * *
In the inquest on the body of a lady
student, who died in the bathroom of a Marrick-
vilie (Sydney) college, it transpired that death
was due to the noxious fumes of the gas heater
in a cubicle of insufficient ventilation. If
the gas heater is to become at all general, the
bathroom with just sufficient room to hang up
one garment and stand up straight in, will
become a handy perpendicular coffin. Yet it
isn’t the only danger. In one mansion in which
the writer lived the hot water was laid on from
the kitchen, and so common was it for ladies
to faint while having a hot bath from the effects
of steam in a very small and unventilated bath-
room that a notice was posted up, “ Ladies are
requested not to lock the door while bathing.
The gentlemen will not enter if the card
‘Occupied’ is hung outside of the door. —Pro-
prietress.’’ It was a large boarding house, and
generally the next person was waiting outside
the bathroom door with a towel. If there was an
unusually long silence inside, that external person
assumed that the lady was lying insensible in the
bfttti and drowning peacefully.
Paragraphs still leak into the Sydney
papers about Edward Jennings of Lithgow
papers auuuu , ■ UDOn a section
(N.3.W.), who has » <i'r an Seged fortune
eery He makes
anyone of the crow. A toLave heard
S ry The hw 'lorSs Either chop out of
Notice down
ancestors, taking them « millions
such a careless lot asi to l wholesale fashion
mouldering m any court m t wQU j d beillter e st ing
that lscommonly supposed. , ancerv claimants
mmmma
three centuries. One much-pamgraphe^clanna^
pervade°Sydney wit™the documerds that wete to
#3B ‘KirSoftftVe
insurance policy and a water-ratepayer But the
bulk of them just drop out of notice, and t ■ y
ends there. # *
The Prohibition town of Balclutha (M.L.)
had an unfinished tragedy a ago A
man left a letter on the doorstep oi uu
faithfesT girl telling her that her conduct had
broken his heart and that his remains would be
found in the swiftly-flowing Molyneux. When
the document was discovered, a vigorous forwar
movement was made m the direction of the nver
but on the way.there the young a “ a ? b"
a stunned condition hanging > f e While
the coat-tail from a barbed ; wire fence. W ue
rushing over the fence to bis doom the tad nwi
caught? and as he capsized he had bmnped his
head hard against a stone—hence the troub e.
One possible g moral is that all young
such circumstances should leave their clothes
well as the letter on the girl s doorstep.
A Victorian
schoolmaster
(wrong name
and address
will be given
to Irvine on
application)
writes: —
“E.F. ” in
“Poverty Point”
(8., 3/7/’O3) lets
out a growl about
the twang vice—
parents and
teachers to
blame. Well,
what can the
schoolmaster do
when stubborn
family example
and influence are
against him;
when said family
looks on the
efforts of the
school-goers with
a pitying smile
or makes sarcas-
tic remarks about
“ bein’ a reg’lar
towney soon;”
when he has six
classes to teach;
when he has a
pretty full cur-
riculum, about an
eighth of which
could easily be
tipped overboard
and still leave it
pretty full; and
(at present) when
he has no inclina-
tion to do much
with Kyabram
sitting on his
chest to the tune
of (in my case)
£1 4s. 7d. a
month. Farmers
pay just about a
third perhaps
not a fourth—of
their children’s
schooling; there-
fore, they should
not get any frill.
What’s the use,
anyhow, of send-
ing specially
trained teachers,
each costing Vic-
toria some hun-
dreds a year, ac-
cording to the
Director, to teach
in little country
schools? Wanted
—R efo r m 1.,
Kyabram kicked
off my chest.
Reform 11., four
classes only in
schools under 35,
and a few sub-
jects cut out.
Reform 111., resi-
dences at least as
good as a railway gate-house.
One of the silliest proposals in connection
with the Tasmanian Centenary is that there
should be a special united religious service under
State auspices. A meeting of religious leaders
was held to consider the matter, and Bishop
Mercer presided. The Catholics were not repre-
sented, and the Anglicans let it be known that
they could not take the stage with persons not
“in Orders.” Whereupon, the nondescripts
present took the huff, and the disunited sects
got nowhere with astonishing pother. A
“ united ” religious function is only possible if
the heads of the different _ sects are arrested
on the morning of the function, and brought to
the place of worship, and chained in rows on
the platform to prevent them escaping. Even
then it would be necessary to have some one
around with a pole and a spike to stir up any
exhibit which sulked and wouldn’t actively
“unite.”
* * * *
Victorian Chamber of Manufacturers
spent two evenings lately in a weariful,
vapid blasting of the Federal Arbitration
Bill. It was mostly a repetition of the
Factories Act denunciation, but the discus-
sion evolved one gem. J. P. Wright, of the
New South Wales Chamber, imparted the stupen-
dous piece of information that he had just sold
out because he couldn’t be bothered with Labor
legislation. As he must have sold to somebody,
there is, at any rate, one man who is so fond of
Labor legislation that he is game to buy a business
just where it is in full force. It’s a poor blast that
won’t blow both ways.
GOOD FOB BUSINESS.
FAT LADY: “Do you keep anything for reducing
stoutness?”
CHEMIST: “ Yes, madam?”
FAT LADY: “Oh ! and how much shall I take? ”
CHEMIST: “ Better take as much as you cam get,
mum.”
August saw the Lane Cove and Parramatta
River steamers, all single-ended boats, which
require much time and space to turn in, added to
the already congested traffic at Circular Quay,
Sydney, and that over-crowded jugful of salt
water is fast qualifying to be a grave on a large
scale. Four things Sydney must have before
long • A new outlet south to relieve the pressure
at the bottle-neck by Redfern; a new outlet east,
to relieve Oxford-street; a North Shore bridge—
the struggle to put so much ferry traffic into the
egg-shaped bit of water at Circular Quay grows
ridiculous ; and a city railway. Sydney could
have all of them but for the unspeakable fool of a
theory that nothing must be done till the money
can be borrowed, and that when the supply of
loan money gives out, all civilisation and progress
must leave off.
* * * •
The Lancet has been making some truth-
ful remarks about fine babies, The
“fine baby” in the view of three-
fourths of the English-speaking world,
is the overgrown monstrosity of the
biscuit and patent food advertise-
ments, which can show great rolls or
fat on every limb and mounds or
flesh all over its carcase. touch
babies can only survive as the result
of good luck and extra inherited
vitality. Their fat is an infallible
symptom of disease, of the over-
formation of low-grade matter
which is a burden and a source of
weakness. The Lancet pleads for
baby-shows at which the prizes wilL
be won, not by weight, but by
“ points ” points decided by
medical men. That might do so™ o
good in a small way, though a baby
show has a suggestion of low -
comedy and deficient respectability
about it in Australia that would
prevent it preaching to a large
section of the population. "A better
step would be to publish scientific
facts about the feeding of infants,
and to prosecute persons adver-
tising as ideal infant foods stun
that ranges from the highly injurious
to the absolutely fatal. The person
with the fattest baby should be fined
heavily instead of getting a prize.
• • *
A new recruit to the Sydney
police service asked for a change of
beat the other day. He has to walk
on the west side of a very long
street in the afternoon, and com-
plains that the right side of his face
is getting more sun-burned than
the left—that his complexion is
growing lopsided, in fact.
If Lord Lonsdale’s visit to the East was
“of a semi-official character,” the British Govern-
ment will not thank him for telling a Brisbane
interviewer that the Japs are a merely imitative
lot of little brown monkey people suffering badly
from swelled head. Lonsdale seems to be an in-
telligent sort of loquacious don t-care-a-dam here-
ditary lord, and it’s not surprising that Kaiser
William, when in England, stays at his castle and
slaps him on the back. The German gentleman
muse get a lot of useful information from his dear
friend Lonsdale.
* * * *
Motto for a maternity refuge: What is
mother without a home ?
“ Wallaroo ” :
I have been Mary-
Janing, and don’t
wonder any lon-
ger at my sister-
slaveys devotion
to “Lilian
sprang into the
lakelet” litera-
ture. | When
one lias been
polishing
other people’s
pots and
scrubbing
other people’s
floors all day,
and has to sit
alone on a
hard chair in
a chill, re-
mote k it-
then of
nights, one
is not much
inclined to
heavy
reading
and “ hind-know-thy-place ”
treatises. A love for the
beautiful and pleasant
things of life is as
natural to Mary
Jane as to Geral-
dynne De Courcey,
and the jaded mind
of Mary Jane calls
for something that
is a mingled stimu-
lant and an opiate ;
hence the penny sen-
sationals. Servants
go on a literary bust,
in fact, just as the
baulked might - have-
been genius drowns his
ambition in beer. Of
course, the ideal servant,
the “faithful retainer,” is
a soulless automaton, minus
imagination and all the finer
I ' feelings, but who can grow
wooden to order. And even machines
need oiling.
“Cromwell” writes : While the King and
Queen were doing their triumphal drive through
“dear, dirty Dublin” an old crone, desirous of
having something to boast of for the rest of her
days, rushed through the military cordon, gripped
the Queen’s hand, and having “shuk it hard,
retired covered with glory. Next day another old
dame tried a similar feat, but was knocked down
by the royal carriage, and is probably dead by
this time, although the royal couple were
“greatly moved” and “expressed their sympa-
thy.” When George IV. paid a visit to Ireland
in 1821, the excitement was intense, and as the
procession passed along Eccles-street, a country-
man, close to the carriage, stretched out his hand
to the King and said, “Shake hands yer
Majesty.” The King shook. Consequently the
old woman above quoted wasn’t original. Grattan
declared the Irish treated the old German King
very badly. “First,” said he, “the Irish ridi-
culed his person, of which he is very vain;
secondly, they abused his mistresses, of whom he
is very fond; and lastly, and worst of all, they
praised his wife, whomjie detests! #
From the S.M. Herald, which grows
frivolous in its old age:
A WOMAN (28) would correspond with Working
Man. view Matrimony, or Housekeeper.
View matrimony cr housekeeper 1
A DROUGHT TROUBLE.
COOKIE’S DAUGHTER: “ Please, mum, says yer
can’t christen the baby to-day, ’cause the cat’s
drunk the clean water.”
Cheek is a good thing, as a rule, in this
world, but it can be carried too far. An Auck-
land (M.L.) lady, the other day, stole a lace collar
from a shop, but, finding it didn’t quite fit, brought
it back to be changed. Let off with a small fine
by the magistrate.
-♦
I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon m
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-
street.*
RCH
ST
STAR
SLVER
WORLD
THE
IN
BEST
THE


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 18,1903.
Mt Deab Abini,—
It has been a humorless week—save for the
heckling 1 of Attorney-General Wise by a group of
political women, and the knocking down of a
friend of mine by a hansom cab. She wasn’t hurt
Ihe humor of the accident—well, it’s this way *
You remember the poster picture of the human
freak advertising “ Because I Love You, ” recently
staged at Sydney Criterion. Well, this damsel,
who comes from a suburb of Milparinka, fell in
love—a grand passion—with the taloned and
beaked gentleman of the play. He was her ideal
lover. The late Mrs. E. T. Cook tells of a girl
friend whose ideal husband was one who would
fly into a rage and drag her about by the hair of
the head. The Criterion “ human vulture ” had
a most distingue air on the city hoardings, and it
was whilst standing rapt, unconscious, and gazing
1 ; him that the hansom knocked her into sen-
sibility. “Woman is an angel who seldom
appreciates a man who has not a bit of the devil
in him.’ I gave her that aphorism, and loaned
her my gauze veil to cover her tearful, road-
metalled countenance.
In a currently-popular book one Crossland
urges that men should give to women pretty
much what Mrs. Cook’s girl friend wanted—
the hair-dragging treatment. An amusing book
18 . Lovely Woman,” but the author wrote it
with his tongue in his cheek. So it won’t make
one woman angry or one suitor the less. But in
the Beginning, Eve was probably kept in a hutch
at the bottom of the garden until one day she
made sweet moan and asked, “ Adam, who’s a nice
boy? And Adam answered meltingly, “Me!”
Then She was let out and He was put into the
coop. “Remember that you wear clothes for
two purposes firstly to keep you warm, secondly
to prevent cab-horses shying at you,” says Cross-
u v. Public or political woman
that he tears—claws, beak and feathers. Mr.
Wise, with memories of Mrs. Barrington and
Mrs. Hamilton Grey, will agree with Crossland.
Women have had to be thumped into
i? . ei F duty by the race ever since
the beginning of time—bun to-day there is
none to do it. It is all hats off, cloaks in
the mud and noses to the pavement; my lady
will pass.” Ignorance, disloyalty, heartlessness,
vanity, pushfulness, are, according to the gospel
of Crossland, the principal qualifications of
women. But the Commons, the Lords and news-
paper offices are filled with ladies’ men, and there
is none to do the thumping. “At present
moment she (woman) resembles nothing so much
as a slow runner who has been ridiculously favored
by the handicappers. She is well ahead of the
men. Hitherto it has been her part to run behind
with the bottle. Now she runs in front with the
carrots.” The author does not know who is going
to bell the cat, but he implores all able-bodied men
to purchase a bell even if they have not the
courage to take it home.
Politicians who are at once good men at
statecraft and moral citizens, men who keep the
ten commandments in their breast pocket, so to
speak, and the seven deadly sins under their feet,
must be fairly uncommon. That is, if you are to
judge from utterances at recent political meetings.
The feminine voter—some of her at least—wants
only good men in politics. These good men may
be perfect monsters of morality, but they may be
mighty poor politicians. Is woman to 'vote
against an able politician simply because he has a
Solomon taste in ladies, or because when he can’t
drink any more Coolalta he has the rest poured
over, him ? That is the question of the hour.
Mr. Joseph Carruthers, the leader of the Oppo-
sition in N.S. W, State Parliament, who presided
at a, meeting where the question cropped up,
didn’t see any necessity for moral reform among
Parliamentarians, and insisted on the moral tone
that existed among Members. But can we take a
Joseph as an authority on moral tone ? Was there
ever an entirely satisfactory person named
Joseph? And, presuming that the high moral
tone does exist as stated, is that the reason why
N.S.W. Parliament is, on the whole, such small
potatoes ? The men who have done much of the
great work of the world were men who were not
only much beloved by women but who were con-
siderable brutes as well. Will the woman vote go
against the man who is a bit of a brute, but a
clever, capable brute ? If an Alexander Hamilton
rose amongst us I guess he might be reckoned
upon to take the woman’s vote against a truly
pious politician with a thin, squeaky voice and
thin, yellow hair.
The latest maid-servant story. A Sydney
mistress could not get her new girl “from the
country ”to use the tea-cosy. Her repeated
requests not to forget the cosy when bringing in
afternoon tea met with sullen looks and no cosy.
Then the lady’s afternoon “at home” rolled
round, visitors were assembled, and the tea came
in. “ You have forgotten the cosy again,” said
the mistress; “go back for it, Ermyntrude, and
some more hot water.” And Ermyntrude went
and returned, wearing on her face an expression
of quiet desperation and on her head the tea cosy.
The cheque for £560 odd—proceedsbf the recent
ball in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital—was formally
handed to the head of the hospital staff last week
by Lady Rawson, who afterwards went round the
wards distributing flowers and toys. Miss Fanny
Doyle, who was hon. treasurer of the ball, and
Mr. Tom Dalton (hon. sec.) and the committee
were present, and fairly exuded satisfaction at the
fatness of the cheque and the thinness of the
expenses. The latter were phenomenally small —
something like £25 or tuppence. Committee
largely credits Lord Richard Nevill with the suc-
cess of the function. At said ball three silver
medals given by Messrs. William Farmer and
Co., jewellers, were awarded to the best fancy
costumes.
The Voice will breathe over some fashionable
marriages during be-wattled September. Miss
Queenie Osborne, a daughter of Mr. George
Osborne, a pure merino of Bungadore, marries
one of the Ryries, a squatter of the Monaro dis-
trict. Another Ryrie gentleman marries Miss
Hester Roberts (a lyrical girl who sometimes
lyrics for charities), daughter of Colonel Roberts.
Yet another Osborne girl, and Miss Pearl Airey,
a daughter of Colonel Airey, are to be married
soon.
Surely our local Telegraph is carrying that
amusing hoax about the Jennings millions too far.
The story it tells is that Jennings died five cen-
turies ago, and, though he left heirs to his wealth,
his property ‘‘went into Chancery,” which is a
vague term, like “going to the dogs.” There-
after five centuries of heirs so utterly scorned the
dross of affluence and the sordid encumbrance of
riches that they, apparently, made no effort to get
the money out. Also, fate was kind to the Jen-
nings millions—Richard 111., and Henry VII. and
the much-married Henry VIII. and Elizabeth and
the Stuarts and other bad hungry monarohs didn’t
steal them, and they accumulated in peace. And
now “ Lord Curzon and other English noblemen,”
including, doubtless the Duke of Greece and Sir
Lord Mayor Smith, also one Jennings who
helps to repair the N.S. W. railways, have
decided that forbearance has been carried far
enough, and the Jennings half-penny is going to
be taken out of Chancery very suddenly. It reads
like the silliest hoax we have had for some time.
I he most curious feature is that there seems to be
no mention of the Jennings millions except in
frantic telegrams from Lithgow, where the rail-
way repairing family lives. Lord Curzon, and the
Duke of Greece, and the I'larl of Fitzbagdad,
and the other noblemen interested seem to
be leaving the business wholly to the Lithgow
family.
Cynthia Brooke, who has been awhile with the
Musgrove Co.’s, left for America last Monday,
bhe played very artistically with Nellie Stewart,
one of the vulgar, rich, idle women in “A
Country Mouse,” and looked a fine, fat young
woman with a very Hebraic countenance. In
fact she is a plain likeness of that sweet Jewess,
Madame Sapio. Won;U<" if Cynthia Brooke and
certain other actresses get mad when they are
written of as “beautiful,” “regal,” “queenly,”
with side references to “glorious eyes” and
“ magnificent figure,” and such untruthful foolish-
ness. Lately some paper spoke of Lillah Mac-
carthy and Miss Van Buren as being amongst
the three handsomest actresses in the world. If
I had seen only the portraits of these ladies, I’d
endorse the statement most heartily. But the
originals came along and spoilt the optical illu-
sion. The glorious creation of the camera turns
out to be just a very nice specimen of plump
womanhood or scraggy womanhood, with a weak-
ness for telling interviewers that she was widowed
at 15 or so, and is now 24.
Spring millinery in a George-street house is so
beautiful that I would like photographs of some
of the hats, or the hats themselves, as pictures or
decorations for my room. I could not wear them
unless I were Carnegied. There’s one, a
quite flat crinoline straw with some ribbon velvet
of a celestial shade of blue below the brim over
one (prospective) ear, and on top of the hat (brim
and crown show scarce an inequality of surface)
an ostrich feather, black, glossy, curled and of
such a length and thickness! It must have
preyed on the ostrich’s mind to part with
that plume. Then there is a burnt straw covered
with honeysuckle—almost hidden under the
flowers. Looks like a hat that would have an
effect on the wearer’s mentality. It might make
her write tender little poems about love in a wood-
bined cottage. Acorns and oak-leaves of the ten-
derest shade of green (a green that wouldn’t
offend an Orangeman on the 12th of July) sprout
over another straw; and yet another 'is roofed
with moss-rose buds, white and pink. Purple
pansies on a mauve straw should add to the
buyer’s heart-ease. You’d have to dress up, let
alone live up, to these hats. Not many of them
are over five guineas each. The bunch of apple
blossoms on one innocent thing is its chief attrac-
tion. It would deceive a bee—or a codlin moth.
I want to draw your attention to a ball, the
first, in aid of Sydney Free Dental Hospital, to
be held on Sept. 11 at Paddington Town Hall.
President, Miss Margaret Harris; hon. treas.,
Mrs. Marshall; hon. secs., Mrs. Ekensteen and
Miss Memes. Rawsons, Sees, Hugheses and Finns
to be present.
A London magazine has “the only account
ever published ” of Whitaker Wright’s wonderful
mansion, Lea Park in Surrey. The great wild cat
breeder, who was extradited to England last
week, bought, some seven years ago, the beau-
tiful Elizabethan manor house and the half-
timbered manor for £150,000, and started in for
improvements which were yet in full swing at
time of his downfall. In these seven years it is
estimated that he spent £1,250,000 on this
property. Wings were thrown out on either side,
of the house, great stables built, hills <■ were cut
down or built up by hand, three lakes were made.
The largest lake covers fifty acres and is at the
foot of a sloping greensward dotted with Italian
statuary. Under the fifty-acre lake is an iron and
glass chamber thirty feet high, with fine conser-
vatory, and mosaic floors; This was W.W.’s sub-
marine smoking-room. A special staircase on the
edge of the lake bank led down to the chamber by
a subway four hundred feet long lit with
electric lamps. Four persons may walk abreast-
in the crystal tunnel, and 'through the walls
gold fish peer “ with strangely magni-
fied eyes.” A little theatre with tapes-
tries cost about <£40,000, and an observa-
tory with a revolving copper roof showed
that the gentleman with the big, black moustache
and triune chin had a taste for starring. A foun-
tain brought from Italy and representing a
gigantic dolphin’s head was so huge that when it
was landed at Southampton the railway co. refused
to carry it to Lea because it was too big to pass-
through the tunnels. So Mr. Wright. sent a
traction engine to haul it home by road on a
specially-built truck. The dolphin swam along
O.K. behind the engine until it came to where an
arch spanned the road and it could not pass under.
Mr. Wright sent word that the road w.as to be
sunk until the eighty-ton marble monster could
pass. And it was done accordingly. The collapse
of the great wild-catter has been a loss to the
corps of between four and five hundred workmen
employed for years at his lair.
There was some fun in the presentation of
a banner to the visiting Maoriland football team
on the stage of Her Majesty’s in the presence of a
packed house. Certain of my countrymen bound
worse than raw india - rubber. A ten foot
high, or so, journalist took the stage and made a
speech, telling how, during the Maori war, the
natives again and again drove back “the
brave Imperial British troops” from some
fortification, and that, when offered honor-
able terms for surrender, the leading savage
replied with a violent and incoherent yell, some-
thing like galah-parrot talk, meaning that they
would fight on for all eternity. What the historical
lecturette had to do with the unmuddied oafs who
lined the stage none knew. They were all white
and mostly derived from pure Gilrooneys and
MacTaggarts. But when a Maorilander gets an
occasion he must orate—pertinently, if possible—
but anyhow he must talk. It seems to be a people
of Seddons. The banner was a triumph of the
undertaker’s art. Black satin it was, with silver
fringe. No more funereal thing was ever laid
upon an oak casket. State Ex. Rawson presented
Saw a superb gown on a boxer (nothing to do
with Chinese—wearer was in a box) on first night
of My Lady Molly.” It was of white crepe de
chine, decorated with motifs of black Chantilly
lace —some of the patterns were so delicate
they looked as if done in Indian ink with a
drawing-pen. Flowers and leaves of the lace
were on the bodice, and on the skirt and train
were long scrolls. Over the full sleeves, from
elbow to wrist, depended strings of cut jet. It
was the triumph of a black and white artist.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Melba has spoken in glowing terms of the
Australian press to the interviewers of the Big
Smoke. Even when a mischievous and subtle
scribe queried— ‘ But the irresponsible press—
what have you to say to that ? ’—the nightingale
shrugged her shoulders, and laughed in that
hearty—the scribe said ‘musical’—fashion of
hers. Subsequently she naively admitted that
certain obscure papers did print weird and
strange stories of her doings, but these only
amused her. This is consoling and satisfactory to
the Melbourne crowd of farewellers, who begged
Nellie to dry those tears the memorable day of
departure from Melbourne. At that time the
singer alleged that her heart was ‘broken’ by
certain cruel and malign statements. Evidently,
the voyage brought balm to her wounded feelings.
“The fluffy little Hawthorn belle, Miss
Queenie Cadden, who, after a brief platform
career and part of a season in Musgrove’s
Grand Opera co., drifted onward to the Big
Smoke, hasn’t yet abandoned her vocal ambitions.
She is in a feminine quartet of singers who
are giving a series of small concerts in that city,
where the coming and going of singers is as usual
and unnoted a proceeding as the daily ebb and
flow of the tide on the flat mud shore of the
Lower Thames. Othersiders also send along
word to theatrical chums of Francie Adler’s pro-
gress with Marchesi and her accredited success at
the last Marcbesi concert. \
“ The'she-apostles of political culture here are
not a dowdy pack of women. Far from it. Miss
Vida Goldstein laid down the political law to a
Town Hall crowd the other night in a smart turn-
out and a bright piece of coquettish millinery.
Its dash of scarlet was the oriflamme of the meet-
ing. Speakers beside and behind her were cheered
on by the rakish crown-piece. Up country this
dressiness will have sure effect. The local farmers
and their families will translate a lively sense of
the good things of this world out of Miss Vida’s
fixings, and the keen and positive Miss will score
where a sallow dowd, in specs and unstylish
apparel, or a cross-grained Matilda Ann, would
fail signally. N.S. W. suffragists have been helped
more than ever, man can tell by Miss Rose Scott's
soft face and stylish bonnets.
“ A suburban cleric of fashionable associations
has been lionising an envoy of the White Cross, or
some other-named league that makes for the
purifying of humanity. The shepherd in question
directs, most of his attention to arresting and
stemming the current of evil in the early worm of
humanity. His sermonettes contain many appeals
—so the boy attendants tell us —on the respect
and distant adoration due to sweet, gentle, en-
during womankind, for which women won’t thank
him over much. Distant adoration is a very cold
thing—like kissing a valuable stone image. The
shes of Victoria don’t want far-away respect,
but proposals. Respect is all very well, but
matrimony is better.
“ Flemington racegoers went out to the course
in a dissatisfied frame of mind on Saturday, for
all the Spring dresses had to be abandoned in face
of a cold, cutting wind and an ominous sky. The
strutters were the same as we have seen during
the whole season of freeze. The only diversion
appeared in the hunt which a wealthy newspaper
proprietor made for guests to swell his tea-table
rally. He sweeps a sporting eye along the terrace
and collects first one, then another Johnnie of the
best merino breed. His wife hosts it, but it’s pa
who battles and fields for the catches.
“ Oollins-street had the joy, the other day, of
seeing Herr and Madame Slap., arm-in-arm, doing
a promenade. At any time an arm-linked pair is
unusual in the locality; but in the light of the
‘ Princess’s ’ trouble, this one had a bigger signifi-
cance. The couple wore a united-we-stand-divided-
we-fall air that was greatly interesting.
“ Where will the medallion craze end ? Babies
in tubs, babies ‘mid nodings on,’ babies in all
kinds of attitudes and various kinds of singlets
are photoed in miniature, girt with a pearl or
rolled-gold rim, and sported on. the mother’s
proud bosom. ‘ Society,’ disgusted at the excesses
into which the craze has run, has dropped its
diamond-spiked medallions into temporary dark-
ness, and makes the modish maternal pride mani-
fest in other ways—not so overdone.
“Theatrical gossips say that a comely lady in
the theatrical line has caught the eye of the diffi.
cult person who presides at her particular show,
and that she is safe to be pushed on to all kinds of
shining roles.
“ A wealthy Melbourne widow, with an interest
in many fertile acres on both sides of the Murray,
has just become engaged to a well-known hunting
man.
“Christian Science still has its devotees. In a
woolly district, where the squatting clan prospers
exceedingly on record fleecings, a smart little
dame holds frequent meetings of Hope. The other
day there was a rallying of all the Scientists for
miles about in order to cope, by prayer, with the
serious indigestion of one of the circle. After
some strenuous avowals of faith, without much
benefit, the leader suggested the chorusing of an
an them or something. There was quite a contro-
versy as to the choice, and finally it fell on the
old-fashioned chant:
When Jonah was by the whale upheaved
Then that whale was very much relieved.
Whether any benefit resulted I have not yet heard.
“We hear very little of any kindnesses ex-
tended by the Brasseys, or any similar ex-guns
now in the Big Smoke, to globe-trotters hailing
with ambitious hopes from Victoria. Cards are
exchanged, and that’s about all. But Mrs.
George Chirnside found a faithful heart in the
vivacious and delightful Mrs. Freeman-Thomas.
Letters from her by the last two mails tell of the
Englishwoman’s kindness, hospitality, and—
gasp, ye sceptics!—of her highly-developed
domesticity. Tourists from this side have
long dropped, travelling attentions to a certain
cold Countess, for all reminders of this part of
the world seem to fill her with disdain.
“ The leading club of a certain small State
shows some ingenuity in its hospitality. A cer-
tain leading Victorian politician went across on a
visit to the State and was treated well—uncom-
monly well. One thing surprised him—that the
leading club had not thrown an honorary member-
ship in his way. He wondered. On returning to
Melbourne he found a note from the club in
question, extending the hand of good fellowship.
It had arrived the day after r'.e fair. It always
does. Several Victorians can swear to the same
accident.
“ The wife of a big garter-merchant is sporting
the latest French veil—a unique complexion aid
of very coarse black net, weightily bordered,
which hangs out from the hat’s rim in mosquito-
net style. Instead of being caught up at the back
it hangs in two big box pleats. It is a strange
complement to a chic piece of_ millinery, and
requires a complexion guaranteed not to run, and
a really ‘ fast color ’ in a natural-looking rose
blush is a difficult thing to procure.
“The women barbers are ‘catching on.’ A
cynic predicted that only the stubble of raw youth
and bald old age would be mown by their razors,
but masculine prejudice is dying out. There’s a
great demand now for Miss Shaver.
“Senator Symon the other night orated to the
Austral Salon on the Bard of Avon and his
Stratford environment. He followed William
from the cradle to the grave with the slow solemn
step of a mourner and the aid of a formidable pile
of prepared notes. The Senator’s talk on State
affairs in the House is gay and frivolous in com-
parison with his Poet worship. There was but a
small number to mourn over the bones of the bard
when the interment scene at last arrived.
“ A Collins-street chemist, whose experience of
the guileful sex is vast, relates how fair customers
no longer advance the ‘private theatricals’ excuse
when buying make-up paraphernalia, or speak of
rouge and eye-illuminants with bated breath as in
days of yore. The new girl walks right in,
catechises Mr. Chemist on all the points of the
out-door decoration, lifts up her veil, applies
bloom and tint and puff, viewing the effect in the
mirror with critical glances. She then draws the
complexion mesh over the softly-coated features
and orders the sampled stuff to be parcelled up.
She seems rather proud than otherwise of her war-
paint.
"Maud Jeffries is being accompanied on her
trip here by her brother. A fraternal escort is
not nearly as impressive or touching as the widowed
mother, who has been an effective aid to more
than one fair star on the Australian course, Next
to the venerable lady in weeds is a small
daughter. A sweet little stripling with ringlets, a
pinafore, and a wide sash, is a charming adjunct
to the pose of a picturesque mummer.
“A warrior who returned from S’Africa last
year and found his girl patiently expecting him,
pitched such a tale of pain and suffering, pleaded
such racked health, made himself out such a sad
crumbling ruin, that the dear girl willingly
released him from his promise of marriage and
rather thought herself well out of a bad bargain.
But the noble sufferer had no sooner broken the
tie than he made a startling recovery and the
other day, amidst a flare of trumpets, he marched
to church with another girl. Now the first girl is
doing a commodious think.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
N.S.W. arbitration Judge Cohen laid
down a sound principle when, in the restaurant
industry case, he stated that it would be better
for the caterers to slightly raise their tariff to the
public than to plead necessity as an excuse for
working their miserable employees 90 hours a
week at a sweating wage. The sentiment of the
better part of the community is against getting
its cheap poached egg with the human blood of a
slave upon it, and those who don’t object to their
poached egg with such garnishing should be
coerced into a more civilised sentiment.
*.c
*
$
.«;v
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lactb, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
75._6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
A Reliable Glove
which you can depend upon to give
you satisfaction—hard to get we
know, but just try a sample pair of
The Royal Kid Glove
to be obtained in every color, and
every pair carries a guarantee.
Price ft /
/ O PAIR.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
TRADE
maVkTHE varnished board
Dress FABRies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Federal Parliament unanimously struck
out Chamberlain as the proposed name of a
Federal electorate.
The Pall Mall Gazette in 1895 described
Governor-General Northcote as “ one of the most
appallingly respectable men of his day.”
Died recently at Kookynie (W.A.) Charlie
M‘Carthy, turbulent radical, union organiser, and
“ white man.” He “ did time” for an offence in
W. A. much akin to that of the Eureka Stockaders.
The only son of S. Australia’s first
Governor, Admiral Hindmarsh, after whom
Adelaide’s most populous suburb is named, died
the other day in Maoriland. He was a barrister,
but never made any stir.
“ M.” : Re B. L. Farjeon, novelist (8.,
6/8/ 03). He was a Hebrew, born in London in
1833, so he died at the age of 70. An old Mel-
bourne comp. remembered him as a fellow-appren-
tice in a London printing house.
It was the late “ Dick ” Ireland that gave
ex-Justice Hartley Williams (Vic.) the first lift-up
in the law profes-
sion. Williams re-
turned from Eng-
land in ’67,
and became
the hand-
somest man
at the Vic-
t >rian bar.
His father
was still a
Supreme
Court
Judge,
and that
helped
him, for
Victorians
have never
objected to
a man prac-
tising be-
fore Pa.
Young man
Williams
used to ad-
dress old
man Wil-
liams as
“your Honor,”
and latter used
to call former
“Mr. Williams.”
Butbusiness came
slowly, and Ma
Williams went to
old Dick Ireland
and asked him to
take her boy
Hartley by t’. e
hand ; and Dick
did so, and the
boy prospered.
Ireland was also
the professional
god-father of J.
L. Purves. J.L.’s
first big show was
in the seventies,
when Ireland,
with Purves as
junior, defended a
Melbourne mer-
chant charged with
having married his niece.
SENATOR PULSFORD.
Present Chief Inspector Bridges, of N.S.
Wales Education Department, who is to succeed
J. C. Maynard as Under-Secretary, became, at
12 years of age, the first male pupil teacher in the
department s service. That was 51 years ago.
During the past few months Justices Real
and Griffith, of Queensland Supreme Court, have
not been backward in explaining that they “ regret
to differ from my learned brother,” and at times
the air has had a sultry feeling, Cooper, the third
of the triumvirate, lies low and tries to agree with
both his learned brethren.
The N.S. W. Commercial Agent for Asia is
at last as good as picked. The candidates were
narrowed down to half-a-dozen. One or two died ;
one or two got other billets; and, finally, John
See threw out a relative. The remaining gentle-
man has travelled, is as picturesquely fluent as an
auctioneer, and speaks nearly a dozen languages.
“ Nemo ” : Re Kingston’s resignation.
Was told by one who should know that he would
havecome out long ago but that lie was devoting his
salary to pay off debts (not his own) which he had
taken on his shoulders. That done, lie is free. If
this is true it is characteristic of the man —the
grandest and whitest Democrat that stands in
Australia to-day.
It will pay S.A. to do all in its power to
induce Justice Bundey to struggle on with his
work after his 20 years are up, for his pension
will be £l3OO, and his present salary is only
£l7OO per annum. No officials other than judges
are entitled to pensions in S. A., and judges only
get them after 20 years’ service, or when they are
incapacitated by illness.
David Kay, who recently died, aged 83,
at Portland (Vic.), settled there in ’4l, the year
of his arrival in Australia. Four days after
leaving Greenock, Scotland, by the India, the
ship took fire. The Rowland picked up 246 out
of 265 passengers and crew, and landed them at
Rio Janeiro, whence the Grindlay brought them
on to Melbourne three weeks later.
John Hindmarsh, the old Adelaide barri-
ster, dead at 83, was uncle of literary Harold
Stephen, M.L.A. of N.S.W. Harold’s father,
Milner of the red flannel and spook business,
married a daughter of Hindmarsh, South Aus-
tralia’s first Governor. Miss Hindmarsh, before
and after her marriage, held a literary pen, and
left some valuable manuscripts behind.
Fosbery, N.S.W. Inspector-General of
Police, is a member of the Royal Commission to
inquire into the decreasing birth-rate. Fosbery
already has about 40 irrelevant billets of various
kinds to distract his attention from his police
work, and his policemen have about 41 similar
billets to do ditto. Can’t a Board or Commission
be possibly appointed without including Fosbery ?
A remarkable census paper of the late
enumeration was that of a miner. He had five
children, each born in a different State —one in
N.S.W., one in Victoria, one in S.A., one in
Maoriland, and one in Queensland. What a
history must be attached to the birth of these
youngsters ! Hurrying from rush to rush, field to
field, with his wife, who punctuated every camp,
be it lucky or unlucky, with additional worry
and luggage. That miner’s family is a pocket-
edition of our gold-fields’ history.
Agnes Murphy, the close-cropped scribess
of Melbourne Punch in days of yore, is about to
re-visit the scenes of her former paragraphs and
her never-to-be-forgotten novel entitled One
Woman’s Wisdom.” Miss Murphy was a leader
of the Australian crowd that labored to boom
Amy Castles in London two years ago, and her
comments on A.C.’s gratitude, or otherwise, are
said to be amusing.
J. P. Nerli, painter of many pictures,
startling and otherwise, belongs to the same family
as the late Pope—the Pecci clan. Said Pecci
family is large and wealthy, and much desires the
return to Italy of the scion who makes but an
indifferent living in Victoria. Nerli, however,
has something of the bull dog in him, and declines
to re-enter the bosom of his family until he has
made money out here.
Died a week or two ago, Fat Annie, a
well-known character of Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
but latterly known as the “Queen” of Castle-
reagh-street. She followed tlie same profession
as the late lamented Mistress Overdone, and con-
trived to amass a good deal of money and a vast
quantity of avoirdupois. Latterly she got a vote,
and the struggle to find a thoroughly moral can-
didate to vote for killed her.
N.S.W. Minister Crick has, in some
matters, very little sense. His brother-in-law was
prosecuted, the other day, in a suburban police
court, on a charge of sending Crick a very inco-
herent threatening letter. There was some very
unpleasant publicity, and then the prosecution
was withdrawn. If it had never been commenced
the public would not have known that there
was such very bad composition in the family.
The news is to hand, by cable, that,
following on the arrest and prospective trial of
Whitaker Wright, of the London and Globe
swindle, Ernest Terah Hooley is likely to be
prosecuted for his rotten company promoting.
Hooley is the gentleman who gave to St. Paul’s
the gold service used in the Hooley Communion.
Of late years he has been a penniless and crushed
person living at the rate of about £20,000 a year.
There is joy in Adelaide newspaper offices
over the suspension of Dr. Ramsay Smith, the
city coroner, chief health officer, and numerous
other things. He was one of the two doctors
imported to break down the medical boycott in
connection with Adelaide Hospital; and when, on
being relieved of that work, he was transferred to
offices in which the reporters had frequently to
meet him, his autocratic methods came as an
awful shock to pressmen. The first man who
struck him came out with an awed expression and
button-holed a messenger. “I say, old man,”
he said, “is that God ? ”
Retirement of Softgoods M‘Millan from
the Australian Parliament will make a heavy
difference to Yes-No Reid. Hitherto M'Millan
has shouldered the heavy work of Opposition-
leading as manfully as if it were a roll of calico at
4£d. that he was getting down to show to a cus-
tomer, while Reid attended to his private business
and waited for what Parkes used to call “ hoffis.”
Now Reid will have to work himself or quit.
After consultation with his Dry Dog he will prob-
ably decide to quit. The foreign-trade cause in
the Australian Parliament is hopeless, and Reid
seems to have recognised that for some time now.
South Australia’s Railway Commissioner
Pendleton, who pasted up
the notice jumping the
railway men’s time from
8 to hours a day, and
then had to tear it down
again pending Cabinet con-
sideration of the matter,
is a ladylike person who
was promoted to the job
because it was thought
that he would paste up
anything that he was told
to treat that way. South
Australiaused to have three
Railway Commissioners—•
J. H. Smith, Neill, and
Hill. After the collapse
of the boom in the early
nineties it sacked the lot,
created a single Commis-
sionership, and gave the
place to Pendleton, who
had been a meek traffic
manager. Politicians
thought he would he theirs,
body and soul; but he
has often proved a worse
snag than they expected.
He gained agood deal of his
railway experience in India.
The late W. W. Hughes, whose statue
(paid for by his nephews) is to go up alongside
Thomas Elder’s in front of Adelaide University,
had more to do perhaps with the development of
South Australia’s copper mines than any other
man. He held the pastoral country round what
is now Moonta and Wallaroo, and, having an idea
that part of it was metalliferous, used to instruct
his “ hands ” to keep a look-out for any unfamiliar
stone. Two boundary-riders, thus instructed,
eventually reported the discovery. Hughes was
a cooper by trade, and a liative of Fifeshire.
Among the 143 members of Vic. State
Parliament there is only one who could entertain
a smoke concert audience for five minutes, the one
being ex-P.M.G. Watt, a fairly capable reciter.
The Sammy Lancaster Parliament is the most
humdrum collection of politicians ever seen in
Victoria, mostly cow intellect or dull equity
lawyer.
A bout a King :
One of the best-known aboriginal characters of Victoria
—Jemmy M‘Kay—has passed out under painful circum-
stances at Bairnsdale. Most travellers in the Gippsland
district have come in 'contact with the curious-looking
old fellow, and complied with his pressing invitation to
“ Gib it tickpen.” Jemmy wore a steel chain round his
neck, suspended to which was a small plate proclaiming
that he was “ King of North Gippsland.” Beyond this
trophy he possessed nothing in the world, and depended
for subsistence on the charity of farmers in the district.
King Jemmy never became accustomed to the con-
ventionalities of civilisation and considered it infra dig
that a monarch should seek shelter under a roof. Right
through the late record cold nights he slept in the open
beside a burning log, and it was thereby he met his end.
Apparently the log collapsed on the King, or the King
rolled into the fire—anyhow, when they found him next
morning his body was frightfully charred and his king-
dom was vacant.
Man is played out. Cambridge
(M.L.) Borough Council advertised for
a clerk, and received applications from
90 males and one female. The lone female
got the job!
A. R. Addison, the militant member of
the South Australian Legislative Council, like
Speaker Holder, was once a captain in the State
militia. He is still a leading shot of S.A., and
his family pretty nearly comprises the defence
rifle force in an up-country town. The Hon.
A. R. owns a mill up there, and of late years,
when the mill had no wheat to grind because the
cookies had no wheat to sell, he and his family
were able to put in a lot of practice at the rifle
ranges. With the break of the drought Addison
and family will probably become utter failures as
marksmen.
“ E.S.S.” writes :
An interesting character is W. H. Watson, owner of
Ourrawilla Station, near Windorah (Q.). A dead shot
with a rifle, he is said to consider it a light undertaking
to place a matchbox on a blackfellow’s head and put a
bullet through it; and on one occasion he got two niggers
to press a matchbox between their noses, and then cut it
away with a rifle ball without damaging the holders.
His homestead reminds one of the wall of China. An
earthen dyke, BfD. high and Bft. thick, encircles it, and
when Farrar’s Creek is in flood, it stands dry in the
centre of a flowing sea. Some of the dwellings are made
of earth mixed with tallow, and the cement-like floors are
made of ashes and tallow. It is the tallow which prevents
the flood water soaking through the surrounding wall and
causing the structure to fall in.
Maoriland Premier Seddon. has been
getting into trouble for denominating Mahuta—
lately called to the Legislative Council and given
a place in the Executive—the Maori King. The
other Maoris in politics, with one exception, are
either sorry or angry. Mahuta, they say, never
was a king ; perhaps he was a priest, perhaps a
prophet, certainly never a king, though he might
have assumed the title in his own little dog-walk.
Seddon finds himself in a rather awkward place
over the business, because he can’t very well
explain that his knowledge of the Maori weakness
prompted him to a theatrical display which he
didn’t believe in; so he contents himself with
E leading that he didn’t really call Mahuta king—
e only referred to him as one “known asking.’
IN THE GRAND STAND.
“ Now, that's what I like to see—glorious sight, free and unrestricted
competition in open market; a fair field and no favor."
“ 5.8.” writes about a benevolent father
who was very unlike his son :
Rev. Reid (responsible for George) was a good old-
fashioned Scotch Presbyterian. Very earnest in war
against boozing. After having been around town for a
week or so, I paid him a shaky visit, and wanted to know
how to repent and swear off. The benevolent old man
gazed sorrowfully at the derelict with the shakes. He
drew a shilling from his pocket. “Here, laddie,”
said he, “ get awa to some decent hoose, and tak a glass
o’ whusky, ye'll no need to dilute it. An hour thereafter
tak anither. An’, then, if ye still feel hungersome for
moral admonition come back to me.” I grieve to say I
never went back.
THE SUPPRESSION OF JUVENILE
SMOKING.
THE PATIENT (in the back ground); “Police !
Police ! Murder!”
CONSTABLE: “ I'll attend to you later on. Pm
busy just now."
“ 0.K.” writes :
It would seem from the cable announcement of Phil
May’s age—only 39—that the English obituary notices
have stated him to be just as young as he said he was.
In ’B6, when he joined The Bulletin staff, Phil claimed to
be a mere boy of 22, or a little under, but his appearance
suggested that he had chosen to exaggerate the precocity
of his talent by docking himself of a few birthdays. Soon
after his departure from Australia the alleged youthful-
ness of Phil May was referred to in a jocular, winking
way by another’" black-and-white” man of my acquaint-
ance, and he, as I now remember, told me that Spong,
the scenic artist for Brough and Boucicault, who also
came out to Australia in ’B6, had known Phil May for a
considerable time before they left the Cold Country, and
knew him for a more seasoned bird than he said he was.
A letter from South Australia :
South Australia, which has lots of time to think
of things, claims to have set the fashion of the
world in two large matters—transfer of real property and
voting by ballot. R. R. Torrens, who conceived the idea
of registering land titles in order to simplify transfer,
died in 1884, 21 years after he had gone back to England
and ease ; W. R. Boothby, who worked out the other
idea, remained in the State’s service to the end of his
days, dying suddenly in harness not long since, aged 74.
Mr. Boothby, who was the son of one of S.A.’s first
Judges had been Sheriff and Returning Officer for 49
years. A graduate of Oxford, he took an active part also
In setting the Adelaide University on its feet. His father,
Judge Boothby, was probably the most impracticable and
cantankerous Judge in Australia, and for years he
turned the dignity of the court upside down and put a
brick on it by his vagaries. Chief among them was his
flat refusal to regard his brother Judges as having any
real or legal existence, but he also ruled in a casual way
that the S.A. Parliament was null and void, and that the
Constitution didn’t really exist. At last he became extra
remarkable and was removed from the bench after 14
years of exhausting warfare, in the course of which he
had ruled everything out of order.
S. Australia’s seven Federal electoral
divisions are to be named Adelaide, Hindmarsh,
'Angas, Barker, Wakefield, Boothby, and Grey.
Hindmarsh takes the place of Pt. Adelaide in
the original proposal; Wakefield replaces Cham-
berlain; Boothby, East Torrens; and Grey,
Flinders. Hindmarsh was S.A.’s first Governor;
be was the sailor-officer who was publicly thanked
by Nelson after the battle of tlie Nile for saving
the Bellerophon from being blown up by
L’Orient. Wakefield was tlie colonisation enthus-
iast who promoted the settlement of S.A.
Boothby was the lately-deceased electoral officer
who carved out the divisions —a comparatively
small man to be honored in this connection,
though he did good work in improving the ballot
system. Grey—George, later of M.L.—was
Governor of the State away back in the early
forties.
THE TWO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Photographs appear of the late Mr. John Taylor, of
White Hills, and the new King of Servia, Peter Kara-
georgia itch, whilst the reading matter is interesting and
up-to-date.—Bendigo Advertiser in its puff of its little
•weekly.
John and Peter—Peter and John
Look at the page with their pictures on !
One speaks edicts with his royal lips
And one may be pleb. to his finger-tips ;
Plain J.T. and the Georgevitch,
Look at the photographs—which is which?
John and Peter—Peter and John—
One has a grave and the other a throne ;
One has a tomb in old Sandhurst town ;
One has a palace and a dead man’s crown ;
One is going and one is gone.
On the whole, it is best to be John.
TAKEN HOME TO DIE.
The Wounded Athlete.
“One day in a cricket match I got smashed on the right leg with a bat,’' says Mr. Samuel Tyler,
Murray Street, Evansdale, Tas. “The blow laid me out and I was carried off the field. An abscess formed,
for the poison seemed to have soaked right through my system. I entered Latrobe Hospital, but the doctors
gave me up and I was taken home to die. When the abscess was lanced, matter and diseased bone came
away. That gave me a little relief, but they all agreed that I was too thin and weak to live more than a few
years. Still I lingered on—for days, then weeks, then years. For three years I lay helpless—and for twelve
years I just hobbled about on crutches. I was a helpless cripple when my father made me try Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. The second box began to do me good. I could feel the pills actually making new blood. Then
the abscess began to heal and my leg got new strength. Soon I was able to walk without crutches. Then
I picked up appetite and energy. Now I’m as right as rain, and do heavy farm work. Thanks to Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, I am none the worse
for my accident —and I look upon my cure as a positive miracle.”
Don’t Take Any Pink Substitute.
Do not allow any shopkeeper to tell you he has something just as g >od
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Get the genuine—always in a box like this—2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
D? WILL IA MS 9 Ml
w*cv g m v m
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
F-OPLE


Aboriginalities.
ON THE TOP FLOOR.
PETERS: “ The bloke over there told me to bring
up the lift, but Pm blowed if I can see any
windlass.”
“Argo” : My nearest neighbor has a lot
of hens, but ne’er a rooster. Every morning these
fowls take it in turn to crow—such blood-curdling
crows they are too! This opens up a psycho-
logical question. Do those fowls crow to make
their neighbors think they have a rooster with
them? Does the same spirit move them as
moves the woman to take off her glove and show
her wedding ring ?
In sentencing a defaulting post-office
official recently in a north-western Queensland
township, the Judge remarked: “I’m dealing
leniently with you because I’m willing to take
into consideration your many years’ exile in this
wild back-country.” One is always pleased to see
a Judge blend justice with mercy, but this opens
up an entirely new argument. If a Government
official, whose “exile” is at least a com-
fortably-sheltered and fed one, is to be blessed
with such consideration when in the grip of the
law, where do the many cattle duffers, sheep-
stealers, horse thieves, and other bush criminals
come in ? They put in most of their lives in
“exile in the wild back country,” and lead mostly
a half-starved, ill-paid existence. The Kenniff
brothers, for instance, had been for years in said
exile. One was promptly strangled and the other
imprisoned for life.
* * * *
It is wonderful what cheerful things one
may sometimes find in a backyard. The wife of
an Adelaide compositor the other day picked up a
neatly tied-up parcel in her yard, and, on opening
it, found a human big toe. She advertised for
the owner, but so far without effect. In the far
North an alligator has been found before now in
the backyard, hitting the fowl-house violently
with his tail. In the far West, after a dust-storm,
a huge sand-drift has been found in the yard, and
under it a suffocated drunk. Defunct infants,
snakes, and industrial assurance canvassers are
too common to be worth mentioning.
* * * *
“Larry” : Concerning the poor farmer,
as I know him. lam an up-country pedagogue
(Vic.), and therefore know a little about him—
most peds. do. As the personification of mean-
ness Shylock isn’t in it with him. Here is some-
thing : “How do you manage for meat, Mrs.
,” I asked one of them ; “I suppose you kill
your own sheep?” “Well, we did; but he’s
sold ’em all now.” “Oh, well, you have plenty of
eggs ; so it doesn’t matter to you.” “ Yes ” —with
a hard laugh—“ but eggs are so dear now that we
like to sell all we can.” As to milk and butter, it
doesn’t much matter if the cows dry up in Decem-
ber or thereabouts—can easily do without for six
months or so, and “trickle” and “s’rup” are
cheaper. When cycling here called at a house for
a drink of milk. “Got no milk.” Pause. “ Well,
can you give me a drink of water, please ? ”
“Oh, yuus.” Since then I have acquired the
reputation of “nearness” because I actually
asked for a drink of milk ! In the school it is
simply impossible to get the children of the rich
farmers round about to get books when they
require them, and yet I found that a very rare
complaint in Brickwick, which is one of Mel-
bourne’s poorest suburbs. The children are
taught to economise their exercise books to the last
gasp ; they count every line they use—even leave
out the headline “ Dictation, ” because putting it
in will use up the book faster. This is from
people who could buy me a hundred times over,
but who look on me as a millionaire, as I’m one of
those bloated civil servants. These people have
hardly any of the expenses that an ordinary town
laborer (much less a schoolmaster) has, to wit,
firewood, rent, decent clothing, and decent living.
Ordinary town worker lives, farmer exists ; which
explains the secret of the respectable cut made
generally by farmers’ wills.
“W.J.A.”; Not long ago a publican,
living out the “ other side of Bourke,” won a very
big prize in Tattersall’s, and in his joy decided
that he would make the whole township drunk
free of charge. This exactly coin-
cided with the views of the inhabi-
tants, except the local school-mas-
ter, who chanced to be a good
teetotaller. The grog wasn’t too
good—being manufactured some-
where in the vicinity of Angledool
—and, consequently, in a very
short time the whole male popu-
lation was “upon its ear.” The
schoolmaster gazed sorrowfully
upon the field of bottle, and, being
very dry, wended his way to the
town well to draw for himself a
bucket of typhoid bacilli. The
winding apparatus was out of repair
(for they seldom use water in those
parts), and, slipping, he fell with it
to the bottom. He shouted in vain,
for the whole town was drunk. Four
hours afterwards a recovering inhabi-
tant went to get a bucket of water
to pour over his swelled head, and
heard cries down the well. They
passed down a greenhide rope, and
getting a half-hitch on to him attached
a horse to the other end. The publican
gave the animal a clout, it rushed for-
ward, and the emblem of sobriety was dragged
to the top with unnecessary celerity and towed
some considerable distance. There is a moral
somewhere about this incident. “ Virtue brings
its own reward, ” or something like that.
* * * $
“ Weary Willie ” : Am weary of trying to
think out the worm problem. Where does the
common earth-worm get to in dry weather ? He
doesn t die, or I should find his carcase about
digging, and he doesn’t go deeper, for I’ve been
down to bed-rock to see; and yet, as soon as rain
comes he bobs up as lively as if he’d been on a
hohday somewhere. A local fishing maniac
• to , be could grow a quart of worms
m 24 hours by digging and watering; but, know-
ing that Ananias was a fisherman, I declined the
wager on principle. However, he can always find
worms m summer, and I can’t.
“Bull’s Hide” sends
a peremptory demand
that the following be in-
serted :
Had occasion, the other
day, to unroof a meat ants’
nest, and was surprised to
find it inhabited by two
tribes of ants meat ants
and sugar ants, the latter
being in the minority. They
appeared to be on the best
of terms, and after getting
over their excitement at
being disturbed the mixed
family started to rebuild
its home again meat-ant
style, both tribes toiling
together as though they
were one family. After dis-
turbing nest mentioned I
dug into about a dozen more
close by and found two
more occupied same as first
—meat-ants outnumbering
sugar ants in all three.
Can’t say whether sugar
ants were bucks or does ; not
being a naturalist I am un-
able to tell whether an ant is
male or female merely by
looking into its eye. Saw
no half-castes amongst the
ants mentioned. I might
mention that close by the
homes of those ants a few
years back there lived a
black man who had a white
wife They had a large
family of half-castes. An-
other couple, both white,
lived near by. They had a
large family too—all white
except one; that one was
extra smoked. I have heard
it said that the mother of
said piece of smoked
humanity, previous to the
birth of the nigger, got a
fright one evening ; a black
cat came down the chimney
and she took a fit. Others
say she used to drink coffee
extra strong. Which of the
yarns to believe I don’t know.
It is quite likely those ants
are only following the
example of the human in-
habitants of our bright land.
Will visit the ants again in
the springtime and see if
I can behold any cross-breds. Perhaps ’tis not an
unusual thing amongst ants for two varieties to be in
one home, but I’ve spoken of it to a few old bushmen and
had to fight everyone of them before he would believe me.
* * * *
Fitz. was holding forth on the Austra-
lian s lack of energy. “ Every year the young
Australian grows wearier. There was any amount
of energy in the old days. Look at the way they
treated the Chows at Lambing Flat. An’ that’s the
way they should treat the black foreigners now.
Start at the South and run the Hindus, Japs,
Kanakas and Chows clean off the North coast,
and the men favoring a piebald Australia with
them. That would be energy. But the Aus-
tralian youth slouches round with a pipe (unlit)
hanging from his mouth. Now, that ain’t like
me . If I ain t having a good smoke or a sleep,
you 11 always find me down to a book or mooching
round, but never idle!” Then he pulled the
blankets over his head and went to sleep.
A GOOD CROP
“There ain’t much feed’ere fer ’em. What about the big paddock ?
Much grass there?”
Any amount. I measured it careful, and there wuz iust on five
blades ter the acre.”
“ Tf j !> w
-hd.' _: Went out-back to see the plant
of a mme in course of erection. Two carpenters
and a boiler-maker, with the help of a boy, are
camping there. They bought a side of mutton
and told the boy to boil the lot. He put the side
over his knee, bent it double, and pushed it into a
kerosene tin, the middle half being under water,
the legs up like flag-poles. I suggested to cut it
in halves. „ “Orlright, I’ll turn it upside-down
after a bit. With a canny cook, wonderful what
can be done with mutton. I boarded at a farm-
pilot called. High tea that night— roast leg of
mutton, potatoes and vegetables. Saturday and
Sunday the same mutton cold ; Monday, scraps
tot course of bone-soup. Thursday was a blank
J
IMPERTINENT.
UNGRATEFUL TRAVELLER: “Are yer quite sure you ain’t robbin ’ the
dog, mum ?”
“R.H.P.”: Bill and I were liuggin’
Matilda along the Bokara. We called at a station
and struck the cove for a bit of rations. My heel
was raw from asking too much off a pair of yearling
bluchers, so we camped in a bend and did in our
bit of scram. “Now, what are we going to do,
Bill ?” I asked. “The bag’s empty, and all the
blokes up the river are dead cold on our pro-
fession.” “ Leave it to me,” ses Bill, with a
wink ; “ this bloke’s too warm to be left in this
off-handed style.” An’ with that he pulls a razor
outer ’is swag, and after groanin’ and swearin’
like a waggon without grease, he scrapes off his big
red beard, hooks out ’is left eye, which were glass,
grabs the bags and makes for the station. Arf an
’our and Bill comes back, bags still empty.
“What’d’e say, Bill?” “’Eses: ‘Yer can take
hout yer hother heye and cut one blanky ear horff
if ye like, and then I’d know yer.’
Sheoli”
“ War E.” : Quite
satisfied that I’m a
regular “Juggins” for
the collecting crew in
the hush. First at-
t 'mpt, collected in a
shed £8 for a shearer
who had to knock off
work owing to sciatica
•—this was to send him
to the hospital. Found
him a fortnight later
shearing in another dis-
trict. Next, an old
mate asked me to go
round for a few bob to
get him to Sydney for
eve-treatment ; gave
him £2 10s. Two days
a tetwards he offered
to fight me for drinks
at the nearest pub.
Finally, a woman
whose husband had
been killed, begged me
to take round a list to
collect “somethin’ ”for
her starving children.
Consented, and after a
week’s hard going was
able to give her £ll.
About 10 days later got
a note from the lady
asking my company at
a social she was giving
to a few friends a
social on the strength
of the £ll I had col-
lected for her. Still,
she got a second hus-
band at the social, so
can hardly say it was
altogether a failure!
* «
“Petramos”: You
can break your neck
in a casual sort of way more easily in Orroroo
than in any other township in S. A. The country
is badly cracked thereabouts, and close to the
town there are long winding fissures in the earth,
some few feet wide and of varying depths. There
have been one or two accidents, but the local
council has never yet put up danger notices. But
what can you expect from a place that has only
372 inhabitants, all told, and boasts only 77
houses, yet supports five churches and three pubs.?
* * * ,
wh “ e . on a visit to
Belarbigill (N.S.W.), was much impressed by the
contrivance with which he was ferried over the
Macquarie River. The craft was a small flat-
T,\r th “'' erted ‘'9—koes fo,
ZdTes with splits ft oTendwtoE
tin were inserted for blades.
THE SPENDTHRIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN THE BUSH.
City pleasures half-remembered in the dreamy distance
pall,
And the Bushland shapes her sadness, which is creeping
over all.
Resolutions by the dozen flit across my wearied brain,
And I’ll never be the sinner, that I used to be, again.
O, the smiles of dainty charmers and the strollings ’neath
the stars!
O, those little social parties in the “glow of private
bars ” !
Ah, they’re dead and gone and done with—deeply buried
in the past—
I’m the pride of all my people, and a steady chap at last!
Aye, the gay life of the punter I have parted with for
good,
And I’ll strive for something noble, as a decent fellow
should.
Reckless times of spendthrift’s folly—awful days without
a cent —
I have left them all behind me, and am deeply penitent.
I have smothered down the shameful, stubborn spirit
that regards
All the joys of life as centred in the dice and in the
cards ;
I will find me in the future, soon, a peaceful home and
wife,
Give my talents’ application to the grander things of Life.
Fare ye well 1 dear nights of dancing, and of story, smoke,
and song,
That gave no time for thinking if the lives we led were
wrong;
For the “ still small voice of conscience ” ever gently
whispers “ Try ! ”
Oh! my olden comrades sinful, I have done with you.
Good-bye 1
IN TOWN.
Only landed here this morning, and a score of chums I’ve
met—
How we drink and joke and gamble !—and we laugh at
old Regret 1
And the girls of old flirtations are as charming, twice as
gay,
Just as sweet and just as tender, and I kissed them all
to-day 1
So to-morrow to the races 1 and at night we’ll count the
stars,
Till I meet my bosom comrades, who are laughing at the
bars.
Oh, away 1 old dreams of sadness, and of wealth and
weal and wife—
I would give your years of drudging just for one short
hour of “ life.”
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
To Play your Piano
C
>»*
The Pianola will aid you*
Would you believe there are nearly one
hundred thousand pianos lying idle in
Australia ?
Did it ever occur to you how very little
your piano is being used ?
Do you know the Pianola will enable
you to play your piano at once, although
you may never have played one note in
your life ?
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how. Ask for
Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
HENRY M. BIRCE&CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
SYDNEY: 323 George St.,
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
DAVID STOBiEDi & SONS’ ,n Thro « RE d and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Onlj’ Absolutely
SAFE
Wco’-
Marking or
The Perfeot BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.


“Ku-Klux”: I had
seated myself at his heap and
was detailing to the old
stonebreaker a yarn of a man
who set a bottle on his heap
of stone and got the school
kids to “ cock-shy ’ at it,
thereby increasing the size
of his pile at the expense of
his fellows. The old man
smiled and said, “Not a bad
trick, but I’ve seen better.
I was knappin’ stones in
Gippsland a few years ago.
The engineer had orders to
pay every week. He gave
Paddy Ryan a job, and when
he went round on Saturday
Pat had four yards more
stone than anyone else. He
paid him, and when they
came to shift it they found
he had built it over about 50
boulders. Well, the engineer
took it as a joke and when
Pat came round in a week
or two he put him on again,
but this time out on the com-
mon, away from anything
which could be used to build
on. And when Saturday
came round Pat had a bigger
pile than anyone else. He
was paid, and two or three
days later a crack appeared
in the heap. It widened
gradually and finally disclosed
the swelled-up carcase of an
old horse which had died, nice
and handy- as Pat expressed
it.”
* * *
“ Still Water ” : Is the
domestic cat an habitual can-
nibal? Had five cats till
lately. Now have only four,
they having eaten the fifth.
No inquest was held. There
was no coroner handy and
the jury would have had to
sit on the four cats, a thing they would cer-
tainly have resented.
* * ♦ •
“ J.F.D.” : The dog has leanings towards
the criminal and plebeian classes. In a country
town saw the constable make a valiant attempt to
arrest the local bully. All the inhabitants had
dodged into doorways and behind outhouses to be
out of hearing of the constable’s summons for
help, for the bully had a nasty reputation. A
new arrival had a vicious terrier, which was per-
fectly unacquainted with either of the combatants,
but it promptly threw its weight against the law.
It buzzed round the mixture of arms and legs
until it got a clear grip at the constable’s leg, and
that trap’s yell was heard at Mt. Sugarloaf, a
mile and a-half away. The bully got away
quickly, and the dog mixed matters until he got
a good start; then it bolted up a side street as if
a pack of wolves were after it. Many country
dogs climb under the bed or behind the chest of
drawers when a mounted policeman is sighted,
and I believe everxj dog, if it takes part in a row
between a p'oliceman and a malefactor, bites the
policeman.
MISS MAGGIE PAPAKUBA,
The well-known Maori guide of the M.L. Hot Lakes district.
Isles, Photo.
“D.H.R.”: Re cattle-duffing. Once knew
an old selector on the Warrego who had 15 calves
all about the same size—following one cow,
with an old gin tailing them. He used to
feed them on milk every morning. Comments on
the peculiar herd invariably received the one
answer: “ Their mothers ’as all died ; must save
the Door things somehow.” One morning, having
been away for a week, returned and found him
with 21 calves; but when I commented on. the
sudden increase'only got the same answer. Cattle
often do die out-back.
MISS FITZMAURICE GILL.
“ Grevillea ” : Once
while bushwhacking in the
Seventy-Mile bush (Maori-
land) Scotch J ack (so-called
to distinguish him from
English Jack, German
Jack, and Dutch Jack)
wildly promised to make a
plum duff as a treat. It
had been raining like a
country possessed by
demons for about a fort-
night. The rivers were
up, and we couldn’t go
into the township to get
provisions to vary our
dietary monotony of dam-
per and soda bread. We
went 'to bed, and Jack
waded in. The ingredients
were mixed, tied up in an
old towel, and fixed to
the rhaupo walls of the
whare with a fork, out of
reach of rats, while Jack
went to the creek for
water. Having started
the fire, lie hung the
bucket up the chimney
and began his cooking.
During the regulation
three hours boiling, several
excursions in the rain
to the wood-heap were
necessary, and Scotch
Jack got very wet. At
last, time being up, he
lowered the bucket to the
ground, then turning round
to get a fork, imagine his
disgust on meeting the
duff face to face still
hanging on the wall.
A disheartened bush-
whacker went to roost
that night, and there was
no duff on the morrow.
“Saltpetre”: The dingoes were kicking
up a most infernal row, and the camp liars were
expanding themselves on that department.
“ Dingoes ?” said Jones. “Why, that’s nothing,
I was ridin’ on my own out back in New bouth
Wales one time, and th’ moke put his foot into a
hole and came down. I was pinned under him by
the legs. I’d have died there, for nobody came
that way more than once in a blue moon, only
up’ards of two thousand dingoes came along that
night and ate the horse away from on top of me.
There were dingoes, those times, right enough.
The modern sanitary crusade inMaoriland
has extended to the aboriginal inhabitants. Dr.
Pomare, a Maori physician, has gone on a mission
through the pahs of his forefathers, trying to
teach the brown masses the evil of their old,
insanitary, flea-haunted ways. The Maori accepts
the germ theory with hesitation ; he declines to
realise a creature which is dangerous, and may be
fatal yet which doesn’t bark. When he first
heard of a germ, he took his gun and his axe
and went strenuously into the bush, resolved to
engage the creature at close quarters, and hit it
hard, and drag its mangled remains back with
him, and he returned a very disgusted man. As
usual, a prophet has arisen; a prophet always
arises among the Maoris just when that race is
almost persuaded to wash. Wereta, an Past
Coast tohunga , began by creating 12 apostles, but
afterwards increased the number to 90. _ lo them
he gave command to heal all sickness and infirmity,
and especially to slay Dr. Pomare’s strange
animal, the germ. Now Pomare tells the natives
about tht? germ, and. Wereta follows him up
explaining that the reason why they can t find
that strange beast rushing about in the forest is
that he has slain it by his divine power. Conse-
quently, Pomare gets no further forward, and the
Maori doesn’t wash, and the only man who makes
a scoop out of the business is Wereta, the tohunga.
THE STOCKMEN OF THE TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They meet the stock-trains Nor’ward
And the trains from out the West.
In summer, winter, wind and rain and hail.
When the train is shunted forward
The stockmen do not rest .
Till the empty trucks are “kicked far down the rail.
They are outcasts from the West land
Who have drifted to the town.
In the wilderness they all were born and bred..
On their faces flames the West brand,
From the past thus handed down
As a token of the wild, free life they’ve led.
They toil like slaves till midnight
Untrucking wild, bush steers ;
And when the long stock-trains come rolling down,
They yard and draft by torchlight;
And it takes them back to years
That are sacred to these stockmen of the town.
They meet the stock-trains nightly,
In the wind and rain and hail;
They are mighty men, and rude and weather-scarred.
They take their pleasure lightly,
They are never known to fail;
These fallen, exiled bushmen of the yard.
M.lb
JOHN PATRICK.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. ho liability is undei •
taken in any case re contributions voluntuiily sub~
milled, whether sent by post or handed in , and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Yarrum : But the average family in the New-
castle district isn’t 11—nor half of it.. ..Miserly. We
can’t prevent eight well-to-do persons subscribing to only
one Bulletin among them ; all we can do for the blessed
circulation is to hire clergymen to object, on high moral
grounds, to our paper appearing in the local school of
arts. And if you knew how much some of these clergy-
men want before they will object on high moral grounds,
you would be astonished... .M. Forest (Q.): Accepted....
A. J. (Vic.): Don’t know if letter was worth the 2d. it
cost us.... Gee See: Rejected with some vigor....
J.T.M.: Too vague and implicative. Obscurity does not
mean profundity.... Basanos: Tolerably written, but
lacking interest and novelty. Also cost us 4d. insuffi-
cient postage.... By-the-Way: Too slight and sketchy,
though you appear to be on the right track...•
Hardly strong or striking enough., .^zazel: Such jig-
jog metre doesn’t suit the subject—B.N.R.: Too inco-
herent and spluttery... .N.R.W. (Vic.): Get another pen-
name ; “Boko” is someone else’s property. Verse is
simply amazing. Sample follows :
“ I was glad when old ‘ Snip ’ landed
Safe on the other side,
He’s seven years old and branded
D.T. on the near side.
“ I’ve been smashed up a few times,
Have been in bed for weeks
And have taken to making rhymes
While riding the boggy creeks.’
J O : Prickly-pear poem as full of bad points as a
porcupine....F.Y. :If we took up the grievance of
every man who thinks he is wrongly classed as a lunatic
we could issue 24 pages daily... .Wen : lour copy had
one good point—the elegant pin with which it was
fastened... .Malle : Thanks for clips A Country Party .
Well written, but off our track R.C. :No use in our
publishing mere repetitions of what we have already
said....lconoclast : Can’t oil our own looks in that
fashion .. .Kati : Girls scream at play in order to attract
audiences; the actress instinct follows a woman every-
where ..A.M.R. : The present Juvenile Opera Co.,
managed by C. A. Pollard, has played in every large city
of the States, and will shortly reappear at the Knicker-
bocker Theatre, New York.. ..Inca : You mustnt con-
found economy with meanness. Know a lady (Scotch)
who lives on sixpence a day for food, but is the very soul
of generosity in regard to helping others Nitchwooa .
Remarks about politicians concluding
This is the class of python men
Beneath whose feet we tread ...
held over until we hear of a python with feet...,
Jusi-ata : Will use. Any equally good pars ..
G. Hop: Already dealt with J.T.D. : Office Win
dow” rather trite... .Opal King : One good item.....
Falder: Laborious humor is no humor Moll} M..
Fairly well written, but rather out of Bulletin s line,
and too long in any case Euroka : Both too wordy
and repetitive, style pretentious, but inaccurate....
Trixie: The English custom is to accent the second
syllable of “Trafalgar,” but the Spanish accent (as used
by Byron and Massey) is on “ gar,” following the original
Arabic, “ Trafa al gar,” “ The promontory of the cave.
W.M.S.: Plenty of force, but no literary judgment.. ..
H D : “ Forsaken,” nice love verse but too ordinary in
its niceness....J.M. : Not publishable Theo. G. :
Thoughtful and interesting in its way, but quite unsuit-
able for 8u11etin....8.P.: Not strong enough, even if
you hadn’t made such a muddle of your characters....
Tracker: An amusing central incident, smothered by
superfluous surroundings Rory: Too
on : Hardly enough in it for print... .Wobbler : Your
syntax is hair-raising... .W. M‘G.: Verse very fair, but
sentiment flimsy and artificial.... ..Percy Lovett.
Another correspondent got ahead of you. Ana,
by-the-bye, what makes you think the person
who uses that pen-name is a man ?... . A.L.D.M. .
Some good lines, but on the whole rather rocky....
Harrie N. : The “ H.N.” .whose stuff was des-
cribed as objectionable was quite a different H.JN. -J- ne
British language is short of initials G.P. : Love-letter
to Florrie only moderately amusing...E. Spear : lnanKS,
blit subject already dealt with... .RosaD.: Prettj-pretty
verse, which should find a niche in some “ poet s corner
—but not in ours.. ..D.M. : The point you seem to dis-
regard is that in the Southern States, when a woman 13
outraged and murdered, the mob always starts by taking
it for granted that a nigger did it. Secondly, whenever a
woman of loose character or hysterical tendencies begins
telling lies, as such women do (you can find examples in
Australia every w'eek), the nigger is burnt on her mere
say-so, and without any medical examination to find out
whether any outrage was committed at all. In earlier
days, when some woman said so, they hanged the nigger.
As that didn’t stop the woman saying so, .they started to
burn the nigger. And the woman still says so m the
same old way. The danger a black man runs in com-
mitting an outrage on a white woman in the Southern
States is so enormous that the offence is probably almost
extinct—if it ever existed to any great extent—but the
lynching goes 0n....J0e B. : Received an insufficiently
stamped letter, postmark illegible, no 'address inside,
about a cricket match that happened at “ our sad little-
town,” and referring to some previous alleged remarks in:
a Bulletin which, according to your, dates, niust b ave
been published on a Tuesday. For utter slipshodness-
you take the whole flour mi 11... .Charles P. : “ Brady s
Housekeeper” is wildly erratic. ..Rupert Wallace: It-
was the idea that was “ too small ” ; not the verse. Now
the verse is larger and the idea still smaller.. ..Dora:
Dora is such a pretty name, that the things which should
be said about those verses are omitted.. ..T.G.D. : Just
ordinary Spring poem.... Sawdust: No skill or merit....
Karewao : “ Nature’s Trust” would wreck the morals of
any Sunday-school... .Fram : Not poetry; only a plain
statement chopped into short lengths that the weather
was dry John S. : Can’t stand “Pius X.”... .Chilton
(Manchester): Most noticeable feature about 3'o;ir letter
was the deficient postage... L. Hibou : Man}' thanks....
Phil Random : Conventional in theme and stiff in versi-
fication ... Fred C. : Yarn spoilt by the fact that no
bailiff would have fallen into such a simple trap
Hawkeye: “Gothic” architecture has no connection
with the Goths. The term was first applied to the
pointed style bv Sir Christopher Wren, as denoting rude
or barbarous.. ’. F. Mac : Very well done ; sorry subject
too trite Babs : Yes, if accepted Nod :No dress-
makers or milliners working in N.S.W. for less than
7s. 6d. per week ? Why, in Newcastle district alone,
according to the factories inspector, there were lately
300 working “under the misnomer of apprentices, who
receive no wages, and with small prospect of obtaining
work after two years at even half-a-crown a week. The
Wednesday or Saturday half-holiday is still to them a
thing of the future.”... .Unsuitable : Emil, A.T., Hugh
Stone, The Heathen.
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill whose sound
dramatic work as a member of many leading co's,
and as principal of her own organisation, has
been favorably recognised in all the States of the
Commonwealth —began a tour of the Western
district (N.S.W.) this month at Bathurst, after-
wards visiting Orange, Dubbo (her native town),
Cobar and Bourke.
Bentland is not the only place where un-
fortunate employees are driven to death for a pit-
tance. In Queensland, a while back, writer knew
of one man who was in charge of everything at an
important side station, and once every five days
he put in 36 hours’ continuous duty—salary, >£l3o
a year. “ Must get a spell soon,” he said —“ this
is killing work.” And his haggard appearance
and wandering eyes echoed it loudly. Shortly
after two minor accidents brought tardy relief and
he is now enjoying a permanent spell—in Goodna
Lunatic Asylum. -j
“T.F.R.” (who seems to be something of
a Tory) writes
Another nail in the coffin of Government day labor I
At a Government job in my district a team of horses was
hired by the day, and the supervising official noticed that
they were pulling very lazily. He mentioned the circum-
stance to a passing contractor of Kyambrapootra sympa-
thies. Contractor explained that the horses were kept
to their work on their former job by vigorous cursing.
The official, thereupon, called up the most foul-mouthed
man on the job, and instructed him to accompany the
driver and swear at the team when it lagged. The horses
quickened their pace a little, but only a little, in response
to the objurgations poured out pretty fluently, and the
super, turned to the contractor for another solution of
the difficulty. “More o’ this cursed day-labor system,
replied that individual. “That man didn’t swear as he
would have to if he was working on a job for me, or as if
he was on piece w'ork. He could ha’ shifted them horses
if he liked ; but when a man is swearin’ by the day for
the Government, you can’t expect much from him. You
ought to come an’ hear him curse on piece work for me.
FORETHOUGHT.
LITTLE ROBERT (who has just got a new brother):
“ For goodness sake, cook, be careful with that
cabbage. There may be another'baby in it.”
Dear Bulletin.— This is an open letter to
the P.O. official who opens and (presumably)
reads my Bulletin while on its way from the
office to my address
Sir —Please hurry up with the paper, and let me have
it at least within the week for which it is dated. (It is
only about a 27 hours' journey if no delay occurs en route.)
Also kindly arrange the pages in proper order when done
with And do not tear the outside cover any more than
you can help (I like the “ Red Page”). As soon as you
can afford it, I would suggest that you buy a copy of the
naper for yourself. You have the advantage of me finan-
cially. You are a Federal Government employee with a
minimum-wage clause in your agreement. lam a mere
State servant, whose pay may be reduced to anj thing at
any time. I hope when you read this that you will not
think it refers to somebody else, for it doesn t. I don t
know you, or would either write to you or club you
direct. But I feel sure you will see this, as you are so
regular a reader of my paper.—Rypo.
“ Loco ” : According to “6xB” Irvine’s
blackleg crews of “loyal” engine-drivers will
be, for some little time, despised by the
union drivers ; but be says that that
sort of thing never lasts long. It may
interest “6 x 8” and others to learn that the
unionist drivers have adopted stringent measures
to prevent the “blacklegs” from joining their
society. Judging by the hard-set, grim faces of
the men when passing the resolution dealing with
this matter, they are not likely to forget things
for a while. Official methods of keeping records
df the employees’ last performances are a further
guarantee. The “blacklegs’” records will be
remembered, “6 x B’s” charges of forgetfulness
notwithstanding. If it is not so I will bo much
surprised—and disappointed.
■?
A Drink ! A Tonic! A Medicine !
Wolfe s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
Opal Rings.
MADE in our own Workshops.
MADE by Ring Artists.
MADE with an Exquisite Finish.
MADE from Australian Opal.
OPALS received direct from the Mines.
OPALS cut in Sidney.
THE Finest Opal the World Produces.
DIRECT from Factory to Wearer.
No intermediate profits.
PRICES ONE-HALF London Figures.
Five Opals, 18ct Setting
80/-
Choice Diamond and
Fire Opal Ring,
18ct Setting, 63/-
Half London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St


A Political
Cinserella
\«/f!'iP <? v? / N
X~ <0- 8 4, '
*VX'»
I w/> «P X 3K N^
. V* <t A .o <. >/>
' v>° *y'\?
x at' «5?
%
V^°V
OV
\ 44 They could not overlook the fact that *
there was a great movement in Victoria
with the object of getting as much as pos-
sible into tne hands of the • have nots.
It was Uecbssarv, he thought, to make a
hold stand aeainsi ihi-." -- Kyabram.
“But if the General Election is decided
agaSnst me there will be really nothin* to
J me ? nd Victorian protectionists
question.'"—Goorjji: licid
o o°hZ??.’ir
i ■ !S|!||; r
73 torde ~ptrKdfe 1 MA
IlMtWit it m>j
\ —lp ■
\ ) \ smell somc-lCno?'
}\ \ Hi Jr. A iaßaJlii!|Jij| ■ ijjl
t%T« t 1 0
'■cr/ e / f *e
Go, <C
A High Standard.
The New Radical. ' Measures and men>
girls ; and that's just about the right
measure."
At a Lord Mayor's feast Senator Keid
had the dubious taste to join in the out-
cry about the “ shameful expense of a
Federal High Court."
/**#&&* /
* / (/
// [//
The Argus. u Don’t worry, old man
You've stepped into Kingston's shoes,
but you needn't attempt to (ill thorn-
Let us know you as ‘Tlio Lyne of
Least Resistance.' "
pouso for canes 1 - bCil udalous ex.
“ The constables, state that the report of
the explosion sounded like, tho.discharge
of a gun, and that the gelignite made a \
small hole in the ground. Care was taken
- that the'explosion should be at a distance I
from the house so as not to destroy life or *•
property." v?f?Ess;
T *\Ve feel it a duty to the public to direct
* attention to the serious condition of affairs i
-• existing at Outtrim. . . . Tho most ■
serious of theso incidents was the at-
* tomptod destruction of tho inmates of a
house by that powerful explosive, gelig-
nite. . . . We shall-be curious to see
whether the Chief Secretary will awake
to the necessities of the case. If lie con-
tinues to shirk his duty, the consequences
m;iv be grave indeed.V*
» 357
.sk,s
°4°4ZC
%?
r^ns. —“ Murder ' Fire! Thieves ' Police
Call out the military ' Send for Tom
Price ' These Outtrim striker* are
playing the devil with my nerves.
/£— jcl kfer mention! Hj&T
il JS CojrisiunPlWesr.,
jjoj cub b . |W
v/drilme£, |am my—
VICTORIANA.


An ex-Lord Mayor of London says that the Australians
are narrow-minded and un-British. M
The Little Boy at Manly is endeavoring to “ bear up
under the strain of such a terrible onslaught.
WINTER FORM.
What does he carry that cushion about
for, you ask ? Well, because the tram
seats are so beastly cold.”
v mm
I\V \ ra yard s'
iiit+Auiimin iimm
“ Conferences of delegates from all f
the Employers’ Associations were j
opened in Adelaide to-day. The}
Federal representatives, with the ex-j
ception of Mr. Kingston and the Labor {
were i nvi ted ’''— News item. |
. t \ve eV *
ptv
ivh'
etiA^'' A \?,\> °°"
_^--^ ,,^peC' 0 'Vo«' t ‘' on ,oV° u= ' n
'^tW ee vo^ e °S^ V
■V^
Kingston (from without) : “Do you j
want an argument on the other side i ” j
Employers’ Chorus; "Oh, no! — this j
isn’t a conference.of .that kind ' ”
x "Orange.— The Twelfth of July cele-
bration, under the auspices of the local
Orange lodge, was held last night,
f Hymns were rendered by a united choir.
“ The programme included nigger minstrel
- songs and dances, the perfoimers appear-
■ ing in stage costume, while one of the
actors represented a female.”— A'thus item.
The Bulletin has a vision of a future
Dill Macky carnival.
The Owe'Sullivan’s Vision of 1904.
The dried-up pool in the Great Loan Lind.
ON BEHALF OF THE POOR
LANDLORD.
N.S.W. Labor M.P. : “Pm ready to
give the Federal capital to either of
them, but not to the State.”
Mr. Reid (and Dry Dog) have spoken
at Bow-wowral. One shilling was ,
charged for admission.
“ Say, Bill, this show is a fraud.
He don’t sing or dance or walk on a
I'ope, and there ain’t no band.”
MOSTLY N.S.W. HAPPENINGS.


A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished. Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Watertight, £3
10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer
Balance, £4 10s. £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £B. Solid
Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O. A written certificate for
3,4, and 5 years. Try one, you will not
regret it.
Key,
£3 10s
Keyless,
Free-
trade
Prices
ffo
Ad-
vance.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable
WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, G., 18s 6d ;
Extra Quality, f-plate, 18s 6d and £1;
Silver, 355;
Gold. £2 15s.
The reputation of these watohes is a suffi-
cient guarantee of the reliability.
20s,
20s
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled Non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
Dust and Water tight, 20s ;
Solid Silver, 85s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black
or
Nickel,
£3 10s.
Silver
m
'X
&
W
i n
5S
¥‘>i,a
A. SAUNDERS.
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black. Extra
Quality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ; Split
Seconds, £3 10s, Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5,
£6, £7, £S, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6
years. TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver
£2los
Gold
Cased,
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers. Pure Solid
Silver Hunting Cases, Extra duality
Movements, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Waltham s, £4 4s, £5
5s ; Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s £l5,
£2O, and £25.
3, 4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send ior
Price 111 novated Book.
Bamboo Gold BBACELETS. All the Styles. Prices
according to width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £B, £3 10s ; 15c.
Gold, £3, £4, £5, £6.
BSE 7 —^H-.r-i.-A. - - . -
A. SAUNDERS.
Nellie Stewart Secret Snap BRACELE T, Beautifully
Finished. £4 10s; 15c. Gold, £6 10s and £7 10s.
Similar, £2 15s, £3, £3 ss, £3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Friendship G<'ld Motto BROOCH, 20s
Isct. gold, 35s ; 18ot., gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 12s 6d ; 15ct. gold,
Gem Set, 30s; Diamonds, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-mounted Tusk BROOCH,
Chain and Bell, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond Cut Amethyst BRACELET, Gold-mounted, £4 10s;
Heart Amethyst Padlock, £5 ss.
15ct. Gold Double Heart
and Knob PENDANT or
BROOCH, £4 10s ;
Diamond in centre of Bow,
£6,
15ot. Gold Pearl Star PENDANT
or BROOCH, £5 10s ; .
with Diamond centre, £7 10s;
with double row of Pearls,
Same Price.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Diamond, 2 Red or Blue Stones, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET,
in Three Sizes, 255, 30s. as above,
and 40s wider ; 15ct. Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4.
A. SA.UNDERS.
Registered Good Wish Gold BROOCH, 13s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
13ROOCH, 20s.
1
A. SAUNDERS.
100. Gold Two-Bar Opal and Four-Diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s. Very Effective.
el
din
d
3-Bar Amethyst Gold BROOCH, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 455.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Love Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s (id.
Gold Name BKOOCH with Raised Flowers,
7s 6d ; loot. Gold, 15s ; any Name Free.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, 2-plile, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, and £4 10s. In'Solid Gold, £slos, £6
10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas, £l2 10s,
£l5, and £2O. Guar. 3, 4,“5, and 6 Yrs. 1
Gold
SLIPPER,
Chain, Nob,
and Pin, 6s 6d;
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
!■ ilver, ‘2s 6d.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS,
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS. „ „ ... „ . .. „ „ ,
Handsome Solid Gold Floral NECKLET, set with Pure White Pearls, £3 ; Extra Quality loot. Gold, Pure Pearls,
£5 ss, in Silk-lined Case.
15ct. Gold Fan BROOCH,
Diamond and 2 Rubies, £3
3 Diamonds, £i.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM, 4s 3d.
GtT
FOP
Gold CHARM, Pearl
Star and Crescent,
32s 6d ;
Larger, £2 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Good Friendship
CHARM, 10s 6d ;
with Erin-Go-Biagh r
10s 6d.
Indies’ Long Gold Muff CHAINS in every
Style and Pattern made. £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £3, £7, £B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Doable Out Diamond,
30s. 40s ;
Ruby or Sapphire, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Good Luck Gold HEART.
Cham and Pin, 7 s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Amethyst and
Pearl Meant CHARM,
10s 6d ;
larger, 15s and 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting
Keyless, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Solid Geld
Keyless, £2. £3, £4. £5 ; Superior (duality,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SA.ITNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-Bar BROOCH,
with Double Cut Diamoni Centre,
£3 10s;
larger Diamonds, £4los,
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s tid ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; Three
Opals, £2. 1
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby, 35s
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
Two Diamond Sparks
and Bed Stone,-
15et. Gold, 30s.
, Band RINGS,
with Name, 9cfc. Solid Gold,
12b 6d, 15s ;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 25b, 80s, 355, £2.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Two
Rubies or Sapphires.
£2 10s ; 3 Diamonds, £3.
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, £8 10s,
£4, £4 10s ; Five Diamonds, £5,
Signet I'lain RING,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
18ct. Gold, £2,
£2 10s.
18ct. Gold, 4
•with 3 Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia-
mond, Pure Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
9ct. Gold Heart-shaped
LINKS, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
Set. Gold LINKS, 22s 6d ;
It et. Gold £2 ;
in Solid Silver 4s 6d.
Latest Style Gold Bow and Cham
Photo PENDANT to Hold Two
Photos. 255, 27s 6d, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Pearl Star
PENDANT
or BROOCH, £3,
very neat.
A. SAUNDERS,
815 and 817 George-street
JEWELLER AND
SILVERSMITH,
(Nearly Opposite
Kailway Station),
Sydney.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Five Double Cut,
Diamonds, KING £5,
Larger Diamonds, £6;
£7 10s, £B, £lO, £l5, £2O
18ct. Solid Gold Two
Heurts.Upals,
Three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
18ct. ?old Buckle,
Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s;
). 3 Diamonds, £4.
18ct. Gold
Pure 1 Jouble
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, 9ct,
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6deach; 15ct. Gold, los;
Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ; Extra Heavy, 30s,
355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
A
(Jent.’s Gob. Solid
Gold Amethyst RING,
25s ; 15ct. Solid Gold,
£2, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold
5 Opal KING, £2los
Siie .Larger,
£3 10s.
18ct. Solid Gold
Buttercup Pure
Diamond KING,
fc3, £4, £5.


Phil May—Some Memories.
IN AUSTRALIA.
Phil May practically began his art career in
Australia, and, after leaving this continent,
though he had a wider vogue to gain, he had
nothing further to learn, nothing better to do in
black and white. Before coming to the Common-
wealth, May had won his way to that vigorous
simplicity of line, to that broad and sympathetic
interpretation of character, which made his work
so vitally distinctive; but he up to then lacked a
platform. His genius was almost unrecognised
in London. Nor was it acclaimed in Australia
without some little hesitation. Modelling his
work on Sambourne’s, May’s early efforts seemed
to lack spontaneity and originality. There was a
whisper, here and there, that he was a “mere
copyist.” But hesitancy in claiming his rightful
place was but for a moment on May’s part. Very
soon he gained confidence, and then his lines
swept out irresistible. For three years he amused
Phil May, from a drawing
by Henry Mayer (1898).
Australia, and some
few in the outside
world, with his lumi-
nous interpretations
of character, until he
moved to the wider
field of London.
The late Mr. Traill,
then managing direc-
tor of The Bulletin,
engaged May in Lon-
don for this paper a
couple of years after
“Hop” had arrived
from America. Traill
and some others re-
garded the engage-
ment as an experi-
ment —something of
a rash experiment;
and, even after May had made his mark in The
Bulletin columns, there was a lingering trace
of uneasiness in Traill’s mind.
“Look, Mr. May,” said he to the artist one
day, “in his pictures Mr. Hopkins puts a good
deal more work. Can’t you finish up your draw-
ings a bit ? ”
“ When,” said May, “ I can leave out half the
lines I use now I’ll want six times the money.”
That May, in one sense, worked laboriously,
yve ha,ve on his own statement. He would draw
in a picture with every atom of light and shade,
and then, preserving only the vitally necessary
lines, knock down the scaffolding. It was in his
clear sight as to what were the necessary lines
that made May’s genius. But May was not a
Hop[?] and May at work, from a drawing by
Phil May (1887).
slow worker. He had a lightning quickness, and
took his inspiration neat —in flashes. Once, when
the steamer Tagliaferro was taking a crowd of
gold-seekers off to the Kimberley rush, May, with
the editor of The Bulletin, was “seeing some-
body off.” At the wharf was a cheap-Jack selling
knives—a most perfect knave, East-End Jewry in
his every feature, cheap-Jackery in every line of
his garments. May’s eye lighted on the fellow;
the artist flashed out a shirt-cuff, and in a minute-
and-a-half had him fixed. The next day there
was ready a likeness of the knife-seller so
perfect that any detective office would have
welcomed it as a record. Again, Mr. “Lou ” Levy,
solicitor, now in South Africa, then a Sydney
“ The Withered Jester.”—Drawn by Phil May
for a title-page of verses by A. P. Martin (1898).
“Alas, poor Yorick !... Where be your gibes now ?
your gambols ? your songs ? your flashes of merriment,
that were wont to set the table in a roar ?”
identity, was wanted for a picture. He knew
that he was wanted and did not want to be
pictured. Phil May, well advised by a scouting
party, tripped up to the Theatre Royal, and there
caught his subject on the pavement. But only
for a second. Mr. I.evy perceived the enemy and
turned to him an inexpressive back. Yet the
Phil May, from a drawing by L. Hopkins (1887).
second was enough. The solicitor appeared next
week in “Knock me down with a feather,” true
to life.
Phil May had no regular art education. His
was a natural genius perfected by self-teaching.
Some curious ideas of drawing he had. “I can
never understand,” he said to a friend one day,
“how it is that everyone can’t draw. It is so
simple. You only need to start with a straight
line. I part my hair in the middle; so should
everybody. But, in case of those who don’t, just
imagine it parted. Then draw a straight line
from that hair : parting to the middle of the man’s
heels. Then you have your straight line—every-
thing else is a curve. It’s quite simple.”
What age Phil May was when he reached
Australia no man knoweth. According to some
accounts he was 21. According to facts he was
almost certainly a great deal more. His face gave
no sure information. It was a face which would
look about the same at 19 as at 34. Only when
the hard drudgery of pleasure-seeking in London
had made him fleshy and wrinkled did May begin
to look old. He was not at all the delicate sub-
ject some have imagined. His leanness was not a
matter of mal-nutrition, but of quick, intense
assimilation. May had the digestion of a horse,
and played a heavy game at rackets for more
years than an ordinary man could months. His
harsh, wiry hair, his great lower jaw—curiously
like that of the late Pope (May in profile was as
like to Leo as a pea to a pea) suggested stubborn
vitality.
It was a curious freak of Fate which mixed up
in the character of this man—strong enough to
win to fame against most adverse circumstances,
showing no trace of namby-pamby weakness in
his work or in his face —a strange complaisancy to
conviviality. Devotion to a form of pleasure
which to most ideas would be infinitely wearisome
interfered much with May’s work, and still more
with his life. Most ascribed it to weakness, to
the difficulty of saying “No.” Yet in nothing
else was May weak ; his work, which is the surest
index of character, was above all things firm.
More probably Phil May did as he did from
choice, and lived the life of his liking. That is a
conclusion more flattering to him, and at the same
time more fitted with the rest of his nature. As
a convivialist, May was a giant among men. A
yarn that he once used for an illustration was a
true happening of his own life. It had been a
wet night, and the
wetness lasted well
into the 'morning. At
6 a.m. May and a
friend reached their
Melbourne hotel, and
went to their bed-
rooms. The friend,
after a hot bath and a
short nap, got down to
breakfast at 8. Aston-
ished, he found May
there.
“ What, up so soon ! .
What’s the matter ? ”
“Oh, I’ve had the
narrowest squeak pos-
sible. I’d got about
half undressed when
Phil May, from a
drawing by C. D.
Gibson (1897).
the wife woke up. ‘ls that you, Phil ? ’ she
said. ‘What’s the matter?’ I didn’t want to
be caught coming homea.m., and so I said that 1
had to get up early to get a drawing fixed up for
The Bulletin; and dressed again and came down-
stairs. ”
May was fresh as a daisy, too ; he truly had a
wonderful faculty of doing without sleep.
Personally, Phil May was a fine character, full
of an ungrudging generosity, as free with his
appreciation as with his purse.
He never hesitated with
praise or cash, and had not
an atom of jealousy. A large-
minded fellow, as free and
broad as his line, and full of
good-humor. When he left
Australia much more than his
work was missed.
IN ENGLAND.
I met Phil May last year in a
swagger little cafe off Regent
Circus (writes Lionel Lindsay). It
was London summer weather, and
he sat behind a long whisky and
soda with a straw in it, wearing a
Panama hat and a light check
suit —a neat and flash figure that
would be remarked anywhere.
Harry Mayer and some other Ameri-
cans were crowding him a little, and
there was passed round the proof of a
Punch _ page which Phil had just
finished blue-pencilling for the en-
graver’s roulette. Jack Longstaff, one of May’s
oldest friends, introduced me ; and the talk turned
naturally on Australia and The Bulletin. Then
Phil told some stories in the quiet, laconic style
peculiar to him.
- Continuous London life, of the kind that Pitcher
of the Pink ’Un delineates so skilfully, hadn’t
dealt kindly with May’s cheerful phiz ; but he had
no shame for what the comfortable world considers
a serious business. “ Met a doctor the other day,’’
he said ; “ very decent chap ; said to me, ‘By
Jove ! Phil, old chap, I wish you’d let me treat
your nose.’ ‘No good, old boy,’l said; ‘been
treating it myself for the last 15 years.’ ”
In the words of the regenerate, Phil May led
a “fast life.” Most artists have only a capacity
for work. Phil May had a capacity for life as
well; that is why he did not last as long as he
might have.
There has been a lot of nonsense talked about
the intention of Phil May’s art, as to whether he
was satirist or humorist, and so on. He certainly
was a humorist, when he was simply the delinea-
tor of the flash, gay life he lived and knew
so intimately. He had the field to himself
there, and never touched the English bourgeoisie
as Keene did; but confined himself wisely to
his own people—the inhabitants of studios and
cafes, racecourses and back streets, the ephemeral
characters of watering-places—people full of the
reckless gaiety of life and far from saintly.
With the stage May had always a strong sym-
pathy, and the setting of many of his drawings
is from a dramatic standpoint. But first and
last Phil May was a realist: he drew life as he
saw it, uncursed by any imagination, and found it
very good. That is why his drawings are so
human and interesting; they give us all we can
know of humanity—its externals.
He never talked art, and he cared very little for
pictures—life supplying him _ with a superior
gallery. The Academy exhibition of 1902 was the
first he visited, and then he went to see his por-
trait painted by Shannon —the finest thing in that
year’s show. “ Phil never goes to picture gal-
leries, ” said Mrs. May at one of the Sunday
nights at his studio in St. John’s Wood, where the
Australian was always to be found—“that is, if
vou except those in Holland, where he always has
a look round.” That is easy to understand, as
the Dutch have reverenced life and have rarely
been troubled with the-nightmares of fancy. I
was happy enough to start talking of Franz Hals
—the most spontaneous artist the world has seen;
Phil May and Mrs. May in studio, Holland
Park Road, London.
Photo, by Arthur K. Syer, N. Sydney.
and Phil went to a cabinet and brought back a
book of splendid reproductions, turning the pages
a little lovingly. He stopped and looked for a
long while at the canvas of the old Burgomaster’s
wives, and then, in a kind of ecstacy, he said—
“ Can’t the beggar draw hands!” Every
draughtsman will know what that means.
Week-ends he was in the habit of escaping from
his friends to the French watering places or to
Bournemouth or Brighton. I remember he told
us that night the story of the Graphic sending
sandwich men out for him, with the legend
“ Phil May ” on the front board, and on the back
one “Don’t forget the Graphic Xmas Num-
ber!” The story is in “Pitcher’s” last book;
but this little quip isn’t. “I had wired,” said
Phil, “to a friend of mine in Brighton called
Gentle, who always put a nag at my service when
I wanted one. Said I didn’t want a barb; but
something mild and harmless. When I came
down and stepped on to the hotel verandah in the
morning, there was a groom waiting with a
couple of very weak-kneed crocks for me. ‘Um,’
I said to a friend I had with me, ‘ these must be
Gentle’s gee-gees, meek and mild !’ ” A slight,
cheerful little jest, but he told it inimitably.
There has always been a great deal of mystery
attached to Phil May’s methods. The real
mystery lies in his splendid draughtsmanship.
His pencil drawings are unexcelled. I remember
Longstaff saying that he believed no artist had
ever drawn anything better than them. No
reproduction has yet given the slightest hint of
their quality. Phil May did not draw types,
as is generally and erroneously written; he drew
individuals—portraits. From bf .rning to end
PHIL MAY.
From a photograph.
he was a character artist, and his capacity for
getting a likeness and for expression have never
been surpassed.
I last saw Phil at the Artists’ Sketch Club. Dud-
ley Hardy was in the chair, and Phil sat next him.
It was a cheerful gathering, and old O’Dowd, the
last relic of Dickens’s Bohemia, sung his famous
song about “Bringing the harvest bib-ey bib-ey
home, to bring in the ’arvest ’ome.” Phil sang
also; and, the accompanist being sadly imperfeot,
Phil told him “ to pitch it a little higher and he’d
rise to it,” at the same time mounting a chair next
to the piano. He whistled, too—a singularly
melodious performance of the “Old Swanee
River,” and was enthusiastically cheered for
everything he did.
Phil May had to a large extent solved the
trouble of existence by considering nothing
seriously but his art. He lived and died a kind-
hearted jester, busily increasing the sum of the
world’s happiness. He never did a soul a bad
turn, and was constantly doing good ones. As
for saying that he had no enemy but himself, that
is as useless as are all pronouncements upon
genius. His life and work were so intimately
associated that they cannot be separated ; indeed,
his work is but a revelation of himself.
The Western Digger and Freetrade.
Not very long hence a violent shock will reach
the offices of the ’totherside Freetrade papers
which take it for granted that the Westralian
miners are solid, enthusiastic, and reliable
Freetraders. The fact is that, in their early days,
the fields were in bitter antagonism to the settled
districts of the State. The diggers hadn’t come
to think of themselves as Westralians ; they were
“’tothersiders” come across to make a “rise,”
and “get.” They had left their families and
friends and affections back in Bendigo, or Ballarat,
or Broken Hill, or Queensland. They wanted
freedom to buy from these friends; they didn’t
see why they should be taxed to build up
industries in a country where they had no ties,
which largely treated them as outlanders, and
which they hoped to quit as soon as they
made the “rise” that they had come after.
That explains, too, why, while Perth and the
settled districts were less than lukewarm with
regard to Federation, the goldfields were white-
hot with enthusiasm. But now, having got the
freedom to trade with those parts of Australia
whence they came (so far, it is true, with certain
restrictions), they are not Freetraders any longer,
They see it is one thing to have open ports for the
products of the labor of their own people, but
quite another thing to have open ports for the
products of nigger and yellow and sweated-labor
countries. Federation, in short, has given them,
or within a year or two will give them, all the
Freetrade they want. True, no doubt, some of
them did go further than this, and became out-
and - out Freetraders. These were passing
through precisely the same experiences as
the Victorian miners passed through in
the “fifties” and the early “sixties.” Free-
trade seemed to be just the thing for them.
Gold was plentiful ; they had no unemployed.
To a very large extent, they had no children to
think about. They were buyers—buyers with the
gold they had little trouble in getting—and they
wanted to buy cheap, no matter what disaster
that cheapness might bring on others ; and they
thought Freetrade was their ticket. But, as in
Victoria, so in Westralia, things changed. Gold
wasn’t, after all, to be picked up by the handful.
An unemployed trouble began to appear. The
expected “rise” boiled down to a job shovelling
slimes at Bs. 4d. a day ; and instead of a villa or a
quiet little farm in Victoria, or somewhere on
the other side, the missus and the children
have had to go across to a tin-and-bag
camp outside the Boulder, or possibly
as far on as the Dead Finish. In these circum-
stances Freetrade does not look quite what it did.
The constant pressure of the army of unemployed
hanging round the mine offices, seeking the billet
of the luckier man in work ; the hopelessness of
the outlook for the children in a country which
depends upon the sweated stranger for half the
necessaries of life —these things are turning the
remnant of the Westralian Freetraders from their
temporary lapse. For weak personal reasons they
may possibly hang on to their present Freetrade
members for a while; but when they come to
truly express their sentiments in the ballot booth,
out the Freetrade misrepresentstive will go, as
surely as he went out on the Victorian goldfields.
The Forgotten City of Greater Sydney.
One of the matters which seems to have fallen
down quite dead in N. S. W.—as dead as the North
Shore bridge and the rebuilding of the Rocks dis-
trict —is the Greater Sydney scheme. Sydney
still live 3 in the gilded pomp of its 43 or 44
municipalities, mayors, debts, town clerks, town
halls, sets of aldermen, sets of auditors, and all
the rest —all this for the government of a half-
million people who are also looked after by two
State Houses of Parliament and two Federal ditto.
The city is still waiting till 42 or 43 mayors and
droves of aldermen are willing to efface themselves
for the good of the community, and these herds of
municipal potentates show no sign. Nor does it
appear that they are likely to show any. Yet,
seeing it is generally agreed that municipal union
is a good thing, there is nothing save the miserable
inertness of one Ministry after another
to prevent it being carried out. There are
no really serious difficulties in the way—
the 44 heaps of aldermen mistake themselves for
a difficulty, but if they are dealt with the right
way, they are not even an ornament or a conun-
drum. The financial problem can be walked
round, if not directly surmounted, by making
each existing municipality for the time being a
ward in the municipality of Greater Sydney,
leaving its net debt (i.e., the amount it owes over
and above the value of its saleable assets) to be
the separate debt owing by that ward to Greater
Sydney in general, and levying in each ward a
separate tax, large or small as required, for the
extinction of its separate debt, so that all the old
liabilities will be wiped out in (say) 20 years.
Then the city can be laid out into new wards on a
more suitable plan, and the financial problem
will be surmounted without injustice to any-
body. Apart from the financial question
there is no reason why Sydney should
not be by one municipal council
when Glasgow, Liverpool, and Manchester are
so governed without any difficulty. If a Bill
establishing a constitution for Greater Sydney
similar to that of Glasgow, and dealing with the
financial problem in the lines above suggested,
were passed through Parliament, and then sub-
mitted to the people of the N.S.W. metropolis for
acceptance —the 43 or 44 hordes of aldermen being
left out of consideration altogether—the measure
would almost certainly pass by a vast majority.
The Government which did a thing like that
would at least leave one footmark behind it.
There would be a pinnacle of accomplishment
sticking up above the dead wastes and level of
loans, blather and motions of centure. And a
thing like this can be done without borrowing.
It is the sort of thing that can be attended to in
between loans, so to speak—something to divert
public attention from the fact that for the moment
nothing is being borrowed. Every Ministry
should have at least one idea besides loans—and it
is none the worse for two.


POLITICAL
POINTS.
Even General Hut' on says the right thing
sometimes. His emphatic minute in favor of a
Federal arsenal, managed by the Government,
calls for cordial applause.
The other day a post-card, posted in the
Melbourne General Post Office 16 years ago, was
delivered to a firm in the city. A fine of 2d. was
imposed on the recipient—probably for storage.
The process of getting rid of Bent’s black-
legs continues. Those with criminal records, it is
now announced, are to be sacked. And it seems
that a very large number have criminal records.
N.S.W. Cabinet has been discussing
Owe’Sullivanism pretty earnestly of late, and it is
more than possible that the too-genial Owe’ will
lose his portfolio by a transfer to another Cabinet
position.
“L.W.” : Victorian Employers’ Federa-
tion lias threatened, as if it were talking of some-
thing new, that at the coming Federal elections
it will run “ anti-Socialist ” candidates. When
did it ever run any other kind of candidates ?
Mighty little escapes the keen eye of
Premier Irvine. He has now ukased that, if a
Victorian civil servant is away two days owing
to “death or approaching death in his family,’’
he shall only receive half pay for the second day.
Bent’s very latest is to decree that
Victorian railway employees shall not take any
part in municipal elections. Of course there is
no reduction of rating on railway men’s property,
though. It begins to be questionable if a Vic-
torian railway man is allowed to take part in
anything.
THE CURE FOR LABOR TROUBLES.
“Mr. J. Jacobs (meeting of manufacturers): “Why could not Northern Aus-
tralia be populated chiefly by black labor?... There would then be no need for
labor legislation.”
BIG WESKIT: “You understand your job, I suppose? If he moves
squelch him !"
Senator Higgs had two motions defeated
by the Senate last week —one requesting State
Governors to mind their own business and not
interfere with Australian politics, the other calling
for the appointment of an Australian as Governor-
General.
The exact nature of the row between the
two N.S.W. “ Reform ” leagues seems to be this:
Carruthers wants to be Premier, and is willing to
do as much sweating as he can without losing his
job; Stinson, having no job and not caring whether
Carruthers loses his job or not, wants to do a lot
more sweating.
Jenkins Iscariot’s efforts to get capital for
the 90,000,000-acre Transcontinental railway steal
are getting on. A ‘ ‘ distinguished officer ” who
lately arrived to make inquiries in the interests
(so it was announced) of influential foreign people
has been sentenced to four months for getting
some groceries and things by false pretences.
Mr. Hawken has a worthy proposal before
N.S.W. Legislative Council, to make a bill of sale
over household chattels in a married person’s
home invalid unless husband and wife concur in
giving it. The Bulletin is inclined to welcome
any limitation of credit, and most particularly
any limitation of the power of the money-lending
shark.
Sixty-three years ago, Australia set up its
first milestone on the path to Independence by
refusing any more convicts. The prominent
men of that date are dead, and those of them
remembered are called patriots, but until their
cause was actually assured, they were denounced
as incendiaries and revolutionists. So violent
were those denunciations that Britain, a few years
later, resolved to undo the work of the supposed
handful of traitors ; it reopened the question, and
prepared to send out another shipment of convicts.
The milestone was in position, however, and
Botany Bay refused to turn back.
A chart drawn by Governor L a trobe
between December, ’45 and April, ’46, of the coast
line from Cape Otway to Warrnambool, has been
found in a private safe at the Geelong (Vic.)
Court of Petty Sessions. It is believed that the
late Governor’s diary of his exploratory journey is
also among the old papers in the same building.
The political struggle in S.A. is now
largely a question of a job. Justice Bundey will
probably retire shortly. If Jenkins Iscariot keeps
office, Attorney-General Gordon will be lifted to
the Bench. If the other side succeeds, ex-Attorney
General Homburg will get office again, and will
step thence into a Judgeship. At least that is
the prevalent idea.
“By far the larger number of charges
brought by women against men in the law courts
were false, and the causes which actuated the
charges were either hysteria or malice. He con-
tended that the boys needed protection, and main-
tained that the charges so freely made against
men of seeking to betray girls were exaggerated.”
Attorney-General Wise (N.S.W.) on the Crimes
(Girls' ProtectionJ Bill.
A Government House party —Lady Tenny-
son, Lady Rawson, and others—was brought to
N.S.W. Parliament the other Wednesday night
by Premier See, and it had the pleasure of hearing
an hour’s debate on the promotion of a laborer at
the Fitzroy Dock from 6s. a day to £2 a week.
N.S.W. Parliament hasn’t passed an Act this
session, but it has had a lot to say about Billjim’s
dirt-money and the sixpence a day “rise” of
Bob jack.
Again the necessity to placate Cohen.
Sydney Telegraph, commenting on the action of
Premier See in appointing the Declining Birth-
rate Commission, asks anxiously:
Is it going to soften the heart of the British money-
lender?
The foreign-trade press can’t discuss a single ques-
tion now without asking, in a scared whisper,
what effect it will have on the Great National
Borrow.
The proposal of the Vic. Women’s Federal
Political Association to run pretty Vida Goldstein
for the Senate should prove interesting. There
seems little doubt that the High Court must
decide that she has a valid right to sit. Whether
the electors will send her to the Senate is another
matter. With the solid women’s vote she would
top the'poll easily, but the stylish little democrat
is far from possessing the undiluted confidence of
Vic. female workers.
At so low an ebb
is trades-unionism in
Bendigo (Vic.) that, in
one mine, only 10 of the
60 miners belong to the
association, and not one
of that 10 dare act as
steward for fear of being
fired out.
“F.C.” ; I begin
to be weary of these
perpetual demands of
the enfranchised female
for “equal rights with
men and equal privi-
leges. ” When I see a
body of women uphold-
ing the honor of their
sex by demanding the
punishment of the evil-
minded female who is
bowled out in a false
charge involving the
honor of a man—then
I will believe in the
genuineness of this de-
mand for “equal rights
and equal privileges.”
The lovely Rodney
(K yab r a m district,
Vic.) Irrigation Trust
has been 17 years in
existence, and yet, out
of 242,626 acres capable
of irrigation, it has so
far only applied water
to 33, Oil acres. Even
on these few acres it only put an average of
three inches of water per acre last year; yet
its channels were never dry. Seemingly the
blessed Rodney financiers are too lazy to water
their land, even after the State has brought the
liquid right up to their doors.
Both Reid and M‘Millan announce em-
phatically that the coming Federal elections will
be fought on the question of discouraging Aus-
tralian industry; for the benefit of the importing
interest. And if he fails this time, Reid says he
will take the Dry Dog by the tail and throw it
over the fence in disgust, and he doesn’t care whom
it drops on.
Sydney City Council street-sweeping,
according to official accounts, has been run on
the lines of Fitzroy Dock ship-repairing.
Unhappy Australia has, as a direct consequence
of its borrowing policy, the evil of State and
municipal maladministration pretty badly. When
it is posterity that has to foot the bill, the
tendency to put old man Bill on to potter
uselessly at 83. a day, and lazy Jim to loaf at the
same rate, is almost irresistible. If the bill for
these luxuries came in every week and had to
be paid by taxpayer or ratepayer, there would
soon be genuine reform in public employment.
When Rep. W. M. Hughes gets on to
Bigjohn Forrest, in the House of Reps., it is like
a thresher tackling a whale. Speaking on the
Defence Bill, Hughes rapped out across the table
to Bigjohn: “Why do you object to this pro-
posal?” “Well, it’s not usual to insert such a
provision.” “Not usual? Oh, that is fatal.
How unfortunate that we should have proposed
something unusual! It is not also ” (quoting one
of John’s pet phrases back at him with malevo-
lence) “it is not also contrary to the genius of the
British people, I trust.” Then Bigjohn collapsed
and fell to writing despatches to the Colonial
Secretary with an air of studied abstraction.
THE AGITATED JENKINS FEMALE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA (to the other States): “ Here! stop drinking
my river.”
In one sense there is certainly good
ground to complain of the new Federal electoral
boundaries in Victoria, N.S.W., and Queensland,
for the discrepancies between the population of
various electorates is ridiculous. All the same, it
is a pity that it should have been Minister Bill
Lyne who proposed that the new scheme should
be rejected. Nothing that can possibly raise a
suspicion of log-rolling should be left anywhere
near Minister Bill Lyne.
The Iceberg begins to make himself right
with Kyabrani for the coming Victorian elections
by a large sacking of public servants. There
is to be no Black Wednesday business, everything
will be done gradually and quietly—and by-and-
bye the general service will be reduced to tile
same disorganisation and incompetence that Bent
has achieved in the railways. But the ’Pootra
will be shown a temporary saving of a few
thousands and will be satisfied.
For over a year the anti-Federal party in
Australia has been complaining of the iniquity of
the Australian Government in not paying for the
properties taken over by the Commonwealth.
And yet, to this day, Treasurer Turner can’t even
get from the lagging State Governments a state-
ment of their claims on this account. For much
over a year, Turner has patiently nagged at them
to send in their bills, and the latest news is that
the N.S.W. claim is nearly ready, and the Tas-
manian one will be available in “about six
weeks.”
Sydney Telegraph describes the present
Canadian Cabinet policy of giving away land
wholesale as the “broad and breezy administra-
tion of the Laurier Government,” and urges us to
be breezy also. But we are breezy. Jenkins
Iscariot is wildly offering 90,000,000 acres for
nothing, which is surely breezy enough. Trouble
is that the land is so poor that, so far, only one
person seems to have even come to look at it, and
he has been put in gaol for getting groceries under
false pretences. What’s the good of being breezy
if it won’t rain ?
Heavens, and here we thought Seddon
was leading the world because he was putting
Maoriland into the retail butchering, whereas
France has just opened a shop at the corner of
the Rue Fayart and the des
Italiens for the sale of goods made at State
factories at Sevres, Gobelin, &c. In fact,
pretty well every “ mad socialistic experi-
ment ” that we at last screw up enough
courage to try, turns out to have been run-
ning for years in some old-established country
where it hasn’t ruined anybody.
The Jenkins Government (S.A.) nearly,
came to grief the other day, as the Opposition 1
managed to capture 20 votes out of a House of
and the Speaker. One more vote was needed toi
constitute an absolute majority against Jenkins,''
and Livingstone, who sits for a South-eastern i
district and cares more for horses than politics,
was reported to be very wobbly. However, in
the end, the Government whip got him fixed, and
the crisis for the time being was off.
Temporary alleged Senator Robert Reid
announced at a recent entertainment that he
would set his face against extravagance in the
Federal Parliament. Reid seems to be the last
man who should talk like that. The average man
costs about 7s. a year in taxation to cover all
Federal expenses, defence included. Robert
Reid’s firm did its best to cost about £3OOO in
expenses, and it wasn’t the firm’s fault that its
great struggle to create Federal extravagance
didn’t come off.
While Kingston’s Customs administration
fell with great weight on the swindling importers,
it had the effect also, in Melbourne, of stopping
the wholesale pilfering front ships and warehouses,
which the merchants themselves were quite unable
to cope with. But while the importer raged like
a bull of Bashan because “respectable merchants”
were dragged to the police court, he had nothing
but commendation for the sturdy, honest adminis-
tration that dragged the dishonest lumper or
carter to the same court.
Malcolm M‘Eacharn, himself a ship-owner,
gave the House of Reps, some figures the other
night showing the need that the Australian
shipping industry has for protection against
foreign competition. The Australian ship-owner
pays his seamen £6 10s a month, as against £4 paid
by the Orient Co. and £2 17s. by the German Co.
The competition of the regular mail boats alone
takes away about £125,000 a year of Australian
trade; the “tramps” are responsible probably
for a much greater leakage.
Inter-State conference of manufacturers,
now sitting, if it has any sense, will plump
solidly for Federal control of all industrial
legislation. At present the employer who is
compelled by law in N.S.W., and one or two
other States, to observe something like fair wage
conditions is always liable to the injurious com-
petition of a sweating rival in, say, Tasmania,
where there is, so far, no industrial legislation.
The logical corollary of inter-State freetrade is
Commonwealth control of all labor laws.
A weird combination
has been set on its feet in
Brisbane —a league with the
admirable object of barrack-
ing for an Australian navy,
manned by Australians, for
service in Australian waters.
John Cameron, “Pompom”
Forrest, A. J. Carter, and
.all the toughest Tories are
on the committee; . and so
are Labor-leader Browne and
others of that color. Just
how long the league thus
constituted will last isn’t
clear ; in some cases, judging
by expressions used, it looks
as though the leaguers had
got on to the Australian
national side this time be-
cause the hated Federal
Government is on the other
side.
Premier Barton’s administration of the
Immigration Restriction Act is rapidly reducing
that measure to contempt. Eve.y time any
objection is raised against the landing of labor
under contract Australia’s Nobbled Son detains
the men a few days, and then allows them to land
on some flimsy pretext or another. The three
German carpenters, who were proved to have been
imported under contract, have now been allowed
to land on the ground that they are specialists.
As a matter of fact, there is reason to believe that
there are scores of better qualified men available
in Australia. Premier Barton has made so many
excuses for evading the Act that it is now “up to
him ” to make a few. for carrying it into effect.
Though Bent has left, the Victorian rail-
ways his alleged policy seems to be still the order
of t':e day—the policy of robbing Lazarus to give
to Dives. On one and the same day last week
announcements were made that (1) redemption of
the promissory notes given for the carriage of
starving stock was to be extended for three
months lest hardship be inflicted on certain land-
owners ; and (2) that in future goods guards were
to do certain work formerly done by clerks; rents
for gatekeepers’ houses, linemen’s cottages, &c.,
were to be | aid in advance; and relieving officers
were to be dispensed with in connection with the
time-off-for-overtime swindle— i.e., when time off
is given to an employee to make up for overtime
worked without pay, the other employees at the
station will have to do his work among them.
The Melbourne Board of Fitzgibbon
promptly compels private owners to sewer their
houses, even if they have to do it on time pay.
ment; but it can only protest
at the Government’s delay in
sewering public buildings.
Latest complaint merely eli-
cited the stodgy answer that
“this Government cannot
afford to do so.” The
Irvine Government
cannot afford to do
anything even to
keep clean.
REJECTED.
“Mr. Barton has stated that, he docs not intend to take
a seat on the Bench of the High Ceur.”
AUSTRALIA: “ You'd better take it, Toby.”
TIRED TOBY: “No, don't disturb me; I'm busy
taking leaning exercise."
Latest declaration of N.S.W. Opposition
leader Joseph is that his followers “should not:
make a fetish of reduction of members.” Joseph
does not propose to make a fetish of anything but
office ; on all other points he is virtuous, but not
bigotedly virtuous. He’s the sort of Joseph that
would have made an appointment with Mrs.
Potiphar next week, while he considered.whether
he might not be unduly blown out with vanity if
he resisted her, and whether he ought hot to fall
so that he might be humble afterwards.
The Lewis Government (Tasmania), when,
in office, proposed the abolition of the Legislative
Council, but the old gentlemen refuse to be
snuffed out just yet, though the President is 88
years old and the Chairman of Committees 83.
Recently a fire was discovered in the Council end
of Parliament House, and a few lunatics thought
some local Guv Fawkes was trying to burn the-
old men out. Inquiry, however, showed that ex-
Premier Lewis hadn’t been seen about with a tin
of kerosene or other suspicious substance.
Premier Irvine, previous to unburdening
his cold soul to his constituents at Nhill,.
is to be presented with a silver salver,
price £5O, in recognition of his “ statesmanlike ’**
treatment of the Railway Strike.
When Irvine conies to hand at Nhill
He’ll get a reception hearty ;
The local Tories loud and shrill,
Approving his Coercion Bill,
Will whoop for their Tory party,
And bear a charger to Saint John
Inscribed with suitable “ guyver” ;
And, if they could, they’d place thereon
The head of an engine-driver.
Mr. Griffith, M.P., has on the business
paper of the N.S.W. Assembly a motion protest-
ing against the action of the Transvaal mine-
owners in swamping S’Afriea with Chines®
labor. Westralian Parliament has received
favorably a similar motion, and M.L. Premier
Seddon has stated publicly, in effect, that if
he had known that S’Africa was to be con-
quered for the Chinese Empire no contingent®
would have gone from his island. Australasia i&
beginning to be wise after the event—which is &
poor sort of wisdom.
WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies ; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day. the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, in small box, write our name and address
plainly on package, and send by registered post,
and we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia. Ltd., Broken Hill,
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at London.) BROKEN HILL.
N.B.—We sell loot. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double or
single) at 75 - per in Australia.
<3-0 XO HELL-
MiOIjANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
2fe'«
Bought, Sold& Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO-
-88 KING ST., SYDNEY
SPECTACLES
-—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
B.y its use you can Test y nr own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write ior it 10—
H. A* BARRACLOUGH* Optician,
385 C*orge-Bt., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).


THE CALLAGHAN,
BOOT
For
Men
In French Calf,, sent direct,
DUTY and POST FREE,
FOR
24/6
M
?
All the STYLE
All the FIT
All the ELEGANCE
All the WEAR
We CAN put
18 put
INTO THE CALLAGHAN BOOT.
Please Read
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have much pleasure in acknowledging receipt of the pair of Boots, and consider
they are the most comfortable and perfect fit I have enjoyed for 20 years. You can send me another
pair, with a little les3 breadth of welt than the last, and send me a dozen pair of kangaroo laces.
“ W.G.S.R., Yelvertoft, North Queensland.”
In giving the size No. Just say whether you want the fulle.it fitting of your size or otherwise.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„ Sydney.
TUBERCULOSIS OP THE KNEE
SIX YEARS’ STANDING
CURED BY
VITADATIO
u tm
28 Park-street, Abbotsford, Sept. 10,190&
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—l have great pleasure in writing to inform
you what your wonderful medicine VITADATIO has
done for me. Seven years ago I had a bad attack of
Typhoid Fever, from which I recovered, but about two
months afterwards my right knee began to swell in an
alarming manner. I was taken from one doctor to another
without obtaining any relief. It gradually got worse. I
became an in-patient of one of the leading institutions
in Melbourne, but after three months’ treatment I was
worse than ever, and the doctor told my parents that
unless I was taken out my lungs would go as well. I
was then taken to another doctor, who told me that the
knee joint would have to be removed altogether. He
sent me into the hospital; consultation was held, and
the operation was performed. Several more operations
followed, but the wounds would not heal; the discharge
coming from them was something terrible. I was then
discharged as relieved, but two years later was again
admitted, and another operation performed, but without
any relief. My knee by this time was one mass of
corruption, which ran down my leg in a stream, and the
stench was terrible. I began to give up all hope of
recovery. Amputation of my leg was the only thing
left, but in my weak state I knew I would never survive.
I had heard a lot of talk about VITADATIO, so I told my
mother one day that I would like to give it a trial, which
I did. People laughed at the idea of it curing me, and
said I was a fool for taking it, but I persevered, and after
the sixth bottle my leg began to get better. I still kept
on, and now I am thankful to say that through VITA-
DATIO, I am now,-after six years of suffering, completely
cured of the .disease,. “Tuberculosis of the Knee.” I
shall be very, gjad to give anyone information concerning
my case, and to show them the wonderful cure VITA-
DATIO has worked.' You may use this in any way you
think fit. I remain yours truly,
(Signed) HERBERT WEAVER.
I have much pleasure in certifying to the truth of my
son Herbert’s statement, for it has cured him when all
else failed. It is a grand medicine, and has done a great
things for us.
JOSEPH WEAVER.
I .can confirm the truth of the above testimonial.
Herbert Weaver was in my employ, and left to go into
the hospital for the operation.
; T. R. WILDE.
Henry-street, Abbotsford.
===== ■ : ' c
For further particulars,
IS. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N, t
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney, I
Sole Agents N.S.W.
•v-••• AH Chemists and Storekeepers.
a
it
ii
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IHPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
IT’S
UNSIGHTLY
OOHV
USE.
THAT
THE ELECTRICON
RESTORES LOST HEARING.
A New Scientific Discovery, worn for two or three hour*
°*uy, anyone can wear it. Book that tells all Posted Free.]
L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter St., Sydney
WE MAKE
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
ALL LIMBS WE MAKE ARE FITTED WITH
THE CELEBRATED “ MARKS ” AMERICAN
PATENT RUBBER FEET OR HANDS.
SKILLED WORKMEN ARE EMPLOYED,
AND FIT, COMFORT AND WORKMANSHIP
ARE GUARANTEED.
Send for Free Book about Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter-st.), Sydney.
Also at Melbourne.
A STANDARD OF PROTECTION.
Garment that is sent out from my Store, and I mean
every word it contains:
No. 9869.
CHECK.
Dept. I.
If the bargain is not satisfactory return the clothes
within ten days and you shall have your money.
If they do not wear well I shall be glad to pay for the
loss at any time. • .
The prices the same to everybody and as low as it is
possible to sell such clothihg for ; and the qualitv
_ is as represented.
This Check identifies the it!
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
CHARLES GILBERT,
Suppose you give me a Trial on these Terms.
New Spring Samples and Self-fleasurement Forms
mailed upon request.
“Steele Rudd’s” second book, “OOR New
Selection ! -will be ready before Christmas.
mustrations the b °° k ’ lf possible ’ witl * man y
One ounce of Sunlight Soap
is worth more than two
ounces of common soap.
Sunlight
SOHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
3 of the World’s Best
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch —as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE— N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— Hedley Button.
HARDY BROTHERS,
VICE‘REQAL
JEWELLERS.
13 Hunter St., Sydney,
ip 118 Queen St., Brisbane
Goods forwarded without Delay or Trouble to the Purchaser
t) all Paris of the Commonwealth. ■mn—r
Diamond Rings.
Our Stock of Diamond and Fancy Gem Rings
is the Largest and Choicest in Australia.
6-Stone Diamond Bings
from £lO to £l6O.
3-Stone Diamond Bings
from £8 to £l2O.
FANCY DIAMOND RINGS IN
THE LATEST DESIGNS.
m
m,
l:
m i
■ -v
1
&& > 'V
PD
CORSETS
■AAAAAAAAJ
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
■each -pairbears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark”on band inside, as above.
FOE P.D. CORSETS
IN ALL THE BEST SHAPES, AND ALL
•Regular Sizes, send to
Finney, Isles & Co., Brisbane.
At the same time ask for samples of aa.y Dra pury and Clcthing Goods you may require : also for
copy of their General Catalogue and ilPsisbiqri Book, and satisfy yourselves that—
“AFTER ALL, YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEY'S!”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS^
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. 6d.
. __ From all Bookseller *, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd. y 2l\l George-st., Sydney, Australia


“ Ne’er-do-well ” on a damp topic ;
Please grant me space to protest on behalf of a very
industrious, hardworking body of men, who have been
maligned by J.F.D. (B. 16/7/’08)~I mean the spectacled
beer-drinkers. “ Oan’t drink beer worth a hang,” can’t
they? As well say a man with tan boots can’t eat tripe.
The best long-distance beer-drinker I ever saw in my life—
and I have had much experience in this and other
countries—was a spectacled man. His favorite drink was
bottled English beer, and it never seemed to have any
effect on him. I saw him one morning before breakfast
discussing his second bottle and looking as fresh as paint.
The landlord took me outside and showed me 24 bottles
which my friend and two mates had emptied the night
before, and they did not commence till after nine o’clock
—Heaven knows what they had had before that. The land-
lord also told me the one with the blinkers had had by
far the lion’s share, and while his mates did not show up
for a day or two he did not seem a bit the worse.
Spectacled men can’t drink beer! What about the
German students? Ninety-five per cent, of them are
spectacled, and the German who can’t drink beer is dead.
I wear glasses myself, and I’ll drink “ J.F.D.” or his
friend for a pair of new spectacles any day they happen
to be in Brisbane.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
is a cure for severe colds, persistent coughs, and
a preventive of pneumonia. It is the mothers’
favourite for whooping cough. It always cures,
and cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
“J.F.D.”: These religious sects are
mostly fools. Noticed a placard outside the
Wesley Hall in Regent-street, Sydney, lately,
notifying that Missionary Burns from Fiji would
speak on “The failure of the Roman in the
Mission field.” Now Burns is a chump to go and
point out Father Fogarty’s defects, for Fogarty
might rectify them. To leave him in his ignorance
and say nothing should be Burns’ plan. Does
Mark Foy ever lecture on why the adjacent
draper doesn’t prosper, and thereby let him into
the secret of how to be a successful draper and
take Foy’s business? Not much ! If Burns doesn’t
tell the real reason of Fogarty’s alleged non-
success he is not telling the truth. If he tells the
real reason then he is explaining to Fogarty how
to damage Burns’s business and compete more
successfully with Burns’s soul-emporium. This
utter lack of horse sense makes me mad. Whether
a man is in the soul trade or the ironmongery
trade he should have some business ideas.
COON - COON - COON,
I’YE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled,lt’s the Man behind the
Gun, S W eet Ivy May Jerry Co,
MelindoLoo,Sometimes, When the
Harvest Days are Over, also Two
Hundred other Orivina ICoon and
Love Sont?s. All theLATEST.HITS.
Posted for ONE SHILLING,
anywhere. Stamps or Postal Note.
B.P. C0., 80x 404, G.P.O.,Sydney
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
mm
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
C$v
$
BILLS
discounted.
3XT.S.-W.
d)ont deplete j|.|i|. (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7Q.
f SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
‘—TUB—.
Colonial Mutual laife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burks, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.0.; Bruchs Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305— assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 10 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
R,, ad.y ilty * st ‘": ... ji350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
W LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. •• -• ..£457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland . Agents and Correspondent$
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jompy~
® (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
■DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Jt> CoDDer Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For P tariff, ’apply to GEO V. S DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office 64 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
OCE AIM
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Hire 3tors—-Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, /turns’
Rrie-ht & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (.Burns,
PhUp & Co. Ltd.). Adelaide: L A J™ Esq.
UK. 1 SbaT’K.- S; A »a/w:
IUUr. ’ J.J.ALLEN.Gene^Mana^f-Aj.^a
Shipping.
IV. 13. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 16th SEPTEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER I.OHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London•
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY BERVICE.
MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
SOPHOCLES
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Sept. 4
Noon, Sept. 25
Noon, Oct. 9
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
t £55 . £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal £3l XOs .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 6 Beaconsfleld Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
•L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. GbYIOL A. IjIKTE,
T "W O Gr R A.3NTO 3ES X CXTRSIO KT S.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland Bay Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur ot the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MOHTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ~ . • £2,500.000^
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W„ C. lETjDIRIIDGKE & CO-,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, .108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Reiutt,
CRAIG & A ITKEIN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAM PS.
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania,6d,6United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d ; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 345 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
EPILEPSY
IS
CURABLE
TRENCH'S
REMEDY
Immedi ate
Relief.
Permanent
Cure.
Valuable
Pamphlet
Posted Free
THE UNION M’F’G & AGENCY CO. g
359-36 1 Collins St, Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no m- tter of
how long standing. Are th ■ same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfotable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Cheapest Route to America
and Europe via Brisbane
or New Zealand.
FARES TO LONDON-
SALOON £55 to £66.
2nd SALOON ... £35 to £4O.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Oct. 5. Nov. 2. Nov. 30.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for HoteSs, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, Is. 6d. From all Bookselleis, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS!
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, August 21, at 5 p.m.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, August 29.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, August 22.
S.S. Innamincka, August 29.
S.S. Gabo, September 5.
Beat and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subjeot to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p.
AND COMPANY’S
V^B ROYAL MAIL BTEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
VICTORIA
HIMALAYA
INDIA
ROME
ARCADIA
Commander.
6527 R. L. Haddock, R.N.R.
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R.
’9ll F. W. Vibert, R.N.R.
5545 R. A. Peters
.. 0003 F. C. A. Lyon, R.N.R.
Sydney,
Noon.
Aug. 22
Sept. 6
Sept. 19
Oct. 3
Oct. 17
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Porta
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
/
A. GORDON WESCIIE,
63 Pitt-street, Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Governmeno, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistant
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BT THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
yia QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN,
Steamer.
Tns
AUSTRALIAN
EMPIRE
EASTERN
AUSTRALIAN
Commander.
Leave Sydney.
3000 W. G. McArthur.. September 2
4500 P. T. Helms .. September
3600 Winthrop Ellis .. October
3000 W. G. McArthur.. November
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe .via, Canada,
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT * 00.,
DR. J. SOLUS BROWNE’S
fNLORODVNE
Steal
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOMOHITIS,
BIAEKHCEA, *«•. beMS
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
ypK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I nftver traw
without it, and its general applicability to tne
relief of a large number of # simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.’
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
'HE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi*
“■ Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention. >
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


When Wattles Bloom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When wattles bloom the woods are splashed with
gold,
The drowsy dells are rich with rare perfume,
The tangled wreaths of heather-bells unfold,
When wattles bloom.
And Springtide’s sunshine pours its fitful splendor
In shifting scenes, alternate gleam and gloom,
In cold caprice or warm caresses tender,
When wattles bloom.
And there the Wannon Water swiftly glides
By placid plains or gorges grey as doom,
White foam-flakes floating on its silver tides,
When wattles bloom.
Sweet Spring winds slip amid the falling flowers,
And shake the dew-drop from each shining plume,
Fling near and far the drifting diamond showers,
When wattles bloom.
There comes a glamor o’er the forest ways,
A haunting magio in the sweet perfume
Hidden among the fluffy fragrant sprays,
When wattles bloom.
Once in the silent watches of the night
Methought I heard a peal of silver bells
As when tlje magpie’s trill at morning light
Ripples and swells.
And then I heard the fairy musio play,
It seemed a wordless tale of far-off things—
Faint echoes of the wild bush and its way ;
The stir of wings.
The voice of tinkling waters, call Of birds,
The whisper of the leaflet to the flowers,
The hum of wild bees mingled in the words,
Thro’ sunny hours.
Then came a mist of longing o’er my heart:
A yearning for the bounding distant ranges,
The dear blue ranges, where swift rivers start,
Beyond all passing changes.
And oh ! for something sweeter too than this :
The steep red road beyond the flashing river;
One glimpse of love, one gateway into bliss,
Now lost for ever.
Faded the sounds, perchance it was a dream.
Only the moonlight lingered in the room,
Rich yellows still were glowing in its gleam
Like wattle bloom.
When wattles bloom the airs are sweet with Spring.
Far off the misty, purple mountains loom,
The woodlands with the wild birds’ echoes ring—
When wattles bloom.
To fern-trees tall clematis stars ate clinging,
Soft mosses hold an earthy, strange perfume ;
The river has a sweeter song for singing,
When wattles bloom.
O, small crushed spray, soft golden now no longer,
Your fragrance turned my restless thought to
gloom.
. Why wake again the wistful old heart hunger
When wattles bloom ?
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES-
MORRIS’S^
,¥l Umperial
I£VC ❖
©intment
' Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/ _ ,
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb.
“imperial."
ohemists & stores^
James Martin & Co.
161 CLARENCE ST.
> Near King St*
SYDNEY
C/
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “ No. 66
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OP CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MARTIKT’S
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENTS NOTICE.
Strongr, Safe, Cheap, Economical.
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
£3T Send for Illustrated Descriptive Circular.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
/tsr For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
ggg- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Hold bv all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACK AY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Georga
w J Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
o 2
All Ohkmists.
Washington H. Soul & Co.<
Pitt-Btreet, Sydney.
RHEUMATISM.
GREAT
‘KILLRHEU’
GOES TO THE
Seat of the Disease and
Drives All Uric Acid from
the Blood.
All Chemists, 2/6 and 4/6 per bottle*
Alderman J. Campbell ri‘Dougall’s
Testimony*
“ Campbell Lodge, Sydney,
“ October 2, 1902.
“ Messrs. Fisher and Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —For many years I could get no
relief from frightful RHEUMATIC PAINS.
Lately my case had become very serious, the
system was altogether out of gear, until I had
the good fortune to take your KILLRHEU,
and I must say it worked wonders, the change is-
most remarkable. lam quite a different man. I
am now full of ENERGY and BRIGHTNESS.
“Killrheu must be one of the greatest
BLOOD PURIFIERS in the world, for it takes
away all the pain. You are at liberty to use this.
“And oblige youra, etc.,
“J. C. M'DOUGALL.”
(JR
A NIGHT ATTACK.
During the daytime Rheumatics are bad
enough, but at night time there is nothing
worse.
Melbourne Agents—
Messrs. Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.
Duerdin & Sanisbury.
it
11
Manufacturing Chemists,
FISHER & GO.,
377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Nearly Opp. G.P. Office.
The Pear of a Row.
Many sins, of omission and commission, by the
Australian Government are avowedly due, not to
the natural wickedness but to the unnatural weak-
ness of the Cabinet Ministers and their fear to
make trouble with the States. “ Yes, that’s right,
but look at the awful row it might cause with this
Or that State Government,” is quite a common-
place argument with the Federal politician. Now,
it cannot -be too plainly pointed out that the
sooner there is an awful row between the Federa-
tion and the States, or any one of them—in some
matter in which the Federation is in the
right, constitutionally and equitably —the better
for the union and for the citizens of the
Comnpnwealth. Fear of the State Govern-
ments is the beginning of folly in the Australian
politician, and will, if indulged, lead him in time
to contempt. The Federation has been entrusted
with certain duties ; but for the persistent clamor
of a small, unpatriotic, foreigner-favoring, calico-
selling-crowd in N.S.W., aided by unscrupulous
press advocacy, it would have been given greater
powers. The popular terideucy now is to extend
its scope as quickly as possible. But that ten-
dency does not find expression through the politi-
cians feft in the State Legislatures. _ They are
mostly filled with a sour, unreasoning Jealousy of
the paramount Parliament, or with a hatred of it
which ;has reason enough—of a bad sort. The
Jenkins creature of South Australia is a speci-
men of the jealous, nagging, embittered old
womanof State politics; Philp and Irvine of those
whose hostility is given an edge by the fact that
the Federation crosses their disreputable aims.
Thus, whilst the people of Australia are with the
Federation,- the State Governments, as a rule, are
not. ’They progress from an attitude Of armed
neutrality to one of savage hostility. And the
sooner Idie Australian Government teaches them a
sharp lesson the better. The first j ust opportunity
that a courageous and far-seeing Federal Premier
got, he would bring one of the impudent, hostile
State Governments up with a sharp turn. There
would be a row, of course; but it would be a
necessary and valuable row, which could have but
ome result, the strengthening of the Federation to
the greater glory and power of the people of Aus-
tralia. To avoid rows when there is nothing to
be got out of them is right; to avoid a row, which
promises a benefit as the prize of victory, but the
issue of which is uncertain, would commend itself
to some as wise policy. But there is nothing but
foolishness and cowardice in running away when
•a row is certain to end in a victory and certain to
have an altogether beneficial result.
“Alec Zander ” • Re the “weird expec-
tancy ”of Australia. Walking along Devonshire-
rst’reet, Sydney, the other night, met hand ambu-
lance coming along with usual following of small
boys, etc. As it passed, heard one youth : “ Wot
are yer follerin’ for, Bluey ? There ain’t nothink
in it.” “Nothin’ in it,” said Bluey, “an’ me
follerin.’ the blanky thing four blanky blocks.
Strike, me pink ! ”—and he stopped and s P»t on
•the footpath in disgust, contrary to the municipal
“GunX”: Conning over list of youngsters
* , STiivia Park CM L.) discovered twin yearlings
by Saton Delaval-La ( dy Moth, and have ascerta.ned
that both are remarkably strong and health}^
between Mao'rU^nd^an^Sydn^m^bropofi^i^S-hanSe^
ioo a K taa^uabT t But m his a fi d fty K yearB ffagifity!
stamina and unselfishness—in a footballer—are mar-
vdffius Running like a laborer with heavy, muddied
boots handling the ball more awkwardly than a school-
boy, how he gets there, and accomplishes as much as he
does, is something to ponder on M’Minn suggests an
attenuated coffin-lid draped black, whose No. 16 boot
gives object lessons in punting. The dailies report he
gathers in the ball.’’ He doesn’t; it goes straight to him
as the fly goes to the treacle tin, and stays there, until he
touches down a “ try” or the umpire blows the whisUe
for a “ scrum ” Has a playful little way of helping him-
self up on a fallen foe V after a spill that’s humorous.
On a recent Saturday a “ blue ” was on all fours; his was a
sitting posture. Placing his hands upon the h ues
back, it sagged under his weight. The blue was
annoyed, and attempted to strike M’Mmn, whose head
soared skywards, but the distance was too great, the
blow landing on the tall one’s elbow. “He s an india-
rubber missile that runs,” remarked someone behind me,
of Asher. He crashes into an opponent, falls over him-
self, always up first; the harder he’s thrown the quicker
he bounces up, scraping and scratching for the ball;
successful, he streaks for the line, never diverting,
always straight. If an opponent tries to stop him he
bull-rushes him—with injurious results for the other—or
jumps clean over him in his desperate desire to score a
*’ try."
try i t 4 *
Vic. Junior Football Association lately took
steps for protecting its umpires by disqualifying the
Northcote ground, “owing to rough treatment meted
out to visiting teams by local barrackers, over whom the
Northcote F.O. has no control.” So the local larrikin
will now have to walk a mile or two if he wants to clod
ail umpire. *
A Taranaki (M.L.) cookie bought a pocket-
edition stallion standing ten hands high. He had barely
got the cumbersome brute home when it started a boxing
contest with him, and he is now in dock for repairs,
suffering from fractured ribs and sundry bruises. The
animal formerly belonged to the circus ring.
* * * ♦
“ War-E ” : The leading citizen of a Riverina
township is a Chow. He is also a shining light of
Weslevism, and a big punter on the racecourse. Find-
ing that Wesleyism wasn’t a religion that seemed to help
in the backing of winners, he once went a special trip to
Sydney to consult the Joss of his forefathers as to
which horses he should back in two races. The Joss
selected two, and the yellow punter returned home and
confided the news to some white friends, after having
got his own money on. And then an alleged Christian
white town fell over itself to back the tip of a blastiferous
heathen idol--and had the joy of seeing both horses fall
down at the start. If they had won, that town would
have joined the church of Confucius in a bodv.
* • • •
Racing in the torrid North possesses various
attractions peculiarly its own. On one occasion, a
wrathful horseowner wrote in heated strain to the com-
mittee of the North Queensland Racing Association
declaring that, at a small meeting, although his nag got
home 40vds. ahead of the second horse, the judge
awarded the race to the other quadruped. _ Worse still,
when he politely remonstrated with the judge on his
error, that official kicked him violently, for which
outrage he demanded redress. The meeting being of
the brand known as “unregistered,” the shocked com-
mittee could afford no relief beyond a private suggesion
that the plaintiff should wear armour next time.
• • • *
Statement that jockey Jenkins rode 85 winners
in M L last season recalls that he was up on 67 the year
before ; also that, when in Sydney with Advance a few
years ago, know-alls wouldn t stand him as a rider. The
same class of people voted ’Murkan crack jokey Ames
below requirements simply because he didn’t act as they
were accustomed to see jockeys do.
• • * *
Possible that Australian heavy-weight champion
pug, Billy M’Oall, may not fight again for some time, as
his shoulder, put out in match with Jim Scanlan, is
getting right very slowly indeed. If Felix beats Scanlan
in then coming‘battle, M’Oall, provided his slogging-
machine is in good order, will bitch on to him, and, fail-
ing that there’s a likelihood of M’Call and Dan Oreedon
fighting in November next for the championship and
£750, made up of a £350 purse and a £4OO side bet.
“ X.” : Have often seen it written, and heard it
said that Jim Corbett was champion pugilist of the world,
and then Fitzsimmons by defeating Corbett. Neither
had a rio-ht to the honor when late Peter Jackson was in
the game, for Corbett never would face him after they
fought that 60 rounds draw, and Fitzsimmons, in all his
challenges, barred Jackson, and, subsequent to his defeat
of Corbett, drew the color line, alleging that as a
naturalised American he had to do so.
* * * *
Galloping-machine, Ard Patrick, England’s
first-flighter, has quite a number of blood relations in
ML. He belongs to No. 5 family from which sprang
Florence Macarthy, dam of Tirailleur, Tiraillerie, and
others.
• • * *
The great Rugby lunacy exists in an aggra-
vated form in the Northern M.L. goldfields. Besides the
multifarious games bearing the hall-mark of officialdom,
pub boarders pit themselves against rival beer halls;
ditto the lean and hungry-looking denizens of hash
houses; while the remainder of the inhabitants fre-
quently get afflicted by the same dog bite, and spend
much Valuable time kicking a piece of saddlery and
asphyxiating each other in abbreviated garments.- Loss
of an important union tussle is a very grave matter, the
players being subjected to temporary social ostracism.
When the cracks of Wai hi and Thames met t’other day,
the defeated team was received at the outskirts of its
town on returning bv a largo- crowd of people, who
reverently bared their heads. It was a solemn spectacle.
Flags flew at half-mast everywhere, and as the drag
proceeded down the street everyone uncovered, and
stood as though uttering a prayer for the dead. The bar
of the pub the players stopped at was draped in deep
black, and after being served with pewters by a mournful
miss whose face bore the marks of tears, the discomfited
leather warriors slunk home by the back way and hid
themselves out of sight.
“Spring ” : During the vigorous and game pre-
liminary between Gray and O’Neill at the National on Ist
August, a friend of mine got so excited that he swallowed
a three-parts smoked cigar. He’s sick now. What’s the
best thing to do in such a case ? [Give it up I —Ed. B.]
* * * *
One of the manifold troubles of the much-
cursed handicapper is to accurately gauge how much a
horse has “in hand” when he wins “comfortably.” A
Maoriland ’chaser lately won a two miles and a distance
event in medium time. Put up a stone on the second
try, over the same course, he fell, but eventually won in
18secs. less time than on the first occasion.
*** * •
What an infliction upon horse-owners is the
unwritten law which requires them to celebrate a big
success by inviting the members of a betting club or
clubs to “take a glass of wine ” ! Baubled bookies and
other lounging habitues of the clubs seem, nowadays, to
levy a champagne tax upon every owner who has had the
luck to pull off an important stake once in a way, and
whilst they rollup to the function with their tongues
hanging out, the provider of the free drinks is usually
conspicuous by his absence. Somebody proposes the
health of the victimised absentee and calls him a fine
sportsman, somebody else returns thanks on his behalf,
and the only result of the proceedings that interests him
is the payment of the bill for the fizz. The inevitable
celebration of Marmont’s successes is a case in point.
Mr. M’Arthur, the owner of Marmont, doesn’t bet ; he is
just a “ sport ’’ for sport’s sake, which the Isaac Moseses
and Victorian clubmen in general certainly are not.
Nevertheless, M’Arthur, constrained by rule of custom,
has to invite a motley gathering to swill a good few
quarts of costly liquor at his expense.
• • * *
“J.E.W.” : The Chow has taken on a fresh
industry in Groperopolis. Starting in a £3O. Sheffield
Handicap recently, a yellow streak of humanity called
G. Hong Lip showed a yellow (or dirty brown) pair of legs
and, occasionally, an immobile phiz to a toiling field of
white peds, who were never able to get within yards, of
him. Hong covered the 120yds. from 16 in llsecs., which
is pretty slick. Curious to note that it was his first appear-
ance aftera month’s retirement, for stiff running. Judging
from appearances, there are plenty of loose-limbed and
bland Johns now toiling in the vegetable and cheap furni-
ture lines fit Perth, and it’s just a possible that Hong Lip’s
triumph will induce some more of them to cut in against
the white runners. Whereupon the promoters will have
to declare for a white Australia.
* * * *
How things change ! The White Cliffs
(N.S.W.) bicycle club-at one time one of the strongest
in the league, with a membership of over 500 —can only
muster 84 members. Drought, wild-cat-, and kindred
complaints are responsible for the depopulation of mining
centres, and the athlete and cyclist, just the same as
everyone else, must go.
• • • *
“ X.” : Be racehorse nomenclature. Maoriland
holds the record for awkward names. Gee-gees in that
land boast titles such as Hinetapuriki, Nukurau,
Pinetekura, Moetoropuka, Moorianuka, and
about four-score-and-ten equally hideous. The public
that has to wrestle with such conglomerations would
hail with delight a renaissance of plain English titles,
such as Joe, Bobbin, Nugget, &c. Some one in Melbourne
has made a start, and his animal turned up with the
classic label of “ Jones.”
We love the dear old Union Jack,
We love the Motherland,
Our help she will not ever lack,
But by her side we’ll stand ;
In peace or war, what it may be,
No love could e’er be truer,
We’ll build our health from colds so free
On Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Our New Selection, by “ Steele Rudd,” will
be ready in November. Even more humorous
than his first book, with more pictures; Price 6s.
W. and A. K. Johnston, Ltd., the map
publishers, have issued a pamphlet in which it is
stated that during the “glorious reign of Queen
Victoria ” a square mile was added to the British
Empire every eight minutes. That’s good grab-
bing ! Wonder what the people the land belonged
to thought of the “glorious reign ” !
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“ What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus, writes a well-known
medical writer.*
From “ Nym *:
Red-page man (B. 23/7/’O3) says “ Australian book-
paper is still imported ; though it is quite time we began
to make it for ourselves 1” Just so, but which native
woods would be suitable ? The color and texture of Aus-
tralian timber would be an insurmountable drawback
(apart from its scarcity) I think. The only white wood I
know of is that of a scrub shrub, as hard as Irvine's face,
and as crossgrained as Tommy Bent 1 However, it is
about time Australia started to grow some timber, if only
as an asset to show when reckoning-time comes to the
Great Loan Continent. Set the ball a-rolling, for tree-
g rowing takes time; and time is money, and Cohen is
owling for money.
Meanwhile, to fill in time till the trees grow, why
not make our paper out of rags and esparto grass .
New South Wales actually exports great quanti-
ties of rags to Britain to be _ made _ into paper
there, so that raw material is available: and
esparto grass would grow here.
“J.E.W.” prophesies from Perth :
Likely to be some changes in Westralian Cabinet before
long. Premier James is generally credited with designs
on the Chief Justiceship, which present O.J. btone is
not inclined to hold very long. Treasurer Gardiner
lately used the word “ blanky ” to a shocked Auditor-
General, in contrasting unfavorably his Ministerial salary
with the profits of an increasing land business, and his
remarks about the humble blankiness of his official wage
suggest that he is also likely to drop out. The coming
Premier is Hopkins, commonly known as ‘ Bomb. 'V hen
he took office he was densely ignorant of land matters
beyond Boulder City—he was a house agent there once—
but since then his energy and seif-assertiveness have
brought him into prominence, and now there is a general
impression that he is the best Lands Ministe
Westralia ever had. We have been so accustomed to
perfunctory and spiritless varieties of Minister, that a
hustler like Hopkins is a refreshing change. There is no
other likelv Premier on the Ministerial side, and none
certainly in the rag-tag collection of political curiosities
who call themselves the Opposition, and from the leader-
ship of whom the only man of ability amongst them, J. L.
Nanson, recently resigned in disgust. I’heelectionsare
not likely to alter the state of parties much—there s no
encouragement anyway for the voters to get up any
enthusiasm about them—and the continuation of the
present Ministry is a certainty. But Hopkins will be its
Premier, or I am no prophet.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Some of the late Jimmy Tyson’s “ stuff ” is
making glad the heart of Ikey Mo. at Melbourne suburban
meetings. Tyson never thought of himself as a future
benefactor to the "Turf.”
* * * *
Re disquieting news concerning Derby and Oup
favorite Emir. If the alleged wrench of a joint is serious,
trainer Scobie won’t be altogether out of the hunt. But
those who took fifties the two Emirs for Melbourne Derby
and Cup, and all the tens straight out for the big V.R.O.
event, will. Blue ribbon candidates F.J.A., Sweet Nell,
and Hautaurier are in same stable, and, fit and well,
they’ll all three want some beating. Hautaurier hasn’t
yet figured in a race, but, by Haut Brion from Trieste,
he’s well bred enough for anything, and is reported in
full work. F.J.A. is as tough as they make ’em, and
shaped creditably through his first season, while Sweet
Nell did enough last year to justify the belief that she’ll
come on some this time, albeit fillies are rarely Derby
winners.
* * * *
First acceptances on Monday for the Epsom
and. Metrop. saw 37 (one less than last year) of the
original 107 entrants still eligible to go on. M.L. reps.,
Orloff and Cruciform, dropped out, as also did Gameboy,
Strata Florida. Nothos, Tatterdemalion, Independence,
Progredior, St. Ambrose, Kensington, Yanlock, Rockleigh
and Kellner. Strangely enough those (411 yet remaining
in Metrop. are also one less than lastyear’sfirst acceptances.
At one time the list numbered 97. Most prominent of
the scratched are Emir, Cruciform, Abundance, Strata
Florida, Patronage, Patronus, Rapid Pilgrim, Lucknow
and Bright Beauty. Of 105 entrants for A.J.C. Derby
there are only 14 left.
» » * *
The idea of Fitzpatrick, M.L.A., for a Select
Committee of N.S.W. Parliament to investigate tote-
shops, fan-tan dens, &c., didn’t materialise. Things went
smoothly in debate until a member proposed that the
Stock Exchange, bookmakers’ clubs, and various well-to-
do resorts should come under the scope of the Com-
mittee ; then there was a dwindling of members,
and an awful anxiety to fill in time with busi-
ness outside of the House. Eventually the debate
fell to pieces for want of a quorum ; and now
there’s a hurried attempt to change the subject at
the sound of the word “ gambling.” N.S.W. Parliament
certainly branded itself the "bookie’s” friend by the
flood of drivel and the anxiety to avoid a division. Now
things are as they were.
* * * *
Died, Sunday night, cetat 60, Mr. “Ter” Daly,
a prominent member of Sydney Tatts. for about 30 years.
Deceased was a bookmaker for some time, but retired
with a fortune many years ago. At different periods he
owned nags, and was identified with several big betting
coups scored by the late Hon. Jas. White’s stable—
notably the Derby and Cup doubles secured by Martini
Henri and Chester. Death was due to a paralytic stroke.
* * * »
A.J.C. stipendiaries again. Owner White asked
for an inquiry into jockey Bradshaw’s riding of his
Benevenuto at Warwick Farm. Stewards “ severely
cautioned the rider, telling him to be more careful in
future” —which was absurd. If there was something
wrong, a caution didn’t fit the offence the least little bit.
If everything was right there was no need for any severe
caution. Sa-'ie day a nag that had run very much rear-
ward at a couple of immediately prior meetings, easily
accounted for a double, beating good fields on both occa-
sions, but, as usual, the stipendiaries didn’t notice.
* * * *
Performances of P.K. and Sir Leonard in
winning Flying Mile and big Handicap respectively at
Warwick Farm on Saturday were such as to suggest that
their Epsom and Metrop. prospects are exceedingly rosy.
Directly after his success, the former’s price for Epsom
shortened from 100 to 4 to 100 to 8, and both threaten to
get near being first favorites ere the day. On Saturday
P.K. was always in front or thereabouts, and ultimately
had the field at his mercy. P.K. has 7.5 in Epsom and
7.2 in Metrop , while Sir Leonard is burdened with 9.7
and 9st.
* o • •
VoL 16 of J. J. Miller’s Racing Chronicle—it
has been going now for eight years—is published with a
memo, calling attention to the absurd duplications and
multiplications of certain racehorses’ names, which grow-
ing nuisance needs to be promptly “put down” by the
Turf powers that be. Ten Jacks, five Blue Peters, Sham-
rocks, Mysterys and Princesses appear in the Chronicle’s
latest index. Owners, some of them, take no trouble
with the nomenclature of their horses. The only faculty
that seems to be strongly developed in them is the imita-
tive faculty. A few years ago Amberite won the A.J.C
and V.R.C. Derbies, and his popular name ought to have
been held sacred to the original for some time. But to-
day there are three more Amberites in the field : likewise
a Sequence (which isn’t the Sequence), a Cocos, a Wallace,
and a Clean Sweep. Meanwhile, hundreds of distinctive
Australian aboriginal names are overlooked, or not sought
for. Monomeeth, meaning Beauty or Merit; Bullarto—
Big; Parooth—Mouse; Yannathan—Motion;Barroworm —
Magpie; Wonthulong—Favorite; and Narbethong—Lively
are instances of good native names that go begging.
* * * *
“J.A.C.”: Re ethics of pony-racing. A pro-
minent trainer once gave me “ a real good thing.” “ He’s
going for it,” he said, “ for all he’s worth. My brother’s
going to ride him, and my brother wouldn’t ride cronk
for anybody except father." A touching instance of filial
piety,
* * * *
Year ended July brought considerable profit to
A.J.C. coffers, despite increased prizes. Assets include
fixed deposits totalling £22,000. Money given away
reached £35,229, while repairs and improvements cost
£3037, yet an excess of revenue over expenditure, amount-
ing to £5408, is shown. Stated that Randwick race-
course, stands, etc., have entailed an outlay of £80,000.
* * * *
Good tote divs. were the order at Adelaide
R C.’s G.N. ’Chase meet, Saturday. Four events saw
£11 19s., £11 16s., £11 7s., and £22 8s. available for each
pound invested. Money (£2 18s.) paid by Steeple winner
(Isis) was good, seeing that she looked a “ cert.” Moses
and his brother Solomon Jeremiah, would probably have
wanted odds on. Certainly they wouldn’t have laid
more than even money.
• * * *
Queensland nag Lord Monmouth, which beat the
flying Ibex last year at Randwick, has been ruled out for
12 months under the recently-passed Q.T.C. law, giving
the stewards power to review cases of inconsistent run-
ning, and award stakes and race to the second horse.
The case was considered to be extra strong, and the horse
is said to have been anxious to show he obeyed instruc-
tions, but he hadn’t a voice in the proceedings, r
♦ * * *
Clever Sydney trainer Ike Earnshaw discusses
proposal before A.J.C. “ that no two-year-old be allowed
to start in a race before December 1, and that the mini-
mum weight in handicaps be 7st.” : Why should the
weights be raised? During the past 20 years in England
and Australia they have gradually risen to existing stan-
dard, but horses or riders haven’t been improved by
the rise. Even present handicaps are burdensome
where young racers are concerned; struggling under
1 Weighty loads does heaps of harm to 2-year-olds. The
101b. and 141b. penalties in classic events are too crushing
—51b. is enough. Class handicaps are wanted. Occa-
sional taces for nags that have never won £200 would
shut the champions out and give the moderates a chance,
and loads would then be allotted on a lighter scale.
Select Stakes (£500), put on by V.R.C. as opportunity
for good 2-year-olds, defeated its object last year ;the best
—Duke of Grafton (8.8) and Czarevitch (8.)—were beaten,
while Simang (6.12) won. Contention that high weights
provide chances for good horsemen isn’t solid. Such
horsemen are born ; they can’t be made. Young medium-
jockeys are the best; they have more dash and vim than
old ones. Kelso, the Fielders, Delaneys, Goughs and
Gorry are instances. When riding between 5st. and 6st.
they were at their top. Re not allowing two-year-olds in
a race till Dec. 1, Morpeth won in August, good races at
3 years, the Australian Cup at 4 years, and was perfectly
Bound when killed. Ibex and Sir Leonard were trained
for and won early 2-year-old events and, as 5-year-olds
now, are still sound as a bell. Great Scot and Abundance
were trained early. They did well and are yet all right.
Best test of a racehorse is on a racecourse ; if he won’t
stand training let him give way to another that will.
Most successful sires of last season (Wallace and Orzil)
won early 2-year-old races (former annexed a Sydney Cup
and dead-heated in the Champion Race), and have sired
Emir, P.J.A., Kilfera, Bassini and Dumont.
* 4c * *
At the showery Adelaide Grand National meet,
Saturday, tote receipts were £8896 —£1601 less than
same day last year, a decrease of £2404 for two days.
For biglepping event, of adozen starters Isis was favorite
but investments on Convoy were only £40 less. Maroon
went away with a furlong lead but wouldn’t jump.
Oolefire, Leiroo, The Duke, Reindeer, and Burlaway also
mulled things, leaving Isis, Convoy and Belter with the
race among them. Belter's showing was a big surprise
and he finished second to the favorite who won com-
fortably, Convoy third—same position as that nag
occupied last year.
* * * *
Total sum put through Q.T.C. and registered
suburban courses’ totes during past season was £132,205,
as against £168,234 previous year—shortage £36,029.
Falling off is accounted for to some extent by fact that
.year before Brisbane J.C. raced on 46 days, but was only
in evidence half that time last season before cutting the
painter from registered bodies.
» * » *
Tas. Racing Club reports a profit of £772 on
the year’s business. Added money reached £2590.
Twelve clubs are affiliated.
* * * *
Queensland’s list of last season’s turf-winning
owners has Mr. H. Mosman (£1719) at the top, mainly
through Balfour’s successes. Then come Mr. F. Ramsay
(£1325), W. F. Tucker (£1085), and so on.
* * * *
Stated that My Mistake’s win of Caulfield G.N.
’Chase meant dire trouble for double-event Moses. Rats !
The nag was never seriously thought of in a Steeple con-
nection by the betting public, or anyone else for that
matter, till he ran second to Marmont in the first leg of
the double.
* * * *
Thoroughbred 6-year-old English stallion Fiume,
by Hermit from Rinovata, by Wenlock from Traviata, by
Oremorne, reached Sydney last week for Mr. R. H.
Dangar, of Neotsfield. At two years Fiume started nine
times, winning twice, and finishing second once. Follow-
ing year he won thrice in nine attempts, and ran three
seconds. At four years he was fourth to Australian Star
in Oity and Suburban Handicap at Epsom, and, later,
annexed a Welter Handicap at Newmarket.
* * * *
Winner (Gozard) of Q.T.C. Exhibition Handi-
cap, t’other day, ran 11 times unsuccessfully last season.
He is by N.S.W. stallion Gozo.
* * * *
Death is announced from Switzerland of Mr.
E. T. Hooley, for years identified with Australian turf.
He was a top-notch amateur rider contemporary with
Adam Lindsay Gordon. E.T.H. owned and trained
several horses.
* * • •
More than possible that Ballarat trainer J.
Scobie will gather S.A. Derby this season and thus do the
hat trick, for last year he scored with Rienzi, and year
before with Miltiades. This time he has F.J.A. going,
and that nag has a big chance considering the quality of
the opposition.
* * * *
Talked-of possible Derby winner (Czarovitch)
didn’t impress with his display in Show Handicap at
Flemington, Saturday. He was a poor third to Cor-
roboree and Sonica over 6fur., yet last Spring his form
was good and Autumn saw him notch two seconds in
front of those thorough good ones, F.J.A. and Duke of
Grafton. Scottish King’s shaping in Three and Four
Year Old Handicap was promising ; he is by Wallace from
Bonnie Rosette and full brother to Kinglike and Bonnie
Chiel.
Blue Spec (winner of Kalgoorlie <£300 City Han-
dicap, Saturday) only got home once (Rosehill Handicap)
in 18 attempts in and about Sydney last year, though
frequently finishing close up. B.S. annexed the two-year-
old Maiden Stakes at A.J.O. meet in March, 1902.
* * * *
Pitcher, of the Pink ’Un, tells a good Phil May
yarn in his last book. May ran into four good chums
from America, in the Strand. They had divers drinks,
and then May suggested a night at the National Sporting
Club—of which he was a member. Agreed. At the door
May paid four guineas for his guests, but was told that it
was “ the big night—guests five guineas each.” The
artist paid up his 20 guineas like a lamb. Inside, he
made a wager or two to try and get square, and won
£30. This was a trying situation for May ; he was more
than square on the evening, and so proposed a little
supper to work off the tenner. At Romano’s was ordered
a fruit salad—that seemed the best way to melt a tenner
—“ and darn the expense.” The salad was made, a very
Heaven among salads, and keenly enjoyed. “ The bill 1”
“ Yessaire. T’irty-t’ree poundts twelfe. You know you
say hang the expenses.” Again May paid with stoic un-
concern.
• • * •
“D.”: Re the “walking” disease. One
Saturday afternoon was called from Bulletin by the
wife’s exclamation “ Oh, what is this ? ” On gaining the
window saw a ’bus with a band on top going down the
street, boys racing after it, cab after cab of friends of the
“ walkers,” and then a “ walker ” with swinging arms,
desperation in his eyes, and two friends as a bodyguard
to catch him if he fell. Then at intervals boys escorting
other “ walkers,” who looked like corpses, and bringing
up the rear was a swift pie-and-coffee-stall selling refresh-
ment's to the funeral. Notone man among the “walkers "
held himself together, and the way the arms swung
below the knees was quite simian. A fantod, by my
beard ! that is composed of cheering friends, cadaverous
countenances, music, saveloys and coffee.
* * * *
The walking match among Adelaide barmaids
recalls a horrible exhibition of Melbourne in the eighties
when a whitewashed brick structure, dignified by the
name of the “ Hippodrome,” occupied the block where
Her Majesty’s Theatre now stands. Here various athletic
events of the day were contested, and, having run the
gamut of all, the management hit upon a “ six days’ go-
as-you-please for ladies ” to attract the multitude. Con-
trary to expectations the show was genuine and sickening
in consequence. A crowd of unfortunate women, several
of them middle-aged, turned out in shabby darned tights
and patched walking boots to contest the awful event.
Before a mile was turned off they were panting and
bedraggled, and it was only the cheers of encouragement
from their barrackers that kept them going after the first
hour. The said cheers mainly consisted of reflections on
the chastity of the favored competitor and threats of
what would happen to her if she didn’t hurry up to win
beans for the bludger cove who had backed her. At
times a humanitarian supporter of a fair walker would
fill a bucket of water and drench her as she passed. The
elevating show continued for the whole six days, eight
hours being walked a day ; and the prizes having been col-
lected by the barrackers of the lucky ladies, these were
carried off to the hospital or somewhere to die or recover,
having served their purpose in life.
Gov. Chermside of Queensland scored a good
point when he refused to attend a pigeon-slaughter
at Rpekhampton. In his letter he stated he “ would be
very glad to witness any shooting at inanimate objects,
but should the contests be at live birds from traps, he
feels sure that, as he' has never yet been present at such
shooting, the committee will understand his personal
reasons for not desiring to attend.”
* * » *
Compare achievements of M.L. football team
(concluding match was played in Sydney, Wednesday,
this week) with those of last English Rugby team in
Australia four years ago. English team’s greatest
gathering of points was 36 against Bundaberg, and 28 to
N.S.W. Northern Districts nil. Reckoning all the
matches of the tour (excepting one at Melbourne, where
Rugby hasn’t even a look in, and where visitors scored 30
to nil) Britishers totted up 303 points to 90. They engaged
in 21 matches, winning 18 and losing three. M.L. has
already won nine matches and accumulated 244 pomfcs to--
13, with the probability that the final rough will see their
advantage largely added to. Apropos, the Maori land
team which defeated Australia last Saturday included 10
North Island men, and no less than seven of them were
from Auckland. Three-fourths of the forwards were
from North Island.
* * * *
Rugby rough-and-tumble—Australia (N.S.W.
and Queensland combined) v. M.L., at Sydney Cricket
Ground, Saturday—attracted perhaps 35,000, and was the
first match of the kind ever decided. Conditions favored
in every way*. First half proved brilliant and exciting,
for Australians went so close to holding their own that
the difference (7 to 3) wasn’t worth considering. Work of
opposing forwards was even, though M.L.’s lot forced
more frequentlv, through plav of their backs excelling
that of Australians. Subsequently, however, things went
very much the other way. The home combination was
outmanoeuvred everywhere, albeit offering a bold front
on the line. M.L. 15 gathered points freely—ls went
down to them inside 30min. Explanation was plainly
and painfully evident. Maorilanders’ methods didn’t
improve—they were of the same high class right through ;
but Australians fell off palpably, and lack of “ fix ” had a
lot to do with the fact. The beaten side was not nearly
attuned to the occasion. Australia’s combination could
not have been otherwise than lamentably deficient,
since the occasion under notice was the first time the
men had played together, while it was the visitors’ ninth
match. Visitors line and goal kicking and pace and
passing completely overlapped those of the losers, who
also fell short of requirements when necessity for punting
out of trouble arose, for rarely did M.L. miss, while their
opponents let many opportunities slip and suffered
accordingly. Most; marked difference in the respective
sides’ v;ays was that M.L. invariably kept moving and
played the game, ignoring breaches of rules until the
checking whistle pulled them up—when the whistle
sounded at all. There were offences which the referee
failed to see, because he couldn’t be everywhere at one
time, and then M.L. benefited materially, as Australians
had slackened off or stopped work absolutely (for the
moment) directly they noticed the breach. One glaring
instance was when (with Australians under the impression
he had run into touch) M'Gregor skirted the line and was
left to score unmolested. This incident created un-
pleasantness. Several players insisted M’Gregor had
gone inside, but touch umpire (Mr. Beck, of M.L.)
decided otherwise. Visiting skipper Duncan had a cheek
bone badly hurt. Match ended 22 to 3 in favor of M.L.
* • * *
The thoroughness of M.L. football methods
is demonstrated by the code of signals to which
the team answers. Getting the hang of these has
badly baffled many Australian skippers, for the whole
side is so well managed that directly the signals
are given each man gets into place and knows exactly
what is expected of him. Hence the effectiveness of the
combination and the machine-like manner in which it
operates. When Australians play on such thorough lines
they may have a chance with M.L., but not till then.
As usual there is a row over the Sydney first-
grade football premiership. When the season’s fixtures
were arranged for, it was decided, owing to the press of
inter-State and other matches, to close the season on
Angust 22, in order to get the team away to Queensland
in good time. This necessitated curtailing the second
round of the competition, and in consequence every
team does not meet the other. All the clubs readily
consented to the arrangement at the time, but now it is
found that Eastern Suburbs will win the premiership
while not meeting Glebe, which is one point behind them.
The Glebe club is now agitating for an extra match, but
the Eastern Suburbs fail to see why the programme
should be altered to the risk of their laurels, when they
have won the premiership on the conditions stated. The
public would probably like to see a final go between the
two clubs, and as the Union would pocket a nice little
bit over the fixture an effort is to be made on the 21st to
get the match on.
* • • *
R. Cooke, of M.L. football team (alleged thum-
per of N.S.W. forward, Judd, in first N.S.W.-M.L. match),
sparred with Newtown footballer Larkin, at a “ smoker ”
in Sydney, t’other night, and Judd seconded him, which
says much for how last-named takes the occurrence that
some scribes made so much of, but which N.S.W. Rugby
Union didn’t think serious enough to warrant action of
any kind.
» • * *
The struggle for world’s pug. premiership
between the huge, shaggy ex-boiler-maker, Jim Jeffries,
and remarkably skilful ex-bank clerk, Jim Oorbett, at
’Frisco, Friday night, went to former in the tenth round
—probably on a knock-out. A month ago Jeffries said
he would strip 16.6, and Corbett expected to scale 13.8.
Jeffries is 28 and Corbett 37. Same two fought for same
title three years ago, when battle was limited to 25
rounds. Jeffries rushed about like a mad bull, and the
air grew hot with the whirling of his blows, but Corbett
evaded most, while those that did land were robbed of
much of their sting through his clever movements.
Opening the 23rd round it looked any odds Corbett would
survive and win handsomely on points, but suddenly the
vast, hairy paw of Jeffries landed right on his jaw, and
Oorbett succumbed. The successive world’s top-notchers
—Bob Fitzsimmons and Jim Corbett—have now been
beaten twice by Jeffries. Annals of pugdom have no
record of a man with a physique like his. He stands
6ft. 14in. in his socks.
* * • •
Dan Creedon and Billy M'Coll are matched
again for Australian pug supremacy. It was the fight
between these two which sent the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph into hysterics some months ago. The match is
to take place in Melbourne about Cup time for a purse of
£350 and a side-bet of £2OO each, but the pair may run
the show on their own if a large hall can be secured, and
thus get all there is in it for themselves. Fact that black
Felix and Doherty drew £l5OO when they first fought in
Melbourne made a profound impression in pugdom. At
present champion M’Ooll is nursing that lame shoulder
presented by Jim Scanlan, and there is a possibility it
may not be well in time. If Creedon fights up to his
Sydney showing the struggle will be a sensational one.
The Bulletin doubts if Dan can get so well; he isn’t
growing any younger, and denies himself few luxuries
where they are available. Also, M'Coll’s grit, stamina,
and capacity for punishment impressed him so, that he
won’t fight so confidently as on the previous occasion.
• » * *
“ Gr.” : The fight between Jim Higgins and Bill
Jennings at Melbourne last week might have been
headed with truth “ Brutal Assault on an Old Man.”
From the end of the first round it was manifest that
Jennings’s age was a burden that allowed him no chance
against his sturdier adversary. In the fourth round,
after getting a cutting-up that would satisfy most men 15
years his junior, Jennings contrived to steady Higgins
with a couple of swings, and a few of the knowing ones
jumped to the conclusion that he had been “ kidding,”
and began stoutly to assert that he would “out” Higgins
before the 20 rounds were fought. But these blows only
postponed the inevitable, and after four more bouts,
Jennings, much against his will, was prevailed on to
acknowledge defeat. Though the fight was nothing from
a spectacular standpoint, Jennings’ display of courage
was well worth seeing. He possesses the capacity for
taking punishment that few fighters of to-day can claim.
Its value is shown by the gradually increasing success of
Higgins. Higgins started out with a very limited amount
of science but a veritable love of getting hammered ; and,
winning his earlier fights by sheer determination, he has
gradually improved into the makings of a real champion.
Higgins has an uppercut “ sudden and swift as the livid
blue thunder flame’s leap.” It threatens to revolutionise
modern pugilism if it progresses according to promise.
Jennings’ courage, of which the modern public got a
glimpse in his fight with Higgins, is unique. Five years
ago he fought Tim Murphy for the middleweight cham-
pionship of Victoria, and,'in one scuffle, a swinging blow
from Murphy caught him on the side of the head as he
ducked, tearing his ear from its fastening. Clinching for
time, till the round ended, Jennings strolled to his corner
and casually instructed his second to get a knife and cut
off the damaged organ, then hanging by a strip of car-
tilege. The second thought better of the job, and, when
time was called, Jennings went in and gave Murphy a
solar plexus hit that sent him to the boards for the re-
quired ten seconds. Bill’s ear to-day is as good as new, but
his record has suffered since that night, Murphy himself
reversing the position of affairs at a subsequent battle.
*.* * *
“L.W.”: A desultory attendance at Sydney
National Sporting Club has convinced me of several
things. First, that boxers should, by special Act of Par-
liament, be allowed Co go about the streets in trunks and
boots only ; as a class they look perfect gentlemen in the
ring with their clothes off, and thorough hoodlums in the
street with their clothes on. To see Dan Creedon sweep
ing in to the ring to fight Billy M'Coll ! Had his name
been Septimus Oreedus, anil the year 60 instead of 1903
A.D., that majestic- and dignified bearing had been im-
mortalised in bronze. Yet Dan Creedon, with his clothes
on, leaning over a sixpenny bar, doesn’t invite a second
look. By the way, the seconds that are usuall/. in evi-
dence at the National Sporting Club are truly wonderful;
they are about as beautiful as one of Norman Lindsay’s
nightmares.
* * * *
Latest ’Ome files tell that Australian amateur
sculler F. S. Kelly romped away last month with Henley
Sculls (the second year in succession) two hours after a
gruelling struggle in Grand Challenge Eights, which his
crew won by 6ft. only. Subsequently Kelly beat Cloutte
(England’s forefront amateur) for Wingfield Sculls
(Thames championship), with lmin. 20see. to the good.
Cable man duly recorded t’other result, but was abso-
lutely dumb concerning the more important Henley
event, which occurred days previously. English sporting
scribes state Kelly’s win at Henley was marvellous in the
circumstances, and that he is one of the greatest
amateurs ever seen in a boat. Crack Australian profes-
sional Harry Pearce met Kelty in England, and told on
returning that he never saw as good an amateur, also
that Kelly could give many pros, a licking. *
Ex-champion English billiardist Stevenson went
Maoriland-wards on Monday. Last week or so in Sydney
saw him fall off much, though he picked up some in
concluding few days. Queenslander Charlie Memmott
showed up the crack’s decline more than might other-
wise have been the case, for he rose above himself
and played better than ever before. With conces-
sions of 150 (in 500), 350 (in 1000) and 250 (in 800) at
different places and times Memmott easily accounted for
the visitor—margins of hundreds going to his credit on
each occasion. Memmott’s best break (237) was the
highest against Stevenson during the tour so far.
Melbourne fore-fronter Frank Smith tackled the English-
man last two days of his engagement, at National
Sporting Club, with 250 points in 800 in each of four
matches ; and was beaten handily three times, but made
737 in the last game.
* * * *
London County Bowling Club is busy raking in
members to make a trip to Australia and Maoriland.
Sufficient enthusiasts aren’t forthcoming, however, owing
to the proviso that each player shall deposit £250 to
cover expenses. Hitherto visiting athletic organisations
had visions of big dividends as a result, and the idea of
handing in a modest “ quarter-thou.” will most likely kill
the project.
* * * *
Bulletin’s prophecy that Kensington Club
would soon absolutely own the N.S.W. coursing situation
looks like being fulfilled sooner than expected. Govern-
ing body’s concluding classic (St. Leger and Champion
Cup) meeting at Rooty Hill, last week, only attracted 9
and 12 respectively of stipulated 32 dogs each, and though
the association descended to including a stake for 32dogs
at 1 guinea each, that closed 9 short. Also, one supple-
mentary was so poorly patronised that Yabba had a
natural and an accidental bye, and divided the money
without being called upon to compete against anything—
an extraordinary occurrence. Veteran Sam Bladon’s
fourth season wonder, Braddon’s Blot, had no trouble in
accounting for all opposed to him in the Champion Cup,
working as well as, if not better than, ever. Best price
available the Blot before the first course started was even
money. Likely that he’ll be relegated to the stud hence-
forth.
* * * *
At last there is a chance of the N.S.W. cycling
dispute coming to an end. A general meeting of all
members of the League of Wheelmen was held on Friday
last, with the result that the body known as the “coun-
cil ” was declared to have the confidence of riders. The
council was the section of the old league which initiated
the dispute and imposed the disqualification on riders,
and also asked for officials’ fees for attendance at the
record-breaking attempt. All the same, the recent
Dunlop road race wouldn’t have eventuated but for the
dual control of the league ; and the’ council, after
threatening disqualification for all competitors in that
race, has backed down and lifted the embargo. Now
that the dispute has been seemingly ended, the hatchet
had better be buried, as further dissension means the
wreck of the league.
* * * *
Second round of Sydney Dunlop Club supre-
macy was over Homebush course (about 22jm.), Saturday.
Balmain and Northern Suburbs appropriated first heat—
latter’s time (56.39) beat speed of all prior heats in com-
petition. Balmain scored ridiculously easily—filling first
four places —but Northern Suburbs had a hot time all the
trip, and only won with 4 points to the good.
* * * *
Died recently at Newcastle (N.S.W.), race fore-
front ped. Joe Butler, famous in Botany Handicaps—two
of the biggest of which he won (the 12th and another in
1892). Butler also appropriated Carrington Handicaps
in 1890 and 1892, and other minor successes.
* * * *
The World’s Cycle Championships will be held
shortly in Copenhagen (Denmark). The Dunlop Tyre Co.
has arranged for the results to be cabled out.*
V
!//
Sc
Think
of the way many people eat and dri'nk at all hours
of the day and night you do not wonder at the
stomach being unable to properly fulfil its duty of
digestion and nutrition. When the stomach fails
to perform its proper duty, constipation, bilious-
ness and a general disordered condition of the
entire system takes place. These are indicated
by the sunken cheek, muddy complexion and
jaundiced eye, with its dark circle 'underneath. - -
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills never fail to cleanse
the system of all impurities, bringing back the
rosy cheek and the bright eye to tell that the food
is being perfectly digested, and the body nourished.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a positive and
permanent cure for biliousness, constipation,
indigestion, headaches, sallow complexion; liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments. Packed in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.
accept no substitutes:*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE «. LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES ? DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


On a recent Sunday Bent’s “Flying Gang”
raided one of the Melbourne after-church trains
loaded with pious worshippers, and found 60 going
home from snuffle without tickets, or with expired
tickets. They were mostly fined 7s. 6d. and
costs next day. One Sunday sneak had. the
effrontery to write to the papers complaining
about the indignity of being hauled up on account
of an “ innocent mistake ’’—which is so suggestive
of the bowled out importer’s “clerical error.” A
method of repairing the Victorian revenue, which
the Irvine Government hasn’t tried yet, would be
to fix the minimum fine for travelling without a
ticket, or on an expired ticket, at £2. Then, if
the flying gang were greatly strengthened so as to
catch more offenders, the railway and the police
court revenues would both look up.
A woman’s deputation at Wellington, the
other day, drove Premier Seddon into several
tight corners and then sent him home with a head-
ache. It bore down upon him behind four or five
M’s.P., carrying about 3cwt. of requests. It
wanted to have the right to sit in Parliament, to
be a J.P., to enter into partnerships whether it
had its “ old man’s” permission or not (“business
partnerships, of course,” one of them interjected ;
and another added that it would mostly be with
other women), to sit on juries, and to get as much
wages as men when it did the same work as a man
(in schools, for instance). It wanted to have as
much legal control over its own children as its
“ old man, ” and to be an official visitor at gaols.
Finally it switched off on to the C.D. Act,
and wanted that repealed. When the deputation
seemed to have exhausted itself the Premier began.
At first, while the deputation was getting its breath,
it was a solo; soon it was a duet; finally, and for
most of the time, it was either a chorus or a part-
song. When Seddon talked nonsense, the depu-
tation told him so promptly and plainly ; it would
haul him up, and, apropos of something he had
said, would wave him aside till it had flattened
him out with a personal experience of its own.
“Nature,” said Richard, sweeping the horizon,
“had put a physical disability upon woman.”
“Oh, has it?” said part of the deputation, “I
think I’ve got something to say about that. ” And
she proceeded to say it. She wanted to know, if
Nature had put a physical disability upon
woman, how it was that man, man, man
(the deputation’s nose curled more each
time this object was mentioned) expected her to
work 24 hours a day. Man, the deputation de-
clared, was a poor creature who was so knocked
out by hours work that he had to have the
evening to himself, while woman, after tea, had
to wash up the pots and then stay up all night
with the children —the man’s children —who were
pretty sure to have the measles, or whooping
cough, or something. The Premier didn’t stop to
argue the matter. For a few minutes he got on
all right—just at that time he was rather meekly
explaining that he thought, anyhow, a Bill might
be brought in to prevent a husband mortgaging
the family home without the wife’s consent. But
he was in trouble again within three minutes. He
said he loved women because they were emotional.
“ Emotional! ” the deputation gasped. * ‘ Not
me,” the spokeswoman explained ; “I’m always
too busy washing up.” After that and a little
more, a very dejected Seddon crawled out of all
his difficulties by promising to oonsult the Cabinet.
“F.W.” : According to cabled reports of
the Conclave of Cardinals, it appears that those
important personages are first sworn with all
solemnity to have no intercourse with the outer
world, and then carefully guarded to prevent them
breaking their oaths. What is the precise value
of the oath of a Cardinal in his own country ?
i The best feature in Kingston’s Patents
Bill was the proviso that whenever Australia
grants a patent the person holding it must, inside
five years, either begin to manufacture the patent
article here or allow someone else to do so on fair
terms. This is the rule which prevails almost all
over Europe, and which has prevailed for good-
ness knows how many years. But the Senate saw
in it a horrible design to provide work for the
Australian people, and struck it out. So, if the
Senate has its way, the Australian patentee will
probably find it better to establish his factory in
Germany, and supply Australia from there, and
“ blow ” the Australian workman. What is the
Australian workman, anyhow ?
What happened to Jones? Who knows?
Perhaps ’twas a cold in his nose,
Or maybe a cough, which he couldn’t shake off,
And denied him the joy of repose;
Quite likely he both did endure.
Which him to his room did immure,
Till a friend said one day, “ Drive your chills all
away
In the scramble for precedence in the
Australian Ministry, when the portfolios were re-
arranged, the Treasurer was ranked as fourth man,
and his claim of succession to the Premiership
comes after the claims of Deakin and Lyne.
Barton, explaining things, said the arrangement
had Turner’s “complete approval.” Doubtless it
had. Turner has such a blank indifference to
precedence and public frill that he probably
wouldn’t mind if he ranked sixth. But that
didn’t make it any the less foolish of Barton to
put the best man m his Cabinet below that bust-
ling Jonah person, Lyne. It only means that
Barton, with his constant desire to save himself
trouble, lets clamor and stupidity rank before
merit without clamor. Minister of Customs
Kingston ranked fifth in the Cabinet but was first
in ability. The office must be elevated when the
wooden potterer, Lyne, gets it.
A favorite argument of the Tory press
against the minimum wage is that it acts detri-
mentally towards the aged or infirm worker. Yet
the Victorian Chief Inspector of Factories reports
thus:
It has often been stated that the special Board system
is very hard on the old and infirm worker. I wish again
to state that I do not believe there is the slightest found-
ation for such a view. On the contrary, my experience
goes to show that the old, infirm worker benefits by the
fact that a minimum wage exists. He obtains a license
to work at less than the minimum wage, and obtains
work without the fear that advantage will be taken of
his age and infirmity, and without the danger of being
merely used as an instrument to lower the wages of the
skilled and capable worker. There are at present 227
licenses issued by me to old and infirm workers. ... I
have reason to believe that these workers obtain better
wages than they would if the rates of pay were not fixed
by special Boards, and that they have less difficulty in
obtaining employment than old, infirm workers in trades
not under the Board system.
An alleged English syndicate has been applying
for the right to dam the Murrumbidgee and sell
water to the public for irrigation purposes, and,
to the great anger of the S.M. Herald, the See
Government most wisely declined to have any-
thing to do with it. Australia is tired of these
English syndicates. They hardly ever seem to
have any money. Their assets generally consist
of a top-hat and a front that would make a forti-
fication. They generally get a concession, and
hawk it round Europe trying to get <£300,000 for
it, and, in between times, they give cheek to this
country, and say we are (discouraging private
enterprise. The only notable English syndicates
which have prospered here were concerns which had
an immense lot of land given them for about noth-
ing, and which had only to sit down and draw the
rents, and speak severely about the country that
fed them.
*
One Evans, who was once a Gaud Mayor
of London, is Australia’s latest critical visitor.
He has expressed to an interviewer his shocked
feelings at the “narrow-mindedness” of Australia
in excluding the Asiatic races from the Common-
wealth, an idea “quite repugnant to Britishers,”
who gladly welcome such people to England’s
shores. But he did not add that England’s shores
are so bleak that the black or yellow person
doesn’t go there, and Britain welcomes him
because it knows he won’t go. As regards the
“ narrow-mindedness, ” when Evans’country gives
the black or brown man the same self-governing
powers it gives to the white man, and ceases to
treat its 300,000,000 colored subjects as persons
who are unfit to manage their own affairs, then
Australia will be glad to hear from it. Mean-
while, Australia regards Britain as shockingly
narrow-minded.
When the Abolition of Barmaids Bill came
up in the Maoriland House most members treated
it as something to get humorous about. Seddon
alone was entirely serious. He spoke vigorously
against the Bill, and shed a new light on the sub-
ject by reproaching Mr. Ell (the man who intro-
duced it) with everlastingly forcing on the country
the question of the equality of men and women,
and yet being the first to place disability on
women. Eventually the debate was adjourned,
but, from the appearance of things, Hebe will not
become extinct yet awhile. Meanwhile, however,
the girl behind the bar will continue to be
denounced as the Devil in a pretty frock or Sin
supported on cunning ankles. But she can stand
a lot of that.
A letter from Melbourne :
The other day a couple of Melbourne doctors, deputed
to examine an alleged lunatic at Melbourne gaol, voiced
a loud complaint that they had to spend a day or so in
rushing from one department to another to get permis-
sion, and gave a categorical list of officials who had
bandied them about. Subsequent developments con-
sisted of a flat denial of the whole tale, and an assurance
that they had not visited these officials at all, but had
applied by telephone for the permission, and had got it
immediately. But that did not prevent the Age from
coming out a couple of days later with a strong leader
reiterating the whole of the contradicted story, and
roundly condemning the entire crowd of public servants
who were alleged to have been interviewed. Then
followed much stirring of mud among the usual “ Pro
Bono Publico” and “Constant Reader,” likewise there
was some statesmanlike comment on the subject by the
jabberwocks of Kyabram, and Bent and Irvine thought
the time opportune for cutting the throats of a few State
servants, but treated them with the utmost clemency by
just sacking them. In another six months’ time the
beautiful young narrative will have grown into a great
hoary platitude of great use on the electioneering
platform.
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
LETTER BOOK
UiltH a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write •
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
From C. Plummer, RuUand Street,
Straw Hat Manufacturer. August ». !««•
Two months* trial of the Pbn Carbon Lnttbr Book obtained from you has satisfied US
that your
PEN
roduce
reserve
revent
G
ARSON
lean
opies
onfusion
L
ETTER
egible
asting
oss and
OOKS
ills
right
ad Language
Yours faithfully, O. PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH &CO„ Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
Solidly Built
Fully- Guaranteed Bicycles.
Red Bird Bicycles
1903
Models*
Before you buy a Machine, write or call and get particulars of the many new features included in the
new RED BIRDS. We can offer you long, easy terms with a small deposit.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., LTD., 64 King St., Sydney.
Branches all towns.
WOMEN CURE DRUNKARDS
The Remedy can be given in -Tea, Coffee, or
Food, thus Secretly Curing the Patient
without his Knowledge.
rpHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a
radiance into thousands of hitherto desolate fire-
sides. It does its work so silently and surely that,
while the devoted wife, sister, or daughter looks on,
the drunkard is reclaimed even against his will.
BUCRASY SAfi AND SURE.
Mrs. J. HATTON, who cured her husband with
EUORASY, now writes us that she has also cured a
near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest ap-
peal to all other women to save the drunkard. We will
post free books and testimonials from hundreds who
have been cured, and everything needed to aid you
in saving those dear to you from a life of ultimate
poverty and disgrace. Write or call at once, and
address— THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
The danger to the peace of Europe by an
eruption in Macedonia is obvious. Pity a more
soothful influence than magazine rifles had not
been imported to that badlv-Christianised region.
Were this one of the abiding places of D.G.L.
Whisky, fury and fanatacism would have-given
place:to the sweet reasonableness which always
follows the advent of that beneficent brand.
D.C.L. ! The harbinger of Progress—the Whisky
of the Wisest.*
Self-Inking Rubber Stamp^^
Pen & Pencil Combined, with any name in first-class
mmmm
iiSSSr
- style,
1/S
post free.
RUBBER STAMPS
made to order in any style. Send rough
sketch, and we will send you our Reduced
Price. PHILLIPS & CO.,
(Successors to Gardiner & Cool), Rubber Stamp
Manufacturers, 91 Market St., Sydney.
*,p.
IPS''
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS 00., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKI
XBO Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
4 in
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLEB,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLANDf
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
“Don’t shout”-
” I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
1 ”*How?’ Oh. some-
thing new— The Wtl»m„
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a paiirlhimy
ears now, you can't- see them
— they’re invfsible.. I wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
only that l hear all ri'gttu'*'
The Wilson Gsr-Orun. tt
reality a substitute for the
-- working parts d l£»t
natural ear. Has n<u
silt in,visibly.easy 'tia ad
jost. comfonalrie - ISaaMy
different from amy other die-
| vice Descriptive pamphlet seiu apow ryqnest
:•>. CMAiHtBS. azwat Camas st^,net+J
tAf ANTED
COMPLETE UNBOUND FILES
OF « THE BULLETIN,”
from Ist April, 1901, to 27th June, 1903.
State price to
“X.Y.Z” BULLETIN OFFICE, SYDNEY.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ Ott Our Selection.”
Ti'Oß the person who Ss not a thw Is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PAL AGE TO STAY if t« SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis' King street Soffee Patecc." -*3
situated at 60 KINO StRJSEY, find n'eftr the General Post
Office. Pry r. MLHS.
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
not only cures colds and influenza, but counter-
acts any tendency towards pneumonia. It al-
ways cures, and cures quickly.*
Housewives
•••
•••
••
HADE EASIER when your Wringer Roller arc
in good condition - You should note
[ that we Arc now rc-rubbering Rollers
at the /ollowing Prices,
t 10»l^t’<?4 / ca
12 Vl 3 4'<® 5'ea To these prices
must be added carnage both ways -
Or if you prc/cr it we will /orward you
[Rubber tube & instructions for fitting
[same yourscl/. without loss of time
pat the above Prices.
The Dunlop Pnrumat ic Tyre Co of Aus Ifd I08fiindrrb 'if ndb
,150 Clarence St Sydney ll70rrnfcll it Adelaide 28AdPldideSl
I Onibdf'e 154 Bat rack M Pfcrrh 128Lichfield St CKch N
Sydney Depot:
150 Clarence Street*


Refusal of the British Government to
recede to the petition for the release of.. Lieut.
Witton, and the steady negatives with which all
suggestions for an inquiry into the Bushveldt
Carbineers incident are met, indicate that the
War Office has very solid reasons for keeping the
truth of the matter suppressed. Since the
Australian Government apparently acquiesces in
the policy of smother, elucidation of the real
facts seems hopeless.
“Petramos”: land another fiend once
connected a clothes line at a Chinese laundry at
Port Adelaide with a; fairly strong current. By
and by out came John with a basket of wet clothes
and threw an article over the line, • He got a shock
that turned him yellower than the yellowest
Mongolian I’d ever seen. Twice he tried to throw
the article on the line and twice failed. Then he
went and brought forth a boss Chow. When the
boss threw the clothes on the line we switched the
current off, so when the other man couldn’t
put the clothes on, his master treated him to one
of the choicest bits of Chow I’ve ever heard. In
a week we had every Chinaman in the place pretty
nearly demented, and the boss had to do all his
own hanging out. The idea of an electric
current running through the wire never struck
any of them. At length we switched on the
current when the boss was hanging up some
clothes, and he spoke wild Chinese gridiron
language all over the place. Two days later the
Chinamen had gone and there was a “To Let ”
notice in the window. They had left the
bewitched clothes-line behind.
“David Harum ” : A drunk struggled
manfully up the stairs of an Adelaide horse-oar.
and unsteadily seated himself beside me. Then a
well-known city doctor, with frock coat and silk
hat, came on top. The drunk pulled at my coat
sleeve. “ Thasli S-s-s-swilliam Lyne. Why doan
y’ raise y’rat to S’william ? ” and, doffing his own,
and bowing some half-a-dozen times, remarked,
“Pleashed to meet y’, S’william, pleashed to
meet y’!” The doctor gazed stolidly in front of
him, and made no answer. The drunk drew a
little nearer, and expressed his opinion that he
was ashamed of the rest of the people on the car
for not giving him (S’william) a better reception.
Still the doctor' sat immovable. The intoxicated
one was silent a moment, and, after scratching his
head, put an arm on the doctor’s shoulder, and
observed in a confidential, yet audible whisper,
“S’william, I support you, I support the Gov’-
rnent, I “ S’william ’ spoke for the first
time. “My man, unless you behave yourself,
I’ll have you put off the car.” The drunk sat
back in his seat, looked at the doctor out of the
corners of his bleary eyes, dug his finger into my
ribs, sniggered, and then whispered, “Poor
S’william’s drunk ! ”
OGDENS
39
.(g(2)ILI§).
«•• ~0.
i«s
&garettes
&
3s
Beware of
Brit
S.
\
/<
/
I
I
H
**4
cast *'>“*•
Guinea-gold
Cigarettes
foreshadow
the tit most enjoyment
A Point of Interest.
GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES are made in a factory which is clean, light, and airy, the building being tall, on a hill, and full of
windows. This is interesting, as it goes to prove that there can be no risk in smoking Guinea Golds. They are healthy cigarettes.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
will soothe and heal the irritation of the mucous
membrane lining of your throat that is caused by
continual coughing. It always cures, and cures
quickly.*
NERYOUSNESS,
liOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free or
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0.. BYDNBY.
FREE TRIAL FOR 50 DAYS.
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-card with your
name, and we will forward you at once one of our latest Im-
proved High Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it three
months then pay us if cured, and the price will be only half
what others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you re-
turn the belt to us at our expense and your word will decide.
We are willing to trust you entirely, knowing that we have the
best and most perfect belt ever invented, and nine men in ten
always pay when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever
invented. It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele,
Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach complaints, Nervousness, and all weaknesses of
men and women.
WE WILL GIVE FREE
to each person writing us one copy of our beautifully illustrated IMedical Book which
should be read by all men and women. Drop us a post-card and we will send it to you
Free in plain wrapper. If you are weak in any way delay no longer, but write to-day for
our splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. ( De P t.M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, HELBOURNE, VIC.
X,
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak,
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Herr Hassmussen’s ATjFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMO MY, WEAK SPINE. DESPONDENCY, and all which* robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either m his offices or by post. So don t despair, bub
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE VITALITY FILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
QlriM nienoeoe Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Piooa c*nu Ofiin Miscascs Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
A suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
Ansemic women ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6a. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained
Herr Rassmussen's Head
oace- 547 George St., Sydney
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORI2E; 111 Hannan St
FREMANTLE = 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY - Pitsse St


Answer given in an English schoolboy’s
exam, paper (asked as to the advantages of emi-
grating to Australia):
When a man has lost his character he should go to
Australia, where he will not want one.
There still survive in England the ideas current
in the days of Charles Lamb, who, writing to a
friend in Sydney, asked what the people occupied
themselves with. “Do they not find it dull
thieving all day?”
Launceston (Tas.) gaol is built on more
solid lines than the ancient rattle-trap in Slow-
bart. The “breaker” in the former city must
possess a certain amount of grit. Recently a
prisoner forced the lock of his cell door and
started to climb a precarious spouting running
from the yard to the top of the main wall. His
groans, when it gave way and he came to the
ground, were heard by the men in the other
cells, but they couldn’t, or didn’t, give an alarm.
No official seems to have heard anything. The
“breaker,” after recovery, returned to his cell,
and, tearing his blanket into strips, made a rope,
which he weighted and threw over the wall, and
by these means gained the top. As the rope was
found hanging in the yard it is not known now he
negotiated the drop into the street—2s feet. He
was captured a few days afterwards at Ben
Lomond, but declined to explain.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEE
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defles all
the remedies you have tried, which, it not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may he discoloured, or there may he wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERTS GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
he. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ACLLIOTT BllOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper 00 •
green label on each box. (Kegd. copyright)'
DO YOU WISH TO
BELIEVE IT? . 4 .
Miss
Marion
W
H
Y
T
E
m
x
5 Campbell Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, November 13th, 1902.
Dear Sirs :—Suffering constantly
from indigestion and rheumatism,
and hearing a good deal about the merits of
Scott’s Emulsion, I tested it. Before I had
finished the first bottle I felt considerably
better, and continuing the treatment for a
while both indigestion and rheumatism left
me entirely ; it has undoubtedly improved my
general health as well. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Miss Mabion Whyte.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
DO YOU WISH TO BELIEVE
that there is relief and cure for indigestion
and rheumatism ? It is to be supposed that
you do, if you suffer from indigestion or
rheumatism. Or if any member of your
family is afflicted with these misfortunes. It
is perfectly safe to assume that you do wish
to believe it—believe, that is—that for
rheumatism and indigestion Scott’s Emulsion
is a cure. Has not one who has seen the cure
performed just proved it to you ? It is not
required, of course, to explain what rheu-
matism and indigestion are; if you have
them, you understand ; but what you keenly
want to know is, the name of the remedy.
Here it is:—
SCOTT’S EMULSION. If rheumatism
or indigestion has attacked you or anyone of
your family, send at once for Scott’s Emulsion.
It acts rapidly, surely, and steadily, until a
cure is reached, and it begins to act from the
first dose. It has cured indigestion and rheu-
matism in every quarter of the globe, and it
will do the same thing in Australia. You have
one precaution only to take: and that is, to
see that on the wrapper of the bottle there is
a picture of a man carrying a big cod-fish ; if
that cod-fish is not there you are not getting
what we promise you—a cure! You can
obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion, and the
choicest children’s booklet of the year, “A
Bunch of Roses,” beautifully printed in
colors, by sending sd. to Scott and Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mention-
ing this paper. All chemists sell Scott’s
Emulsion.
About Judges.
A lawyer writes
In reference to query in a recent Bulletin as to why
District Court Judges should not be promoted to the
Supreme Court Bench. There is one answer that seems
sufficient. No Judge or Magistrate should be allowed to
feel that be has any future favors to hope for from any
quarter whatever j it is apt to strain his impartiality.
Would the public feel confidence in a Judge who exercised
his office with one eye on the possibility of promotion?
Imagine such a Judge trying a case in which a Minister,
or prospective Minister, was engaged, either profession-
ally or as a litigant; he might be perfectly impartial, but
would the public be satisfied ? And would it not lay the
administration of justice open to the most injurious
criticism however unfounded in fact such criticism might
be ? There has been talk of Mr. Justice Owen becoming
Chief Justice when a vacancy occurs, but one cannot
help hoping, honorable man and good Judge though he
is, that no such precedent will ever be set. Judges
should clearly understand that,.once on the Bench, no
more favors are attainable while they remain there.
District Court Judges, moreover, are not generally fit for
the Supreme Court Bench. It is rare that a man whose
practice is extensive enough to fit him for the Supreme
Court will accept the £l5OO per annum of the District
Court Judge. Acting-Supreme Court Judges are, as a
rule, appointed to take criminal work only, and as the
D.O. J., in his capacity of Chairman of Quarter Sessions,
has the same jurisdiction as a Supreme Court Judge,
except in capital cases, the practice of appointing a
D.C.J. to try criminal cases in the Supreme Court comes
only objectionable in as much as the appointment carries
a favor in the shape of an increased salary while acting.
While the Supreme Court exercises exclusive jurisdiction
in capital cases every capital case ought to be tried before
a Judge of that Court.
This letter may be summed up much more briefly
in these three propositions : '
(1) A minor Judge or magistrate should have no hope
of promotion lest he try to earn it by giving unjust
decisions in favor of Ministers. It doesn’t matter
whether the hopelessness of his position sours him and
makes him give unjust decisions against Ministers. The
ideal Judge is a person who has lost hope, and no notice
is taken of the fact that the minor Judge, whose position
is not an independent one, may give unjust decisions in
order to keep the billet he has got, as well as for the pur-
pose of getting a new’ billet.
(2) A minor Judge shouldn’t go to the Supreme Court
because, as a rule, he didn’t have a very extensive
practice before he went on the bench. It isn’t learning,
fairness, or a judicial mind that are required—only a
large practice. Purves is the ideal Judge.
(3) District Court Judges are temporarily elevated to
the Supreme Court Bench ; but that doesn’t prove their
fitness for regular Supreme Court work, for they are
only elevated, as a rule, to deal with criminal cases.
They only hang men, and don’t deal with the vastly more
important question of Proputty. Any inefficient kind of
Judge is good enough to trust your life to ; but great
problems regarding the title to a bit of land require a
great mind.
Under Observation
* 'Burglar Bill ” supplies the following:
It is a common occurrence for magistrates to remand
for observation any man who seems “ a bit queer” in his
manner. He may be just recovering from a mighty
drunk, and whisky has pushed into a corner and
throttled all respect for the police and his worship, which
a man in his sober senses would naturally feel. The
magistrate, considering the case one of possible insanity,
remands the prisoner for seven days “ observation.”
Now, gaol observation is a serious matter in such cases.
The suspect is placed in charge of a supposedly sane
prisoner, who is generally picked on account of his size
and strength. He shepherds the lunatic all day, and is
reinforced with the services of another prisoner for night
duty, the three sleeping on the floor of an observa-
tion cell. During the day the suspected crank
tramps up and down one of the exercise yards
and answers inquiries from passing prisoners con-
cerning his “lump of lead,” “old tin trunk,”
“ brain pan,” “ top piece,” or any other slang term for
his poor addled head that their sense of humor suggests ;
at night, the warder on duty near the observation cells is
supposed to look in through the spy window at different
Eeriods. Sometimes he does, and sometimes he forgets,
ut that doesn’t make much difference. The patient
may take a .notion through the night to explore his
cell in pursuit of snakes and red grasshoppers, and as
this proceeding interferes with the rest of his two
attendants, trouble ensues. They sometimes, being
humorous dogs, propose to hang him by the cord of the
window shutter, and the lunatic’s protests wake the
whole wing, which curses audibly. If he is not forcibly
silenced by wrapping a blanket round his head, a tired,
sleepy “ screw ” arrives at the end of twenty minutes and
restores silence, which remains on top until the man who
is being observed gets another perambulating fit. The
gaol doctor pays a daily visit. The prisoner attendant
on these occasions generally answers all questions
regarding health and mental improvement. If in a
humorous mood afterwards, he informs the subject
that the doctor was Nosey Bob examining his neck, to
see what kind of a rope he would hang best with, and the
patient goes into hysterics with fright. The gaol doctor
is a poor cuss at any rate, and is, moreover, troubled
with a fixed idea that every sick prisoner is malingering,
which gives a decided bias to his views of th j case.
Further, he is in a hurry (he can put through sixteen
sick prisoners in two and a-half minutes), so his report of
the case is not worth much.
At a time when a man is suffering from temporary
mental derangement such as follows a big drunk, the
period covered by the seven days’ observation forms the
turning point. Scientific and humane treatment may
lead to a complete recovery, while unscientific and
brutal treatment, coupled with the horrors and sur-
roundings of prison life, may unship his balance for
the rest of his life. A gaol is no place for a supposed
lunatic to be placed under observation. There is no
provision for his reception and treatment. A prisoner
whose only medical qualification is that he has committed
burglary with violence is not a proper person to attend
to a man struggling on the borderland of insanity. A
warder who has one fixed idea regarding prisoners gener-
ally classes the “ queer bloke ” in with the worst speci-
mens, and, finally, the visiting surgeon does not take
sufficient interest in the case. The suspect is in a
prisoner’s uniform, which is a signal for short, sharp
treatment. The country has provided asylums for the
reception of persons so afflicted, and a man suffering
from temporary mental derangement when remanded by
a magistrate, should be promptly taken there and treated
with humane and up-to-date methods. The crude, help-
less, old-fashioned, ignorant ways of gaol treatment
clamor for a change to methods more in keeping with the
times.
Some remarkable arguments were advanced at a
deputation representing the Tory interests that
waited on Prime Minister Barton to protest
against the prohibition of colored labor on mail
steamers receiving an Australian subsidy. Presi-
dent Sawers, of the Chamber of Commerce, said
“the work of stokers in the tropics was specially
suited to a colored race. It was not a suitable
employment for Englishmen, and only the waifs
and strays of white humanity could be got to
undertake it. ” He understood, he said, that there
were not sufficient British seamen available to
man the ships as seamen. Perhaps it is possible
to find another man who could pack as many
absurdities into as many lines, but, when-found,
he Would be a rare speciri.en. In the first place,
the mailboats running between Britain and Aus-
tralia are only a few days in the tropics. Also, if
stoking is not a suitable employment for English-
men, why does the British navy, about which so
much is heard in these days, employ Englishmen
at the job ? And if only the waifs and strays of
white humanity undertake stoking, what a nice,
loyal commentary on the Boys of the Bulldog
Breed that are alleged to be equal to anything. If
Australia is being invited to trust its defence to a
navy in which a most essential part of the work
depends wholly on waifs and strays, then things
ar , e . as they are represented by the class to
which Sawers belongs
ALMOST
EVERY HUMAN ACHE
Is RHEUMATIC in its origin.
Rheumatism is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning
Gout is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
Neuralgia is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
Lumbago is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
Sciatica is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
Blood Disorders are caused by Uric Acid Poisoning*
Gravel is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
Stone is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
81adder Troubles are caused by Uric Aoid Poisoning.
WHAT IS URIC ACID ?
Uric Acid is one of the many products of the wasting of the body. Every moment we live the
body is wasting, and it is the duty of certain of our organs to remove the waste matter.
THE KIDNEYS.
To the kidneys is allotted a large portion of this task. The kidneys of the average person filter
and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this quantity of urine should be
dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid, together with other
animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys from
any cause are unable to do their work properly, some of these substances remain in the system, and
become actively poisonous. Uric acid is the most dangerous of these poisons. When it is deposited
in the joints and tissues, it produces Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica or Gout. In other
cases the blood, being contaminated, is rendered unfit to absorb nutriment freely, and we suffer from
Anaemia, Neuralgia, Digestive Troubles, Blood Disorders, and Debility. Sometimes
the uric acid is deposited in the kidneys themselves, and then the frightful pain caused by Stone,
Gravel, and Bladder Troubles is experienced.
Thousands have kidney disorders, and suffer from uric acid poisoning, without knowing the
cause. The most common indication that there is anything wrong with the kidneys is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A more certain test to make is, to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning, If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust like
sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural colour, then the kidneys are not
healthy, and no time should be lost in ensuring their restoration, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes
or some less serious but more painful illness will be the result.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
About thirty years ago, Medical and Scientific men, realising the importance of the efficient
removal of uric acid, and other waste poisons from the system, made special research with the view
to discover a remedial agent. They realised the fact that it was necessary to discover a medicine
which would act specifically upon both the liver and the kidneys, as, when the kidneys are affected,
the liver suffers in sympathy, and vice versa. The outcome of their research was the medicine now
known throughout the world as Warner’s Safe Cure. This medicine possesses the desired property in
the fullest degree, and though over a quarter of a century has passed since it was first discovered, no
remedy has yet been developed of like power. It acts equally upon the kidney and liver, restoring
them to health and activity, when all urinary and biliary poisons are of necessity removed from the
system in a natural manner. Warner’s Safe Cure consequently cures Rheumatism, Gout, Back*
ache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone and Bladder
Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, Torpid Liver. Even Bright’s Disease yields
to treatment by Warner’s Safe Cure.
Mr. J. T. Castner, of 8 Yictoria-street, Paddington, N.S.W., says: “Some time ago I was under
medical treatment for severe pains in the back. The doctor who attended me wanted me to undergo
the operation of crushing a stone in my bladder, but I did not like the idea, although the pain I
was suffering was severe. A friend advised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did, and, after taking
three or four bottles, I began to feel better. ' I continued the course, and, thanks to this medicine, I
became free from any trouble whatever.”
A treatise containing particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and d;he diseases it cures, will be
Bent free by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Vic.
-a
m
* *
MH
1
mi
r k
* No 1
Darkroom
NOUI I
m
ipiYpifc
m
£■£
mo
tafogim" ■ I * X
MELBOURNE.
KODAK!
™ E CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
IlilllllUlHli
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT I
Ilot-ajr and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedv cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS —in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
I Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co* Ltd*( Dß «- 8 >
!i (Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
66
On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd
Price, 6s, The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.


Long Reef, Lennonville (W.A.), is a striking
example of how not to do it. The co. was originally
floated eight years ago as the Kinambla to acquire a pro-
perty adjoining the once famous Wealth of Nations.
This show was abandoned as a wild-cat, and the co.
acquired 51 acres at Lennonville, in Feb. ’99, and became
known as Long Reef Co. After 2J years of muddling it
bought in June, 'O2, the Gal tee Moore lease, which it had
previously abandoned. The price paid was £3400 in cash
and 16,600 shares. Five months later, in Nov. ’O2, con-
cern was reconstructed to purchase three other leases
owned by the same man. Of the 165,000 shares he got
125,000, or 75 per cent. The unfortunate shareholders got
only 21,429, or one for each seven old shares held; 15,000
shares were reserved fcr working capital, but were un-
placed. The new co. started £21,000 odd in debt, the lia-
bilities of the old concern, so had a lively prospectof landing
in the soup, which it promptly did. Property has now been
put up to auction, and bought by the previous owner for
£10,550. As this sum will be insufficient to meet liabilities
the unfortunate shareholders have been landed in a mess.
The blocks have already produced some 28,0000 z. of gold
from 11,000 tons, the June result being 20610 z. from 1380
tons. At a depth of 330 ft. the reef averages 2Joz. for a
width of 9ft. The show has a 20-head mill. The owner
will probably blossom into a millionaire ; but how do the
shareholders feel t
* * * *
Mr. Ernest Lidgey is in Westralia, with
the view of prospecting the country with a new
electrical ore finder. Unless he is prepared to
work, like the British waterfinders, on the “no find
no pay” principle, his prospects are not rosy. There
are already quite a lot of wand wielders in the State,
who guarantee to locate lodes, but they won’t find the
money to prove their theory. However, the Hampton
Plains people have commissioned Lidgey to prospect their
ground for a start, and, if he should win, his name will
be great in mining. Locating a lode and locating gold
are, however, very different things, and that is where the
“ finder ” generally falls in.
* * * *
W.F. Main Reef (W.A.), which has been sick
lately, has looked up through the striking of a 25dwt.
reef, 4ft. wide, far south of the present workings. If this
new chute proves to be of any length the mine will have
quite a new outlook.
* * * •
South Fingall, Day Dawn (W. A.), is in 750,000
shares of 4s. each, of which 626,651 are issued. Promoters
(Chaffers Co.) got, in conjunction with vendors, 525,290,
while 101,361 were placed to provide £20,272 working
capital. Original blocks, situated on south-west of Great
Fingall Consols, were condemned after testing, and a
Government reserve north-west of that mine secured.
Two bores have been sunk, and a lode reported cut, but
the circumstances are not quite satisfactory.
* * * *
Great Fingall Southern Blocks, Day Dawn
(W.A.), is in 150,000 shares of £1 each, of which 125,000 .
were issued to vendors, the remaining 25,000 being held
in reserve. Vendors handed over £6OOO cash to be utilised
in testing the property. The co. owns several blocks
adjoining Great Fingall Consols on south. At a vertical
depth of 1475 ft. the Fingall lode was alleged to have been
cut by bore, and said to be worth 3dwt. for 24ft. wide.
The mine is controlled by Birkbeck, Hoffmann and
Jowett, who allege that it will require £lOO,OOO to open
up and equip it. Drilling is still proceeding, but cash
has nearly given out, as it costs 18s. to-20s. a foot for
boring alone, not to mention cost of management. It is
doubtful whether Bull will put up the money necessary
to equip the show.
* * * *
Golden Link’s Eclipse lease, Kalgoorlie (W A.),
is shown on 'the maps as Excelsior (750 E), and is pretty
well surrounded by Kalgoorlie Amalgamated, whose
manager, A. Salmon, late underground boss of L.V.
Consols, is boring for the lode to the south, and is hope-
ful of success. Eclipse continues to look well, but the
extra 10-head mill on order will not get to work for some
time yet.
* * * *
The W.A. gold yield for July (212,5010 z.) con-
stitutes a record. The public batteries also established a
record by treating 4883 tons and 3882 tons of tailings for
60340 z. Up to date the public mills have treated 127,833
tons for 160,5800 z. of gold. As these mills are actually
more than covering working expenses, they provide an
excellent means of aiding prospectors to help themselves.
The total gold production for the first seven months of
the year is 1,274,3120 z., as against 1,028,3940 z. for last
year, an increase of 245,9180 z. The increase in divs. for
the same period is £255,922.
* * * *
Devon Consols Kalgoorlie (W.A.), situated
half-a-mile north-east of Mt. Charlotte, has been pro-
ducing some very rich specimens from the I6oft. level
about I3oft south of the main shaft. The owners are
Oades and Son. The mine was long known as the Mt.
Charlotte East, and was then regarded as an absolute
wild-cat. It is now equipped with two Huntington mills
and a 10-head mill, paid for out of the gold won. The
adjoining blocks to the north and south, known as Kapai
and Reefers Trident, have been re-pegged on the strength
of Oades’ rich developments. Main shaft is being further
sunk to open up a deeper level. Several offers have been
made for the property, but the owners are sitting tight.
• • • •
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), probably
through false economy in not having a watchman, has
been relieved of gold-zinc precipitates valued at £BOO.
Similar thefts recently took place at Hope’s Hill and
W.F. Main Reefs. Developments on the mine are very
backward, most of the stopes above 300 ft. being de-
pleted, and there is practically only the 380 ft. level to
depend on. On the pretext that the rate of wages fixed
by the Arbitration Court for machine men in wet ground
is too high, shaft sinking has been suspended, and the
reserves are being exhausted. Owing to the flat underlay
of the reef very long crosscuts have to be driven to reach
it, and, at t'he next, or 460 ft., level, nearly 600 ft. will
have to be negotiated before the reef is reached. This
means time and mohey. The Princess North is being
equipped with a 10-head mill and a compressor plant,
but so far there is but little stone waiting to be broken
and treated.
• * » *
Associated Northern (W.A.) is a scene of great
activity on the surface, a large army of men being busy
laying the foundations of the treatment plant. Rumors
as to the position of the mine are still black, the general
opinion being that the ore reserves were grossly over-
stated. Mine has already produced 150,0000 z. of gold,
worth £600,000, from 25,500 tons, and distributed
£280,000 in • divs., besides paying for all equipment
and development, the original £lOO,OOO working capital
being still intact. The attempt to find the 12Jft. lode
said to exist at 912 ft. has been temporarily abandoned,
and now efforts are being centred in trying to find the
Bft. to 10ft. lode supposed to exist at 1100 ft. New poppet
legs are to be installed, so it doesn’t look as if all hope
had vanished.
• * * *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), which, a
short time ago, acquired what are known as Dwyer’s
leases, in driving south at the 250 ft. level has been fol-
lowing a chute of ore about 9ft. wide, of an assay value
of 15dwt. per ton. This is an Adelaide co., and has
stuck to its guns when most of the Adelaide co.’s have
capitulated. Several patches of good-looking ore have
been encountered, but, hitherto, nothing permanent.
Should the present development prove to be a permanent
pay chute it will give a great stimulus to the western
portion of the Golden Mile.
* * » *
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), has gone in
for vigorous development since manager H. A. Shipman,
late of Stratton’s Independence, Cripple Creek, took
charge. Like most ’Murkan engineers, Shipman believes
in hustling. The main underlay shaft is down below
1000 ft., and 10 levels are in full swing. The present
monthly development is nearly 500 ft., and the mining
costs are very low; stoping 10s. 4d., treatment 7s. Id.,
and general expenses 2s. 7d.—a total of only 20s.
a ton. The gross receipts pan out at £20,000 a month,
while the total mine costs figure at £12,500, leaving a
monthly profit of £7500, or £90,000 a year. This, on a
total capital of £400,000, after allowing for London exes.,
should leave 4s. a share for divs. Co. holds an area of
455 acres, and will probably, sooner or later, float a sub-
sidiary to work the Altona line of reef, which is opening
up well. Above profits are being made on ore worth only
£2 13s< 4d. a ton.
* * * *
At the last meeting of the Day Dawn Block
and Wyndham, a Bull-owned and controlled Charters
Towers (N.Q.) co., the chairman announced that the co. s
lease is approaching its end as a dividend-payer unless
development work reveals new prospects. Scrip has
dropped from 15s. to 9s. Thereupon the British Aus-
tralasian whines:—“lt rests largely ■ with Queens-
land what will be done in the future. If facilities for
working are offered, and larger area given, capitalists
here are willing to exploit virgin ground, and it may be
hoped that the remarks made at the meeting will not be
without their effect upon the working classes and the
Government of Queensland.” Yet this co., which
now wants to be subsidised in some shape or other,
has had a long and profitable career. With scrip at 155.,
a rate that has been the normal one for several years,
the company, on its market value, paid about 13 per cent,
in 1902,16 per cent, in 1901, and similar divs. for years
past. (That scrip was at one time boomed to fabulous
prices to the ruination of scrippers isn’t Q. Government’s
affair.) The co. should have reserves sufficient to develop
its old or new lease ; if it hasn’t it’s the fault of the co.
Even now, if the co. put aside the profits to be still made
out of the old lease, there would be no need for it to call
round at the Treasury with the beggar’s hat in its hand.
But there is probably no need to do so in any case, as the
mine is locally believed to be much better than it is
represented. The whine is indeed believed by many to
be simply bluff, used with the object of getting hold of
200 or 300 acres of deep ground—a caper tried once
before by the same crowd, and blocked by the citizens.
• • • •
While the private capitalist is always demanding
that the Government should “ grant facilities ” to private
enterprise, he takes mighty fine care that he doesn’t
grant many facilities himself. Only a few months ago
one Charters Towers co., controlled by a crowd which is
frequently wanting “ facilities,” tried hard to block
another co. from driving through the famous “ Gridiron,”
under the Way Leaves Act —a law passed to give pro-
spectors facilities for prospecting deep ground by driving
through intervening leases. Also some people who want
the Government to grant “ facilities ” are either blocking
Co.’s from entering on their freeholds or are demanding
very high prices for the privilege. At least one co. has
worked right round a freehold block, as the owner of the
latter wants, it is said, five figures before he will let the
co. drive under his ground. This owner is very solid
indeed on the necessity of the State granting facilities to
enterprise ; but the rule must not be applied to himself.
* * * *
There has been renewed activity in Charters
Towers stocks. Total output of the field for July was
34,6030 z. ; calls, £7992 ; dividends, £36,900. This makes
the seven months’ dividends £244,262, as against £215,085
last year. In the previous month Gympie led ; for July
the Towers takes its normal place on top. Gympie’s
record is—Gold, 16,4120 z.; calls, £9374; divs., £26,283.
Of Towers mines Q. Cross Reef holds its premiership,
paying £15,000. It had the handsome return of 58290 z.
from 1869 tons, equal to 3oz. 2dwt. 17gr. per ton, ex-
clusive of residue values.
• • * *
Plant, of Charters Towers (N.Q.), is a well-
plucked miner. One venture of his on Croydon has sunk
1313 ft. for nothing. To-day he is up to his neck in a
speculative sink of 2000 to 3000 ft. on the west side of
Charters Towers.
• • • •
Woodlark Island co.’s officers are having a bad
time with malaria, and recent work has been seriously
affected. Mine prospects are slightly better than they
were, and they need to be. During the six months to the
end of May a profit of £2137 was shown on working, hut
this does not take into account cost of shaft-sinking.
*** - *
South New Moon, Bendigo’s present premier,
has got another lease of prosperity by developing a good
body of stone between the 1220 ft. and the 1140 ft. levels,
the latter the deepest hitherto worked.
• * * *
Main Leads North, Havelock (Vic.), completed
a half-year on August 4. The six months’gold amounted
to 11250 z., worth £4572. Expenses amounted to £7254,
leaving a shortage of £2682. Developments have only
been moderately satisfactory ; the dirt taken out has
averaged 13dwt. Bgr. per fathom. The co. had a small
overdraft (£92) at the end of the year, and further calls
are inevitable.
• • * *
Two recent events demonstrate conclusively
the absurdity of the average Victorian mining man’s
contention that systematic sampling of mines is not
necessary. New Chum and Victoria had a couple of good
crushings—about 9dwt. per ton—from a reef at 3200 ft.
in depth. Every assurance was given officially that this
average could be maintained, and shares steadily ad-
vanced from practically nothing to Bs., yet the very next
crushing showed a decline to less than 4dwt. Neither
manager nor directors could explain the falling
off, as “ each breaking down revealed as much
gold as had shown previously.” Much disgust among
speculators as the result of the obstinacy which insists
that it can estimate ore-value by sight. A dolly and tin-
dish systematically used would prevent such fiascos. The
men who hold to the anti-sampling contention are really
opposed to fire-assays, and, if they said as much, they
would be on solid ground. Fire-assay of Bendigo ore
would be more misleading than the sight-test, owing to
the comparative coarseness of the gold. A worse case is
that of the Birthday Tunnel Co. Berringa, a field which
has been associated with so many scandals. This co.’s
crushings show a consistent falling off, and every fort-
night there is a plausible explanation which is completely
upset by next fortnight’s result. This is a Ballarat-run
show, and the genuine explanation probably is that
market reasons regulate the yields.
• » * *
Berry United (Smeaton, Vic.) completed a
half-year on July 31. The six months’ work, paid for out
of calls, has consisted only, of shaft-sinking and the
erection of a permanent pumping plant. The co. has a
credit balance of £493, but still owes £2541 on the plant.
Nearly 20,000 of a total of 60,000 shares have fallen into
the co.’s hands for non-payment of calls.
0 0 * *
Even without Seddon’s mutton shops, Maori-
land is getting rid of its sheep in an alarming fashion.
By the last count (April 30) it had only 19,002,000 head
left, having butchered for export alone no less than
2,531,993 sheep and 2,104,544 lambs in the 12 months—an
increase of over a million-and-a-quarter on the previous
year’s slaughter. The 12-months’ increase didn’t reach
the 12-months’slaughter by 1,341,000 ; and at that rate
of going, even without the mutton shops, the M.L. sheep
will be an extinct animal in 10 years or so.
Miss Catherine Spence writes to The
Bulletin from S.A. to remark that she is just
getting well, and that there is a “ lot of good work
for effective voting” in her yet.
About the quickest bigamist on record has
just been convicted at Adelaide. He married
one girl on December 9 and another on April 30,
and it seemed to be doubtful whether he is yet 21 I
Symon, K.C., and Downer, K.C., and another
barrister were engaged for the defence, but about
all there was to do was to speak feelingly of the
prisoner’s extreme youth, and a cheap attorney
with a capacity for tears might have done that
much. It appeared that the first was a “mixed
religion” marriage, and kept secret from the
youth’s parents (though not from the bride’s),
and filial obedience prompted him to accept
another wife provided by his father. The Judge
told him he was either a very bad small boy or
a very stupid infant, and gave him hard labor for
nine months.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENOS
‘FRUIT
SALT.’
COOLING,
AND INVIGORATING.
REFRESHING,
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c.,
EVERYWHERE.
At Poverty Point.
Once more is Australian girlhood disillusionised. Ouylei
Hastings, ’tis said, has a wife and six children “ way back
in the States.”
Ada Orossley’s voice (it has started to come to Australia
via America) is going to surprise a lot of people who have
not yet heard the artist, and others who remember her
only as a young contralto, before she went to Europe. It
is not so heavy and “mannish” a voice as is generally
expected. The public which complained that Melba’s
voice didn’t blow a hole in the Town Hall roof will
probably complain that Crossley is more of a rich mezzo-
soprano than an out-and-out contralto.
Chicago Tribune prints an alleged interview with Ada
Crossley, in which it is stated that she was born in the
onion-producing district of Tarraville, Gippsland, and
that she owes her strong voice and high notes to the
odorous bulb. “The children at Tarraville,” she is
alleged to say, “ possess voices so powerful that they are
renowned throughout Australia. In the middle of the
onion season a healthy child’s coo-ee can be heard dis-
tinctly through the bush three miles away.”
Maud Jeffries, Julius Knight and co. left London on
July 17th with a view to appearing at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, on September 12th in “ Resurrection.” Beer-
bohm Tree has the Australian rights of “ Resurrection,”
also “ The Eternal City,” and other dramas wherein
massive Maud J. and Julius, of the famous Roman legs,
will return to Australian notice. It should be interesting
to see how much of Julius’s attraction for the girls has
survived his absence. Probably the entranced damsel
who one-time called his legs “the heavenly twins” is
married now, and has lost interest in everybody’s legs
except the baby’s.
Two London companies were shipped to Dublin to play
during the visit of the Royal Ned. George Edwardes
sent his Gaiety crowd for sundry nights, and Bcerbohm
Tree got a command to furnish a one night show. All the
scenery and about 100 people were shipped to and fro
within three days on this expensive order. By such
incidents the majesty of monarchy is rubbed into the
vulgar mind.
Melba was prima-donna at Covent Garden Opera
House on the gala night of the French President’s visit.
Signora Majeroni’s career as an actress in Australasia
must have practically ended in 1889. Early in 1891,
when she and her husband returned from an eighteen
months’ tour of India, China, and thereabouts, they were
both in broken healih.
Donizetti’s “La Fille du Regiment” is said to have
been the opera which Queen Victoria nominated for the
occasion of her first visit to the theatre after she became
a widow. Perhaps she thought it was the sort of comic
opera that could be trusted to harmonize with a widow’s
depression, insofar that it wouldn’t excite any indecorous
laughter.
Mummer Cecil Ward is the owner of a valuable pro-
perty on the water frontage at Neutral Bay. Sunnyside
was first occupied in the sixties, by Robert Hunt, first
clerk in the bullion office, Sydney Mint, and subsequeni y
deputy master. The house has had'numerous tenan is
since Mr. Hunt’s occupancy, including Henry Austin
(W. B. Dailey’s brother-in-law) and J. Randall Carey, c t
Sydney Telegraph.
“T.D.” : A Poverty Point par. tells the melancholy tale
of actor Cecil Ward’s loss of thatch. Hair counts for a
big share of the average stage and platform artist’s
makings. Sydney used to posse-s a tenor with a
beautiful fly-walk where his hair should have been, but
he found it hard to make money, one of the requisites of
a tenor being a sentimental appearance with plenty of
thatch. Then he invested in a nice curly wig, and in six
months his income had doubled itself, and he received
about twenty letters a week from romantic damsels who
wanted to call him “ darlipg,” and to comb his beautiful
shop locks with their taper fingers.
Reuben Cole, now running Sunday evening concerts
with mutosoope accompaniments in Melbourne Masonic
Hall, when urging his audience to give about at least a
thrummer a head, told a story characteristic of some of
the wealthier citizens of the ’Pootra-ridden State. Said
he, “ We don’t ask more than 3d. a head, but we can’t
continue running the concerts if a man brings his wife
and his sister and his mother-in-law and perhaps some
youngsters, and expects 3d. to carry the lot. A man
: came here one evening escorting four ladies. I found out
afterwards he was staying at a hotel where they charge
from one to three guineas a day. The ladies went in first,
and one took out her purse. He rushed up. ‘ No, no ’;
says he, ‘ I’ll pay for the lot.’ And he did. He put in
3d.”
“ Haresfoot”: Melba and Sarah Bernhardt were both in
London by last advices. They can exchange experiences
not only of Melbourne but of Lilydale, which Sarah also
visited. She went off in a coach and four to De Castella’s
vineyard there, starting at midnight on a Saturday, after
performing “Frou Frou” at the Princess’s. They say
she had acted “Camille” in the afternoon matinee,
and rehearsed “Adrienne Lecouvreur” in the morning.
Such is the astounding endurance of the fragile looking,
not to say bony, Sarah. There is a legend in Pari3 that
Sarah shot a tiger at Lilydale, and I believe she shows the
skin. This ferocious beast, if Sarah shot anything, was
only a poor, harmless native bear up a tree.
Not generally known that the grandfather of Miss Maud
FitzStubbs, the genial Tom Stubbs, auctioneer in old
Sydney and old Melbourne, was a composer of some note
as well as an instrumentalist of great merit.
The latest news about that very unusual girl, Alice
Crawford, is full of interest for many spinsters. Since
Miss Crawford left Australia with Wilson Barrett’s co. she
has lost 261bs. in weight and gained a full inch in height.
She now stands 5.10, and looks even taller, being slim and
upright in figure. Can’t explain why she should have
recommenced growing at 22 years of age, but thinks it
must be the climate of the Cold Country, where the
quantity of milk she drinks (2 quarts a day) serves
rather to lengthen than strengthen her. Alice Crawford’s
artistic standing as an actress has also increased by an
inch or more, but her physical standing is already a cause
for anxiety, and she trusts it will go no further. Seems
that on the first night of Wilson Barrett’s new play—a
somewhat gay and sprightly comedy of the Elizabethan
period—the young giantess wore high-heeled Elizabethan
shoes to add to the effect of some perfectly sweet gowns.
The 5.10 vision on high heels dwarfed the rest of the com-
pany, and next night she was ordered to come down to
slippers. Fate has evidently marked Miss Alice for a star
tragedienne, although her inclination is for comedy parts.
Mrs. Doubleday 7, who chaperoned the Bendigo “ recitress”
in Melbourne, after she had successfully launched (and
lost) Amy Castles, has always protested that her hand-
some, loyal young friend is remarkably clever. One of
these days we will hear of Alice Crawford taking London
by storm.
A little cough will take you off
When you the least expect it,
If you don’t try to make it fly,
But happen to neglect it.
For coughs increase, and never cease,
When once their footing’s sure ;
Yet at the start they all depart
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
(Rev.) JOSEPH HOPKINS, West Berlin, N. J., writes :
“My wife has had an attack of lung trouble. She
coughed incessantly and raised enormously. We nearly
despaired of her recovery. Jayne’s Expectorant, by the
blessing of God, restored her. She is now well.”*
Prohibition is assuming awe-inspiring pro-
portions in Maoriland. There are only 39 “ pubs”
now open in Dunedin; and its suburbs, Caversham
and Port Chalmers, have none at all. There are
none in the Wellingtonian suburb, Newtown, and
the town of Ashburton is equally destitute, while
the parched railway traveller has no hope of
refreshment from Dunedin to Invercargill, a
distance of 130 miles.
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in the New English Comedy Opera, entitled,
MY LADY MOLLY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. SW PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDN E yT
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Great Sensational Drama, in Four Acts, Illustrative
of Life in New York, entitled the
SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 22, THE PRICE OF SIN.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
-J" H EAT R E ROYAL, SY D N ITy.
Under the Sole Direction of MR. CEORCE MUSCROVE.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
. Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
Shakespearian Company
in Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s.
O A LAC E TH EATRE, SYDNEY. "
■ Lessee and Director .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST NIGHTS of
MR. DANIEL FRAWLEY
and his Company of American Players in the Brilliant and
Successful Plav,
BROTHER OFFICERS.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, THE CIRL I LEIT BEHIND ME
Box Plan at Paling’s.
YCEUM THEATR E, S Y D N E Y.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the Thrilling Dramatic Narrative,
GREED OF GOLD.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S. FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION., '
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 22, THE WORST
WOMAN IN LONDON.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-.- Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
|RA N D OPENING
OF
I N
SYDNEY
WIRTH BROS.’
HUGE UNITED SHOWS,
GIGANTIC CIRCUS,
TRAVELLING ZOO,
MUSEUM, HIPPODROME,
and
MENAGERIE OF TRAINED WILD ANIMALS,
this
SATURDAY, AUGUST 22,
PHILLIP P
(Next St. Mary’s Cathedral).
In Specially-Constructed Green Waterproof Tents.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Electric Lights& Acetylene Gas.
OLDEST, LARGEST, AND BEST AUSTRALIAN
CIRCUS,
And the Only One that has Toured the World.
FULL OF FEATURES NOVEL ! DARING !
SENSATIONAL ! and MYSTERIOUS 1
Teeming with Novelties never seen in any other Circus
on Earth.
Prices to suit the Millions— 3s., 25., and Is.
Seating Accommodation for 6000 Persons.
the MUTOS C 0 P E.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
»d 400 GEORGE STREET.
Iways on View.
lEP” Admission FREE.
rIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNE/.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. Harrv Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART—LAWN TENNIS,
plendid Success of THE DE WYNNE BROS.
Great Enthusiasm aroused by
•W. C. FIELDS,
America’s Eccentric Juggler.
Miss MAUD PERMAN, THE TWO COLLIERS,
iss ELLA WELLINGTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
r. HUGH HUXHAM, Mr. FRED. IiIVENHALL, Mr.
AM WILSON, Mr. GEO'. SCOTT, Mr. GEO. WALLACE,
Mr. GUS FRANKS, and all our G reat CO-
PPER A HO U SF, MELBOURNE.
J Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
A Furore Created Nightly by
MADAME MARZELLA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
FREDERICK 1 , n J / MOLLY
I ALLEN } and tFULLER
DAN CRAWLEY, London’s Quaint Comedian.
TILL WHITBURN, RUBY CRAWFORD, LILIAN
ISHOP, CLARENCE SISTERS, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
VIAUD FANING, LES WARTON, ARTHUR ELLIOTT.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musin' ve.
Farewell to Melbourne of MISS NELLIE STEV.'A T.
LAST 2 NIGHTS pf IOLORES.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 22, SWFE7 NEIL OF
OLD DRURY, for 2 Nights. TUESDAY, AUGUST
Mil E AND MEN, for 2 Nights. THURSDAY, ALGUsi
27, A COUNTRY MOUSE, Final Performance.
USUAL PRICES.
Box Plan .at Allan ?
Theatre
Lessee ..
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING,
B’and Holt’s Famous Dramatic Company in the Sensa-
tional, Domestic & Equestrian Melodrama,
GOING THE PACE.
By Arthur Shirley and Ben Landeek.
Prices—3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATReTmELBOUAN i
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, First Time in Melbourne,
IF I WERE KING,
By Mr. J. H. M‘Carthy.
CUYLER HASTINGS as FRANCOIS VILLON.


A GREAT TESTIMONY
«...
Mr. ARTHUR HILL (of Hill and Sylvalny),
Men are Living in Australia
whose lives are failures, who are dying by inches. Illness has brought
them adversity, ill-health has destroyed their energy. They become
hopeless and ambitionless, finding life devoid of the joys that make
it worth the living.
Disease means an ENEMY. It may mean Death. A man
likes to feel strong, with no limit to his physical and domestic
pleasures. He likes to feel
Every Inch a Strong, Vigorous Man,
to feel in the flood of glorious youthful health. If he really wants
to be healthy, cured of any complaint from any cause arising, he
should consult the SPECIALISTS of
The Freeman & Wallace Institute
who practise in the front rank of Science, and whose keen
insight into diseases, and whose singular skill in CURING
THEM have made their names famous over Australia. Their
ELECTRO-THERAPEUTIC methods have been endorsed by
some of the leading persons of the land. In all instances where
this treatment has been adopted, speedy and
Remarkably Curative Effects have Resulted,
the patients enjoying better health than they have experienced
for years.
Here is the testimony of a splendid athlete, the finest art-cyclist
who has visited Australia, now starring the States under contract to
Mr. Harry Rickards, the great Yaudeville King. MR. ARTHUR
HILL, of “ Hill and Sylvainy,” whose portrait is here published,
recently injured his back, which affected the kidneys seriously.
Here is his testimony to the SPECIALISTS’ ONE POUND
ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” BELT and to their Magical
Electro-Medical treatment.
“During April of this year I strained the
muscles of my hack, which threatened complete
prostration. To regain my nerve and muscular
strength speedily, I wore one of your much spoken
of Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” BELTS, and adopted
your treatment. It is a wonderfully curative in-
strument, for in a few days I regained that mus-
cular power essential to the great feats of strength
involved in my professional career.
“(Signed)
"Tivoli Theatre, 8ydney,
April, 1903."
ARTHUR HILL
(Of Hill and Sylvainy).
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Any man who may be ill or weak from any cause may regain his lost strength
in a few weeks by adopting THE SPECIALISTS’ wonderful modes of nerve
re-invigoration. Their Electric “IN VIGOR ATOR ” Belts are constructed
upon the finest scientific plans. They are locally manufactured, and locally
certificated.
They are Sold for One Pound Only,
and can be worn by any member of a family. £8 is allowed in return for their £lO
Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” Belt, which contains 2oz. 18ct. gold, even after a cure
has been effected. Duty on all Belts is paid throughout the States. There is no
Functional, Nerve, Stomach, or Kidney Disease which this treatment will not
alleviate and cure.
All these “INVIGORATOR” Belts bear the highest awards from the highest
electrical authorities in Sydney, and from Mr. Albert Libby, Consulting Engineer for
Allis, Chalmers, Co., the largest electrical firm in the world, and who supervised the
formation of the present electric car service of Sydney. These certificates may be
inspected upon application.
THE SPECIALISTS have testimonies, in addition to Mr. Hill’s, from such men
as Mr. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., Mr. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., Inspector
FOWLER, N.S. Wales Police, and numerous others. These are but a few instances.
They have cured numberless men from such grave diseases as DYSPEPSIA, INDI-
GESTION, GOUT, NEURALGIA, SCIATICA, BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLADDER and
Liver Troubles, Prostratic Disorders, Varicocele, etc.
They have indisputable proof to this effect. Their Electric “ INYIGORATOR”
Belt, when worn round the waist nightly for a few hours, saturates the vital nerve
centres with a healthy natural energy. LACK OF NERYE FORCE is at the root
of the above diseases. Electricity restores nerve-power, and the current, assisted by
strong reconstructive remedies, soon effects a radical cure. Electricity creates the
necessary tissue essential to perfect health, and when time and money is spent upon
such a form of treatment the chances of a radical cure are rendered certain.
The Specialists’ Fees are: Advice and Medicine, £1 only.
When under treatment you are under the care of an Internationally Registered
Physician and Specialist, Dr. R. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., who is
registered by Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England and
America. He is the only Registered Specialist in Australia who thoroughly understands
Electrical treatment. (See N.S* Wales & Victorian Registered Medical Practitioners’ List.)
A GIFT BOOK.
A Great Medical Work, “CLINICAL EX-
PERIENCES,” 150 Medical Plates, 550 pages
instructive letterpress on General Diseases,
posted free, for ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS,
a Genuine Health Adviser. A chapter of 30
pages on Electricity fully explains how so many
wonderful cures are made by its use. Chapters
on Plague, Fevers, Sunstroke, Snakebite, Poi-
sons, and Antidotes, Treatment of Invalids, etc.,
make it invaluable to country homes. ONE
SHILLING IN STAMPS is the only charge.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURCICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Bathurst & Elizabeth Sts., Sydney.


Yaranabe ”: The assurance that the
bystander gave “ J.F.D.” as to a man who wears
glasses not being able to drink beer worth a cent
?' ’®3) is far from being correct. I believe
the real professional beer-drinker is much addicted
<o wearing glasses. They make him see more beer.
About the Servian royalties “Tom”
writes:—
Re the “Pig Dealer” (Bulletin, ? 13). “In far
foreign fields, from Dunkirk to Belgrade, ~e the soldiers
and chiefs of the Irish Brigade.”— Thos. Davis. Is there
any connection between Milos Obrenovitch and the
“ Wild Goose,” Myles O’Brien, who fled from Ireland after
the Sarsfield episode. Without the Slav termination
“ Vitch ” the names sound much alike. I have read that
a person named Myles O’Brien was known to be in
business in Belgrade in 1735.
“ Jumbnck ” writes :
The New South Wales civil servant may be above the
average in culture and understanding, but a perusal of
his organ, the Civil Service Gazette, does not encourage
the idea. There is a very large lickspittle element,
which has not even learnt the art of fawning gracefully.
Late Critchett Walker never deserved such an “In
Memoriam ” as appeared in last issue. An article by one
“Saxon,” some time ago, on the picture of Mount Kos-
ciusko in National Art Gallery, was a compound of
pompous blatancy that would make men laugh and
angels weep. But it is whispered that “Saxon” is an
under secretary or some such Nabob —hence the space he
gets.
[The New South Wales civil servant isn’t above
the average—he isn’t paid to be. —Ed. B.]
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST,
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P,
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teeck, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs “ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. 6 6 6
BE 7UA8.8 OB COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—•
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from niy mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
he mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS (HIRE, AND CURED BY
TWO DOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
"Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire.' I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove iis distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
"I user! your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.’’
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.YV.”
" Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Eenny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
" I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
" I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.’’
e
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.— F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydnej', N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
6
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv.—S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” O
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN o’
TRELAWNEV, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I goffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” ’
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new' experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—OHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geblono Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”-EI.LIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
°"” ,?EPOT ' Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (so Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ SWOOP, 6tC.
Tor all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
I
£
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere,


The Inky Way.
SIMPLE SONG
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The chief fault of recent Australian verse lies in its
extreme simplicity ; it does not go deep enough."—
Chorus of British rags.
They have scoffed at us in England, where the poet’s hair
is long,
And have scrawled a dread “ too simple ’’ through the
stanzas of our song ;
They have said that we are shallow, that we sink no deep
song-mines—
There’s a sorry lack of culchaw in our easy-flowing lines !
And we do not boost Britannia with our poems and our
pens,
Hence come these deep reproaches from the land of beef
and fens.
We’re a Simple (shout it I) People, and we want no gaudy
song,
So we write our verse to suit us, and, says Hingland, it is
wrong.
We should learn a style didactic ; we should Chadbandise
our verse ;
Till it ambled past the eyesight like a smug, corpse-laden
hearse.
We should yell for Blood and Boodle ; we should howl for
Grab and Gore;
Then those papers all would praise us and would say we
“ simped ” no more 1
If we screeched for Brass and Battle we would be more
popular
In the land where Judas reigneth and the fogs and
paupers are.
If we lauded King and Courtier—if we crawled like
worms along,
There’d be tears of joy in Fleet-street and a boom in
Austral song.
Every bard would get the order of the Clothes Prop or
the Bath ;
They would knight friend Victor Daley with a paling or a
lath.
They would chase each wayback rhymer with a starry
C.M.G.,
And The Times would print our poems if we praised Bull
constantlee 1
But we cannot yell for Hempire and we cannot howl for
Blood—
We object to Kings, and Courtiers like Batrachians in the
mud.
Even though the mud be Royal, we object to crawling
through,
To the throne of august Edward and the kiss-goal of his
shoe.
We object to Judas Joseph, and till Daley’s hair grows
long,
We shall raise grey grief in Fleet-street with our beastly
Simple Song 1
GRANT HERVBY.
Sydney D.T. concludes an article on recent scandals in
connection with the London financial press smugly :
“ The reputable portion of the daily press of London
is as free from reproach in this connection as the daily
f tress of Australia, which is saying as much as is possible
n recognition of honorably-conducted journalism.”
II m 1 We’re trying to recall an instance of a daily news-
paper in Australia ever telling the whole naked truth
about any wild-cat insurance co. that advertised gener-
ously ; and to forget the numerous instances of support
in return for cash —paid indirectly, it is true —obtained
by some most notorious “ ramps ” from the daily press.
The late Davison (“ Peter”) Symmons, who introduced
light verse and frivolous prose into Melb. Argus when
that journal was otherwise as solemn as an owl, always
seemed a sad case of misplaced indiscretion. A weak
mannikin, with an insignificant face, poor Peter treated
himself as an able-bodied “ Bohemian,” and stuck to the
all-round game when he ought to have been playing for
safety. He may have borrowed some temporary aid from
whisky, but men of his physique pay ruinous interest for
the loan. In the Argus’s brief notice of its onetime
brilliant contributor Symmons was stated to be only 40
when he died, which would make him out to have been
only 34 when he retired—wrecked—from the night-work
of the morning journal. Probably he was older that that.
Present scribe speaks from recollection of what Peter said
about himself more than ten years ago—and men rarely
die of phthisis at 40, anyhow.
* * • •
During Howard Willoughby’s long illness matters on
the editorial staff of the Argus became somewhat
mixed. Haddon and E. S. Cunningham did most of the
work, in the hope that Willoughby would be able to
return to his post. However, a consultation of medical
men pronounced him unfit for further work, and he
retires definitely, while a sort of general shuffle is to take
place in the Argus pack. Cunningham is too useful in
his present place as sub-editor and general manager of
the staff to be raised to the vacant chair —that is the
result of being too useful. So David Watterston is
transferred from the Australasian to the Argus as
editor. His old post is filled by Fricker, who did
the work during Watterston's European tour last
year. The “ Oriel ” column is awaiting a suitable man,
and meanwhile is syndicated by Fricker, Donald M‘Donald
and Monty Grover. J. F. Deegan, an ex-M.L.A. for East
Melbourne, is a recent addition to the staff, and writes
feelingly on liquor and barmaids.
* * * *
The Institute of Journalists at Melbourne has gone to
pot, and done no good for anybody. The most practical
man who favored it was editor Windsor of the Age, who
offered to start a benevolent fund with £5O. Editor Winter,
of the Evening Herald, was the disastrous official who
prevented the offer being accepted.
» * * *
It is always good business to back the “ kirk ” to make
a really profitable bargain. The weekly print of the
Victorian Presbyterians offers a five-shilling book prize
for the best 250-word paragraph sent in. For its ss. it
gets about a page of decent pars. The winner gets his
book, but the rest aren’t even given a tract.
* * * *
E. C. Barton, who has been connected with the Bris-
bane Courier for nearly 40 years—serving under Gresley
Lukin, Carl Feilberg, Kinnaird Rose, Ward, and
Fletcher—has at last been elevated to the editorial chair.
Mr. Barton is a painstaking plodder, who should be able
to maintain the Courier’s reputation for dullness and for
arriving a day too late for the fair.
* * * *
The Argus shocked Melbourne the other day by
placarding the city with news bills notifying a “ Murder
at Skye. Old Man Riddled with Bullets by our own
reporter.” The paper habitually murders the King’s
English, but one hardly expected it to boast of its
lawless tendencies so openly. Also, same day, the Age
reported a Collingwood councillor, when defending the
city’s morals, as saying “ Why, last Monday there were
three J’s.P. on the Bench and only one drunk.”
* » * *
Donald Macdonald, in his Argus appreciation of the
late Davison (“ Peter ”) Symmons, remarks, with an air
of sad surprise : “ It is a painful fact that, in looking up
a few of Symmons’s topical verses, one finds so often a
procession of dead men passing before one’s eyes.” Why,
certainly. The human subjects of topical jingles in the
Argus are selected from such “ representative citizens ”
as hobnob with daily journalists at every sort of function
where refreshments ensue. Saturday rhymes in the
“ respectable” press are mainly appeals to the vanity of
an overfed class that chases the ceremonial champagne
and chicken, and blows itself out at other people’s
expense. They are more or less elderly, fat and con-
gested. The time is near when the news of their decease
will be learned with deep regret by a large circle of
kindred guzzlers. A man who figures as a genial local
identity in the “ Oriel ” column of the Argus has received
his warning. It is time for him to make his will. Those
advertisement verses are the Doggerel of the Doomed, so
to speak.
AN EDITORIAL TRIOLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, sonnets and ballads and odes—
And Spring coming rapidly, too 1
I tremble to look on the loads
Of sonnets and ballads and odes 1
For a mild man to fury it goads,
Who has the whole bunch to wade through
Of sonnets and ballads and odes!—
And Spring coming rapidly, too 1
ULOOLA.
The New Zealand Times, Wellington (M.L.). just about
holds the record for changes in its literary staff—for
getting hold of bright young men and losing them.
Marter and Taperell both did time on that paper. Late-
lamented Evison was at one time editor; J. T. M.
Hornsby, Taperell again, R. A. Loughnan, and J. L.
Kelly have had control of things all within a few years.
Latest changes are that Guy H. Scholefleld, a talented
youngster, who has done some good work and will do
better, has been lifted from the Times to the editorial
staff of Christchurch Press, vice J. P. Whitelaw, who
goes to London under engagement to Brett’s Agency.
Harcus Plimmer, after about three years’ theatrical and
commercial life, has rejoined the staff, which has also
been strengthened by the acquirement of E. Schwabe,
late of Hawke’s Bay Herald. This continuous ebb and
flow of par.-hunters points to the Times as the literary
registry-office for the Maoriland press. Xf the proprietary
could become a trifle less restless, the Times would be a
better paper.
* * * *
Melbourne is interested in a coming law-suit. The
Waxellency, in the course of a lengthy and illuminating
address on nothing in particular recently, had let himself
go a bit at Australia generally. The Age report men-
tioned that he had said somewhat severe things about The
Australian Girl. Then the Waxellency wrote an indig-
nant letter to the paper (of over half-a-column !), and,
a private letter to the Editor also ! He complained that
he had been misreported, misrepresented, and most un-
kindly commented upon. The Age, so the story goes,
sacked the scribe with no ceremony, and appended to the
Eminent One’s published letter a note “ regretting that
our reporter misapprehended ” the Waxed One’s remarks.
The reporter didn’t like this, and the paper, it is said,
has got a £5OO writ for alleged wrongful dismissal and
libel; and everybody who is anybody has been subp-unaed.
* * * *
A record ? Lawyer Ledger has been unpaid editor of
Tasmania’s temperance paper, the People’s Friend, for
34 years.
* * >|c *
“L.W.”: The curse of Australian journalism is the
sporting scribe, and the way he perambulates across the
pages of the daily press is indeed dreadful. Up to the
present no Australian paper that this writer has read
has succeeded in engaging a man with a trained intellect
and a good descriptive faculty to attend to that part of
the business. They all hanker after the man who is a
“sport’’ himself ; and the man who is a “sport’’can
remember the pedigree of every horse that holds a
prominent position on the current turf ; he can reel off
yards of information that Something was by Nothing
out of Chaos, imported ; but he can’t, as a rule, write
stuff to interest the general public. He runs to ambi-
guity with the idea that it is profundity ; he fills
his copy with slang, believing it to be wit. Two
things are required in the ideal sporting writer. The
first is ability to write a good thrilling description of
the race or the match. The second qualification is a
sufficient knowledge of the business to be able to make
sensible remarks on current sporting events, and to sup-
ply reasonable theories as to why the Eastern Mud-
slingers beat the Southern Scrappers by a dozen points,
when the Southern Scrappers had previously walloped
the Western Gutterpups, who had romped right over the
Eastern Mudslingers. The descriptive writer is born
not made ; but the trained intellect of any educated
man can soon acquire all the knowledge required to
make sensible sporting reflections—providing any paper
likes to pay sufficient salary to make a man with a really
bright intellect take an intelligent interest in sport. At
present sporting writers are the Ishmaelites of the jour-
nalistic world ; and the great majority of journalists are
Ishmaelites of the world in general. Therefore, the
sporting columns are a great weariness of soul and
utterly devoid of descriptive quality or general interest.
B allara - t Courier has increased its circulation by over
1000 copies daily as a result of the stand it took durinsr
the Railway strike. b
* * * *
It looks bad to see the Leader adopting the country
newspaper trick of bogus “ answers to correspondence ”
vnA CO^ mn °J accent issue was made up of answers
lifted bodily out of the current number of the Scientific
American. The lifted stuff was not even paraphrased—
just cut out and shoved in as it stood.
* * * 0
S.M. Herald, which had already copied its “Personal
column and its daily “ Summary ” from the rival Tele-
grapii, has now cribbed another feature and conies out
with a bi-weekly column called “ Building and Works”—
a palpable steal of the other journal’s “Building and
Construction. The Herald in other respects, however
is dropping the role of an aged and respectable parent
ollowing behind in a Bath chair ; it now has opinions of
its own, quite definite opinions, and sometimes starts a
fiction of its own, and does not merely wait to back up
the tarradiddle of the other paper.
* * * *
W. R. Holt, writing in the World’s Press on British
newspaper salaries, says that, if he is lucky, a newspaper
man ‘ may make £2 a week when he is 21, £4 a week
when he is 25, seven guineas a week or so when he is 30.”
If not lucky, “he may grub along at 60s. a week when
And he doesn’t, as a rule, get much beyond
£5OO a year. Present writer knows one Australasian
capital where the average wage of all grades below the
editorial is not over £3 weekly, where the regular and
only leader-writer of one daily gets £2 25., where (on the
dailies) no outside contributors are paid under any circum-
stances whatever, and no regular hands are paid extra
for accepted voluntary special work. In this paradise,
an editor is wanted just now. He must be experienced,
capable, sober, and immaculately respectable. He will
be expected to write daily not less than lj columns
of leading matter, to extend all cables and do his
own .sub-editing, to undertake all the duties of editor-
ship, to meet by instinct the variable daily demands of a
capricious proprietary, and generally to‘be infallible, a
little stronger than Hercules, and a little more patient
than the whole Job family. Salary, to commence with,
£3. Rise to £4, perhaps, some day. Very uncertain.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE. •
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
A man never knows what a woman can do
until she cries.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Dr. Mackellar remarked lately to a som-
nolent Legislature that, in N.S.W., of all the
children borne by mothers under 20 years of age
41 per cent, were illegitimate. In 10 years, 4575
illegitimate children were born of girls 18 years
and under. Two of the mothers were but 12 years
old, 11 but 13, and 80 but 14. The normal death-
rate of legitimate children under one year was 89
per 1000, whilst the mortality of illegitimates was
287.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
For the Men Folks.
At this store the needs of the men are studied and understood. We have
hundreds of useful things suitable for Birthday Gifts or Presentation. We
have things for every age from cradle-days up to manhood, and in variety
such as you cannot possibly get elsewhere, and at all prices except high
ones. Write for Price List.
No. FB966.—Solid Silver Military Hair
Brushes for men. Best make, 21s each
No. F69o9.—Heavy 9ct. Gold
Engraved Shield Links, 21s.
No. Fs93s.—The Billiard Player’s
Companion, Solid Silver Billiard
Chalk Holder, sa.
T 'A
No. 257.—501 id Silver Sovereign
Case. Best Make only, Plain or
Chased, 10s 6d.
No. F69os.—Torpedo and Shield
Links, 9ct. Gold, 21s.
No. 259 A.—Silver Cigarette
Case, 27s 6d.
Plain or Chased, in 9cfc. Gold,
£l2 10b.
The “ Kings’ ” Sovereign Purse, just patented, simple and
safe action, quite different from old style.
In Solid Silver, price 14s 6d.
No. F73s4.—New Zealand Greenstone and Gold Pendant
for Watch Chain, I2s 6d.
No. F623s.—New Zealand
Greenstone and tot. Gold
Watch Chain Pendant,
22s 6d.
No. F 7416. —9et. Gold Tie
Clip, 14s 6d ; Silver, 2s 0d
No. F(s772.—The Automatic Roll-up Shaving Strop; the Handsome
Silver-plated Case excludes all dust; price 14s 6d.
3ct. Gold Tie Clips in many styles. Plain, 6s 6d a
pair; Heavy-made, 12s 6d ; set with Stones, 12s fid,
14s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d.
No. F936s—Engraved Solid Silver
Match Box, strong make, 12s 6d.
No. 602.—Solid Silver Sovereign Case and
Match Box combined, 27s 6d : 9ct. Gold,
£6 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £9 10s • 18ct., £l5 10s.
No. G2394/9. Silver-
plated and Leather
Whisky Flasks, 6 sizes,
9s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d,
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. E 6019. —Silver-Mounted Shaving
Mug, 10s 6d.J
No. F 3462. —Fine Leather Pocket Book,
Solid Silver Mounts, 10s 6d.
nea :
No. QB.—Gentleman’s Solid Silver Concave Military
Hair Brush, 18s od.
No. F7o9B.—New Zealand Greenstone and Set. Gold
Fish Pendant, 22s 6d.
SBSHEEI3
No. G466.—Faultless Queensland Bean Match Box,
Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.


A good part of Sydney at
present exists by renting houses and letting rooms
(furnished or unfurnished) to the rest of Sydney.
Hunting for apartments lately, I came on a street
with 17 houses in a straight run, all hanging out
signals of distress—“ Rooms to Let,” “Apart-
ments, ” etc. I know three men who do no work ;
their wives let every room in their houses except
the little cupboard under the stairß. They keep
that and the folding stretcher for themselves and
hubby, and live on the difference between rent
received and rent paid away. The houses that
do not hang out a sign often sub-let just the same
as the others; but Maria or Susan Ann, who goes
to business, objects to the card, and generally gets
a young “ gent ” or “ lydy ” who has been recom-
mended to her.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cur# any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*/''. y' .
“ Steff Cassander ” writes :
Sydney appeal* to Maorilanders ever w much inn
than Melbourne, especially to the North blander*. It le
the sea that they are used to. Lots of them Intend
touring Australia, but when once in Sydney they wish
for nothing better. Everything is so different—from the
quiok up-to-date trams down to the prehistoric water-
cart (fanoy Sydney still carrying the old-time cask of
water on a dray ; we are past that, at any rate). Sydney
harbor, day or night 1 Where is there a more beautiful
sight (pome in error) ; where a more ideal plaoe to lire
than Mosman’s, with its pretty architecture? Melbourne
is too big and empty, with suburbs a counterpart of itself.
And the Sydney women, good and bad, with the eternal
cheerful smile and jumpy walk; the good bad woman
that treats the huia boy like a mother or sister, and the
bad bad woman that bites him for all he is worth, and the
women that pass and seem to be surplus. What a differ-
ence to the small M.L. towns where all the women are
known! Then the Sydney woman has finer eyes and
teeth than the Maorilander, but not a finer complexion.
Where all the women paint (say at Kandwick) it is hard to
tell the good from the bad and the good bad. They don’t
paint our way unless for fanoy dress balls —at least not
the indigenous female, though several bleach wigs.
Both Melbourne and Sydney are—especially Sydney—
too full of poor people. It’s nothing to be wondered at
where half a country’s population is in its chief town.
But rural Victoria and N.S.W.—bah 1 what a contrast to
M.L. The townbred of our country do know something of
tbdr agricultural At*rict#, bn* Australian towntoa knew
nothingof their*. ttsafriculturaUlaM of Australia^ ara
neglected and show it, and they are saddest; In M.L
they are the happieet. Perhaps Haonlandera would be
worse if they had droughts, but they don t. If theydid,
they’d have had irrigation long ago. A word about the
express train connacting Sydney and Melbourne. Why
has M.L. dining ears on its little lines where one can
spend a pleasant hour, whilst Sydney to Melbourne
express makes you get out and eat “ high food, because
you are hungry ?
The good, old, self-satisfied Maorilander is always
the same. He sees Sydney and, perhaps, looks
at the great mass of brine in the Hawkesbury,
which he takes for fresh water, and says that if
this was his country he would irrigate. And the
idea of going into the baok blooks where he could
walk 400 miles in a straight line and not find a
hatful of water to irrigate with —well, that idea
never oomes to him. Also, some fool tells him
that half the population of N.S.W. or Victoria is
in the chief town and he believes it.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.* '
Debility Ended.
Bilb Bbanb again Prominent.
“Your Bile Beans have proved a valuable
remedy in my household,” says Mrs E. J. Ramus,
of 1 Arundle-street, Forest Lodge, Sydney. “I
was sometimes troubled with DEBILITY,
especially during the hot weather, and when I
feel done up with a tired, listless feeling, I take a
bean or two, with beneficial results. As a gentle
purgative they are all that can be desired, and
leave no evil after-effects whatever. I can safely
say Bile Beans are unequalled for poor appetite,
sleeplessness, and that out-of-sorts feeling so
prevalent at the present season.’-' Bile Beans
have now a world wide reputation for curing
biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation,
piles, debility, female weaknesses, nervousness,
bad blood, pimples and all skin eruptions, bad
breath, anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness,
lumbago, rheumatism, and, in fact, all ailments
that owe their origin to defective bile flow,
assimilation, digestion, eto. Bile Beans are
obtainable from all medicine vendors, price Is. lid.
on 2s. 9d. large box (contains three times the
quantity of the Is. lid. size. )*
Our Latest Styles of
GRAMOPHONES
ARE FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM.
H
IT APPEALS TO YOU
HERE
■
VN
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One of the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the born can be turned in any direction.
- PRICES.
“ Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £ll 15 O
“ Double=Spring Honarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l4 15 O
> “ Triple=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
> Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l6 5 O
> Other Styles, 30s to £3O. All “ Monarch ” styles play 7in. or lOin. records.
Agents all over the World.
»
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Tasmania—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
"GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, ltd.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEITOII GRIPIIIIfIiE * CO., IHEEIOOSOE.
r' ' *
BLACK, liLI), and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases): —
PRICE IN MELBOURNE .. 4/- per
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
■I HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
4/-
4/-
4/-
Gallon.
Castro's East Sacrament
Jlitd Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Moat Brilliant Short Storiea Produced in
Auatralia.”
A CONSENSUS OP CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
• • He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him—the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
.... Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Mo> ning Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. ... Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.” —Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 Gbobok Stkbkx, SYDHIT, AVUTRAiU.
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
DARKER AROMATIC
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.


Noumea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The steamer Ovalau is beside the wharf at
Noumea. The capital of New Caledonia lies on
its back basking in the sunshine, with the near
hills gazing straight down upon it. The hump-
backed mountains in the distance look like a herd
of gigantic sleeping camels turned to stone. Their
aspect is sullen and sinister. lie Nou squats
behind us in the harbor. The convict prison is
on this dismal island. The French are a practical
people, and do not waste fine scenery on their
criminals.
I saw some of the best-behaved of these gentle-
men sweeping the streets. Their looks were
poisonous. I can imagine nothing that would be
too bad for the worst of them. Judging by the
specimens I have seen of both, there is more than
a mere racial difference between French and
English criminals. Stubborn brute ferocity is
stamped on the scowling faces of the latter;
malignant intelligence glitters in the eyes of the
former. The English criminal looks like (what he
is) a bad man ; the French criminal looks like a
devil.
The wharf at Noumea is broad and long and
bare. On the town side of it there are some huge
galvanised-iron stores and a small police-station—
the latter for the convenience of sailors, I pre-
sume. Nothing gay and Gallic about this scene,
anyhow. Two or three dozen Kanakas in gor-
geously-striped singlets and sulus, or in tattered
French trousers, with feathers stuck in their hats,
or with their own natural wool colored red with
lime, or left black and cut and twisted into fancy
patterns, provide the only relief to be found in
the picture. It is not inordinately exhilarating.
Some of the passengers went for drives into the
country around the capital, but we made up our
minds to explore the latter on our own account.
A gentleman from Madras, with bare feet and a
glittering smile, almost passionately adjured us
not to be so foolhardy, but to engage him for a
small, moderate, little fee, and he would show us
everything, and bring us back safely to the ship.
He spoke excellent English, and told us that he
would willingly act as our guide simply out of the
love he had for us as fellow-subjects of the British
Empire, were it not that the French Government,
against which he had a claim, was allowing him
only a franc a day to live upon, which was not a
sufficient income for a man who had been educated
at Cambridge. It seems that this black image
was actually a Cambridge graduate. We politely
spurned the assistance of our fellow-subject, and
went our independent way.
Neither of my friends spoke French, and I
knew about as much of it as you could put upon a
two-sou piece. It was this that lent a charm to
the adventure. I told them not to worry ; what-
ever happened, I would see them through.
“ Ou est le jardin publique?” I inquired of a
man who was passing.
He pointed it out.
‘ ‘ Et la Musee, Afsieu ? ”
He waved his hand in another direction. I
could see that my friends began to look upon me
with respect. . . . The garden is about a rood in
extent. There was nobody in it but Captain
01 vy. He was on a pedestal with arm.stretched
out like our Captain Cook. Beyond the garden
is the public square, a large brown piece of
ground without a blade of grass upon it. There
are trees, however, and a band-stand. On even-
ings when the band plays you can get a chair to
sit upon by paying six sous. It is not too much
for the chair, but it is a prodigal price for the
band performance. I said so to a Noumean
gentleman who sat near me, and he smiled and
bowed as if I had paid him, or the band, a com-
pliment. Perhaps I had, unwittingly. French
is such a devilishly polite language that it is
almost impossible for a beginner to make a nasty
remark in it with accuracy and effect.
“ Towles les rues de la vitte, M’sieu,” I observed
to another gentleman, “ pourquoi sont-ils nommts
aux victoires Francaises 1 Je ne vois pas une rue
nommd Waterloo.”
These remarks, made with my very best
Parisian accent, seemed to paralyse him for a
moment. Then the light of intelligence gleamed
in his eye, and he laughed and said something to
the effect that I was much too droll. But it is a
fact that nearly all the streets of Noumea are
named after French victories. If the little
Noumeans take their history from the street-
names they see, they must believe that France
never lost a battle.
We went to the top of the hill on which the
observatory is built, and saw two scenes which I
shall not soon forget. Below us on one side of
the hill was the town with its more or less busy
life ; on the other side were white-clad convicts,
working silently on the lonely roads that stretch
away to the sinister mountains. The Roman
Catholic cathedral is on another hill. Earnest
Protestants are in the habit of referring to the
Church of Rome as the Scarlet Woman that sits
upon the Seven Hills. They do her less than
justice. She sits upon every hill in every town
or village, that I have seen, where her children
are to be found. There is room inside the cathe-
dral for over 2000 people. There are also some
fine wood carvings there—the pulpit, altar-screens,
etc. —of which the resident clergy are reasonably
proud. They (the carvings) were done by a
convict.
The Town Hall is a modest brown building,
with a carved wooden verandah, and four stately
cocoa-nut palms in front of it. It looks not un-
like the kind of temple you see on willow-pattern
plates, except that its roof is not curly. It would
not be considered stately enough for a one-horse
municipality in Australia, yet it suffices for a
population of 12,000 in Noumea. But they are
not lavish architects in the little Paris of the
South, as they like to hear it called. You should
see their homely wooden Post Office. The better
class of private residences are somewhat suggestive
of Algerian houses—large box-shaped build mgs,
painted French grey all over, and surrounded by
verandahs with Venetian shutters to keep out the
heat. The smaller houses are of the same shape
and color, but are built of galvanised iron. The
fronts only are of wood. Inside these seraglio-
like structures the ladies of Noumea, so I was
informed by one of them who could speak English,
spend most of their time.
“But how do you manage to get through the
days, madame ? ”
She shrugged her shoulders, and, smilingly, re-
plied : “We eat, we drink, we talk ze scandale,
we read sometimes, we play ze piano, we sleep.
Et voile't! ”
The business people begin the day early.
Monsieur has his coffee and roll, and starts work
at seven o’clock. At eleven he shuts s shop or
office, and goes to his favorite cafe for ' g r _
absinthe-they drink it with syrup of g m l>ere
and what we would call breakfast. I he ' l ® „, •>
his siesta, and disturbs himself for nobody until
one or two o’clock-usually the latter -There »
scarcely a living thing, except perhaps a Kanaka
or a stray dog, to be seen about the streets at t .
time of the day. I asked what the average price
of board and lodging was in Noumea, but the
question was not understood until I explained.
Then I was informed that such an arrangement
was not known. The landlady, who has seen
better times and has had to descend to keeping a
hash-house, is—so far as I could learn—a my t..0-logical
logical being in Noumea. Single men, clerks and
the like, take rooms in an hotel and have then
meals sent to them in little saucepans, one within
another. For this—their rooms and tneir meals
they pay about £5 per month.
There is not one really fine hotel in the
But the lack of quality is made up by quantity.
I never saw so many cafes in a town of the same
size, or twice or five times the size, in my lire
before. If the Rev. Mr. Boyce were to pay it a
visit he would have to be put in a straight-jacket
before he was an hour ashore. And they would
think nothing of doing this if he made himself
obnoxious. A little gendarme about the size of a
shanghai rooster, with a bayonet dangling beside
his little leg, would call his Kanaka subordinate,
and Mr. Boyce would find himself in the lock-up
before he had time to even threaten to write a
letter to the Sydney Morning Herald. It is,
by the way, to a visitor, one of the most amusing
sights of Noumea to see these small policemen—a
Sydney policeman’s boot would make a bed for
one of them —with large moustaches, walking
around with the air and carriage of the great
Napoleon, each followed at a few paces behind by
a silent Kanaka assistant. The latter has to do
all the rough work. If the contract is too heavy
the gendarme draws his bayonet and hits his
Srisoner over the head with it, using it as a club.
ut, returning to tfle subject of hotels, Mr. Boyce
and his friends will be pleased to hear that the
cafes in Noumea close at eleven p.tn. sharp—
except on Sundays, when they keep open till
twelve. We leave on Sunday, which is a pity, as
there will be races on that day. There are three
big events and four horses entered for. each. It
was not without a thrill of clannish pride that I
noticed that Monsieur Michel Daly has two
horses competing in all three races. If he doesn’t
win something he must be clever.
Barbers are almost as plentiful in Noumea as
publicans. There is at least one shop with
“Coiffeur” above it in every street. In some
streets there are several. I was not able to find
out how they managed to live. The inhabitants
can’t be always getting shaved or having their
hair cut. But there the shops are, all the same.
And, speaking of shops, I notice that there is no
trouble taken about window-dressing in this town.
A few articles are shoved into the windows as if
to be out of the way. There is no striving after
artistic effect, no effort made to catch the eye of
the passer-by. The shops look more like country
stores in Australia than like city establishments.
The goods for sale are all inside. But, anyhow,
there is only one great commercial god in Noumea.
His name is Ballande. You see it everywhere.
He has shops all over the town, and supplies
everything. The other shopkeepers appear to
make a living in much the same fashion as the
barbers.
An Arab, wrapped in a white garment of many
folds, with a fine .predatory face and glittering
eyes, passed by in an open carriage. lie is the
once-famous El Mokrani, who fought the French
with such wild cat fury in Algeria years ago. He
was conquered at last and sent out to New Cale-
donia as a political exile. The French Govern-
ment, however, allowed him a pension. After a
time, when there was a Warsaw peace in Algeria
and the power of El Mokrani’s tribe was broken,
the Government intimated to him that he was at
liberty to return to his native country if he chose.
He didn’t choose. He had invested his pension
in various successful speculations in the land of
his exile, and preferred to remain there.
He now owns nearly every wheeled vehicle
there is for hire in Noumea. I was present when
a party from the steamer came to him to engage a
carriage for the afternoon. He asked a certain
price, and, after some argument, took five francs
less. It was a curious example of the irony of
fate—the voice that 'cried “ Allah il Allah ”
in the van of battle, raised in haggling ; the hand
that wielded the deadly scimitar stretched out
for more cab-fare ! El Mokrani is virtual sheikh
of the Arabs in New Caledonia. They give him
their money to mind for them, and they borrow
from him—at an exalted rate of interest, no doubt.
He keeps a cafe near the market. A patriot and
a hero turned publican and money-lender 1 Could
satire go further ? By the way, another illustrious
potentate was once a compulsory resident of
Noumea. He was Sultan of an island within the
sphere of French influence, somewhere about
Madagascar. When his period of exile was over
he made a lot of money by selling an Order of
Honor of his own manufacture —the Star of
Angiam, or something of the sort—to persons
fond of decorations. When the money—from 200
to 300 francs, or as much more as he could get—
was paid down, his Highness would fix the order
on the breast of the buyer with his own princely
black hands. I met several chevaliers of the Star
of Angiam in Noumea.
Next morning we went to look at the market,
which is held upon a portion of the public square.
It was an interesting, and amusing, and pathetic
sight. There were a few butchers’ stands with
small pieces of jaded-looking meat hanging on
hooks. One butcher appeared to be popular, and
sold out his stock quickly, with the exception
of a small head that was like no other head I have
seen but the head of a cat. He waited there
until he had sold it. The fish was kept alive in
little barrow-tanks. It may be a good idea from
an epicurean point of view, but to me it seems
cruel. All the other wares were displayed
on squares of canvas laid on the bare ground.
Some of the displays were simple and touching.
For instance, there was one fruit-and-vegetable
lay-out that included eight small tomatoes in a
little pile, seven strawberries in a saucer, six half-
withered cabbages, a small heap of cockles, and a
smaller heap of mussels. But at the corner of
each of these displays there was always a bundle
of milk-thistles to be seen.
“What are they for? ” I asked a half-breed who
was in charge of one of these vegetable exhibitions.
‘ Frenchymen eat them,” he replied.
A few hours afterwards I heard a leading resi-
dent of Noumea boasting on the Ovalau that the
town could not be taken by an enemy.
“They could only capture it by starving us,”
he said.
I thought of the milk-thistles, and said to my-
self that Noumea won.
I said good-bye to it without regret. I had for
years looked forward to seeing Noumea. I have
seen it and am satisfied. Another illusion has
been destroyed.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
“ Boree ” : Be Bulletin par, (16/7/ 0S).
Those who know the ways of the alleged sani'niy
arrangements in many Gippsland towns will re-
joice and be glad that one health officer has arisen
and cast insults at the local Parliament. The
South Gippsland coal district is especially favored
in this respect. In Korumburra, for instance,
the alleged nocturnal gentleman works entirely by
day, his melancholy open dray being a familiar
figure in the streets. No one ever disputes with
him the right to the middle of the road—which is
awkward for other drivers, as thereabouts the
only part of the road is the middle. Several times
a day he tips out his load on the slope of a hill
near the township. There’s a house on the hill,
too. Then the germ goeth abroad into all
lands, none daring to make it afraid.
“N.”: On the precedent of the military
breakdown over the Boer war, I am convinced
that some disaster would befall the English navy
at the outset of a great struggle. How easily
Red vers Buller was to walk over the Boers with
30,000 soldiers, at a cost which it would be
ridiculous to estimate at over eleven million
sterling! Such was the view enunciated in the
House of Commons in October, 1899, by War
Minister Brodrick. Is there not reason for the
“ Lest We Forget ” ? One defeat of the British
navy, and away rushes the whole fleet to defend
the heart of the empire—England. “ The key of
Melbourne is London ” an English statesman will
say. That’s a very good British view, but for
bombardment purposes the key of Melbourne is
the space between the two Heads.
RHEUMATISM
IN
THE
SHOULDER
TOP THE PAIN
WITH AN
All cock's
POROUS
PLASTER
This painful trouble ran be relieved and cured by using an
Allcock's Porous Plaster. Warm the plaster before applying—•
if not relieved by bedtime, place a hot water bag against the
plaster on that shoulder.
REMEMBER.— These plasters are gooi for all pains and aches.
They have been in use 55 years, have lieen imitated more than any article
ever sbld, and have made more cures than any other external remedy. They
are infinitely superior to any belladonna, capsicum or strengthening plaster.
Get the best—Ullcock’s—The Plaster that Cures.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.


A Hymn Before Battle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(The Protestant Defence Association and the Loyal
Orange Lodge have joined forces for the purpose of so
running the next N.S.W. general election as to return
only Protestant candidates. Dill Macky declares
that among the chief objects of the campaign are the
establishment of Protestant ecclesiastical precedence, and
resistance against the introduction of the Continental
Sabbath.)
Hurroo ! a row worth living for,
With many a dinted skull and black eye—
The dogs and Pup of holy war
Are sooled on by Chief-Trainer Macky;
They’ll chew each other in the streets
And make Religion brisk and merry
The day the Sligo Christian meets
The Christian who was grown in Derry.
We’ll hear the solid Galway brogue
Uplifted in the general tantrum,
And mark the well-designed polthogue
That “marks” the Protestant from Antrim ;
We’ll whoop to see the Orange boys,
Who ask no quarter, fear no foeman,
Show they’re alive and make a noise,
And seek, and stretch, the fighting Roman !
Ah ! God be with the good old days
When every creed forninst its rival
Flourished a blackthorn, and all praise
To Dill for working this revival;
Now each will strive its soul to save
By leathering the other’s body—
No blackthorn here ? But Heaven gave
The springy eucalyptus waddy !
We want a fight for fighting’s sake.
Our politics are enervating,
So we’ll go out to give or take
The father of a wholesome “bating” ;
We’ll swear the worst of everything
That ever yet pot said of kettle;
Dill Macky bids us have our fling,
Owe’S-ullivan finds cheap blue-metal!
We’ve gone astray, in point of fact,
Our minds have followed many a vain thing,
Some voters speak and think and act
As though their tucker were the main thing ;
They ve been misled bv pros and cons
Of questions based on wants material —
This one's Australian, t’other one’s
Inclined to favor schemes Imperial;
One thinks' Protection would be good,
Anotherds a strong Freetrader ;
They preach of such things when they should
Take arms against the fell Invader ;
They prate, while Rome comes silently,
Ready to do all things and risk all
To bind in Error’s chains the free—
Rome, still “more Popery than fiscal ”;
Some have been far too much intent
To stop wild borrowing and spending—
Instead of downing Romish Lent,
Have tried to stiffen British lending ;
Some recked not, blindly covetous
Of Edward’s current golden image,
That Rome, of saints idolatrous,
Was forcing on the coming scrimmage;
We’ve sinned in fruit-shops, knowing well
That Romish fripperies and follies
Abhorrent to the L.O.L.
Attend our children’s Sunday lollies ;
We’ve wrongly bought the pear and plum,
Since part of every coin we pay goes
To swell the Peter’s Pence that come
To Rome from exiled Papist dagoes.
We’ll change all that —we will ! we will 1—
With anger great and elemental,
Led forward by our glorious Dill,
We’ll smite the Sabbath Continental !
A palsy seize the man who might
Be with us in this mighty war, if
He turns his hand to meaner fight
For food, or home, or tax, or tariff !
Our Christian duty comes before
All Customs duties ; to remit it *'■
Is treachery. We’re out for gore,
And if we see a head we’ll hit it.
The hour has struck ; ring out the call
And let the word be “No surrender ”
Let us go tearing, one and all,
Upon a wild sectarian bender !
What if the Naval Tribute Bill
Gives democratic rule to slaughter,
When even out at Broken Hill
There’s full supply of holy water ?
It matters not; we must inquire
Where we are drifting, where we’ll all get
If Rome prevails at Nevertire,
And Mariolatry at Walgett.
How can we ever hope to build
A State, who seek to build a Nation,
Until we’ve grappled with and killed
The demon Transubstantiation ?
Remember Aughrim, P.D.A.,
Go on the warpath gladly, gaily,
And if a Papist blocks the way
Apply your new blue-guin shillelagh !
Go for them, Pat: you’ve not forgot
The way to run a controversy
About Religion ; make it hot,
And stretch the spalpeens without mercy—
Go in both sides, with nail and tooth
And hands and feet and blood and fury I
Go at it, black coats from Maynooth !
Go at it, yellow coats from Newry !
WOLLONDALE.
“Speech is silver, silence is golden, but
to say first one thing and then another is
Britannia inetal.”— Bismarck.
A Tram Episode.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He scrambled into the tram just as it was moving
off, and trod on everyone’s toes as he blundered
to the opposite corner. Then he stowed a dozen
parcels along the seat, lit his cigar, and addressed
himself to the compartment generally. After
that, reading was impossible, so I put down my
paper and examined the brute.
He was flashy, his suit was loud, his forehead
low, his eyes fishy, puffy, and indicative of kidney
disease. His awful suit screamed at the universe,
and from his low, badly-developed forehead hung
a pendulous nose, which filled me with a desire to
hit it with both hands, and kick its owner with
all the boots in my wardrobe. If his forehead
was limited his jaw made up for it, and under-
neath it there was a roll of fat which indicated
his polygamous, capitalistic instincts.
He addressed us first on Unionism in general,
and concluded his “ few words ” with an eloquent
declaration that Irvine was the right man in the
correct place, but that his Bill was not sufficiently
drastic —he should have hanged a few of the
strikers, especially the engine-drivers.
The compartment got interested.
There was a sudden and tremendous crash ; the
tram stopped with an abrupt jerk and a screech-
ing of brakes which nearly sent the heads of the
men on my side through the glass, and spilled the
crowd on the other seat over on top of us.
The blatant gentleman’s nose collided heavily
with my knee and I thanked my particular joss
that it wasn’t his jaw—that would have wrecked
an ironclad.
He scrambled back on to the seat sobbing with
pain and wiping the blood from his pendulous
smeller. When the power of speech returned to
him he commenced to curse the driver loudly,
while the occupants of the compartment trod on
him as they climbed out to see what was the
matter.
They were carrying a youth into the hotel
opposite when we got out to see. In front of the
tram, all in a heap, lay a cart and a horse, and
the tram-driver was crying.
Men were pulling the wreck off the track, and
while they were doing so a man came out of
the hotel and addressed himself to the driver:
“It’s all right, bloke; ’e’s not gawin’ ter peg-
out. Sez the flamin’ neddy bolted, and that yer
did all wot a man could do. Anyhow, that neddy
won’t bolt any more ’ceptin’ down ther lion’s
throats at ther Zoo,”
We climbed back into the compartment, and th®
tram resumed its journey. The loud man resumed
his discourse:
“ There’s one thing I like about our trams. If
they run into anything else it’s all right for the
passengers, even if the other fellow gets hurt.”
“Excuse me,” I said, “but, judging by the
strange sounds you made recently, I thought you
were hurt.”
He treated my interruption with contempt, and
I subsided into my shell while he went on.
“As I was saying, when an individual made
some irrelevant remark, when our trams hit any-
thing it’s the other fellow suffers. I ain’t got any
sympathy with people what get smashed-up;
serves ’em right for not looking where they’re
goin’."
“You’re not impressed at the sight of death,
then ? ” remarked a plump gentleman in a frock
coat.
“Not me,” said the loud man. “ Why, when I
was up North Queensland 20 odd years ago I’ve
got up in the mornin’ and looked at a couple of
hundred niggers watchin’ the house, and shot
half-a-dozen of ’em with me repeater, just to see
them kick.”
There was a roar of derisive laughter.
“Fac’l I assure you. Afraid of the sight of
death —not much ! ”
He began to gather up his parcels; he was evi-
dently going to leave us at the next stopping. I
leaned forward.
“Excuse me, sir; but have you seen a doctor
latelv?”
“Doctor, no; what for?” he asked, looking
bewildered.
“ Haven’t you a pain across the back when you
wake in the mornings ? ”
“Yes; but how the Hades did you know?
Never wake without it.”
“I thought so,” I replied. “I’m a medical
student myself. You’ve gob Bright’s disease;
got it darned badly, too.. If you get medical
advice—good medical advice, that is—you may
live 12 months. If you don’t, I feel pretty sure
within three months you’ll join those niggers you
shot to see how they kicked. You'll kick pretty
considerably, too, when granulation sets in, and
you’ll probably kick for four or five weeks.
How long did they kick?”.
A frightened look came into his eyes.
“ I say, mister, you’re not joking, I suppose. I
suffer a good deal with my back.”
“ I was never more serious in my life. You’re
very far gone in either diabetes or Bright’s
disease. I couldn’t tell, without a proper examina-
tion, which it is; but it’s one or the other.”
He was absolutely green about the gills. The
tram pulled up, and he fell out in a state of great
trepidation. When the tram moved on, the com-
partment inquired simultaneously in many differ-
ent keys if my diagnosis was really correct. Were
his kidneys really gone ?
“Hanged if I know,” I said. “I think he’s got
something wrong with them, judging by his eyes;
but I mostly wanted to see if he was impressed at
the sight of Death —when Death looked his way!”
LEIGH WOODS.
“ Burglar Bill ” on gaol visitors :
The persons who visit prisons from morbid curiosity,
and who generally succeed in getting the warder to point
out the “celebrities” (although strictly against the
rules), should be poleaxed. Was in a gaol once where the
gaoler, overloaded with vanity, made a point of asking
everyone he came in contact with to inspect his gaol, to
obtain their praise on its cleanliness and discipline. From
his banker down to his butcher they arrived, and were
paraded around by the gaoler himself to gape at the
unfortunates who had to spring to attention at his
approach. One local tradesman got a mania for
visiting the prison, and turned up every Saturday.
The prison choir wag collected and sang “ One
Step Nearer Home,” “ We’ll Meet You at the
Fountain” and other selections to lady _ visitors, and
the gaol “ smoogers" were allowed to interview the
reforming females so as to testify to the benefits of the
“ system.” During the visits of a dozen fire brigades to
the town the gaol was overrun with swarms of hoodlums
in brass shoulder fixtures, who stared in stupid wonder
at every “ grey-coat ” they passed. Certainly a gaol
should not be closed against inspection, but it shouldn’t
be inspected by everybody. The open-mouthed hoodlum
who wants a cheap show should be given 24 hours in a
dark cell.
Kidney Trouble Affects the Back First**
ACHING BACKS.
When the hack aches—when it is lame or weak —when it is easily tired—the
Kidneys are giving you plain warning—and it is a serious warning, for kidney disease
is the most dangerous of all diseases.
But it is NOT the back which aches, it is the Kidneys aching beneath, and
backache is their cry for help.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Fills
Used by the Quakers for 70 years.
Cure all Kidney Ills—cure urinary trouble—and all dangerous disorders of the
Kidneys and the Bladder.
They act on the Kidneys and Bladder only.
They do that one thing only and they do that one thing well.
Bead the testimony of your neighbors.
FROM SURRY HILLS.
FROM RANDWICK.
Mr. Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal Merchant, 18 Albion-street,
Surry Hills, states :—“ For the past five or six years I suffered
from kidney disorder, which caused me constant pain. The
symptoms of this terrible complaint were severe backache and
irregularity of the secretions of the kidneys. The pain had such
complete mastery over me that at times I could not rise from my
bed. I went to doctors to see what their skill could do for me,
but gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines with no
better results. One day I saw an advertisement regarding a
remedy for kidney trouble, and, as it was not a nostrum said to
cure everything under the sun, I procured a box of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. I felt a sense of relief right from the first
dose. Mv pain gradually grew less, and finally disappeared, as
did theother symptoms of kidney disorder.”
This is Mr. Grieve’s testimony given 12 months later
“ Twelve months ago I was cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. I am still a believer in these pills, having never had a
return of my complaint since, except, on one occasion when I got
wet in the bite bad weather ; but a few doses of these pills quickly
set me right again. I had been a terrible sufferer with the kid-
neys, and nothing ever gave me relief but Doan’s Backache Kid-
nev Pills, arid they cured me. If I hear anybody complaining of
a bad back I always tell them of the medicine which cured me.”
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, this city, says:—
*• For years I have been a sufferer from backache. In my work I have
to stoop a good deal, and prolonged exertion of this kind would
double me up with pain. After stooping I would be scarcely able to
stand up straight again, but would have to bend gradually, and get
the kinks out of mv back. I used many sorts of medicine for this
ache, but with poor success. The doctors I saw were also puzzled, I
think. I procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I am
very pleased to tell you that these pills gave me almost immediate
relief. They went right to the root of my trouble. The pains
diminished after further treatment, and at length totally disappeared.
I shall always recommend these pills for backache trouble.”
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states :—“lt is now more than
a year ago since my husband used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for
backache. lam now able to say that the pills wrought a permanent
cure in his case. The pains never returned since. I can speak with
conviction on the marvellous way they acted in his case. He is very
enthusiastic about the pills, and is always recommending them for
such ailments as the pills are meant for. He had been bad for ten
years, so you can see it is no common remedy that could cure him the
way Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for Sale by all Chemists and Stores at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Poster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
BUT BE SUBE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
"Don't be discouraged. They cure our neighbors;
they will cure you.”


“T.D.”: Don’t suppose twenty people in the average
theatre audience recognise the incongruities of a melo»
drama or alleged musical comedy. In the “ Serenade,’*
at Musgrove’s Princess’s, the grounds of a convent and a
monastery divide the stage between them. Various
people gain access to the monastery very easily by climb-
lag the wall, but once inside the grounds they cannot
escape because the gate is locked. Probably they are
too tired, or too scared, to think of climbing the wall
again. People who steal illicitly into the convent grounds
walk boldly through an unlocked postern, and imme-
diately afterwards become quite excited over a shallow
pretence that they cannot get out again. Yet I heard a
party of ten supposedly intelligent women discussing
that scene, and every one of them agreed that it was just
like the real thing.
“L.W.”: The cheerful liar, who is responsible for the
astounding statement that Vincent Wallace was inspired
to compose “Alas, those Chimes!” by the bells of St.
Mary’s, Sydney, is a sarcastic dog. Imagine anybody
being inspjred to compose anything but bad language by
the awful jangle of the tinkettley arrangement which dis-
figures the beautiful Gothic structure between Hyde
Park and the Domain. Infinitely more likely that it was
the jangle of Sydney’s church bells that drove Wallace
out of the country to take his chance among the Maoris.
The vvorld is full k>f places which claim to have been tbe
identical spots where the Master composed the music of
“ Maritana.” Over and over again it has been stated that
the opera was constructed in a house which stood on the
corner of Moore and Castlereagh-streets, Sydney, where
the Citizens’ Life Office now rears its proprietary front.
Years ago writer rode out to a scrap of rooky coast in the
North Island of Maoriiand. The shore was a succession
of great sounding caves, and the rising tide boomed
through them and made a wild fantasia—a fugue of the
maniacal gods. It was awe inspiring, and amidst all that
booming, rhythmical thunder there was a faint, half-heard
echo of melody withou t harmony. It was the tinkle of the
flinty sand as the wind blew it up in clouds, and it rang on
flint and basalt. My companion whistled the refrain of
“ Scenes that are Brightest ” from Wallace’s great opera.
When he had finished he took off his boots. “ What the
devil’s wrong with j'ou now ?” I said. “Do you want to get
your feet wet.” “Take offyour shoes,you hog,”he replied;
“don’t you know this is where Vincent Wallace composed
‘Maritana’?” I didn’t. He went on to tell me how
Wallace worked on a sheep station in the neighborhood,
and when he and his companion got their cheques they
used to paint the neighboring township red, and then
when there was no more grog and they reflected sadly on
what fools they had been, they used to go down to the
seashore, and Wallace caught the song of the singing
sand and the melody of the mighty breakers booming
through the caves. It did resemble the lilt of “Scenes
that are Brightest,” too ; but, all the same', it was a lie.
Wallace came to N.S. W. in 1835 and settled somewhere
up Pennant Hills way. He was a master of the violin,
and gave a concert before Governor Bourlce, whose statue
now Faces the Dawn in Sydney Domain. The
Governor gave him 10b sheep, and Wallace, having
made some money elsewhere, went for a trip round
Tasmania and Maoriiand. There were no sheep stations in
the North Island of Maoriiand in those days, and when
Wallace met the Maoris they had thoughts of making
“longpig” of him, and might have done so but for a
wahine of high degree, who fell in love with him and
wanted to make him a Chief. Later on he went to
Hindustan, and, true to his taste for getting into dan-
gerous places, went up to Cashmere and Nepaul, Orpheus-
like, winning his way with his violin. From there he went
to Valparaiso, and overland thence to Buenos Ayres and
back again. In Valparaiso he gave concerts, and so
great was the boom that the sporting Chilians, who had
but little cash, paid for admission with, their prize
fighting roosters. At Lima (Peru) he found some
solid gSld, and at one concert Cleared over £lOOO in
good English sovereigns. He passed through Cuba,
and when in Mexico he wrote a Mass, which wak
rendered in the cathedral at Mexico city, and brought
him great kudos and some money. It was after all these
adventures that Wallace returned to London and met an
old friend. “Could you write an opera, old man?”
asked the friend. “A score if I could get a good
libretto,” said Wallace. The friend took him to Portland
Road and introduced him to Fitzball, who had just
written the book of “ Maritana.” When he had heard
Wallace play some of his own compositions, he gave him
the book ; and that was how Wallace came to create
“Maritana.” All the tales about the opera having been
composed in either Sydney or Maoriiand are mere fables.
Some of the airs' which Wallace included in “Maritana ”
may certainly have been composed in this hemisphere,
but the opera was never thought of till 1845, and it was
produced in November of the same year at Drury Lane,
London.
“ T.D.” : Apropos the negotiations which are just now
being made to get Welsh tenor Ben Davies out for an
Australian tour. Davies, like Lloyd, was one of the
unfortunates who had the bad luck to strike the same
era as the magnificent Reeves. Reeves surpassed them
all so much that nobody ever thought of calling himself
a rival. Old-time tenor Parkinson, now of Melbourne,
who for years figured as a sort of concert understudy to
the big Sims, and even wore his hair exactly the same
way so that unsuspecting people in the audience would
not be disappointed, regards Davies as a greater tenor by
far than Lloyd. “Young Ben Davies,” he calls the
Welsh star, albeit it must be fully half a century since
Davies first gleamed upon the little puss-in-the-corner
principality.
George Clutsam, a native of Dunedin (M.L.), whose bud-
ding musical talent was, years ago, recognised by such
competent judges as John Radcliff, the flautist, and his
wife, Pauline Rita, the original Plaintiff in Gilbert and
Sullivan’s “Trial by Jury,” and who, mainly on their
advice, took his wares to the London market, has been
making some extra reputation by the composition of coon
songs, said to be something above the ruck of such
things.
Our old friend, Knight Aston, is going to reappear in
London as a singer of “descriptive scenas’ at the music-
halls Knight Aston’s reputation in London dates back
to the first staging of “Cloches de Corneville,” when he
impressed the girls (including Mrs. Gordon Baillie) with
hi« robust tenor performance of Grenicheux, some 22
years ago. The local press credits him with having
devoted the intervening years to “a long Australian
ngagemenfe.’*
“J.P.”: Was once a member of a 75th-rate dramatic
co. which tried to do business in small Maoriiand towns.
During my theatrical career I hovered about between 98th
and 76th rate companies. I never got higher than the
latter. Salary varied from nothing to 15s. per week.
Usually played five or six parts in each production.
Johnnie Sheridan wasn’t in it with me for versatility,
when I was on the boards. In one drama, I had to be
knocked down into the engine-room of a steamer. The
said engine-room was a trap in the stage, with a drop of
Bft. to mother earth. Sometimes I fell through sideways,
sometimes head-first. Sometimes, when the stage-.
manager was sober, there was a mattress to fall on ;
oftener there was not. During one unprecedented run of
six days, I fell on my feet once (the only time the mat-
tress was there), and by the end of the week had
accumulated 149 bruises. In another production a goat
was required, and as none of the co. quite looked the
part, the management borrowed one while the owner
wasn’t looking. The goat was left to browse on the
asphalt at the rear of the hall, and when he was wanted
it took the united efforts of the co. to get him before the
footlights. Even the hero and heroine had to hasten off
to help heave him up the stairs. In the wings everyone
formed up behind and shoved him on. For a second he
blinked at the footlights, then turned and dashed
through the scenery. This spelt ruin, and the
manager wept. The stage manager was a wonder. He
could get more out of two scenes and a drop than any
other man alive. We played six different pieces of five
acts each, with two scenes—‘A Drawing Room’ and
‘Exterior of a Castle in Spain.’ Sometimes the castle
was laid down on its side, and called ‘ An Atlantic Liner,’
sometimes it was turned upside down and named ‘ A Hut
in the Bush.’ No matter how it was utilised the stage
manager would remark that it was ‘ damn fine,’ and get
across the road for a drink. Once I received my full
salary; that happened when I was with the 75th
rate co. Pay day usually lay in the future, and was
continually being shoved ahead. When the ghost didn’t
walk on the day appointed the comic man would make
great efforts to cheer me up. He was the most optim-
istic man I ever met. I never understood the fortirude
with which he could face a stationary ghost, un; I
learnt that he invariably received his salary promptly to
encourage him to keep the co. in good temper.
Marshall Hall makes an appeal in the Melbourne daily
press for subscriptions to send Fritz Mueller to Europe to
study under Leschetizky. He says Fritz already promises
to be a first-rate composer. If so, he will be Australia’s
first—supposing German Fritz to be Anstralian. This
reminds present writer of good old ancient Greece.
There used to be a young fellow named Pindar knocking
about Thebes, anc| Pindar reckoned he was cut out for a
poet. So the Theban citizens got together and thought
the matter over, and ended by sending Pindar to Athens
to study poetry. And Pindar studied poetry and re-
turned home, and was the great Theban poet for all time.
The trouble is that our musicians don’t return if they
can help it. Which suggests that no fund should be
raised to’send anybody to Europe to be a musician or a
painter or a poet or anything else, unless there is a
guarantee of his returning to Australia when the period
of study has expired.
“T.D.”: Amusing to read English press notices
advising Philip Newbury, the most artistic tenor heard
here for a generation, to go in for some voice culture.
Phil made the mistake, in giving his London concert, of
announcing himself as “the young Australian tenor,”
both “young” and “Australian” being somewhat wide
of the mark. Since he was in London, 10 years back,
singing at the Crystal Palace and other places with most
of the big stars, Newbury has improved, if anything ;
but London has a short memory, and some youthful
cfitics now on deck would hardly have emerged from the
short pinny stage in those days. Therefore, Phil has
been taken at his own valuation as to years, and the safe
thing among newspaper music writers is to advise every
newcomer to study some more. The use of the word
“ immature ” by a Melbourne, daily paper critic whenever
he deals with local artists has become a stock joke among
the musical fraternity.
“Melb.”: One of Melbourne’s characters of to-day is
stout little George Ridgway, the master bill-poster. I
often take stock of him, going round to see that the gruel
is made thick and slab, as one of Macbeth’s witches says.
In the last generation Ridgway was the brilliant and
dashing flying trapeze man, of the Lenton troupe, at
Coppin’s Melbourne Haymarket Theatre. He learnt the
business from Leotard, the famous star of the London
Alhambra, and practised on Leotard’s lines. Ridgway
and his family are performing just now at the Melbourne
Gaiety in funny pantomime farces of the Grimaldi school.
“H.”: Whatapoor,brainless being the average mummer
is when taken out of his own particular groove. I recently
asked at the Public Library for the “ Reminiscences of
Corney Grain.” Knowing that the author had been
“ coining money ” since 1870 with his “ inimitable mono-
logue entertainments” {vide posters and small bills) I
promised myself a treat. I was handed a small book of
140 pages (20 pages being filled with advts.) pencilled all
over with the disgusted comments of previous readers.
I worried through the weary drivel. Not a single good
story could be found from cover to cover, and the only
“ experience ” worth recording during 40 years, public
life was the planting of a bottle of champagne in the
author’s bed while staying with a rabid teetotal family,
the subsequent popping of the cork and the soaking of
the clothes with what the pious host called “hell-broth.”
The only readable part of the book was a scathing critique
from the Chicago Tribune, which described Mr. Corney
Grain as “ a mouse-colored blonde, with dull, sleepy eyes,
a large mouth, and a thick pug nose,” and used fearful
language about his vulgarity.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
F; *J'
m
By “STEELE RUDD.”
A handsome volume,
with many spirited illus-
trations, continuing the life
of the characters ‘ ‘ On Our
Selection.” The author
is as humorous as ever, and
this book will extend his
wide popularity.
Price, 6s,
HEARTS OF GOLD,
By WILL OGILVIE.
A new collection of this charming writer’s verses, with
illustrations.
Price, 4s. 6d.
READY IN NOVEMBER.
IF YOU HAVE
something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary
into’ reading an apparently interesting story, which proves
to be a prelude to an advertisement. The startling story
and the “ thrilling ” testimonial do not add to the merit of
the article advertised. If you are troubled with
BAD DIGESTION, IMPURE BLOOD, LANGUOR,
INACTIVE LIVER, SICK-HEADACHE,
or other such ailments which arise from a Disordered
Stomach imperfectly doing its work, you need not
experiment with the many medicines so' plausibly put
before you —take
BEEOHAM’S
PILLS,
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by
thousands of sufferers to be unequalled for
dispelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver.
It is not necessary to bring Beecham’s Pills
before your notice surreptitiously, as they are
openly recommended by those who have found
that Beecham’s Pills will do all that is
claimed for them, hence they have the largest
sale of any i'atent Medicine in the World.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price Is, I id, (56 pills) and 2s, 9d, (168 pills).
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.- Visitors ©sjiy pay for wfjat they actually baYe.
_
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded oyer the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY,
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., 1.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 El izabeth-st./Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNON-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the ,Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, BYDNEY,


WATERPROOF COATS ™
RUBBER BOOTS 18/6 to 20/-.
GOLOSHES 2/6 to 4/6.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W. if this
advertisement
is cut out and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear
give satisfaction
look well to the
of their long serv
See our
PERDRIAU & CO.,
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
Only One Address—
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
y
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
10 to£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using Stamp. Address Dept 34.5D
Mead Cycle Co. c u?sT’
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
hr. xta
Boiler Feed Pump.
§rn~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co. New jersey
Enquiries Invited for ......
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
G-YIE3 S
Stationary and Portable,
For Shearing, Wood & Chaff-Cutting,
Pumping', Electric Lighting, &c.
Sole Representatives in Australia :
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Mining & Engineering Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
I
1
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers ft General Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents in Australia for— Blake’s steam Pumps, Dempster Moore & Co., Ltd., Engineers Machine
Tools, “ Atlas Works” Engines and Boilers, Fay-EgaHS’ Woodworking Machinery, Empire Co. S aun ry ac
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
P!
. ■
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
| | PUMPS,
MINING MACHINERY
I; And APPLIANCES,
: ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
i j WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
ETC., ETC.
; eec— wiegrtfli*'——eoeee——cce—c—eiweg 8 *
T. M. GOODALL & CO., >»
HAVE IN STOCK AWP_TO_ARRIVE— Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always arailable.
Sizb, 61" x 3k" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOE SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers ’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
DODGE STANDARD
WOOD SPLIT PULLEY.
LIGHTEST and STRONGEST.
25 per cent, to 60 per cent, advantage, with
same belt, over any iron pulley.
70 per cent, lighter than cast iron.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
Tak®
\NSEED
»♦
On'
JtaJS CoMPf
ins e
or
m
■mi
e
wwilg;
S3IDOIOO «»*wnuiq w3»o«»«mw
5.1.91W3 H*)
m
■
