

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
Reid s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet .
K. €3r. WATZSINS Ss, CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
/ _ —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
M
*
Ortr 1700 Hydrt-brtrutora Sold and at wort
AMySEMEHT for OLD and YOUNCrX
WONDERFUL VALUE-A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for e amining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Georg-e-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C 0, ’85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
AEE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sixes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send fo;
Testimonials and full particulars.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Stancia-d /ustralian Exp osive. Cor CLARENCE & KINC STS . SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBA.RT.
vm
[jadley’s Orient (jotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(Farr Gbam). %
J. A. TURNER - • Pr*Rrt*tor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
V.O. Frontignac
Rich Constantia
PENFOLD’S W
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Chablis
Tokay
Muscadine
Championship, Adelaide, 1902.
Championship of Australia, Melbourne, 1902.
PERFECT
■ss^
l^/ATri
WATER
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
SHOULD
ISfcj
ICED
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING 1
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OFI SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 3 3i 4 6 8 10 12 inch.
~n ~/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2 8 3/4 4/-
1, 2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2.V11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in (every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICj & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswaffi - Lamp.
pi
jlWljfM
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
long life.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM!a SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARIfi SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsinnd Depot—Cerstral Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?r. Lip
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, £©.
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
BOOMERANG
The Lancet states :
“A SOUND, HONEST BRANDY, which
our analysis and examination show
to be of a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE. ”
BRANDY
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229*331 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VIBITORB TO MELBOURN
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS
Queen’s Mansions, 21 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE QA3 STOVE insist
’ T on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1198 ]
[Saturday, January 31, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book Crade Advertisements.
BUSH STUDIES,
By BARBARA BAYNTON. -CONTENTS : 1. A Dreamer; 2. Squeaker’s
Mate ; 3. Scrammy ’And ; 4. Billy Skywonkie ; 5. Bush Church ;
6. The Chosen Vessel. Price, 2s. fid. ; post free. 2s. <M. Prom all
Yerses by A. G. Stephens, illustrated by Norman Lindsay. The verses have
been described by various incompetent critics as “scandalous,” “brilliant,”
“ indecent.” The numerous drawings include the best that Lindsay has
yet published. White paper copies, folio, enveloped, price, ss. ; toned-paper copies, 3s. 6d. ; post-
free from the authors, George-st. North P. 0., Sydney. Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
OBDICTOn:
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Stanford, Compendium Geography and Travel. Europe,
Vol. II, 15s, postage Is 3d.
Portman, West African Station Studies, 6s, p. 6d.
Of Aucassin & Nicolette, Translated by Housman, 6s, p. 6d
Banks, Autobiography of a Newspaper Girl, 2s 6d & 3s 6d,
p. 6d. Meade(L.T-), Double Revenge, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Neish, How to Choose a Husband, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Grimshaw, Modern Workshop Hints, 12s 6d, postage 9d
The Young Engineer (Volume), 5s, p. Is.
Glanville, The Commandant, 2s 6d & 3s (id, p. Cd.
Kennard (Mrs.), The Motor Maniac, 2s 6d & 3s Od, p. 6d
Williamson, Lightning Conductor, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Lawless, With Essex in Ireland, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Story of Alchemy (Useful Library), is., p. 3d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
fair Girls and Gray fiorscs Other Uerses
By WILL H. OGILVIE.
Partial List of Contents
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
The Township Lights
When Horses are Saddled
for Love
His Gippsland Girl
In Mulga Town
Where the Brumbies Gome
for Water
From the Gulf
The Riding of the Rebel
Four-in-Hand
The Stockyard Liar
The Coach of* Death
Off the Grass
The Dingo of Brigalow Gap
How the Chestnut Horse
Came Home
A Draft from Tringadee
Taken Over
The Station Brand
The Man who Steadies the
Lead
Out of the Chains
How the Fire Queen crossed
the Swamp
The Near-side Leader
How We Won the Ribbon
Northward to the Sheds
At the Back of Bourke
A Scotch Night
The March of the Flood
“ The Men Who Blazed the
Track 1 ”
Abandoned Selections
Auld Lan<t Syne
Black Sheep
The Wallaby Track
Rainbows and Witches
To a Bunch of Heather
The Bush, My Rover
The Graves out West
Bowmont Water
The Land of Dumb Despair
To the Overlanders
« The Most Charming Book of Australian Verse. ”
Handsomely bound in purple cloth, gilt top, with portrait; price, 55., postage, sd. * # * Admirable
for presentation. From all booksellers ;or forwarded on receipt of postal note by the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„ Ltd., Sydney, Australia.
For the LTJKTGS, the THFlOikl , tIxeVOICE.
. - THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and.
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Lai:\.\x, or o\rgan of
. voice. _ 1
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tulips of a
dissected lung- \
D- A lobe of one of the Wings
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUKCr,
and
Invaluable to
o 1 N GEES
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES Registered).
. . Contain, MO rocainr or other poinouons draft * °
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, Is 6d; from the Proprietor, <:. HUD,Stir Chemist
free on receipt of scamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 PLAUL, and KELT'
Melbourne, Agents.
wich, Queensland— pos
GULMWALE & CO.,
TH RED PAGE .
ETERNAL RETURN.
■I read in some toise book that what has been
Will be again as Time’s oft-scribbled scroll
■Unfolds its ancient page : our ardent goal
Attained in atons past. Each shifting scene
In Life’s dull comedy set for a queen
Qr lowly beggar maid has had its dole
Of farthing-laughter ; and t.one's bitter tout
A fire long burnt to ashes: so between
The Moment and the Mockery we faint.
Thru is it but the mirage of my saint
That haunts the holy midnight: shalll cling
Ever to ever-yielding shadows : lost
When l but win: and now most tempest-tossed,
When summer glory to my soul you briny ?
W. G. P.
“Creeping Up!”
P J If ROD our fine blue eyes were turned on the reverse
Ad side of Melb. Australian Literature Society,
W I occupied chiefly by Myies Furlong and Henry
•; * Charles -J. Lingham, Professor of Rhetoric and
Classical Philology.* To-day we pensive sit with a table
before us, and on that two books, some papers,
and an outstretch’d pipe ; and the great thought
seems all our soul to rap that the A.L.S. has a
more creditable obverse, with A. W. Brazier and Prof.
Tucker for tenants.
The two booklets (Marcus Clarke: His Work and
Genius, and The Cultivation of Literature, in Australia)
which represent papers read to the Society, are indeed
interesting; and the latter in particular is valuable. A.
W. Brazier, who writes of Clarke, has skilfully wo'ven
passages* of C’s work into a summary that gives a good
idea of its quality. But the commentary, though vigor-
ous, is sometimes awkward in style and sometimes doubt-
ful in subs air-". Take this sentence on p. 21, referring
to Ilis Natural Life —
If any of these incidents are gruesome and cause a
revulsion of horror, it must be remembered how power-
ful is the imaginative work which has placed human
being’s in such an environment with results so inevi-
table as traced with a sequence and vividness that only
genius could command.
That sentence is not typical ; but it does not stand alone.
For Brazier’s taste : lie qiraises “ Pretty Dick
Read “ Pretty Dick ” through. Does not Marcus
Clarke answer the supreme test of an artist . , .
“ Pretty Dick.” at any rate, is an excellent test of taste ;
and we fear that ph© critic who praises its art impugns
his own judgment, Francis Adams knew better, who
wrote in The Australians —
In One of his short tales (“ Pretty Dick ”) he [Clarke]
sat down, deliberately and of malice prepense, to make
a special “ study ” of the bush scenery. •
Unhappily he also made it a special study of the
pseudo-pathos of Dickens . , .
We reach to the limit of Clarke’s aberration when we
get to “ natural magic ” like this : “ It seemed to be a
settled thing on the part of the sun to get up hotter
and hotter every morning. He went down at night
with a red face, as much as to say, 4 take care, I shall
be hotter than ever to-morrow,”’
Or the “tears, idle tears”,of this: “Pretty Dick
liked to go into the stations because every one was so
kind to him. Every one loved Pretty Dick : even old
Tom, who had been a 4 lag,’ and was a very wicked
man, hushed the foul jest and savage oath when the
curly head of Pretty Dick came .within h aring; and
the men always felt as if they had their Sunday
clothes.on in hiis presence.”
“This is woeful,” says Adams truly; “and there is
more, much more of it, and some of it (if it be possible)
woefuller still.” Brazier writes that “it is time some
serious and adequate estimate were made of the man
[Clarke] as a writer. . . .” His estimate is serious
enough ; but we cannot agree that it is always adequate.
Professor Tucker speaks from his chair in Melbourne
University as one having authority,’so it is pleasant to
find him reflecting (in a very sane, and lucid paper) the
opinions *'of The Bulletin scribes. With almost every-
thing he Says we find ourselves in agreement. In fact,
many of Lis ideas have been already expressed in The
Bulletin, though Prof. Tucker usually expresses them
better. In 1902 he writes
. it is essential for high production that the
writer, Australian or not, should first and foremost
have some narrative to tell, that he should conceive
his world of imaginary characters as playing their parts
in it, and that he should, if an Australian dealing with
Australian things, let his local scenery and local idioms
come in of themselves, because they must, and not be-
cause he will . . .
What really matters, what alone makes literature of
the first rank, is its universal element . . . (p. 17).
Let us rather express our maxim in the negative
form, that Australian literature and art must not be
un-Australian ; that they must not be false to that
which their creator, as an Australian, does honestly see
and feel; that they must not substitute something
which the literary tradition of some other land—par-
ticularlv, of course, the home land of Great Britain—
has almost hypnotised us into feeling despite ourselves
, . . (p. 26). - - -
Precisely, in fact, as was written for The Bulletin on Oct.
10, 1896
Certainly, Australian literature should not he fet-
tered by the limits of Australia : it Should be universal,
and it has a right to draw its material from any source
it pleases. But a writer who observes and thinks for
himself in Australia cannot avoid giving his work an
Australian tinge ; -. .
Again, it was written for The Bulletin (June 26,1897)
regarding a loan exhibition of paintings at Sydney Art
Gallery that—
A warm-brown Australia one cannot pass . . . Conrad
Martens is warm-brown nearly all the time, and where
he is most warm-brown ... he is least Australian ;
and where he is least warm-brown ... he is most
Australian. It looks as if Conrad had brought from
Eqrope a mind full of warm-brown autumn tints . . ,
ana scattered them over this our country regardless . . .
We find (in 1902) that Prof. Tucker has been similarly
moved—
Some few years ago there was an exhibition of
Victorian art in the rooms of the National Gallery. It
contained works of the older order of immigrant artist
and also works of the newer school of native or almost
native Australian painters . . . one feature of the exhi-
bition was too palpable to be missed. In the older
painters the atmosphere of the Australian pictures was
certainly not Australian ; the lights, the tints, the dis-
tances, were not Australian ; they were European, and
even northern European . . . (p. 26).
Again, it was written for The Bulletin (Dec. 3, 189S)—
. . . Marcus Clarke has even called our gum-tree
44 melancholy,” our forests “funereal,” and won Aus-
tralian praise for the ludicrous misrepresentation. It
is quite time for Bill and Jim to take off the English
spectacles, and open their Australian eyes to the
beauties of this country as she are . . .
And Prof. Tucker writes in 1902
Marcus Clarke imagined the dominant note of Aus-
tralian landscape to be 44 a weird melancholy.” How
much parroting has there been of that phrase by people
who have themselves neither sought for the dominant
note nor had it irresistibly borne in upon them ! . . .
The first duty, or rather the first inward urgency, of
the Australian writer who has any real claim upon the
world, is that he should simply feel and interpret for
himself (pp. 34, 35).
And so on with half-a-dozen passages that we could
parallel. The Universities are “ creeping up.” Pleasant
to see them steqiping into line like this : they move
slowly, but we always said they would “ get there,’’ given
suflicient time—sufficient time—(or sufficient eternity).
•Within the palace walls he pensive sat,
Upon his head a Turkish pasha’s cap ;
Before him was a table ; and on that
Three books, some papers, and an outstretch’d map.
Anon he wrote, and ever as he turned
His fine blue eyes a moment on the map
Hope in their depths, methought, intensely burn’d,
And some great thought seem’d all his soul to rap.
—From The Last Hows of a Lion Heart, a threnody by
Henry Charles J. Lingham. Melbourne ; 1899.
“Die Wilde 3agd.”
TR Oscar Wilde: the Story of an Unhappy Friendship
(London; 1902), R. 11. Sherard, the biographer of
Daudet and of Zola, adds interesting facts and im-
pressions to our knowledge of a remarkable artistic
figure. Sherard w*as Wilde’s early and intimate literary
acquaintance : in the crisis which caused Wilde’s ostracism
he approved himself a faithful friend. Toward the close
of Wilde’s life the friendship ceased—not, it would
appear, by any fault of Sherard’s; for this book is his
proof of admiration unchanged and of regard undi-
minished.
(One word preliminary. Wilde’s social offence was
severely punished. His physical disease.is a matter, for
pathological investigation: it belongs to the domain of
medicine just as cancer and leprosy belong. The artistic
quality of his work is a thing totally distinct from the
moral quality of his life. To shun his books, or to deny
his fame, is possible only to the ignorant or the hypo-
critical.)
“ My task,” writes Sherard, “ is with the artist and the
friend alone.” “I never met a man more entirely pure
in conversation, nor one more disdainful of vice in its
vulgarity and uncomeliness.” The portraits with which
the book is embellished show Wilde as clean-faced, hand-
some, and intelligent. Only in the photograph of 1892
does the mouth’s hint of laxness approach grossness.
But by 1894, writes Sherard, “he looked bloated. His
face seemed to have lost its spiritual beauty, and was
oozing with material prosperity. And his conversation
also was not agreeable. I concluded that too much good
living and too great success had momentarily affected him
both morally and physically. There is an American
slang-phrase which exactly describes the impression
which he produced upon me. He seemed to be suffering
from a swollen head! That I could understand. After
the stress of years and a long period of heart-gnawing
insecurity of position, he had caught the tide of
unbounded prosperity. His income then exceeded
218000, and there was every prospect of a future of
unrivalled brilliance . .
In the next year came the catastrophe,
“ Fortune,” he told Sherard, “had so turned my head
that I fancied I could do whatever I chose." The mad-
ness that preceded his destruction was the madness of a
man fey. He walked arrogantly on the precipice-edge.
The authorities had no wish to condemn him ; they gave
him the opportunity of escape; but he had lost
capacity to realise his danger. When the prosecution of
Lord Queensberry collapsed, Wilde and others went and
sat in a private room in the Cadogan Arms,
“ smoking cigarettes, drinking whisky-and-soda,
and waiting. What for waiting, not one of
them could have said. They had set fire to a
mine, and were trying to stupefy themselves into the
belief and hope that it would not explode beneath them.”
“ It was reported to me,” writes Sherard, “that when,
after an intentional delay of many hours, unable to wait
any longer, the police at last moved, and a knock came ab
the door of that sitting-room in the Cadogan Arm 3, they
all blanched as if under the shock of a sudden surprise.
Not one of his friends had had the sense to explain to
Wilde what was the true meaning of the warning his
counsel had given at the close of his cross-examination,
or to force him to realise that, if only as a matter of
public policy, he should leave the country at once. As a
matter of fact, the warrant for his arrest was not signed
until after the last day-train for Dover, carefully watched,
had been seen to leave without him, audit was impossible,
to delay action any longer."
Then came the first trial, and the juryV disagreement
at the instance of one juror obstinate for acquittal. In
all Wilde’s life were no moments more tragic than those
that followed.
“On leaving the prison after his bail had been
accepted, he had driven to an hotel. It vyas late in the
evening. Two rooms were engaged for him and dinner
was ordered. Just as he had sat down to table, the
manager roughly entered the room and said, 4 You are
Oscar Wilde, I believe.’ Then he added, 4 You must leave
the house at once.’
“ From this hotel he drove to another in a distant part
of London, where he was not known nor recognised. He
had sunk down exhausted on the bed of the room he had
engaged when the landlord appeared. He had been fol-
lowed from his last refuge by a band of men, prize-
fighters, and had been denounced in the hall below*. The
landlord expressed his regret; but insisted on his leaving.
4 The men say they will sack the house and raise the
street if you stay here a moment longer.’
“At last, long past midnight, Willy Wilde, in his
mother’s house in Oakley-street, heard a feeble rap at the
front door. Opening it, he saw his brother, w*ho, white
as death, reeled forward into the passage. ‘Give me
shelter, Willy,’he cried. ‘Let me lie oh the floor, or I
shall die in the street.’
“ ‘/He came like a hunted stag/ Baifi poor Willy, 'and
fell down on the threshold/ "
Wilde came out of gaol physically improved, yet none
the less a broken man. He passed some time in a villa
at Dieppe ; then want of money drove him to accept the
invitation of a friend concerned in his downfall, and his
wife was finally alienated. From this friend’s house he
came to Paris— 44 thenceforward his life was to be the
squalid and hazardous life of the impecunious
Bohemian of letters . ..” “ His last years -were
supremely unhappy.” “He lodged in a fourth-
rate hotel in an obscure street in the Latin Quarter."
“ There were times when he suffered actual want;
and on more than one occasion, his landlord having re-
fused him admittance to his room until his bill was paid,
he was actually without shelter in Paris, and, but for the
hospitality of friends, would have passed the night in
the streets.”
He died of a disease of the brain. Death “ came
mercifully, as to a child in its sleep.”
Contributors’ Commentary.
Ortho : In Wolinski’s picture, “ After Life’s Fitful
Fever,” in Sydney Gallery, has he not put the woman,
medicine, and chair on the wrong side of the bed ? To
give the man a drink the woman must have been left-
handed. Of course, there is no reason why a woman
should not be left-handed ; but I can never look at that
picture without seeing the woman spilling the medicine
with her awkward left hand.
Appears . . . “the beginning of strife is as when one
letteth out water.” For Ethel Roberts writes—
I cannot agree with Capt. A. J. Onslow Thompson,
that the Macarthur family, have always spelt the
name Macarthur, and that only occasionally John
Macarthur spelt McArthur. Taking N.S.W. Historical
Records as a fairly trustworthy authority, we find in
vol. vii that out of eleven letters written by J.M. to his
wife ten are signed “McArthur.” In the same volume
John Macarthur’s name is spelt “McArthur” by Vis-
count Castlereagh, Govr. Bligh, Colonel Paterson,
Lieut.-C6l. Johnston, Dr. Townson, Rev. Fulton, and
others, proving by contemporary evidence that the
recognised spelling was then McArthur. In vol. vi it
will be seen, that Macarthur’s own son Edward also
signs 4 4 McArthur ” ; and Mr. Bladen will find in the
same voluirie facing page 644 the facsimile of a letter to
Capt. Piper, signed “ John McArthur,” the original of
which surely Mr. Bladen must have seen.
F. M. Bladen writes—
I am afraid I have misled you in regard to the spelling
of the name Macarthur. On looking up the matter
more carefully I find that he very often signed his name
“ McArthur ” —more often than not. By his contem-
poraries he was referred to both as Macarthur and
McArthur. When the change was made I do not
know. Some time after his return to the colony in
1817. I was under the impression you were inquiring
as to the spelling adopted by the family, which for very
many years has been Macarthur.
One hundred years ago people were not very particu-
lar in the spelling of names. Joseph Banks often spelt
Captain Cook’s (his fellow voyager’s) name Cooke.
John Macarthur’s eldest son (an equity barrister, who
died in England) signed MacArthur.
Then . . . the evidence varies : the conclusion is the
same. John Macarthur plainly did n’t care a (merino
sheep) how he spelt ; the better way is to follow his par-
tial usage as fixed by family usage— Macarthur.
W.G.P. writes re “Eternal Return”: Worth think-
ing of if you can think. Of the doctrine Nietzsche fables :
“ A man lay sleeping, and* serpent bit him in the mouth.
His death struggles. But one cried— 4 Bite, spit it out.’ ”
Arguing it, the Red Pagan shall surely choke.
But absolutely, as Nietzsche states it, no science con-
tradicts it. The yesterday orthodox doctrine of the
“ dissipation of energy ” would, be against it. Kelvin and
others, seeing energy everywhere transformed into low-
temperature heat, supposed the universe to be a clock
running down (better : water in a cistern running down
to sea level and zero potential). But ways of escape open.
The clock may run down here, but is it not wind ng itself
up somewhere else? There is much reason to think so :
hence the ultimate’of physical evolution is Rhythm ; and
if of physical evolution, then also of the “ accidents in
its course.
This really i 9 all that the “Eternal Return” doctrine
comes to. The trouble is that the innumerable hbst of
pseudo-thinkers will mix it up with “ Reincarnation.”
Well, a worse serpent than bit Nietzsche is this ;
Consciousness: is it but surf breaking over the sea-wall of
confusion? Identity : is it an appearance only ?. Don’t
all speak at once. Don’t quote Descartes. Science has
absolutely no answer ; and till it has you can’t even start
out to chase the “loved and lost.” Minor novelists
who wish to be scientific are hereby warned off.
“ Eternal Return ” won’t help them ; for one’s
atoms don’t come together again until they
have exhausted the infinite series of other possible
combinations in every part of space. Probably this will
take them infinite time; ergo, the “return” is “ eter-
nally” distant”; which is to say in “finite” time,
Never.
Thank me for this reductio ad absurdum, and explain
that none the less Zarathustra should be the Bible of
every home that worships the Gods ot To-morrow !
S.T.S. : Decided by the Library Board of S.A. to issue
no more German books to the country Institutes. Of 195
.“book-boxes” circulating constantly in that State, 17
have been German only ; but it is considered that the
Deutscher residents ought by this time to have learned
enough English to read what the others do. Fiction takes
up only the moderate proportion of two-thirds in these
book-boxes, and there is a separate system of issuing
technical works, which the .Moonta miner.-, demand
especially.
tittle Other Items.
Really, some of the magas. grow very downright. Thus 1
a writer i n Macfadden’s Physical Development for Nov., !
advising us how to choose our wives-,-
Rise above convention. . . . Rejoice when your eyes
rest on a well-sexed, beautiful woman. Choose such
a one for the mother of your children. Look at what
she calls her “ neck,” and see if it gives promise of
being what thepoetseallagood “maternal fount.” . . .
Don’t look at her ankle out of the corner of your eye
and pretend to yourself that you are nat interested in
such a thing ; but invite the young woman to the sea-
shore with you and get her into a bathing suit, since
that is the best you can do under our system of
civilization, and look her over frankly to see whether
or not. she has so cramped her waist that there is no
place within her for a uterus in which a child may
grow as it should ; to see whether or not there is more
than ankle to her leg ; to see whether or not her neck
is only a neck, or something more.
But if this advice be commonly taken, we fear the sex-
strife will become like the war-strife between guns and
armour ; in proportion as the man’s artillery improves the
woman will thicken her defences to meet it. Suppose she
won’t come out bathing?—would it be lawful to pinch
her?—how often?—how much?
It is The New Monthly Magazine, part 46 (publishers
now drop dates in order to evade the inconvenient
public demand for “ new numbers and indeed’t is all
one, the “ Bits” type of magazine being the same yester-
day, to-day, and last year), that says Conan Doyle’s
“ scientific touch is always correct. If he writes about a
place, he does not draw on his imagination ... is never
weary, never slipshod.” That does not apply to the Aus-
tral stories in The Gully of Bluemansdyke, full of the
careful blunders of the Author Who Crams. “ A wombat
rushed past to gain its burrow”—in Maoriland, which
Doyle describes as if it were part of Australia, though he
admits the sundering sea. “ There was no need to light
a fire ; a few dampers and some rusty bacon were their
whole provisions.” There is some uncertainty, you
notice, as to the modes and attributes of the damper.
“ Sydney s?ider ” is intelligible ; a reference to the “ de-
testable ” climate of Perth is defensible ; but we have
never bten able to understand how “ Hartley had lost
his horse from the bite of a bushmaster.” Snake, ap-
parently ; but what snake, and when so titled?
“ Yes,” said Oscar Wilde, “I have spent the day in
hard literary work.” “ What have you done ?" “1 was
working on the proof of one of my poems all the morn-
ing and took out a comma." “And in the afternoon?”
“ In the afternoon—well, I put it back again.”
Adair Welc.ker, attorney-at-law, San Francisco, troubles
himself to inform us that he spent $l4O in advertising a
book in The Century maga., and was repaid by only one
50-cent ordbr. Therefore he discusses whether The
Century, in such a case, “is not placed under a moral
obligation to return the money, or half of it, or some
other proportion.” Here we perceive that the quality of
the American intelligence is strained.
Even journalists agree that deceased De Blowitz was a
prince of journalists. Those small, close-set eyes peered
into everybody ; that expanded'nose was an astonishing
nose for news. The Times canrtot replace him. No other
has his status of thirty years ; his privileged intlimacy
with “the great”; his unchallengeable prescription of
authority. Yet his alert omniscience was nearly lost to
newspaperdom. In the early seventies his friend Thiers
was on the eve of appointing him consul at Riga, when
Laurence Oliphant’s colleague in The Times special-cor-
respondence was obliged to go to England. Oliphant
asked De Blowitz to temporarily fill the place, and De
Blowitz asked first to be allowed to look at a number of
The Times, which he had never seen ! In a few weeks, a
permanent engagement fixed De Blowitz’s career
Clippings i
I gave my lover tears and sacrifice,
My sours white prayer, my dreams of Paradise,
The vision of my guardian angels face, —
He laughed and turned away his weary eyes,
I gave my lover kisses bitter-sweet,
Strange, deadly blossoms for his souVs defeat,
The purple paths of Hell I lured him on,—
His lips bum fiercely on my tear-stained feet.
Elsa Barker, in Amer. Bookman.
An American writer has considered the possibility of
the “ literary pill.” The idea is that the story you want
to read shall be rolled up in the form of a coated pill to
be taken at bed-time. Then, during the night, the story
unfolds itself in your dreams, and in this way you will
have done your light reading without wasting any time
over it.— lllustrated Bits.
She is as lax and lawless as the sunset, she is as free
and familiar as the wind. —The Sea Lady.
The tablet on the late Dr. Parker’s coffin bore this
inscription—
JOSEPH PARKER, D.D.,
Minister of the City Temple,
Born 9th April,
1830,
Ascended
28th Nov.. 1902.
This appears to be meant quite seriously ; for, on the very
day of the funeral, the Daily News reporter remarked
that “ Joseph Parker might be holding glorious converse
on the terraces of the City of God.” It is almost as rapid
as Eugene Stratton’s coon song
Nine, ten, eleven,
New face in hfeaven.
Let us suppose, however, that Dr. Parker is in heaven.
A very interesting question then arises. We have read
some gushing passages in Christian papers about the
great preacher’s reunion in heaven with Mrs. Parker.
But they do not say which Mrs. Parker they mean.
There were two, for lir. Parker was married twice, and he
is reported to have deeply loved both his wives. Which
of them is Mrs. Parker in heaven? And how does the
other like her grass-widowhood? Or are there two Mrs.
Barkers in heaven, and how do they (and he) like that
arrangement?— G. W. Foote.
Correspondence:
J.C. : (1) Write yourself to F. W. Niven, Ballarat; (2)
Lawson’s verse is published in two shilling parts, “ Popu-
lar ” and “ Humourous ’’—each Is. 3 d. post-free from Our
Advertiser (see below)... .G.P.Rc: Too vague. What
town?. . .A.K.R. : Consult at Sydney Public Library:
! u- earlier writers, Bart on’s Poets and Prose Writers of
Few South Wales; Turner’s and Sutherland’s Develop-
went of Australian Literature ; Byrne’s Australian
Writers', for later writer's, The Bulletin files Yabber:
Try Jevons' Logic primer; Is. (Macmillan) Lola,
S.t.S. : Matter in type. . . .M.O.K. wants verses written
during the African war*., with the refrain “ Hark I the
rooibatje singing on the/ road.” Can some reader give
copy or reference ?.... Jujnius : Will use.
Publications:
The Dramatic Critic [/awkward title], No. 1; Sydney.
[“ Truth crushed to dearth will rise again ’’—and the
energy of the Hemlo'utc syndicate extorts praise . A
not-unpromising firs\t number ; and there is room. in
Australia for a good '.stage paper.]
The Austral Amateur, ibtlicial organ of the Australian
Amateur Press Association. Various numbers, to
No. 59. [As only 17 jvotes were cast at last election of
officers, the A.A.P. ■ Association seems to be Out
moderately aline, l'ts “official organ’’ is a good
reason why it shoul d be. dead.]
' A.G.S.


WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
BUTCHERS!
TO— —^
Send vftui*
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
—SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick lietuvns .
the Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission 3 I»©r Cent, to the Grower
I-*a,r&e a.xxcl Small A.ccormts A.lilce.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Prinrinale
■ lllvlfja.l3
having over 30 Years
Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay
Sydney.
S. FREEMAN : SONS
LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
NEITHER CRACK
'em
*
d"'
5806
«o
c
BB
6807
saoa
NOR BURN,
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE.
GUARANTEE.-Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bora a
Now One will bo Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
„ Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post. 1«. 2b.
Quality not better in
Guinea, F»ip e .
C. 8.8.
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/-each.
C. 8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/• each.
C-B-B- P J PB, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
O.B.B; Presentation Companion, con-
taining- two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C. 8.8.
C. 8.8.
RICHMOND,VA.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
*' SOLID SHOT ” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “ Solid Shot ” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
“Arkansas” Mixture of ßle the
very highest grade Tobaccos. Packed in Jib
Tins, 7s. 6d. lb. Sample Jib. Tins, 25., post tree.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Wholesale Price Lists.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
BEGAPSE during over 20 years of constant application to the study of, and use of Electricity, we have
proven positively tiiat if Electricity will cure a certain ailment, or combination of ailments, that
DRUGSare an UNNECESSARY and always an EXCEEDINGLY EXPENSIVE auxiliary. Of
course, we all know that there are many ailments that require drugs, but in these cases a few doses are
sufficient. It is the CHRONIC case that will not get well without an addition of new nerve life.
Ybur condition shows you—at least, your experience does—that DRUGS won’t cure you. You need
new vigor, new steam power in that human machine of yours. Don’t let anyone induce vou to waste your
money on DRUGS. If you use ELECTRICITY they are SUPERFLUOUS, AND ARE ALWAYS AN
EXPENSIVE ITEM.
We know our business thoroughly, and when we tell you that your symptoms require Electrical aid and
that we can cure you, depend upon it our word is supreme. Follow our advice, let us apply
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
and in’ten days your system will begin to improve under the exhilarating influence of the soothing, healing
electric current being poured into it. In thirty days you will know that you are going to get well at last.
You feel new vigor, new life, a sense of elation and good spirits that you have been a stranger to for a long
time. Three months of this potent remedy is sufficient to cure the worst case of WEAKNESS, LAME
BACK, RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, GENERAL DEBILITY, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, IN-
DIGESTION or CONSTIPATION that ever existed; and then you will be able to lay aside the Belt a
new and a cured man or woman. This has been the accomplishment of thousands. You join the happy
throng. You’ll bless us for urging you. Each week we give you new evidence.
FROM NEW ZEALAND.
I am so delighted with my Belt that I quite forgot all about
writing to you. lam pleased to be able to tell you that the pain over
my heart has entirely disappeared already, and I don’t tire so easily
as 1 used to. I wilt report my case to you again in 30 days.
I remain, yours sincerely,
Pahiatua, tlew Zealand. OTTO WEBB.
FKOn TASHANIA.
Since using your Belt, the pain in my shoulders and back is
entirely gone, and all feeling, as if my strength was gradually
leaving me, is over. I have no more horrible dreams, and am much
stronger in every way.
Yours truly,
Wesleyvale, N.W. Coast.
EOBT. PIPER.
WOMAN’S woes CHANOED TO GLADNESS.
kHE DR. MoLAUOHLIN 00. 132 Union st -> Brunswick, Melbourne, Vic.
Dear Sirs —ln answer to vour letter asking about my health, I am more than pleased to tell you that, after wearing your high grade
Electric Belt for four weeks, I have received great benefit. I have been a great sufferer for four years, both with my head and serious
inward complaints, also with rheumatism in my wrist and knees, also with a weak back, and could not sleep at nights. But, now thank
God, that since I have used your Belt, I can sleep well, and my work is a pleasure to me. .
I would recommend anyone suffering from weakness of any kind to try one of your Belts, and I am sure they will get relief. I will
be pleased to recommend your Belt to anyone who would write or call, for I know there are many poor sufferers who would like.to get ,
relief like I have Thanking you for all your kindness to me, I remain, yours gratefully, Mrs. NELLIE McCAMEY.
What do such letters as the above mean to you, dear reader ?
Simply this, that if you will follow our advice, you will write to us in
the same strain inside three months. While you are using 1 our Belt
you are under the care and advice of a Legally-Qualified Specialist of
over 30 years’ standing—the only one in Australia who devotes his
entire time to Electric Treatment.
Our Belts are sent to aH Countries Duty Paid.
Write to us for Explanation of “ Free Belt ” Frauds.
A
f
DOCTORS ADVISED ASYLUiI.
Long Plain, Inverell, Ist December, 1902.
Dear Sirs,—l have been using your No. 7 Belt between two and
three months, and the pains have completely left me. I have not
been so well for 20 years. I never thought I would be so well. I
was suffering unbearable pain, and life was a misery to me. When
your Belt cured me it will cure anybody, for all the doctors told
me I could never get well, and urged me to go into the asylum.
I can do any kind of work now.
Yours sincerely, PATRICK GRIFFIN.
FREE BOOK.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this Grand
Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illustrated Book, giving
cuts, and showing how we apply Electricity in all Chronic
Ailments. It gives, also, many names of people cured.
Write for it. You may find the names of some of your
friends in it. Learn of the comfort with which our Belt can.
be used. Don’t delay, but write to-day and get a book.
It’s full of good things a sick man likes to see. Advice and
consultation, EITHER IN THE OFFICE OR BY MAIL,
ARE ABSOLUTELY FREE. Write or call.
The Dr. Maughlin Co.
85 King-st, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices: 167 E Swanston St.


©
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
f EDEMU EEECTIIC Cl.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
©
©
©
©
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
@
©
©
©
Oldsmobile
is the most practical automobile made , and is sold for the lowest price
consistent with good work. It is a runabout for either business or
pleasure, and requires no experience to run.
The construction is the simplest of any automobile—there is no
fire, no boiler to burn out, nothing to watch but the road ahead,
nothing to get out of order.
It will run over any passable road; climbs steep hills; has a speed
of over 25 miles an hour; is almost noiseless, will go 30 miles on one
gallon of gasoline. It is always ready for instant use and starts at
ease from the seat.
There are now over 5,000 in use. In America they sell for $650.00
and can be sold in this
country for only a little more.
Write to us and we will quote
you a price delivered at your
nearest port, and will mail you
handsome illustrated book giving
complete information.
Agents wanted in unoccupied
foreign territory.
■n
m
Olds Motor Works, oetro jh.T. Schm
Wftii!lal>M!i!liliBSlia
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the ncces
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the ■■ ular U nderwoar is a Sure Preventative against r.hn
Cellular Day Shirts*
Silk neckbands and sofb wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d; colored, 8s 9d
mm.
m
Cellular Dress Shirt*
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body-
-63 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s Cd.
Open front or behind, squate
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations*
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
■ White Cotton, trimmed
’ Lace 5 6
■ White Cotton, trimmed
(Embroidery .. .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. .. ..96
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses*
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
Aertex Cellular Chemises, r “SS
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices. t H o^in or ; KeSSf'ext^ 18ixes
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
Sole Agents.
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to lls. 6d
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C2 ,, long waist, 14pn deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14Jin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Hiding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned ' French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring S.teels .. ..86
TRADE
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the bac.<—
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this tamp are not ge uine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from tne leadi g Tailors f<nd Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, Eng,and.
TATTERS A
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
LS
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of Omp
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will x)le?*se forward Id. extra for each
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on. each 5s
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET IFCAP—Flemington, Vic., Feb 28 100,000 at 5/1
AUSTRALIAN CUP—Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5/1
DONCASTER H’CAP—Randwick,N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
alS ° be Paid through an y Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMb Commerce Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
DFTTv a Lv a n e^, addreSSed t 0 me Can be forwa rded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


I
There is this
peculiar thing
about our Hair
Vigor : it’s a hair-
food, not a dye.
It doesn’t turn
your hair sud-
denly black and
make it look dead
and lifeless. But
gradually the old
color comes back,
all the rich color it
used to have. And
it also'stops falling
of the hair.
Even if your hair
isn’t coming out,
isn’t turning gray,
isn’t too short,
yet you certainly
want a fine dress-
ing for it, and here
it is.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
It keeps the scalp clean and healthy,
removes all dandruff, makes the hair
grow rapidly, prevents it from falling
out, and does not allow a single gray
hair to appear.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared hv Dr. J. C. Aver* Co.. Lowell, Mass.. U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations. entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT for the LADIES
I
We make this
SPECIAL OFFEI,
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
THE
Dark Room Dispensed With!
Write for Particulars of the Wurjderful
KODAK - -
DAYLICHT -
DEVELOPING
MACHINF. -
To be Obtained of all Dealers, or of
KODAK, Limited,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Please Mention this Paper.
ISfND US
yOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
’I F y° u sen d a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
; w ‘*l reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
late, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
■ill carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address m Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10 6
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Kstabmbhed 1849. Fomtlfe Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Sesu-i y of Freehold or
LeasefolJ City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Deb e an°tuK«<r d |„ C « P ’^ C S m c*' n^ d> Pj L 9toral and Agricultural Lands, or on the securily of Government
Debentures, Inscr.bed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aust, alian States or New Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
. rei> * rint ' to 20 ►“
ri® n ®L? ■Manager and Actuary— Richard Tkeck, F.1.A., F.F.A FSS , r.sq., m.k.
IKAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * „
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HKOU'sS’s.
Commercial
B «grgy,
£l4 10s,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
SST Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NO TICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best, and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, 4,8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send Tor Catalogue.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE —ONE LEVEE, CONTEOLS" THE WHOLE.
c o , & oom;f* a. nxr y,
30 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
41
Hotelkeepers, make your own
DERATED WATERS
THE “4USTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater
&c.)at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand and
South Africa. ’
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WINCHESTER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“New Rival” and “Repeater"
F you are looking for reliable shotgun am-
munition, the kind that shoots when you
pull the trigger and where you point your
gun, buy Winchester Cartridges: “New Rival,”
loaded with Black powder; and “Repeater”
loaded with Smokeless. Insist upon having
Winchester Cartridges, and accept no others.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
WE STOCK ALL ....
WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH ST., JTELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays prr oKuo
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra. Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
I mV HOd HIVH
cxoo-o
Alii Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Prt
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
a®- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
tST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Sout, & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist* 193 Collins-street* MELBOURNE,
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Townships.
henf no<! ° ld England those sweet villages o
rha ianes t - Ie loVing anilB ° f narrow > winding
The homely, low-browed cottages, the crooked
uchened wall,
The silence of old centuries that drowses over all,
I he motherly, long-patient trees that brood abo\e
serene,
The moss and ivy ever winning back the roofs to
green:
The Sabbath-pause that shelters there, no drifting
sound profanes j
And the thin smoke, spiring slowly, is the only
thing that stirs:
'A e enw not old England those sweet villages ol
hers 1
We have our sturdy townships in this new land o
our own,
Wherever tracks their daring way through forest
aisles may push,
W herever roads creep round the spurs, or shining
steel is thrown,
Ihe little townships follow close—the little town.
S lips lone !
Ihe straggling little townships that are lost upon
„ the plains,
And wake to hear the whistle and the rush of
passing trains;
1 lie sombre little townships that are scattered
through the bush,
The ugly little townships in the mountain-clear-
ings sown—
We need no nestling villages ; our township* art
our own.
Our townships are our offspring : they were of oui
travail born;
And though they grow to cities tall, our hearts
remember yet
Ihe sharp-eyed, bare-legged children that upon
the fences perch,
1 lie brand-new, ugly school-room that on Sunday.-
is the church,
Ihe lonely town-girl teacher shepherding th
children in,
1 he naked little shanty with its bluish roof of tin.
Ihe mother marching round the yard, sloppy ant
tired and wet,
The squalor and the sordidness—and yet oui
townships lorn
Are of our loins the o'ffspring: they are of oui
travail bom!
We hn ve profaned our forest shrine and slain it?
solitude—■*
A race of Samsons making wreck where symmetry
has been :
Lo, still behind the straining team of bullock:
moving slow,
The dead logs on their funeral cars along tht
bush-tracks go
To where the saw mills squat behind their hills o!
sawdust brown,
Like taniwhas that slaver slime, eating the forest
down I
To sear tne world with yellow roads we rend these
roofs of green;
To bind with wire the patient land and leave tin
paddocks nude
We have profaned our forest shrine and slain it.<
solitude !
Here in this many-pillared hall, this sanctuary
of shade,
Reared in the time of primal things and const -
crate to peace,
Where through the punga’s lacy plumes the sun
light greenly sifts,
Or where the birch her level leafage delicately
lifts,
Where ratas smoulder and the rimu’s rudd>
tassels hang,
Chimneys shall volley ceaseless smoke, and fat
tories shall clang;
The dynamos take up the song that frightened
tuis cease . . .
The forests wither, wither down—a ruin we hat -
made
This ancient, many-pillared hall, this sanctuary
of shade.
Our townships are not pretty; but they strugg'
and they grow—
(The miner’s camp, the sawmill-shed, still march
ing toward the town !)
They have no peace about them; they must toi
and they must live ;
And Nature, torn and wounded, has no lovelines
to give . . .
And yet the gold of flaunting gorse upon the par
docks spread,
The green grass rising slowly round the blaokene-
forest dead . . .
(But O, the oak-leaves carpeting an English law
with brown !)
So painfully, yet proudly, we the seed of progres
sow,
And sturdy are the lovvnships that our island•
. gardens grow !
We are no simple villagers; our stern, rude town-
ships breed
A sterner, ruder race ! I see them pouring, pour-
ing out
From camp and claim and whare, from the solitude
outback;
Along the lone bush-avenue, along the tussock-
track,
They-come in scattered companies; and on the
future hurled,
X see them marching, marching up, debouching
on the world,
Proud with the strength of virgin soil, putting
the years to rout!
We want no pleasant villages; we Southern
dwellers need
Our sturdy, stern young townships for our stern
young island breed I
M.U
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


A Quiet
Four Crown
Whisky
*
/
Sixteen Years Martyrdom,
Sallow, Shrivelled and Emaciated.
Saved from an Untimely End.
The Case of
Mrs. A. H. FULLAGAR.
(BY ▲ LOCAL REPORTER.)
There are some branches of study which
cannot give the information which the
reader is seeking, even though the amount
of useful learning may be increased by the
theories therein contained, but the follow-
ing singular story may be sa'ely regarded
as one which should be stored in the
mind of every person in the community. It
commences with a brief reference to an acci-
dent which befel Mrs. Alice Harriette Ful-
lagar, of 83 Mitch? 11-street, Glebe, in de-
scribing which the narrator said :
“ I can trace all my physical trouble back
to the day that I was thrown out of a sulky
through the horse taking fright at the noise
of a passing train and bolting down the
street. The animal was galloping at full
speed when it suddenly fell, and I was
hurled with great violence on to the hard
road.”
“ It is a wonder you were not killed,” re-
marked the reporter.
“ Indeed I was lucky to have escaped as I
did, but the accident itself was a mere trifle
to what followed,” continued Mrs. Ful-
lagar. “ You see, I was in a delicate state
of health at I he time, and that made matters
much worse for me. I had to keep my bed
from the 3rd of February till the 14th of
March, and even then I had to be lifted like
a child from place to place, as I was too
weak to hold my head up. My doctor ad-
vised me to take a sea trip, and I went to
England, where all my relatives live ; but,
after staying there some time, I returned to
Sydney no better than when I went away.
The pains in my legs were something never
to be forgotten, and my stomach was so
weak that I could not keep down even the
lightest of food. I consulted one doctor
after another in the hope of meeting with
one who could successfully treat my case,
but I found no l enefit resulting from the
use of their medicines. That they under-
stood what was wrong with me was quite
plain, for they all said that I would have to
go under an operation, and also that my
liver and kidneys were out of order. What
with one cause and another I was in a
chronic state of misery. Instead of fading
asleep like any other mortal when night
came I could only twist and turn in aggra-
vating restlessness, and all the time I was
thinking of tilings which made me cringe
with fear. If I slept at all I dreamt such
horrible dreams that when I awoke I forced
myself to keep awake to avoid dreaming
again. As for being nervous, well, I am
sure you could not possibly guess how I
used to shake when I heard any sound, and
I would not stay in a room by myself for the
world. My appetite was so poor that I
never felt hungry, while in the mornings,
when my mouth had a taste as if I had eaten
a stale egg, the smell of food made me sick.
The expectoration of an ill-smelling phlegm
was of frequent occurrence, and I was
almost tormented to death with frightful
headaches and sharp pains in the side and
between the shoulders. My heart pains and
palpitations were a constant worry to me,
and it was because I felt certain that that
organ was too weak for me to undergo any
operation.”
“ Did the doctors express an opinion on
that matter ? ”
“ They said my heart was weak, and that
an operation was the only thing to save me.
I did not think I could stand it, and as I
thought I would never get better, I pre-
ferred to die as I was, without being hacked
about by doctors. Another reason for my
timidity was that I suffered severely from
fits, which used to leave me prostrate for
two or three days. I was thoroughly weary
of life, for a heavy despondency robbed me
of any remaining comfort that. I might have
otherwise enjoyed. The smallest particle of
food made my stomach so painful that I
could not bear the weight of my clothes,
and the pains in my chest seemed to take
my breath away. All the medicines, pills,
and ointments I had purchased dining my
sixteen years’ martyrdom were quite use-
less, and all that was left of me was a sal-
low shrivelled face and an emaciated body.
This wretched state of. affairs was changed
in a most extraordinary manner by Clem-
ents Tonic, and I have no hesitation in
stating that by using that medicine I was
from an untimely end. ”
“ How came you to take Clements Tonic,
Sirs. Ful agar ? ”
“Through the advice of my grandmother,
tvho ha ( half-a-bottle in the house, which
she gave me. and when I had taken it I felt
slightly better, so I sent for three bottles of
Ciements Tonic on my own account. Then
a little disappointment was experienced, as
my condition after drinking the lirst bottle
was not altered much ; but instead of giving
way to despair, I went on with the second
bottle, and then my appetite commenced to
come back. Such a strange, happy feeling,
of hopefulness then stole over me that I
felt quite a different woman, especially as
my stomach was so strengthened by the use
of Clements Tonic that my food digested
and nourished my body, thereby giving me
increased vitality every day. Then i started
to take a new interest in life, for by easing
my body pains and giving tone to my brain
and nerve-, Clements Tonic restored the
health-giving sleep which I required so
much. Another supply of that remarkable
remedy wa- obtained as soon as the first lot
was finished, as past experience ia glit me
Clements Tonic was my only chance. And
shall -I ever forget how thankful I was when
the pains in my side an i shoulders stopped ?
and when the distressing palpi a. ions of my
heart were remedied I realised that I was
out of danger. Each day I ate more
heartily, but I now had good reason to eat
freely, as there were no pains—not even in
the chest—to deter me from doing so. The
cleansing and regulating influences of
Clements Tonic were shown by the entire
disappearance of my headaches, and the re-
moval of my internal disorders The re-
storation of my nervous system to a sound
condition makes me ever grateful to
C.ements Tonic, as it ultimately had the
effect of giving me entire freedom from fits,
and my health has nut faltered in the least
since 1 took my last dose of Clements Tonic
two years age.”
“ Was your recovery comp'ete in every
detail ? ”
“Yes; Clements Tonic left nothing un-
done, and as 1 think an account of my cure
will undoubtedly assist other sufferers, you
may publish it in any way you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. Alick Harrietts Fui.lagar, of 83 Mitchell-
•treet, Glebe in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have careful y
read the annexed document, consisting; of five
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure br Clements Tonic;
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give volun-
tarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, ana by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, ,900.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twentieth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
W. T. TATE, J.P.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co. f Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
FOR THE BUSH WORKER.
am-Bu/c
w
uzsznsk\
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Rlngrworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICK TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF (or
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. IMS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “WS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMiNGHA/1.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering: with WEAKENING
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
CERTAIN. Address—
BOTAMIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M R.c.s.. Enjj,
68 Russell St., .Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can gave in tea, coffee or fo id It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE
CURED
withcvit
operation or pa n,
Threw ewey
your Trail.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
> SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Con Russell & Collins 8ts m
r MELBOURNE.
“ I‘UTrylt «
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under covert
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10e. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
•i lu Return.
CRAIG &, AITKEN. N.s.w. Barber’s Supply
Hoi ut, 080*682 QEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
t/V
yes
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE,
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
BUNTERS
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nighti
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches Sc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUN TEH'S
NEKVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S
WORSDEIL’S
PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Sec.
Of all Stores.
Hidden Secrets of
WORDS
OF
WISDOM
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
“Words of Wisdom,* a
■wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of 11 om-
ceopatliio treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought to be
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling yon exactly how
and where you can regain
perfect health. In fact, it
give< you tlie key to the
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. No matter what your disease or how many have termed
it hopeless or incurable, you w II indeed find it A MESSAGE
OF HOPE to you, for if you follow its dictates, you will, as
thousands of others have, be entirely cured of your ailments.
Remember this book costs you absolutely nothing and you will
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address,
send it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter &. Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and they will send their opinion and
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days' Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A PELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELKO-
TKIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
- each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES*
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stkeet, SYDNEY.
CHEMISTS
sss
Dav/p /\p D i /\am
Poverty of Blood
andWeakness
prom Whatever Cause.
tablets
AT 3/6
PER BOX


ICE-MAKINC MACHINES from 70/- EACH
Water converted into lee in One Minute.
ICE-CREAM FREEZERS FROM 15/- EACH
CST" Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. 23 f y s'«.**"
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Engineer Electric Plant.
Nice, clean work, (rood pay. Wouldn’t you like
it? We’re here to help you. Study by corre-
spondence Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineering,—
Plumbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing.
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
dence ; also Steam,
riechanical and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. Write for informa-
tion and Handbook “ B.”
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney : Box 629, G.P.O.
V!
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, &c.
Learn to Hypnotize J
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fas
ciiiating I I teach you how
to become a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a strang]
and magic influence over
oth rs. Celebrate i in«tau
taneous method, discovered
and taught only by me.
Easily and quickly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and make your-
self famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies eve y am-
bition, compels others to
love and obey yon, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows you just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barraden, 89 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
w
jyt’
w
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REIKECY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Lite Syrup Remedies, which
give bark strength of body and brain, reneu ed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription df dge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,.
165 Collins Str et, Melbourne.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &o. It
destroys all disease germs, and.absorbingall impuri.
ties in the stomach and bowels.gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles: LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
pleasant to take) Sold by all Chemist' and Stores
Havi g had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,nlease see that each Bottle orTin bears
t e Trade Mark In monogram.’on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ "jX/TESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
' L itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination.” —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
Rupture
I Dr. Pierce’s ElectricTrusi
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
... sort), for new “Booklet No. L’
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U.S. A.; W. H. Son I & Co. , Agents, Sydney.
Theßoman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
'to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
Magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This beiag different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA
All Chemists sell it.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Our Selection.”
Second impression now ready. Price, os. Bd.
post free from The Bulletin office.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
rJ VCT A ' S selling
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause
BROKERS OTXTIjY.
in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
COMMISSION
WOOL
R SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (?) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
(InclucJmg Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
\\ eiglimg Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
wijfbe Ver SIXPEXCE P» lb - charges
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per'l'b. and
under ... ..
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
produce
ALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
Ever ' d WHEAT.
Ample accorrtmodatd orfiJ n,-n v <v! ver ' s to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
desired giving cost of raila^-p -mrl f,n ire . e months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
k «ig cost ot railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances,
etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney cESSTJi&o
19, £1 ’ 23 ICiw.g’ Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES .
Tbe ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, eto.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
— Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years' practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength £ ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 18S6, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your-fellow man
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek tlie Truth., it costa 3XTothlng I
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
muons
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 30 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 16 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Uf-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. I
How TO Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted. '
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s 6d posted.
Catalogue— post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T)EAR SIR,—I have been cured ol weakness and De-
XJ bilifcy by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Vss»Wtt street, Sydney*
ftUID
Aawe;i^
* R£C°/wwd
fi\m
r °ihmisTm
'6,
M*OUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pro ft & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CUR
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who sutler trom
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest. Q
GRIMAPLT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism. Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstiie & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasite* of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
06 R I CORO's
tSs£^ y.\ f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agentr for New South Wales—
F. H. Fauldlng & Co., 16 O’Connell Bt., Sydney.
LCD
DEAF
The New Patent
I SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no m- tier of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Addresi—A, M. NAST, 145 Collin* St., Melbourne.


21 Lessons for 21/-
OWING TO STRONG representations on
the part of pupils and a considerable nuimber
of intending pupils, we have decided to aban-
don the great speed competition lately
advertised in these columns.
I
f
JH*NEW SHORTHAND
(REGD.)
21 LESSONS FOR 21/- TO COMPLETION.
Payable 216 first, 216 second, //- each next 16; last 3 free.
See Page 35.
?
THE FEES for our full course are now
REDUCED to the old basis, 21/- ; all pupils
who have paid more than this amount will
receive a REFUND on application.
Country Pupils same terms, but postage
extra. Letters of enquiry must enclose stamp
for reply.
1
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Hold
the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
TET^N
e*ITjL!OLS
stftrff
B EU
B=St®
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
mm
TheGANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Oanz Direct Current Arl-Propelter. SOLE AGENTS i
The Austral Qtis Engineering Co., [td., South ||)elb.
ARDATH TOBACCO
SMOKING MIXTURE, Mild, Medium, and Full,
WALDORF CIGARILLOS (Ardath Tobacco),
STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES
No. 555 (VIRGINIA GRADE) No. 999
nY DARLING. ASTORIA (billiard rooh size).
QUO VADIS CIGARETTES
HIGH CLASS TURKISH TOBACCO.:
Manufactured by the ARDATH TOBACCO COMPANY.
S. HOFFNUNQ & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents.
i lll
II
AARONS
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS’ 5 “ VICE-REGAL MIXTURE
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full.
Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vo L. 24.—N0. 1108.
S V TV I? DAY, JANUARY 81, 1003.
Prtch 6o
* !
;
o* u *
THE GOD IN THE CAB.
”...Then came Mr. John Forrest and Mrs. Forrest, drawn in a carriage by 24 of the school children. The day was terribly hot. The temperature was 106 degrees in the shade. ... Mr.
John Forrest said that he would not ask the man who drank champagne and sat in an easy chair what he thought of the scheme, but he would go to the underground miner, who had to supply water
for himself and family, and ask him whether he did not think that the work was a God-like one."(Press report of the W A. water supplyopening.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
” Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by Willtam Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydnry
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER . 1902
(Payable In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... 457 ® ®
ncdf-yearly _ 01 " °
Quarterly _ ... V / O
NOTICE.
tin sending direct to Tuts BULLwmt Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bum.btin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to i F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number , *# hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects , and not exceed*
inn two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
al'll/ acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper
dippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ioe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A inn tours in Jtlncle and White.
A uyone supplying to Tire Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture eon-
taming a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid,
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Got eh, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown’,
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 82 llout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo Neivs Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kono.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
China .—Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
tHeZzai.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 31, 1903.
The Preservation of Our Federal
Rights.—No. 2.
When the people of the Commonwealth
fully realise that it is better to be governed
by their own Australian Parliament, both
Houses of which are fully and freely elected
by themselves, than by State Legislatures in
which the Upper Houses are elected on a
property qualification, or consist of cast-off
or broken-down politicians nominated for
life, then the end of the silly babble about
State Rights will be very near at hand. The
people can’t have anything more than the
right of self-government; even if the State
Parliaments fully represented the people
(which they do not) the only question would
be whether the people would exercise as
many of their rights as possible through
their State Legislatures and strive,. as
far as possible, to promote disunion,
or whether they would exercise as
many of their rights as possible through
their Australian Legislature, and thus pro-
mote the spirit of union. At the very best,
State Rights can never amount to anything
more than the blessed privilege of keeping
most of our money in the left hand pocket
instead of in the right, I>ut under existing
conditions they don’t amount to that. They
consist of the right to diminish the power of
the Senate, elected by adulv suffrage, in
order that there may be more authority left
to the N.S.W. House of Nominees and the
Victorian Gathering of 48 Rich Landlords ;
to diminish the power of the best men in
Australian politics in order that there may
be more pomp and circumstance left for
those who were too small to get a place
there; and to circumscribe the Legislature
that actually does things in order that there
may be more space left for the ones that only
talk about things. Above all, State Rights
consist of the right to sacrifice the best
interests of Australia that See’s glory may
not be diminished, and Jenkins may not
lose the chance to job away the country to
syndicates, and Bent may roar with all his
old clamor and salary.
* * * »
When Australia completely realises the
situation it will decide to support the Aus-
tralian Legislature in using to the uttermost
the powers it possesses, and in appealing to
the people for an enlargement of these
{lowers. The existing powers are extensive,
iut not extensive enough. Yet even those
that now exist can't be fully employed
while the people allow themselves to be
fooled by the silly lie that they are liable to
be grievously oppressed by the only Legis-
lature in Australia which is wholly under
their own control. In New South Wales
the democratic party has long been asking in
vain for a graduated land-tax that will break
up such huge and shameful monopolies as
that of the A.A. Co. In Victoria it has
tried for 30 years to get a general land-tax
which will raise some revenue from the
valuable city allotments of Melbourne and
elsewhere. In Queensland it has long been
asking for a land-tax of almost any kind,
and it has got instead a device for levying
income-tax on the penniless swagman and
poll-taxing the pauper. In Tasmania the
V.D.L. Co.’s incubus has sat like a ton of
soil on the chest of the community, and the
idea of getting a special tax on large estates
to break up the V.D.L. Co.’s monopoly, and
make its territory available for settlement,
seems as hopeless as ever. In all those States
the struggle against the monopoly of the
big landlords has gone on for a generation or
more, and except for a miserably inefficient
attempt to break up the great Victorian
squirearchy things are where they were. The
absentee tax is also where it was. If the
people will trust the Australian Parliament
and give it a mandate to levy an absentee-
tax and a graduated land-tax that will burst
up the great rack-renting landlords, it will pro-
bably get that most urgently-needed reform
in one session. The Australian Parliament
need not keep the proceeds of these taxes ;
it can hand them bsck to the States or use
them for State purposes —but it is the only
body which seems likely to levy such taxes.
And there is nothing in the way except the
fact that the sluggish State Premiers won’t
move, and that they say the spectre of State
Rights will be damaged if the country moves
without them.
• • * •
So far, four Australian States have refused
to grant Old Age Pensions ; and of the two
which have granted them, one already talks
of their probable abolition. The Australian
Government is the only power from which
much can be hoped in that direction also.
It is the only body from which anything can
be hoped in the way of reducing the burden
of the public debt. The States make some
feeble pretence at such a thing now and
then, but N.S.W. has already borrowed its
sinking-funds, and the new Victorian Govern-
ment has confiscated its sinking-funds bodily,
and the Queensland Government only adds
its deficits to the general debt. The Barton
Ministry has so far proved itself the only
honest, economical, and non - borrowing
Government in Australia, and for that reason
the management of the public liabilities
should be entrusted to it, and taken
out of the hands of See, Philp, and
co. After that is done, if the State
Governments insist on accumulating new
liabilities and making no provision for
their repayment, The Bulletin hopes to
see the Federal authority provide a sinking-
fund for the repayment of the new State
debts also, deducting the amount from the
surplus repayable to the States. No such
thing is ever likely to be done except by the
Federal authority. The paralysis of the
State administrations seems incurable.
• • • *
Judging by the strict letter of the law, the
Australian Parliament can take over and
administer the State debts without asking
any permission from the State authorities
whatsoever. It can levy land, income and
absentee taxes, and grant old-age pensions
on its own sole responsibility. It can take
over the railways, and the work of railway
construction, and the charge of Labor legis-
lation, and many other matters if the State
Parliaments choose to hand these over to it.
Or if the State Parliaments do not so choose
the Australian Legislature can pass a
measure enlarging its own powers in these
and other directions, and submit it to a
popular vote, and if it is endorsed by the
people, then the small subordinate Parlia-
ments have no voice in the matter. In this
proviso lies the chief hope of Australia’s
future, and the chief dread of the State
Rights party—the party which hopes to
preserve Toryism by keeping all possible
power in the hands of the obscure
little side-show Legislatures where Tory-
ism is still au influence. The Australian
Parliament can, if the people only support
it, practically wipe out the Victorian House
of Landlords by passing an old age pension
law over its head, by taxing its big estates
to such an extent that their breaking up will
be unavoidable, by levying an absentee tax
without its authority, by providing for a
Federal audit of its banks and syndicates, by
taking out of its hands (by a vote of the
people) all control of education, charities,
and Labor legislation, by establishing mini-
mum wage laws and arbitration and concili-
ation laws for the whole Commonwealth,
and other like means. In fact, the House of
Bigots and Reactionaries, which for 30 years
has defied all the efforts of the Victorian
people to move it, can be reduced to impo-
tence —just as soon as the scarecrow of State
Rights has been sent to the ash-heap where
it rightly belongs. The House of Landlords
may not be actually abolished, but the people
can walk past it and leave it lingering, a
mere powerless excrescence, in the rear.
• • * •
The Australian Parliament is the only
power which can blot out Jenkins Iscariot’s
syndicates and land-grant jobs } the basis of
the biggest job is the promise that the
90,000,000-acre steal shall be free of taxation
for ten years, and the People’s Legislature
has only to intimate that it is no party to
the promise, that its powers of taxation can t
be abrogated by obscure Jenkinses, and
that the Federal tax on 90,000,000-acre
estates is going to be 6d. in the £ of cap l a
value—and then the great public fraud falls
through. The Australian Parliament is the
only power which is ever likely to give Aus-
tralia a cheap and profitable railway system,
because it is the only one which isn t
hampered by State boundaries, and which
won’t build a 300-mile line to bring trade to
a jiort in one State if an equally good port
in another State can be reached by a 100-
mile line. It is the only power that is ever
likely to give Australia a uniform railway
gauge, or a decent banking and insurance
law ; after 40 years of consideration most of
the States have ended by so leaving things
that almost any vagrant can call himself a
bank or an insurance co. It is the only
power that is ever likely to put its foot down
on the foreign mining and land syndicates
which are eating up Westralia. The Com-
monwealth Parliament has, so far, proved
itself an active and vigorous body ; it settled
in its very first session, merely in the spare
moments snatched from other business,
an alien problem with which the State
Legislatures had tinkered feebly for 40
years, and did it in one-tenth of die time
which the palsied State Legislatures spent
in looking at their own Reform question
afar off, and leaving it alone. And when the
people have really decided to stand by the
policy of union all the time, the Common-
wealth sphere of activity will expand till the
legitimate result will be the abolition of the
States and all their powers ; and the mapping
out of Australia afresh into small divisions
for merely aldermanic purposes. Australia
has no earthly use for its States.
If See and Irvine and Jenkins were in
Commonwealth instead of parochial politics,
and if it was the doctrine of Federal Rights,
instead of State Rights, that would enlarge
the power and glory of See and Irvine and
Jenkins, then See and Irvine and Jenkins
would be as Federal as they are now paro-
chial, and their opinion would be equally
valueless in either case. The matter is one
in which Australia must form its own
opinion, and the case can be put in a sen-
tence. This country has to choose whether
it will endeavour to limit the power of the
only Parliament which is absolutely the
thing of its own creation and based on
absolute adult suffrage, in order that there
may be as much power left as is possible in
the hands of the nominee Upper Houses of
two States, and the property-elected Councils
of the other four, and the “bulcocked”
Assembly of Queensland, and the people
who are giving away this country wholesale
to foreigners in S.A. and Westralia, and
the anti Labor and anti-old-age-pension
gang in Victoria, and the N.S.W. crowd
which has such a tender regard for
the Australian Agricultural Co.’s land
monopoly. All the campaign of lies and
slanders which is being waged against the
Commonwealth Parliament is aimed at
preserving these sorry old excrescences.
When Australia fully realises this it will take
up its hat and leave the meeting in disgust
whenever State Rights are mentioned.
What Australia fought for—Chine*
Labor
Mr. Chamberlain seems to have been taken by
surprise at the strenuous hostility shown by white
South Africa, and the “white” States of the
British dominions, at his first-indicated intention
of aiding the Rand mine-owners to import Chinese
labor for the exploitation of their golden reefs.
British statesmanship, whilst always regarding
the colored races with deep disdain, has never
come to an understanding of the objection—partly
ethical, partly utilitarian—which the white demo-
cracies sprung from British stocks hold towards
racial admixture ; for British statesmanship is
still almost exclusively the statesmanship of the
landlord and capitalist class. It cannot compre-
hend the sentiment which objects, even when the
reward is wide Empire, to the enslavement
of an inferior race, to the necessary deteri-
oration of a superior race brought into close
association with a lower one, and to the
industrial evil which arises from a pleni-
tude of cheap and servile labor. Britain has
grown great in the material sense, has won riches
a ? u P° w f. largely by the merciless exploitation
2* the colored races ; and a true comprehension of
the ethical wrong and the ultimate economic folly
of that policy will probably not cotne to her public
men within tins century. Mr. Chamberlain was
therefore surprised at the storm of indignation
which his evident disposition to aid the S’African
mining magnates to import Chinese coolies
aroused (a fortnight ago Mr. Chamberlain’s only
uneasiness on the point was as to whether sufficient
Chinese labor could be obtained); on the spot he
“* the fi ?r ce resentment of the S’African white
workers, the cables doubtless brought to him the
sturdy remonstrances from Canada and Aus-
tralia, foremost amongst which, N.S.W. should be
proud to note, was thatof Agent-General Copeland
who evidently has not lost in the slough of Lon-
wbichTh? 3 !-? 1 - the . , ™KK ed democratic virtue
‘ ° f * , dl - gge J alw ays imparts to a
3Y lfc l th t e ,? uick , instinct of a politician, Mr.
?i?n Jo E r!f'f AIN f ° Z ed the surprise with a prompt
change of front. Whereas a few days ago his only
t° Chmes o labor was the sufficielmy of
the supply to-day he is eager to disclaim that he
has committed himself to its importation
* • * »
Doubtless Mr. Chamberlain, a politician and
therefore anxious to follow the lines of W
resistance to his plans, would be glad if he could
decisiyely declare against the Chinese or anv
other imported colored-labor plan of working the
Rand mines. Mr. Chamberlain has Teen miiltv
of many treacheries, lias proved himself over and
over again cold-bloodedly unscrupulous in the
pursuit of his ambitions; it wo'uld be absimd
to suppose that he is such a fool as to wish o,a f
mere malevolence, to outrage the sentiment °I
the enlightened democratic section in the w?
dominions to court the hostility of thf fi
workers of the Transvaal, and to cause deep dis
tent in such dangerous quarters as Natal—.H?"
pattern “ loyalist ” colony winch took so ereat
part, relatively in the conduct of the late war La
which shows ns opinions on the colored labor i
portation question by a statute similar to our A no
tralian Immigration Restriction Act But
Mr. Chamberlain help himself? Is he not?
completely in the hands of the Rand mine-ownew
that he must finally assent to'.heir policy, however
unwillingly? Unfortunately there can be onlv
one answer to these questions. /Mr. Chamberlatv
must comply with the Rand capitalists’demands
They may find some substitute for Chinese labor
by raking other quarters for cheap workers just Z
objectionable; and in that case there may b°?
compromise on Indian coolies, Malay men or
Central African negroes. But whatever labor
they ask for finally and firmly they will get. Aside
from any argument on the basis that Mr. Cham
BERLAIN is personally deeply involved in the
plots and plans of these financiers, there is the one
clear, solid fact that Mr. Chamberlain’s reputa-
tion for statesmanship is committed to the cause of
the Rand mine-owners. For thernhewagedthelate
war; to remedy their alleged grievances the Boer
Republics were destroyed at the cost of thousands
of lives and millions of treasure. Can he now
throw them over, aggravate indeed their griev-
ances, incur their hostility, and leave the late
campaign—its cost still not met, its wounds still
bleeding—absolutely without a shadow of a shade
of an excuse? That would be a disastrous develop-
ment to his reputation. The British public,
foolish though it may be in some respects, could
not possibly approve a Chamberlain campaign now
against the mine-owners, to right whose so-called
wrongs England has just ended a most painful
war. No, for good or for evil, Mr. Chamberlain
and the Rand mine-owners are inextricably bound
together. They must sink o- swim a 3 one.
• • •
If it had not been for tne fa'ct, previously
referred to, that English statesmanship is, as yet,
quite ignorant of the modern democracy— the
democracy which is as much social and industrial
as it is political—and that English public men
still look at affairs almost solely from the land-
lord’s and the capitalist’s standpoint, theS’African
war could never have been waged, for it was
essentially and solely a campaign on behalf of a
plutocracy against a little Republic of fanners
and against white labor in the Rand mines.
There was no grievance against the Republican
Government in the minds of the majority of the
British citizens in the Transvaal; the antagonism
was absolutely confined to the ring of capitalists
—British Jews, American Jews, Continental
Jews, and Gentiles from all quarters of the globe
—whose schemes for the cheap exploitation
of the Rand were not approved of by the
Boers. The Transvaal Republic refused to these
plutocrats facilities for obtaining slave labor such
as their friends at the Kimberley diamond mines
enjoyed, and openly and shamelessly cultivated
the good graces rather of the working miners
(who formed the greatest proportion of the British
population in the Transvaal). It was the laborers’
union, not the capitalists’ union, that the Farmers’
Republic favored. When in 1892 new mining
regulations were drawn up by the Transvaal
Executive, draft copies were sent to the Chamber
of Mines and (the insolence of these Boers!) to the
Witwatersrand Employees and Mechanics Union.
The Chamber of Mines suggested 14 alterations:
of these four were wholly and two partially
accepted. The Labor union suggested 23 amend-
ments to meet its views, and of these 20 were
agreed to 1 President Kruger and his minions
were constantly showing the same sour prejudice
towards the cosmopolitan plutocrat and the same
low pandering to the British labor-union. They,
for instance, refused to put a heavy tax on the
Kaffirs to force them to work in the mines. They
took the labor view and not the capitalists’ view of
the proposed Gold Thefts Bill, an infamous
measureon thelinesof thediambnd-stealing legisla-
tion in force in Kimberley, which the mine-owners
proposid, and by which the State would have
handed over its police functions to spies, controlled
by the Chamber of Mines, would have sanctioned
the violation of private correspondence and would
have made search of private houses, without
warrant, legal. They passed stringent Land Boilers
Inspection and Engineers Licensing Acts, by
which the mine-owners were compelled to take
precautions against accident more adequate even
than those enforced in Australia. And, crowning
infamy, the Boer Republic proposed to ordain an
eight-hours law when th» war stepped in to put
an end to that project. The Labor Union—em-
bracing, do not forget, the hulk of the British
element in the Transvaal—did not join in the Rand
mine-owners’ agitation in regard to the alleged
grievance of the franchise. In fact, before 1896 it
directly opposed that movement, pleading to the
Boer Government that if the franchise were granted
to the workers under the then system of open
voting, they would be terrorised by their em-
ployers into voting against their convictions, and
asking that a Secret Ballot Act should be passed
before there was any extension of the franchise.
The Boer Government again was deaf to the capi-
talist, and opened its ear to the worker, and in
1896 the Ballot Act became law. Subsequently,
the plutocrats didn’t agitate much for the fran-
chise. They conspired for war. The position, m
short, was that the Boer Government consulted
the wishes of the Boers and of the British work-
men in the country, and almost absolutely ignored
the Rand plutocracy. Hence the war.
* • • •
The Tory British Government was aware of a
this, and acted on behalf of the sacred right o
property to rule all things, as might have been
expected. The Australian people should nav
been aware of all this, but they blundere
headlong into a war, the sole real purpose of wnic:
was to free an odious plutocracy from the nghteo
restrictions on its greed and insolence imposed
the Boer farmers, largely at the instigation or ’
British workers in the Transvaal. Now that
war is ended, and the Republics destroyed,
Tory British Government cannot “go back on
pal ” ; and if, as part of his share of the plun >
he requires the right to Chinese labor, he will 1
it, in spite of all the protests of white Austra
and white South Africa.
•»• * . .
The Bulletin finds in the present position
in S’Africa mournful verification of alllt.
said at the inception of the struggle as to tne' ‘
real purpose. There is no suggestion that cr
is due for any perspicuity, praise for any n r '
of attitude shown in the matter. It was no P°
sible for any person of the least intelhgon ,
avoid seeing the object of the war, if he approa■
the inquiry without prejudice. It was not p°s-
for a paper which had always professed
Radical in its convictions and Republican
sympathies ; which had claimed to champio
Man with the Hoe as against the Man wi
Money; which had been always hostile to p
cracy, to low wages, and to absentee landlor


to take up any other attitude but that of antagon-
ism to the Rand mine-owners, seeking under the
British flag the privilege of exploiting great riches
with unchecked rapacity. If any other view could
have been decently taken it would no doubt have
been taken. But the cause of white labor, of good
wages, of austere Republicanism, how could, that
have been opposed, to champion the Rand pluto-
crat and his plans for getting Chinese coolies ?
Australians who supported the war must feei
almost unendurable now the taste of Chow in
their mouths.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Senator.
The death of Frederick Sargood left a vacancyin
Victoria’s representation in the Senate, and as an
election in which the whole State is the constitu-
ency is costly, the Australian Constitution pro-
vides that the two Houses of the State Parliament
tnay, under such circumstances, hold a joint
sitting and elect a temporary casual Senator to
hold office till next election day. Sargood was a
Freetrader and an importer, who got in upon a
general promise that he would support the Pro-
tectionist policy, and he kept the promise none
too well. The joint sitting of the Victorian Par-
liament appointed another Freetrade importer,
Robert Reid, M.L.C., to succeed him, Reid
getting G 8 votes to Peacock’s 51. Robert
Reid is the hideously incapable State Min-
ister of Hducation of whom even Irvine
is, perhaps, a trifle weary. His majority
came from the bitterly Tory House of 48 Rich
Landlords, aided by the support of the Irvine
Government, which threw all its weight into the
scale. The Assembly gave a large majority for
Peacock, the Protectionist and advocate of the
Factories Act; but the place which represents
Property was solid on the other side, and turned
the scale. Both the Irvine Government and the
House of Rich Landlords wanted to send in a
Tory of the most hopeless class, and they had to
appoint a Freetrader in order to get a sufficiently
awful Tory. Nobody heavy and retrogressive
enough could be found in the Protectionist ranks.
The House of Landlords would have none of Pea-
cock, the man who helped materially to pass the
Factories Act—still less would it tolerate Stephen
Barker, of the Trades Hall. Robert Reid’s
appointment as temporary Senator has been hailed
in Sydney as a “Freetrade triumph,” though, if it
is one. it certainly shows that Freetrade keeps
very bad company when it has to depend
on the most intensely Tory and stagnant
Upper House in Australasia to carry its
candidate. Meanwhile, even if the new Senator
takes his seat, the substitution of importer Reid
for importer Sargood only leaves the numbers as
they were. Whether either Reid or Peacock
was qualified for nomination and capable of
taking a seat in the Senate is another matter. In
the early days of Federation most of the State
Legislatures, in their anxiety to be nasty, passed
laws disqualifying every Federal member from
being a candidate for the State Parliament, even
though he might be willing to resign his State
membership if elected. The Commonwealth Par-
liament retaliated with this enactment :
No person who is, at the date of nomination, or who
was, at any time within 14 days prior to the date of
nomination, a member of the Parliament of a State shall
be capable of being nominated as a Senator or as a mem-
ber of the House of Representatives.
Reid and Peacock cheerfully nominated in
defiance of this law, and Reid now not only pro-
fesses to be a member of both the Commonwealth
and the State Parliaments simultaneously, but
passes himself off as a State Minister as well.
There is a fine, brassy,' lawless insolence about the
whole proceeding which is characteristic of the
State Parliaments and their fixed policy of being
as offensive as possible to the Commonwealth
Legislature. A miserably thin plea is advanced
to the effect that the Federal Act was only
intended to apply to ordinary elections, but the
Act says nothing to that effect. In the Victorian
Parliament last week, Bell, M.L.C., got up and
nominated Reid, M.L.C., to be a Senator, while
the Federal law says distinctly that no State
M.L. A. or M.L.C. can be so nominated. Also
Reid was then elected ; the fact that he was
elected by the State Parliament instead of by the
people makes no difference in the fact that he
was elected—or rather purported to be. As the
result of these doings, when the Commonwealth
Parliament meets, Australia will probably witness
the spectacle of a new alleged senator making his
entrance with some dignity and his exit with
some velocity and a shocked expression of
countenance. And there is the remote possi-
bility that Stephen Barker, of the Trades
Hall, may be declared elected, he being the
only qualified candidate. Personally, The
Bulletin thinks it would be quite sufficient
if, when a member of one Parliament was
elected to another, his seat in the first Parlia-
ment should automatically become Vacant at
the moment when the poll was declared—if he
was thrown out afterwards on petition that would
be his misfortune. No one demands that a clerk,
for instance, shall resign the billet he has got
before he applies for a better one. But the State
Parliaments (the Victorian one included) started
by disqualifying Federal members for nomination
to their little show, and the Federal Parliament
got foolishly angry and adopted the same prin-
ciple. Now the State Parliament endeavors to
crawl out, which shows a hucksterign instinct
and a slimy frame of mind.
» .
Tea and Kerosene.
When the Australian Parliament re-assembles,
one of the first things which should be attended
to is the imposition of revenue duties on tea
and kerosene. These duties yielded a large
revenue, and experience has shown that the re-
duction effected in prices through their abolition
is net.,at all commensurate with the loss of
revenue. And the revenue is certainly much
wanted, for the abolition of inter-State duties has
left a vacancy in the bag that has never been
adequately supplied. Westralia, it is true, is still
allowed to retain its inter-State duties, and being
thus made affluent itself, it is bumptious and
callous towards the other States which haven’t its
advantages— but that is a mere side issue. The
Labor party in the Commonwealth Parliament was
largely responsible for the abolition of the
tea and kerosene duties, and therein it made
the one bad mistake of its Federal career. It
reckoned that the States didn’t require this source
of revenue, and, in a sense, it was correct.
Queensland, for instance, had no land-tax; Vic-
toria had one, which exempted all its immensely
valuable town and city lands; Tasmania had a
tax of only in the £; Westralia none at all,
and so on. But, if the Labor party calculated
that the want of money would drive these States
to tax the large and bloated landlord, it reckoned
badly. Instead of that, want of money is causing
the old age pension system to be undermined, is
preparing the way for an attack on free education,
has led to a shameful sweating of the publio ser-
ssESLErii .tC£r s 7"s' 3
kins Iscariot. Therefore iK ? maintain , Jen ‘
reconsider the oosltfon ’ T L J* b ? r Pf”? ahoul d
be to impose t The J fir ? fc effort should
se„F- ssr-ssraj
duated that the S ? stee P l y ? ra *
g? *K?SS..TS. B fo;
?UtXrwfflto Sc 'i £S‘comS„™|;K
reaction sn'pc. l qn P “J| bey°nd the reach of State
ss#^a iß a=
into the nnM d t° be thrown out
wanting TM.T >’ „ ha ? JOen trie d and found
sufficient .11 ked r ll r, ? ht ’ but it didn’t make
sectfon of the WanC6 f °" the L callousness of that
section ot the community whose ton-hat is hnno-
“P ™ hl * h Places. Therefore, it iftime to tak!
another line of action, and to take it suddenly.
-♦
The Elingfamite Whitewash.
The Auckland Court of Inquiry entrusted with
the investigation of the wreck of th» steamer
Rlmgamite is properly severe in i’s condemnation
ment on* t,on ° f the Bh, -P’ and illflic ts punish-
ment on the man responsible for “grossly ne<di-
ft en stons Per v r I nU i? Ce ° f His - dutie3 ' But there
It - tops. Yet there remains a vast amount of
blame unallotted. It was almost wholly the
captain s fault that the vessel was brought into
I,eCOUld plead in litigation was
the failure of the patent log, which, in a measure,
upset his calculations). But, the vessel being
brought into imminent danger, there was a
possibility of saving her if her machinery had
been in proper order. On this point the finding
ot the court was : ”
Although it would by no means exonerate the master if
it were shown that the ship would have escaped if the
exfernal ih een r€ ! Ve, ' sed ’ and th *t there was no cause
™ ? thP en £' ne l to Prevent them reversing, it is
lecessary to consider the evidence adduced on this point.
Effect that V' np e , an<l Clear ‘ The engineers sky, in
effect, that the vessel was wrecked Before the order to
reverse was given. Every other witness called says there
was ample time to reverse the engines and get clear after
the order was given, and before the vessel touched at all.
Unfortunately the chief engineer was lost, therefore
the evidence of the person responsi >le for the condition
of the engines is not obtainable. The second, third, and
fourth engineers gave evidence, and they say that the
engines were in perfect order, but did not reverse when
the reversing gear was put over. . . .
The court is of opinion that there was nogrounding
astern until after the vessel struck forward. . . .
The engineers’ story is at variance with the known
conditions existing at the time. The engineers all told
the same story, and advanced the same theory. They
showed the same reluctance to speak candidly about the
engines—whether the engines were jambed, or whether
the steam had been so lowered as to prevent sufficient
power been applied when required to reverse. Whether
there was any other cause or defect the court was unable
to say, but it was clear that, owing to some defect in the
engines, the reversing gear would not act, and the chance
of saving the vessel was consequently lost.
Unsatisfactory as the testimony of the engineers was,
and dangerous as the condition of the engines probably
was, the court cannot hold the surviving engineers
responsible for what happened. They were at their posts,
and obeyed orders. This court cannot punish them by
suspending their certificates, or ordering them to pay
costs, although possibly the vessel could have been
extricated from her danger had the engines been in
perfect order.
That the subordinate engineers could not be held
responsible for the defective state of the engines,
which was the immediate cause of the wreck, is
true enough. But can no one else be held
responsible ? Shipowners undertaking to carry
passengers are supposed to take every precaution
so that their vessels shall be well-found and well-
equipped. The law provides Marine Boards and
official surveyors, presumably to see that these
precautions are taken. Yet, in the Elingamite
case, it seems clear that they were not taken.
The engines were defective and “ probably in a
dangerous condition.” Why were they so? Is
there any means of sheeting home to the persons
culpable—the owners or the Marine Courts —the
responsibility? These are questions on which
the public might reasonably have expected
enlightenment from the Court of Inquiry.
There was another issue raised by the
wreck and its subsequent tragedies. The
vessel having been brought into danger by
carelessness, and having been wrecked through
the failure of the engines, the appliances and
organisation for saving life were found to be
grossly inadequate. The boats were not provided
with food, water or compasses. Owing to the
lack of boat-drill, the crew did not get the boats
out with reasonable expedition, one boat was
allowed to leave the ship without a proper com-
plement of passengers, and the boats and rafts did
not keep together for mutual assistance. Results
were horrible scenes of starvation, madness and
death, though the court found that there was no
warrant for the allegations of vampire blood suck-
ing on one of the rafts. In view of the proved
facts of the inquiry, and of the reasonable conclu-
sions to be drawn therefrom, it is absurd
that the whole punishment ’Tliflicted by the
court should fall on the captain. Granted that if
he had not been careless the wreck would not have
happened this time , there was a reasonable possi-
bility that it would have happened some other
time. The trackless path of the sea is full of
dangers. Though human precaution be ever so
keen, storms will arise unexpectedly, currents
mysteriously develop, reefs, even, spring to the
surface in a night. A steamer, in whose engines
there was a defect, whose engines, in fact, were
“ probably dangerous,” could hardly expect, in
the natural order of things, to survive the unes-
capable dangers of the sea. That she should be
allowed to go to sea in such a state is surely some-
body’s blame and should secure punishment for
somebody. The faults in the equipment of the
boats, too? The responsibility for them is not,
surely, altogether on the shoulders of the officers.
The officers certainly neglected to take the proper
precautions, but was that neglect on this voyage
only, or had it been habitual and connived at by
their employers ? In law there falls upon the
employer the responsibility of seeing that his
servants are not careless and negligent. But as
regards shipping matters the ordinary processes
of the law seem to be in practice paralysed. Until
that state of things is ended, and the blame for
accidents is in every case traced right back to its
source, and adequate penalty enforced, there will
not be proper security for those who go down to
the sea in ships.
*
Some Property Qualification.
A CAUCUS of the Victorian House of Landlords
has firmly and forcibly expressed its opinion of
Premier Irvine’s “ Reform Bill.” The result of
its deliberations is that it doesn’t object very
much to woman suffrage ; it is quite willing to
disfranchise the eivil servants to any extent —in
fact it is quite willing to disfranchise anybody
and everybody ; but it is unfavorable to the idea
of reducing its own numbers, and, as for abandon-
ing any of its special privileges of blocking legisla-
tion and annulling the will of the people, it will
see Irvinb first. In fact, it will see every-
body first. If the caucus expressed the
opinion of the House generally, then the only
valuable part of Irvine’s scheme is already in the
ash-barrel. As one indignant Upper Landlord
put it—
What is the use of having an Upper House at all if 3’ou
nave only a repetition on a smaller scale of the other one.
An Upper House ought not to be elected by demagogues.
it ought to be a house of review ; it ought carefully to
examine the merits of popular legislation, and for that
purpose its members ouqht to possess some property
qualification.
There is something richly humorous about the
Upper House’s bland assumption that a man is
qualified to review popular legislation if he has
property, so that Larry Foley, who owns pro-
perty, was necessarily qualified to revise the legis-
lation of Moses or the Saviour, who did not.
Jtsut the Upper House didn’t know it, was being
humorous. It certainly never intended to be.
Ihe idea of being humorous is the very last one
that would occur to an Upper House. It would
almost as soon be drunk—or intelligent—or dead.
4
The Sour-Teinpered State Premiers.
John See’s claim, backed by Robert Philp, that
the rebate on the Federal excise on sugar granted
to employers of white labor should be paid by the
whole Commonwealth, and not directly out of
the excise collected, is a small, mean, parochial
contention which shows, too, very little sympathy
with the White Australia ideal. Present posi-
tion is that of the excise du r y paid by the
Australian sugar-grower a part is returnable if he
has employed white labor only; that is to say,
there is an excise duty of <£3 per ton on nigger-
grown sugar and of £1 per ton on white man
grown sugar (of the £3 collected on white-grown
sugar £2 is returned). So here arises this curious
situation:
. N.S.W. and Queensland, the only sugar States of anv
importance, at present pay an excise of £3 per ton on
nigger sugar and £1 per ton on white sugar grown in
their territories.
The excise thus paid they receive back every month at
the division of the Federal surplus. That is to say, they
pay a tax of £3 per ton and £1 per ton respectively on the
« of Bu £ ar - and the Australian Government
faithfully accounts to their respective State Governments
every month for the money.
But Premiers She and Piiilp demand that though their
States only pay an excise of £1 per ton on whfte-«rown
sugar it shall be reckoned at the division of the surplus
that they paid £3 a ton, and that their share of the sur-
plus shall be calculated accordingly, the other States con-
tributing to make up the difference.
There is evidently an impression in the minds of
Philp and See that any excuse, however thin,
for being small and nasty and cantankerous
towards the Australian Government is a good
enough excuse. Probably Mr. See will not be
entirely satisfied unless Federal Treasurer Turner
adopts a N.S.W. way of settling the question-
paying all the excise into revenue and floating a
loan to pay the rebate.
♦
The newspaper “ Reform ” chickens are coming
home to roost. Softgoodsman and Freetrader
Robert Reid owes his election to the Federal
Senate almost entirely to the recklessness of Melb.
Age, which was responsible at the recent Vic.
elections for the firing-out of nearly a score of
tried and sound Liberals, and took under its wing
such men as McCutcheon, Swinburne, Sammy
Lancaster, and the blatant Hirsch, It was well-
known that Hirsch, Swinburne and the dreary
Trashworth, in entering the State Parliament,
were merely doing so with the object of consoli-
dating themselves for seats at next Federal
election, but Syme’s Age caressed them with a
large and benevolent caress, and hailed them as
the children of “reform,” and affected to regard
them as quite harmless so long as they were only
in State politics. Exactly how harmless they are
was shown by the activity with which they can-
vassed the whole Victorian Parliament in the
interests of calico-JiMMY Reid, who now gets a
leg-in for a Senate seat which was only captured
by Freetrader Sargood on his solemn promise
that he would agree to a very extensive compro-
mise on his own fad. The Kyabram-ARGUS-AGE
reform movement was, from its inception, a dodge
to fill the State Parliament with foreign-traders
and alien-immigrationists, who could thus get a
grip on the electors, and incidentally help in
cutting wages all round. Protectionist Victoria
has only just tasted the first bitterness resulting
from its unwholesome trust in what thenewspaners
tell it. F
4
Even the Shiels “bread-and-butter margin”
doesn t satisfy some of the alleged reformers in
Vic. Assembly, and the other day lawyer Fink
and printing-boss M'Cutcheon and one or two
others roundly denounced the iniquity of income-
tax proposals which do not reach every adult in
the State. Mr. Fink wanted “ the whole of the
income of the community tapped at its source,”
and apparently thought that the best way of
getting at the source would be to go round to the
casual 30s. a week laborer and the lift-boy and the
charwoman, and demand that they should divide
the taxation with the people who pay them so
munificently. Such reformers as the Jolimont
“ Treasurer’s understudy ” always shut their eyes
to the fact that the lift-boy and the laborer have
their bread-and-butter margin fixed to a nicety by
their employers without interference by Shiels
or any other politician, and that the more
common the occupation happens to be, the
easier it is to fix the margin in such a
way as to preclude the possibility of even
a very satisfying quantity of bread and butter.
But ex-honorary-Minister Fink is quite right in
affirming that Treasurer Shiels hasn’t gone to the
source. What that sorrowful person should have
done was to propose a comprehensive land-tax in
addition to his income-tax extension. Then he
would have had a better chance of reaching the
men in the back-blocks who mop up eight-tenths
of the general expenditure of Victoria, and then
rush round and demand that some other person
should be reformed.
4
Almost the drunkest-looking attempt to cadge the
casual vote was George Reid’s impassioned
denunciation of the Barton Government at
Perth (W.A.) because it hadn’t, in its very first
session, made a beginning at building the trans-
continental railway to Westralia. Most railway-
builders think it advisable to first survey the
ground (which is now being done), to look for
coal and water to feed the engines, for the easiest
gradients, and for the best country, so that there
may be chances of population growing up along
the line, but the popularity-hunting George Reid
rose superior to small considerations like these.
This is his large, copious attitude, according to
the S.M. Herald report:—
Mr. G. H. Rbid said the transcontinental railway had
got to be built. If the engineers retarded it HE would
“hang the engineers.’ If the engineers could not
strike a route, let them be bold and themselves strike a
route across the map and have the railway built. When
p.,i»™tn rter at the came there and told the
nn ™ ? 0^T n ?f"<L that was a!l right, why did they
bow g< P«tpr a( | \r f - , HE wen r.'. vin S- dark on the weather
bll7’when Hp M ') ni | 3te j’*u VoU d be qUlte ri - ht lool < out.
work in h , H f adv ‘ sed thera to go ahead and to take the
rh h m °" m 6 assur J nce that HE would see them
* ’ HE could n ?t understand why they should hesi-
t^ C in° r a HE h °P pd Mr. Lyre would not take
too long over the report of the engineers.
Reid, who is so utterly unable to understand why
K n A ™ N Government did not start building a
£4,000,000 railway on a practically-unsurveyed
route in its very first session, is the same person
who was m office for five years with a mandate to
reform the N.S.W. Upper House, and left it
where it was. Suppose the Barton Government
™™ h £‘° spend £4.000,000 (over £1,000,000
. m , one y) on building a railway in the
iar West without even waiting to find out if
there was water for the engine on the route, what
kind of a clamor would the Same Old George have
made about “the sacrifice of N.S.W, interests ”
and so on ?
What striking little pictures of their own lands
these two men unoonsciously paint for us—
lowar, the American agriculturist; Krukoff, the
Kussian. ihe American, imported to guide the
b. Austrahan farmer, says the latter wants more
and better and cheaper machinery; the Russian
can onl v talk Men— * You want more men, men
who will work harder, so many men that they
won t dare to ask for more wages.” And see how
it ends. Hie American improves his machine,
and it gives him hack all the extra profit. The
Russian improves his, too; hut it is human, and
as soon as it is improved it isn’t content to be a
machine—it wants some of the extra profit itself
rising”" 116 cable tells us of “another student
4
The malicious attacks of the Argus on the Vic-
tonan Education Act do not stop at falsehood.
Ihe Argus says the Act was passed to teach the
three R. s, therefore the system should be con-
fined to these. It advocates payments for children
under six and over 13, arguing that children
under six are too young to learn anything, while
those over 13 should be at work ; and that, in fair-
ness to the rural population, payments should be
adopted as country children over 13 are taken away
to assist in farm work, while the progeny of the cit'v
population make the State schools stepping stones
to black coats and quill pens.” Now this is
partly falsehood, partly ignorance. The “three
K. s are not “Reading, ’Rithmetic,”
but Responsibility, Reliance and Reason.” All
education is justeducationasfar as it leads to these.
L/hiidren under six are not too young to learn. No
child is ready to leave school until he or she has
received sufficient preparation to go into a higher
school—the World, the school of experience. That
is not a matter of age. Education is power. It
tends to make men equal. It gives them the
ability to reason for themselves. Ignorance means
servility, docility, love of gorgeous processions,
brutality. Education means manliness, honesty,
and fraternity. The Argus loves the grown-up
baby who is satisfied with “ my lord’s ” opinions
who believes that it is not good to eat of the fruit
of knowledge; who believes that to work, eat,
drink, and sleep is for Am, while affairs of State
are for his betters. The heart of the Argus swells
for the man who touches his hat to his employer
and says “Yessir.” This type is, fortunately,
becoming extinct in Australia, where Bill the
farm-hand, calls the boss “ Jim.” But abolish or
limit the system of State education, and there will
soon be a community after the Argus’ own heart.
At the time this goes to press it looks as if the
first blow may have been struck in a notable fight
Last Thursday, the Vic. Fat Landlords, after
hacking and hewing at the Probate Duties Bill
then acting the fool by re-inserting several clauses
they had previously negatived, finally laid the
Bill aside. This was their polite way of intimat-
ing, firstly, that they weren’t taking any more
taxation; and, secondly, that they felt very
..u ht T> c th ® hu m o r to “deal with”
the Reform Bill. No sooner had the Assembly
met next morning thin Premier Irvine—with-
out wasting time in the usual formality of a
Committee of Inquiry to discover what happened
to the Bill-himself inspected the records of the
House of Landlords, and promptly re-introduced
the identical measure which the fossils had laid
aside ; this is now well on the road through the
second reading. There was at least some
piompfeness and vigor about the proceeding
though it doesn’t show that Irvine has any more
idea than his predecessors how to shift the House
of Landlords when the row really comes. Still, if
he is equally prompt when his measure is rejected
a second time, he may make the Council feel
angry, or tired, or something.
Thus Owk’Sullivan, N.S.W. Works Minister, in
Adelaide Herald (Labor paper) :
If is astounding to note what curious criticism is
bestowed upon the public works policy of NSW
Either the writers of the press of Sydnev, Melbourne an<i
Adelaide know but little about the subject, or else ’thev
are deliberately misrepresenting the matter for partV
purposes. To read their diatribes one would think that I
was in the habit of standing upon the South Head of
Sydney Harbor, deliberately pitching millions of golden
sovereigns at the seagulls as they fly past. But what
are the facts? I have spent a little over seven millions in
three years, seven-tenths of which have been spent upon
reproductive public works, which are now, or shortly will
bring in from 4to 4| per cent, interest. These include 17
railways, 29 tramlines, and a number of sewerage works
and artesian wells, which are reproductive from the dav
they are completed. The remainder are essential works
such as roads and bridges, harbor works, public buildings!
&c., all of which pay indirectly by promoting settle-
ment, enhancing the value ofCrown lands, givingcheaner
and speedier access to markets, and in many otfier wavs
promote the happiness and welfare of the people.
The dear old gentlemen with the Owe’ has spent
a vast amount more than £7,000,000 of loans, and
a good deal more than three-tenths of it went in
unproductive works. But even taking his own
figures, here is the astounding spectacle of an
allegedly sane man boasting that he has charged
all remunerative public works (even though they
were only remunerative to the extent of paying
half the interest) to loans, and over £2,000 000
worth of non-productive works as well! ’ ’
+
N -S-W. ) Vest . ern Rands Commissioners, who have
tackled the stiff job of nursing the desert west of
Boiirke back to prosperity, have issued their
revised rents; and there is the expected kicking,
So far as the mere matter of rent goes —though it
isn’t worth a quarter of the fuss that is made over
it—the lessees’ cows and “vows” have died with
the same painful regularity whether lessees have
paid their less than fd. per acre or haven’t (and
they pretty often haven’t). What it is a good deal
more necessary to kick about is the alleged
decision of the Commissioners that the Act does
not empower them to issue any bub a 42-year
lease. The position is like this : Western squat-
tages are now divided into two equal parts, one
-held under lease, t’other under license from week
to week. On the latter selection has been per-
mitted. Now the existing ielectors are to get


SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and .Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com- /
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
- Engines and Boilers. ,
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST AND BSST IN THE WORLD!
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
V NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney
" ' ' 1 ' 4. ' • *‘ Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Pub! ished that; David Syme, of the Age
L a ' ir the :, ,Ctl < mof defalcations amounting to
some thousands of pounds. This, if true, is verra
senous news. If David can no longer look after
telS ;,'S‘? OPB th,t he ‘°° k the
»itt h l r l„ 0 K:1 ,22A/ ' o3<!reditS C * ts P» Bent
* ? e 11 o doubt the men would spp if woo ui
thing to obey the Government’s direction. “ Thev w/h”
witi
mariner. •We are their friends „ . nd >, fatherly
them a little bit of advice. They will take it aH right”'*
“The Rabbit Curse”
May be turned into “a bWi™ A- ■ „
oiessmg in disguise” by such as ha
systematically set about trapping dear bunny.
Thejtosewarne Packing Co., Ltd.
is now paying high prices for
rabbits at their Chilling Works
in Narandera and Younw ... .
y.^quantity. Send for particulars to the Company
either at their Works.or their ' • • ”
Head Office : 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The experiment will pay you wel] . - ,
> :
enlarged areas, and the squatter hopes to get a
lease of the balance of what he has been holding
under license. In most cases little harm
would be done by giving him a short
lease ; in fact, he won’t improve his coun-
try without a lease. But to give him a 42-
year lease—to lock up against selection for nearly
naif a century country which has hitherto been
nnen—would be monstrous. If, therefore, the
Commissioners, as is alleged, have no power to
issue anything but a 42-year lease, they had better
issue none at all until they get the law amended
when, like intelligent trustees and administrators,
they will be able to use their discretion in the
matter.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum.. , “ Breaking of the Drought.”
Royal .. “ The Fortune Teller.”
Criterion. “Lady Barmaid.” . j
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Pa1ace.......... “Robin Hood."
Town Hall. Jubilee Singers (Sat.).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Zaza.”
Her Majesty's “ Dick Whittington.”
Theatre Royal “ When London Sleeps.'
Opera House..' Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall (Jan. 31st.) Armes Beaumont’s Concert.
•
“ The Mikado," with its pungent satire, its
quaintly intricate rhyming (reminiscent of the
work of the mediaeval hymn-writers), and its
music perfectly matched to the theme, had a
hearty reception on revival at the Sydney Palace
last Saturday. The humor of “the Mikado ”is
ever fresh. It satirises human foibles and follies
which will probably last as long as human nature,
and is therefore never likely to become stale be-
cause the reason for its gibes hasdeparted. Whilst
there are Parliaments, politicians, foolish social
distinctions, titles, royalties, humbuggingchurches,
there will be point in Gilbert’s burlesque of life
in the visionary town of Titipoo. Present revival
at Sydney Palace is mainly notable for its special
care in detail and its even standard of merit; the
performance always runs smoothly; the “ make-
up” of the characters is more than usually dis-
tinctive and humorous; and the orchestra and
chorus-wprk are almost perfect. As regards the
principals, one or two are a good deal better than
at previous productions, one or two rather disap-
pointing. *
* m • •
Miss Florence Young’s Katisha is the best
feature in this-*-Mikado.” Though it is pronerly a
contralto part, the music is adaptable to her vigorous
voice, and she acts with fine dramatic effect.
Mr. P. Bathurst, as Pooh-Bah, is also conspicuous,
giving a somewhat novel and altogether consistent
reading. As Yum-Yum, -Miss Carrie Moore is
rather too Tom-boisterous, and her affectations
are not those of the schoobgirl, but of the woman
of the world. Still she is often very pleasing, as
is Miss Chetwynd in the part of Pitti Sing. The
broadly humorous part of Ko Ko is given a more
pronouncedly comical turn by George Lauri than
Howard Vernon accustomed Australian play-,
goers to ; but his reading is not over-extravagant.
Mr. Roberts, as Nanki Poo, and Mr. Thorlev, as
the Mikado, sipg and act with some distinction,
conveying a much more favorable impression than
in any parts they have previously played in
Sydpey. “ Robin Hood ” will follow on Satur-
day. .
** # *
Sydney has decided, after a short ex-
perience of-the “ Fortune-Teller ” at the Rovali
that Hungarian music is just the thing it has long
been craving for. The writer here takes the
management’s word for it that the music is Hun-
garian ; it may be Bolivian for all he knows to the
contrary. There is a robust rush and howl about
that music which suggests the wind blowing un-
trammelled over the huge desolate plains whereon
the Hungarian magnate has his big estate and his,
mortgage, and yvhere an unlettered peasantry,
shout “Eljen’’—whatever that means. The fact
that the “ Fortune-Teller,,” lias, a respectable plot
is much in its favor ; the musical comedies that
Sydney has groaned under of late have been
steadily diminishing in that respect till at
last all the story they had to tell could
have been written in a large round hand
on the point of a needle without unduly crowding
the point. The only matter wherein the present
show threatens to relapse into the _ drifting
irrelevance of the musical comedy is Boris’s white
bell-topper with the red stripes, and the where-
fore of that, strangely accursed head-garment is
still a mystery. But Lempriere Pringle’s splendid
ba«s, and the all-tpund brightness of the capable
Madame Slap., not to mention Miss Beatty and
half-a-dozen other deserving persons, keep the
“Fortune Teller” on a high pinnacle of dramatic
excellence. ’ That pinnacle has been a rather
lonely spot in Sydney of late, and it is pleasing to
see it occupied again before the moths get into it.
*m * *
Tlxe “Drought” breaks as usual at Mos-
man’s Bay, in the presence of the ex-squatteresB
who has acquired excellent apartments in that
suburb through giving away coffee at Paddy’s
Market. In all other respects Bland Hoit’s
variegated drama is as before, and the heroine is
tempted to become a pretended Flossie at Coogee
just as on. former occasions. By the way, the
melodramatic heroine is slowly progressing into
quite a vigorous and up-to-date being. At one
time, if the hero or the brother went astray, she
merely wept or prayed. In a Holloway_ drama,
however, she was recently seen snatching the
glass from an inebriate husband, in order to re-
prove'him by becoming inebriate too ; and in the
‘ ‘ Drought ” she goes a step further, by pretending
to be giddy from purely sisterly motives and by
way of reproach.
** * *
“ Cinderella ” moves off Sydney Criterion
stage this week to give place to something entitled
“The Lady Bpmaid.” We have had “ The Lady
Slavey” from Sheridan’s company, which also
a-ttempted to raise the blight of the mother-in-law.
Sheridan’s mission, seems to consist in showing
that certain female occupations, supposed to be
humble and derogatory, are not so, and he proves his
argument mainly by dancing an d neglecting the
housework when he is a slavey and not attending
to the customers when he is a barmaid.
m* # *
Jacques Inaudi, the calculating wonder,
now appearing at Sydney Tivoli, is a short, thick-
set man with a latge, but not exactly an abnorma
head. In manner he is the typical Frencli pro-
vincial, polite, deferential, cheerful. For 26 years
now he has been before the public—that is to say
since he was nine years old. Inaudi smokes very
moderately and drinks very moderately. He
amuses himself mainly by “2e promenade,” and
considers Sydney the finest-looking town he
has seen ; from which statement on • his part
it will be judged that he knows more than
figures. Outside of his calculating powers
i.uiuUi does not seem to be in any way above
the average intellect of the peasant ; though he
has travelled a good deal in English-speaking
countries he speaks very little English. Calcula-
tions involving money quantities bother him
somewhat, for he has to put English money terms
into French and back again. The calculating
work does not seem to have any injurious effect
on his brain. At the age of 35 now, he enjoys
good health and sleeps well ; but he says he has
to avoid anything like a free use of tobacco or
alcohol.
#* # *
Sydney Tivoli programme was strengthened
last Saturday by the re-appearance of Mr.
Maccann, “the concertina king,” who makes a
despised instrument do great work. King Mac-
cann appeared at the Tivoli a little while ago for
one consecutive night or so, and then vanished
suddenly, to travel incog, or to tour some remote
State in regal style. Wallace Brownlow is
another returned attraction.
» a* # #
At Melb. Princess's last Saturday a
crowded house sat hours in judgment upon
“ Zaza,” a comedy-drama which, according to the
unreliable advt., is “ the most remarkable play of
the century, and has everywhere established the
record for the longest run.” Australia grows
tired of such bluffsome exaggerations. Perhaps
’“Zaza” is rather more remarkably spicy than
any previous play introduced to this country,
but its characters are familiar French identities ;
the clever construction has little or nothing of
novelty, and the dialogue is often poor. Some-
times it is plainly superfluous chatter. The
first Melbourne production of “Zaza” was,
in fact, another reminder that theatrical
managers hereabouts make bad sub-editors of the
stories they are about to publish. Two or three
rehearsals of “Zaza” should have sufficed to
indicate the spots where dialogue and business
needed pruning, yet the play came to light in a
carefully-rehearsed condition with several faults
on the surface. The “cheeild ” scene in the third
act, said to be very powerful, turned out to be a
tedious, unconvincing display of mechanical kid.
The first half of the fourth act was overburdened
with petty details of the “comic relief” order. The
brief final act seemed to drag, not so much on ac-
count of the hour being late and the house naturally
restive as because the two principals dallied over
the climax. The end of “ Sweet Nell ” owed its
success to what might be called its slow sudden-
ness. Nell wished her monarch good-night in a few
words, and then gracefully got. The end of
“ Zaza ” is also a parting between the heroine and
hero, but they have too many words to say and
don’t talk them quickly enough.
• ~ " •
Up to a certain point the plot is a theatrical
blend of “Camille” and “Sappho.” The girl
Zaza is a music-hall songandancer a rising
“star”—who has a male partner in her “turn.”
Her virtue is easy and her lapses are merely care-,
less, occasional indiscretions until she develops a
devouring passion fora gentlemanly person named
Bernard. She presses the apple to Bernard’s
teeth and he.bites. They go away into the country
and live together for six months. Her violent,
attack of love is purely French in character,,
and utterly improbable. Granting that Zaza
had never cared much . about tne previous
ftellows, whoever heard of a giddy, vulgar,
music-hall siren abandoning her professional
prospects to go and live in a small way with a
member of the upper bourgeoisie who isn’t even
supposed to be ruining himself for her? Zaza,
knows nothing of her Bernard, except that he has
blue eyes and a nice deportment; yet. at the end
df six months’ romance, she can’t brush his
overcoat without pausing to kiss the buttons.
Cascart, her forsaken partner, wants to get Zaza
back to the ’alls for business reasons ; also, her
unsober aunt Rosa protests against her unprofitable
infatuation. No kind friends talk common sense
to Bernard. In order to hasten the inevitable,
Cascart tells Zaza that her clay idol has an-
other girl in Paris—a superior female whom
he escorts to a bun-shop and treats to chocolate,
whereupon Zaza gets on the track of Bernard’s
infidelity and discovers that he has a wife and
a small daughter. She invades their place ’of'
domicile and finds the child alone,“but, instead of
making the trouble she intended, Zaza is'overcome
by the wooden precocity of the infant and goes
tearfully away, pretending that she called at the
wrong house by mistake. Then, having acted
decently, Zaza libels herself by telling Bernard
that she gave him away to his wife, and when he
calls her a common vengeful cat she complains
that he doesn’t love her, although he wants
to love her as before after she has confessed
that she is only a liar and not a cat. They
part. Two years later the man comes back 1
from America and wants to resume their amour.
But Zaza by this time is a fashionable actress;
living a spotless life, hugging nothing save her
tender memory of the Past. She leaves her by-
gone Bernard to feel sorry. He doesn’t enjoy
feeling sorry, but the woman does, of course.
The moral lesson of the play is that a married
man, when his wife happens to go away on a six’
months’ visit, ought to be fifteen times more
virtuous than any unscrupulous Zaza who hopes
to seduce him. Otherwise he gets the worst of
the deal.
* • • •
“ Zaza ” is a very one-part play, and Nellie
Stewart carries the five-act responsibility on her
shoulders. Taking her performance in tne lump,
it appears great. Australia has never known
another actress who could play the first act 6d
brilliantly or do 75 per cent of the rest of th 6
work better than Nellie Stewart dees it. She
looks the character in a number of costumes.
The tricks of fascination which Zaza prac-
tises upon her victim in her dressing-room
at the music haH are only possible to a past-
mistress of comic-opera art. In all tne
genial comedy incidents Nellie Stewart is most
effective. She puts fire into her volcanic outbreak,
■ and although her pathos is sometimes forced (it
couldn’t be natural in her trying scene with the
wooden child) she often strikes a note of tar
deeper feeling than she touched in “ Sweet Nell,
lor “ Mice and Men.” Harcourt Beatty gives a
graceful sketch of the married man who ministers
to Zaza’s moods. Sydney Stirling is good as the
unsentimental partner of the girl, Mrs. G- -tJ.
Lewis fills a part effectively, Miss Levettez, is
.passable as the thirsty aunt, and a dozen other
people do nothing in particular. The play is
finely mounted.
«* * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the sins of the
“ grand combination ” panto, have found it out,
and even the Saturday night attendance is a
diminishing quantity. All the same, “ Dick Whit-
tington” is a brighter article than it was in the
beginning. Or it seems brighter for having been
shortened. Next Xmas the manager who caters
for a grand annual superstition may, perhaps, try
the experiment of producing a two-act entertain-
ment which will drop the curtain at 10.30 sharp,
and change its order of procedure every alternate
night. A new humor might be evolved from
“Whittington” if the performance were turned
upside-down three times a week. The world
waits for an inverted pantomime, opening with
the final tableau and wending its weary way
backwards to the overture,
** * *
' “ When London Sleeps " is bringing
wealth to the Andersonian treasury at Melbourne
Royal. Probably, some future generation will
revolt against the absurdity of the low-down
drama which grows in the barb irous quarters of
London, for the benefit of such as bring their own
beer in a bottle to the the-a-ter, and breathe
curses on the villain between drinks. But this
generation takes the imported horror cheerfully.
One night last week Miss Ada Lawrence took the
place of Miss Duggan, whilst an exceedingly
painful novice made a disastrous attempt to take
Miss Lawrence’s part. Next night Miss Duggan
came back to the drama with her tone of voice
somewhat improved by a severe cold.
•* # *
At Melb. Opera House, a batch of re-
arrivals includes Coleman, the scarecrower, Mark
Antony, and the La Monts with their monkeys
and dawgs, The people who didn’t go away are
Spry and Monti, also G. W. Hunter, and sundry
minor lights. Just now the Rickards show,
carries rather too many minor, lights. The twice-
a-night co. is still doing its little best at the
Gaiety, but the “Sparklets ” at the Victoria, who
were a shade brighter than the “Twicers,” have
bowed to Fate’s decree and shut the front door
behind them.
** * *
Melba gives her valuable services to Armes
Beaumont’s concert (at the Town Hall) on Satur-
day evening, the 31st. Considering that Madame
will contribute as much Melba to the programme
as though the concert were her own, there should
be no difficulty in selling all the seats at 10s. and
ss.—the tariff appointed for this occasion by R.
S. Smvthe. Veteran Beaumont will sing “Ade-
laide” for the last time in his long and honorable
public career. Little Signorina Sassoli, the
harpist, will do Handel, with violinist Zelman,
and Professor Ives at the organ. And among the
other artists there is Miss Amy Murphy, who
has come all the way from Dunedin to assist the
event.
** * *
A rather painful product of the times in
Melbourne is a certain Commonwealth Charity’
Fete, which seems to be a series of third-rate’
Cntertainmerits organised for the gratification of
the performers, jf a concert given at Melbourne
Town Hall last week was the inaugural entertain-
ment of the Fete series, the things to follow had
better be made more attractive.
** m *
At Adelaide Royal, the-. Dampiers have
alternated a little of “ MConte Cristo.” with a good
deal of V Robbery under Arms,” probably their
best; performance. The public, in response to an
invitation to give-it-a-name for one night of Shake-
speare, chose “The Merchant,” after (as an-
nounced by the management) showing some dis-
position to demand “Hamlet.” Accordingly
ARred Dampier put in an evening as Shylock
and .Mis 3 Lily, as Portia, Lessee Pollock
announces that all dates for this year are now
filled. At the Tivoli, Manager Marcus has re-
opened for Rickards with an all-round crowd
including the Harbecks, who do things with
hoops. Prices are slightly reduced, the highest
Charge being now l.alf-a-crown, with a sixpenny
gallery after 10 minutes to 8. (This seems to be the
early door idea reversed). Wirth’s Circus has
Completed a successful week, in whioh thought-
readers competed with trained tigers for the
public favor Similarly, the Australian Natives
have held a two-days band-contest mitigated by
goat-races. Melba announces a flying visit and a
single afternoon recital.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Commercial Bank op Australia shows an
all-round improvement for the half-vear just closed
During the half-year £1,039,725 of ordinary capital was
written off, and though a deficit still regains it is one
which is much more than covered by the capital still
-remainin'*. But as the assets are reported to be realising
more than the- estimate put upon them in 1901 it mar
possibly be found that the real shortage to be covered
oht of profits is much less (han is supposed. The earn
ings of the bank are larger than they were for the pre"
'viotis half-' ear, and the deficit is being steadily reduced"
The position has changed so much since the re-valuation
was made in 1901 that it is difficult to institute compari-
sons with the’figures before that date, so the following
statement covers three half-years only
Profits (less Dividends on Added Bank
Loss on Assets Preference to Re- R e .
Trust), Shares. serves, serves
June, 1901 £l6 91 j
Dec., 1901 £42,400 3 percent. =» £31,758 £10,702 27 619
June, 1902 38,434 3 „ „ 31,758 6,676 34*295
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves, 143,000 177*205
Dec., 1902 39,194 3 „ „ 31,759 7,435 184*730
The net profits of the Commercial Bank and Assets Trust
combined represent £3 10s. lOd. per cent, per annum on
the bank’s nominal capital of £2,212,082 (as the bank’s
reserve is more than counter-balanced by the deficiency
of the Assets Trust there is no real reserve).
The deficit in the Assets Trust (the institution
in which alt the old dubious assets were put, and which
became responsible, with the bank's guarantee behind it
for several millions of the bank’s deposits) is the greaf'
problem of the Commerci a l Bank. At December, 19oi
and December, 1902, the situation was somewhat after
this fashion :
December December
1901- 1902.
Liabilities of Assets Trust .. £3,334,904 .. £3,121,228
Assets of Assets Trust .. 1,800,000 .. 1,735*000
Deficit of Assets Trust .. £1,534,904 .. £1,386,228
Less Bank’s Reserves .. 27,619 .. 184 730
Net Deficit £1,507,285 .. £1,201,498
The Commercial Bank itself is now clear of all .dubious
assets, the writing down of capital having extinguished
that shadowy' paper item, the bank’s “ Interest"in the
Assets Trust.” The deficit remaining in the Assets Trust
could be wholly wiped off by a further writing down and
over £1,000.000 capital be still left intact, but it has been
decided rather to write off the shortage gradually out of
earnings. The shortage may, of course, to some extent
extinguish itself, if the Trust’s assets prove of more value
than estimated, or if there is a revival in values.
In this writer’s opinion it would be better to write off
one-half the preference capital, and pay a 6 per cent,
dividend on the remainder, and wipe out the balance
of the deficit in one act, but this is only a matter of
opinion. The main point is that there is a million of
capital intact over and above ail shortages, and that the
policy of secrecy as regards the Assets Trust has been
abandoned.
The general business of the Commercial Bank
seems in a healthy state. The reserve of cash and liquid
securities stands at £1,848,423-equal to rather over 48
per cent, of all liabilities to the public, which is one of
the most substantial cash reserves in Australasia. If the
Commercial Bank of Australia could borrow a million or
so at 3£ or even 4 per cent, from the Irvine
Government (following the example of the Bank
of New Zealand which borrowed 2£ millions from the
Seddon Government) and spend it in buying up its
preference shares, which now yield over 6£ per cent, on
their market value, it would soon put a new complexion
on its affairs. If it spoke kindly to Bent on the subject
(Bent is a man of gentle disposition, and can bespoken
to about anything), and he spoke severely to Shiels, some
good might result.
* * • #
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney ,
shows a slight improvement this half-year, and earns its
10 per cent, dividend with a rather larger margin
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Reserves.
Reserves.
£> 1 & £ £
Dec., 1895 .. 39,474 Bp.c. = 39,227 247 1,024,734
June, 1896 .. 40,303 8 „ ~ 39,966 337 1,025,071
Dec., 1896 .. 40,067 8 „ ~ 40,000 67 1,025,138
June, 1897 .. 40,119 8 „ ~ 40,000 119 1,025,257
Dec., 1897 .. 40,150 8 „ ~40,000 150 1,025,407
June, 1898 .. 40,410 8 „ „ 40,000 410 1,025,817
Dec., 1898 .. 40,864 8 „ ~40,000 864 1,026,681
June, 1899 .. 42,340 8 „ ~40,000 2340 1,029,021
Dec., 1899 .. 45,251 9 „ ~ 45,000 251 1,029,272
June, 1890 .. 50,880 10 „ ~50,000 880 1,030,152.
Dec., 1900 .. 51,509 10 „ ~50,000 1509 1,031,661
June, 1801 .. 51,228 10 ~ ~50,000 1228 1,032,889
Dec., 1901 .. 51,249 10 „ „ 50,000 1249 1,034,138
June, 1902 .. 51,254 10 ~ ~ 50,000 1254 1,035,392
Dec., 1902 .. 51,455 10 ~ ~ 50,000 1455 1,036,847
The half-year’s profits are equal to £5 Is. Id. per cent,
per annum on the shareholders’ funds as at Ist July, 1902,,
(paid-up capital, £1,000,000, and reserves, £1,035,392)—a'
rate that is materially above the average.
The unvarying prosperity of the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney leaves, as a rule, very little to
comment upon. Comparing the present figures with-
those of a year ago, there is a slight diminution under
almost every heading of the accounts, but that seems to
be a common state of things in N.S.VV. just now. The
reserve of cash and liquid securities is £5,363.34-7, equal
to over 41 per cent, of all liabilities to customers. This
includes £1,180,509 of Government securities, repre-
senting more than the whole reserve fund ; also £148,866
“advance to Government,” for which, it is to be hoped, the
Commercial Banking Co. holds Owe’Sullivan’s I O U, and
is keeping the same in a safe place. The reserve is an
exceedingly substantial one, but then everything is solid
and substantial about the bank which T. A. Dibbs
manages. <-•
• * • *
The Australian Joint’Stock Bank (Sydney)
shows as follows :
Profits by
Bank- Purchase Added
ing of Depre- Written to Re- Re-
Profits. ciated off. serves, serves.
Deposits.
June, 1897.. _ ~ _ £52,000
l>ec., 1897..£1,725 £1,725 53,725
June, 1898.. 3,746 3.746 57,471
Dec., 1898.. 266 '266 57,737
June, 1899.. 1,358 1,358 59,095
Dec., 1899.. 2,912 £88,908 91,820 150,915
June, 1900.. 2,057 20,565 22,622 173,537:
Dec., 1900.. 2,548 -19,963 22,511 196,048
June, 1901.. 13,465 21,947 £ll,OOO 24,412 220,460
Dec., 1901.. 3,584 12,063 16,247 236,707
June, 1902.. 2,043 20,840 .22,883 259,590
Dec., 1902.. 3,463 17,559 21,022 280,612
The banking profits represent 9s. 9d. percent, per annum’
on the capital and reserves as shown in the haiance-sheetat
the commencement of the half-year, or about 11s. 10d. pjr
cent, per annum on capital alone. The capital now
stands at £1,168,041 paid up. If this were written down
to £138,520 (a reduction of rather over £1,000,000) the
ordinary banking profits for last half-year (£3463)
would just suffice to pay a dividend at the rate of 5 per
cent, per annum. The reserves consist of ordinary
reserve fund, £52,000; undivided profit, £26,167; and
special reserve accumulated by' the repurchase of “B-,
deposits at a discount, £202,445.


a
Bt
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails,
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,;
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IND E N TS . —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLA3 TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.VV. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
•«* * -
Cyanide, Caustic Soda;, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
whde and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
• • • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties oifered
must be subject toinspeotion. Cable address: “Option."
Melbourne.*
* • * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* • • •
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasolirte has not'been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street. Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * • *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-atreet, .74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• • » «
The Insurance Record, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report:—
“ The affairs of the Society are managed on sound and
economical lines, care is exercised in the selection of new
business, and prudence in the investment of money is a
leading principle.”
• • * •
The Wilfley Table represents a very important
improvement in the type of machinery used for concen-
trating coarse sands, fine ore and slimes. It covers the
field of all other concentrating tables and handles the
finest slimes or coarsest sands with excellent results. It
also enters the field which was formerly occupied by jigs
exclusively as it successfully handles one as coarse as 8
mesh. It is enabled to handle this wide range of material
through its logical combination of the features of the
various machines. The action of the jig is preserved
through the upward and downward currents of water
flowing across the riffles. The stratification of the ore as
on shaking tables or percussion tables is also preserved
by the motion of the table. The features of the side wash
tables are also incorporated and the mineral is protected
from being washed into the waste launder by the riffles.
The great capacity of the riffled surface belt tables is also
preserved through the use of these riffles,
while the close clean work of the smooth surface belt
table and of the buddle is preserved by the unriffled
portion of the table. The preservations of these good
features and their continuation in one machine in a form
to be readily controlled is the reason the Wilfley Table
has been so successful in its work of solving the problem
of the commercial handling of low grade ores. Illustrated
catalogues with valuable notes on ore dressing can be
obtained from the sole manufacturers in Australia, The
Austral Otis Company, South Melbourne.*
INSIST ON GETTING
ieH
u 7CT
-A 1 MADRASI- *
All Grocers andsroreKeeper>,Lveryuil]cTe
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
By Special Appoint-
ment to His Majesty
King Edward VII.
Bottled
at Celebrated. Malvern Springs, England.
During the past 12 months the principal items
in the A.J.S. Bank's balance-sheet have varied thus—
mostly with a decreasing tendency:
Dec., 19.i1. Dec., 1902. Increase.
Eeserves £230,707 £230,612 £43,905
Decrease.
) year’s Banking Profits 8,584 3,463 121
Note Circulation .. 122,299 93,944 28,355
New Deposits .. 1,144,657 992,235 152^422
Advances, &c 6,473,619 6,202,063 271,556
Cash and Liquid Securi-
ties 1,262,418 981,881 280,537
Old Fixed Deposits .. 6,182,362 4,808,063 374,299
Total Deposits .. .. 6,327,019 6,800,298 626,721
The reduction in the old reconstructed deposits is an
advantage, as tending to clear off a troublesome liability.
The falling away in note circulation and new deposits is
a very different thing. The reserve of cash and liquid
securities represents slightly over 16 per cent, on ail
liabilities to the public, or about 80 per cent, on all new
liabilities (old fixed deposits left out).
Though the balance-sheet of the Australian
Joint Stock Bank contains a good deal of information in
some directions, it still supplies very little in others. As
usual, the chief assets read after this fashion :
Bills Discounted, Advances and all other
Debts due to t,he Bank, and other assets
at Old Valuations £6,202,063
The care with which it is stated that other assets are “ at
old valuations" seems to imply distinctly that a portion
of this mass consists of assets whose present value is
liable to prove less than that now set against them—
possibly a good deal less. The remark about “ old valu-
ations” appeared in December, 1897, but how old the
valuations are—whether they go right back to 1893 or
even further—doesn’t appear. The old assets and the
new ones are mixed up together ; it doesn’t appear how
much or how little of the £6,202,063 represents new
assets whose values should be reliable, and how much
represents old ones at these “old valuations.” Nor is
any hint ever given as to how widely the old valuations
may differ from the present ones ; nor what progress is
being made at the work of realisation. No visible
attempt is being made to write down capital in order to
provide for whatever difference may exist between “ old
valuations” and present ones; nor is there any
sign of an effort to call up the £391,505 of capital
still uncalled, though if that amount could he got
in and applied to the repurchase of old deposits it should,
at present values, save the A.J S. Bank more than
£20,000 a year in interest. The visible reserves have in-
creased by over £220,000 since December, 1897, and that
amount, if it earned only 3) per cent.; should mean
£7700 more profit annually, even assuming there was no
improvement or recovery in any other direction. Yet
the banking profits for the last 12 months of the above
geries only profess to be £35 more than for the first year
of the same series—in fact, if the reserves accumulated
since 1896 by the repurchase of old deposits at a discount
were separately invested in 3.) per cent. Government
securities they would more than account for the whole
banking profits of last year, and leave the rest of
the bank earning nothing, or even les3 than that.
These are not promising results, all things considered.
At time of writing, the 3) per cent, inscribed stock de-
posits of the A.J.S. Bank were quoted (latest sales)Bs. 6d.
in the £.
* * • •
The City Bank of Sydnky shows the usual
painfully monotonous result, or thereabouts :
Added Re-
Profits. Dividends. to serves.
Reserves.
Dec., i«95 .. £10,020 5 p.c. =£lo,ooo £2O £108,325
June, 1896 .. 8,108 4 „ „ 8,000 108 108,433
D.-c., 1890 .. 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 70 108,503
June, 1897 .. 8,019 4 „ „ 8,000 49 108,552
D.e., 1897 .. 8,395 4 „ „ 8,000 395 108,947
June, 1898 .. 8,273 4,. „ 8,000 273 109,220
Dee., 1808 .. 8,053 4 „ „ 8,000 53 i 09,273
June, 1899 .. 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 70 109,343
Dec., 1899 .. 8,212 4 „ ~ 8,000 212 109,555
June, 1903 .. 8,041 4,, „ 8,000 41 109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8,223 4 „ „ 8,000 223 109,819
June, 1901 .. 8,105 4 „ „ 8,000 105 109,924
Dec., 19)1 .. 8,157 4 „ „ 8,000 157 110,081
June, 1902 .. 8,016 4,, „ 8,000 16 110,097
Dec., 1902 .. 8,108 4 „ „ 8,000 108 110,205
The half-year’s profits represent £3 3s. 7<L per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as they stood when the
half-year opened—not a very large figure. The reserves
consist of undivided profit, - £9961 ; and reserve fund,
£100,244. Why the City Bank doesn’t transfer sufficient
of its undivided profit to reserve fund to make it an even
£105,000 or £llO,OOO is a mystery. The painful exact-
ness with vVhich the institution earns just a shade over
£BOOO every half-year is as conspicuous as usual.
Comparing the present figures with those of a
year ago, it can’t be said that there is any material
improvement. The principal items are these :
Dec., 1901. Dec., 1902. Increase.
Advances .. .. £1,218,723 £1,268,134 £49,411
Reserves .. .. 110,081 110,205 124
Half-year’s Profit .. 8,157 8,108 49
Note Circulation .. 69,952 63,040 1,912
Deposits .. .. 1,147,383 1,138,731 8,652
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. 378,648 318,749 59,899
At date of writing the new issue shares of the City Bank
(£8 paid up) had latest sales quoted £3 11s., and for the
old issue (£8 paid up) latest sales were £4 Is. On an
average, therefore, the quotation represented less than
half face value, which doesn’t speak very highly for
popular estimation of the bank. No other bank which
appears in the lists of the Sydney morning papers appears
to stand so low in proportion to the dividends paid.
• * * *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Victoria)
shows a slightly reduced profit as compared with the two
previous half-years:
Written Added
off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1895.. £3463 5) p.c.= £2337 £1126 £53,410
June, 1896.. 32495) „ „ 2337 912 54,322
Dec., 1890.. 2936 5) „ ,; 2337 599 - 54,921
June, 1897.. 28S0 5) ~ ~ 2337 543 65,464
Dec., 1897.. 2636 5) „,, 2337 299 55,763
June, 1895.. 2784 5) „ „ 2337 447 56,210
Dec., 1893.. 2906 5) „ „ 2337 569 56,779
June, 1899.. 3022 5) „ „ 2337 685 57,464
Dec., 1899.. 2990 5) ~ ~ 2337 653 58,117
June, 1900.. 3153 5) „ „ 2337 816 58,933
Dec., 1900.. 3334 0 „ ~ 2550 784 59,717
June, 1901.. 3542 0 „ „ 2550 £225 767 60,484
Dec., 1901.. 3029 0 „ „ 2550 300 779 61,263
June, 1902.. 3689 6 ~ „ 2550 1139 62,402
Dec., 1902.. 3627 6 „„ 2550 500 577 62,979
The half-year’s earnings represent £4 18s. sd. per cent,
per annum on the shareholders’ funds as they stood at the
beginning of the half-year (capital, £85,000; reserves,
£62,402). The accounts show an increase as compared
with December, 1901, under all the principal headings;
reserve fund, Government deposits, private fixed deposits,
and current accounts, advances and res Tve of cash and
liquid securities all exhibit an expansion—a state of
things which was none too comm in in the cheerless year
1902. Total liabilities to the public are £229,783 (all
deposits, the Ballarat Banking Co. having no note issue),
and the reserve of cash and public securities held against
these (£82,648) is equal to the very solid figure of 36 per
cent. The Ballarat.Ranking 00. is making steady pro-
gress, and its reserves are very large in proportion to
capital, but if the present directors hope to see it ornw
into another Bank of Victoria during their lifetime Wv
should reduce the dividend to 5 per cent, and the
reserve fund along a little faster stilL
* • • •
The P krf etdal Trustee Co. (Sydney} had in
19' -, its best year up to date (“ net profits" signify pro-
fits less sums written off); * “ Knuy P ro
M ~ Carried
M.
1889 .. £149 Nil £149 £4U 3
S - Jgs S S» “$!
1891 ..1,16 Nil 1710 i >4BB
1892.. 1875 Nil 1875
1894 " 4075 6 per Cent. = £l5OO 1915 2,302
1895 " l?-o S " » IWO 2575 4,877
1896 " tw? « ” •• 1500 2659 7,536
1897 “ a ” » 1500 1861 8>397
1898 '* 7 ” ” 1600 3088 12,485
•’ f®? 3 l »» » I<so 1883 14,368
1900 " l ” >• 1 750 2260 16,628
iXX? “ *f 38 8 •• .. 2000 2538 19,166
S•• ,2 *» •• 2000 2754 21,920
190- .. 7237 10 „ u 2500 4737 26,657
The record of the Perpetual Trustee Co. of Sydney for
190- is notable in several different ways. The year’s pro-
Commnnw 6 recor <ied by any trustee co. in the
Commonwealth for a very long period, as well as a record
for this co. The addition made to the reserves is the
largest made by any trustee co. in the Commonwealth for
many years. The dividend is now equal to the largest
rate paid by any trustee co. in the Commonwealth, the
Perpetual of Sydney and the Ballarat Trustees being both
on the 10 per cent, level (the Perpetual of Dunedin.
a°ril an d, pays 12* per cent.) Also the reserve is now
the largest held by any trustee co. in Australasia. The
business continues to grow, and the estates now in the
co. s care are valued at £4,707,862. The fact that the
shares are ss. paid up, with Jt9 15s. liability, is the one Hy
in the ointment from an investor’s point of view. This
means all the more safety from the client's standpoint,
but to the investor it is a pretty large fly—almost a
hornet in fact. 6 J
Out of total shareholders’ funds of .£5l 657
mortgages represent £16,726. It is an open question if
this isn t too much. The mortgage business is never a
very satisfactory one in a city of inflated values like
oyuney, and the interest earned nowadays on this class
of investment is hardly large enough to cover the risk of
a slump.
* • • •
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Victoria) realised a handsome profit,
equal to £lB 10s. lid. per cent, per annum on capital,
the half-year which closed on 31st December,
1902, though it failed to keep up to the high level of the
previous six months
Carried Deficit
„ . to (Goodwill
Net _ Re- not
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reckoned
„ an Asset)
xx £ £ £ £
Dec., 1895 .. 787 5 per cent. =3 375 412 3.199
June, 1896 .. 952 5 ~ „ 375 677 2.622
Dec., 1896 .. 881 5 „ „ 375 606 2.U6
June, 1897.. 835 5 „ 375 460 1,656
Dec., 1897 .. 708 7 „ „ 625 183 1,473
June, 1893.. 746 5 „ „ 375 371 1,102
Dec., 1893 .. 949 7 „ „ 625 424 678
June, 1899 ..1,071 7 „ „ 625 646 132
_ Reserves.
Dec., 1899 ..1,042 7 „ „ 625 617 385
June, 1900.. 941 8 „ „ 600 341 726
Dec., 1900 ..1,090 8 „ „ 600 490 1,216
June, 1901 ..1,113 8 „ „ 600 613 1,729
Dec., 1901 ..1,252 10 „ „ 750 502 2,231
June, 1902 ..1,748 10 „ ~ 750 998 3,229
Dec., 1902 ..1,391 10 „ „ 750 641 3,870
The investments consist principally of Vic. Government
securities, £13,690; municipal securities, £800; office
budding, £2000; and £l5OO lent on mortgage. The fact
that State securities constitute the bulk of the assets is a
most commendable feature of the case.
* • • *
“ Investor” : Can’t understand how a man who
has “ read the Wild Cat Column constantly for the last
three years ” can allege that it never refers to brewery
companies. You will find, to quote a few recent
examples, notices of Swan Brewery Co. (Nov. 29),
Castlemaine and Wood’s (Oct. 30), Tooth’s (Oct. 30),’
Cascade and Paddington Breweries (Sept. 27), Australian
Brewery (Aug. 23), Fitzgerald’s Brewery (Aug. i 6),
Castlemaine Brewery (Aug. 2), S.A. Breweries and
Perkins Brewery (April 19), Shamrock (March 8), Carlton
(March 1), all in 1902. The Wild Cat column smells like
a brewery all the time. Shamrock and Castlemaine are
far the best of those you mention. Read the report on
Carlton at above date.
• * * *
The Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney) has
had a better half-year than usual up to 31st December.
1902
• - Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Reserves.
serves.
Dec., 1896.. £54,898 15 p.c. =£51,135 £3763 £116,178
June, 1897.. 48,436 15 „ „ 51,135 113,479
Dec., 1897.. 54,743 15 „ „ 51,135 3608 117,087
June, 1893.. 47,923 15 „ „ 51,135 113,875
Dec., 1898.. 54,156 15 „,, 51,135 3021 116,896
June, 1899.. 46,995 15 „ „ 51,135 112,756
Dec., 1899.. 55,628 15 „ „ 51,135 4493 117,249
June, 1900.. 47,879 15 ~ „ 51,135 113,993
Dec., 1900.. 54,033 15 ~ ~ 51,135 2898 116,891
June, 1901.. 48,352 15 ~ „ 51,135 114,108
Dec., 1901.. 56,818 15 „ „ 51,918 4900 119,008
June, 1902.. 49,954 15 ~ ~ 55,045 113,917
Dec., 1902.. 61,546 15 „ „ 56,205 5341 119,258
The Australian Gas Light Co. has also some small reserves
(£9955) to cover depreciation of meters. The paid-up
capital, after the new issue of shares, stands at £749,410.
There is a great sameness about the accounts of this
gorgeous monopoly, and the reserves vary but little one
way or the other. Just now they are a trifle higher than
they have been for some years.
• • * •
Reele Studd: The life assurance institution
you mention is a very second-rate affair and not too well
managed. Just as well to get out.
• * • •
The New South Wales Mont de Piete
Deposit AS n Investment Co. (Sydney) did much better
during the half-year just concluded than it has done for
some seven or eight or more years past:
Added
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
off. serves, serves.
June,'96.. £4BOO 10 p.c. =£3639 £337 £824 £21,759
Dec., ’96.. 4284 10 „ „ 3669 708 21,666
June,’97.. 4326 10 „ „ 3672 1226 21,094
Dec., ’97.. 4397 10 „ „ 3679 1060 20,752
June,’9B.. 4189 10 ~ ~ 3687 848 20,106
Dec., ’98.. 3589 10 „ „ 3659 2741 17,565
June,’99.. 2300 7£ „ „ 2773 1182 15,910
Dec., ’99.. 2801 Vj „ „ 2778 7335 . .8,593
June,’oo.. 3031 7£ „ „ 2780 443 8,406
Dec., ’OO.. 3003 74 „ „ 2781 189 33 8,439
June,’ol.. 2972 7* „ „ 2784 188 8,627
Dec., ’Ol.. 5010 8„ „ 2972 2038 10,665
June,’o2.. 4873 8 „ „ 2972 1901 12,566
Dec., '02.. 5913 ’8 „ „ 2972 2941 15,507
Very good progress is being made at rebuilding the jsadly
depreciated reserves, and three or four more half-years,
If the P re ® ent g°°d fortune keeps up, should put the
Mont de Pieta in a stronger position than it has ever yet
occupied.
• • • •
N.S.W. railways present a doleful spectacle for
the half-year which closed 31st December, 1902. The
goods and passenger traffic has increased greatly as com-
pared with the corresponding half of 1901, but the revenue
has diminished and the working expenses have risen,
and the net income for the half-year is £526,458 as com-
pared with £751,479 for the last half of 1901. And out of
that £526,458 there is much more interest to pay than
there was out of the larger revenue in 1901, for the O’See
Ministry has been shovelling out the coin freely. This
looks like being the Year of the Boss Railway Shortage.
The Sydney Ferries, Limited (Sydney) com-
pleted its sixth half-year on 31st December, 1902 :
Added
Profits. • Dividends. to • Re-
T „ , Reserves, serves.'
June, 1900 .. £4701 7 p.O. = £4200 £5Ol £5Ol
Dec., 1900 .. 5089 7 „ „ 4200 889 1390
June, 1901 .. 5377 7 „ „ 4200 1177 2567
Dec., 1901 .. 5268 7 „ „ 4200 1068 3635
June, 1902 .. 5742 7 „ „ 4200 1542 6177
Dec., 1902 .. 8040 8 „ „ 6453 2587 , 7764
The reserves consist of reserve for special repairs and new
steamers, £6000; insurance reserve, £1000; and un-
divided profit, £764. The progress is remarkably good.
Promoter Snow has secured a year’s extension
of time to raise the £400,000 necessary to purchase the
existing tramways or forfeit his deposit. His rapid
journey from London recently was made to induce the
shareholdnrs to accept part-payment in scrip in the new
venture, but they declined. And now the deluded Ade-
laide citizens have to wait another year while Snow tries
to find the “splosh.” Nothing was ever so sudden in
S. A. as the silence of the Adelaide dailies over this matter.
The shareholders’ meeting at which it was decided not ,
to accept part payment in scrip, was held Jan. 12, but
neither daily has so far printed a line as to the result I
* • • •
The New Zealand Insurance Co. (Auckland,
M.L.) concluded a highly profitable year on 30th Novem-
ber, 1902, and its reserves have now passed the £300,000
mark—a figure that leaves all other Australasian ’fire
insurance records far in the rear :
Added to Re-
Prod ts. Dividends, &c. Reserves, serves.
1892 ~ £258 335
1893 .. £53,805 {s&*W23
1894.. *4.905 I Written off fsS} ~ 257,620
1895 .. 32,954 SjS} ~ 2*9.550
1896 .. 29,097 13J p.c. = 27,500 1,597 251,147
1897 .. 11,074 llj „ „ 22,500 239,721
Loss.
1893 .. 14,262 10 „ 20,000 205,459
Profits.
1899 .. 61,409 10 „ „ 20.000 31,409 236,868
1900 .. 69,617 12£ „ „ 25,000 44,617 281,485
1901 .. 66,119 ” ff »■*»} 13,682 295,167
1902 .. 66,626 15 p.c. = 30,000 25,526 320,693
There is something spasmodic about the fire insurance
business. For instance, the New Zealand Insurance Co.,
in the six years 1893-98, saw its reserves decrease by
£52,876. Then in the four years, 1899-1902, they increased
by £115,234. Many of the large fire insurance com-
panies were struck heavily by the fall in values during
the bank-breakage years and by other circumstances, hut
they have recovered much more rapidly than the hanks
did.
The New Zealand Insurance Co. has invest-
ments valued at £566,418, which returned last year
£21.963 in interest and rents—sufficient to pay a divi-
dend of almost exactly 11 per cent. This is an immensely
strong position, and the business still keeps growing. The
following is the net income from premiums (re-insurances
and returns deducted):
1393 .. £278,621 1893 .. £311,341
1894 ... 265,179 1899 .. 315,284
1395 .. 267,917 1900 .. 342,036
1896 .. 283,974 1901 .. 371,487
1897 .. 283,630 1902 .. 386,960
This one big Maoriland office does a business more than
£lOO,OOO larger than that of all the N.S.W. and Tasmanian
offices (six in number) put together, and about £70,000
larger than that of all the Victorian and Tasmanian
offices (six) put together. It and the other big Maoriland
office (the South British) do more business than all the 10
Commonwealth fire offices put together. They believe in
supporting local institutions in the land of the Kiwi.
• • * •
Lachlan Goldfields, a Bull-owned mine, situated
at Forbes (N S.W.), for the year ended Oct. 31 crushed
7912 tons for £17,906 worth of gold. It has recently paid
two divs. of 6d. each, and now that there is water avail-
able to keep the 20 stamps going, the chances are that at
least 2s. 6d. per share will be returned in profits this year.
There are 75,000 shares in the co.
• • » •
The 1902 yield of Ravenswood (Q.) was 20,661
tons for 52,8130 z. gold, an increase of 7414 tons and
21,1830 z. of gold as compared with 1901. The field has
made a pronounced advance in gold yield during the last
seven years. The returns have been 1896, 14,9650 z. :
1897, 20,1760 z. ; 1898, 27,6730 z. ; 1899, 25,4230 z. ; 1900,
31,4900 z. ; 1901, 31,2050 z. ; 1902, 52,8130 z. The lowest
yield was in 1882, when 8711 oz. were won ; in 1893 the
yield was 92830 z. The New Ravenswood, Limited, an
English co., formed in 1899, had a prosperous turn last
year, the divs. for that period being equal to 50 per cent,
of the capital. Predicted that as much profit will be
made this year.
* * * •
This is the strange financial history of the Sul-
phide Corporation. The co. was formed in ’95 to work
the Ashcroft electrolytic process of metal-extraction ;
the B.H. Central mine, bought cheap after years of non-
success, was thrown into the bargain. Two lots of shares
were issued—sso,ooo preference, 550,030 ordinaries, all
paid to £l. The Ashcroft process was a bad failure ;by
the middle of ’9B the loss in working it and in useless
plant had reached £137,500. This amount was then
written off capital by the simple plan of knocking down
the nominal Value of the ordinaries from £1 to 15s. As
to future profits the prefs. were to have a first bite of 10
per cent, on £1 ; after that, the ordinaries to get 10 per
cent, on their 15s. ; after that, 4s. to the prefs. for every
3s. to the ordinaries. Same year £lOO,OOO debentures were
issued, 5 per cents., redeemable at £lO5 on Dec. 31, 1907 ;
these were issued without any special resolution of share-
holders, and cost nearly £6OOO to get off. And now
authority has been given for the issue of £lOO,OOO “pre-
ferential” debentures. So when these latter are out
there will be four separate lots of hungry people to bite
af the profits before the “ ordinaries ” can get their teeth
in—(l) the directors, who are entitled to a percentage,
and take it; (2) and (3) the two lots of deber.ture-holders ;
(4) the pref. shareholders. Even when it does come to his.
turn the “ordinary ”is strictly limited in his bite. And
the feed for the lot has to be provided by a mine which
was just thrown in as a sort of makeweight 1
As to what B.H. Central mine and the
Corporation have done, here are the figures showing net
profit or loss:
1897.. Loss,* £18,842 1900.. Profit, £178,002
1893.. Loss,t 10,935 1901.. „ 73,049
1899.. Profit, 115,154 1902.. „ 2,927
* Loss on Ashcroft process, £24,476
t Loss on Ashcroft process, £44,779
The mine (formerly held by a Sydney co. which had to
reconstruct again and again) has developed amazingly
well; but it nevertheless can’t pay fair interest on the
ridiculously large capital at which the wild-cat patents
were assessed, and on the demonstrated failure of those
patents the concern ought to have been radically recon-
structed. As it was, the prefs. set to work to squeeze
the life out of the ordinaries ; and now, in the whirligig
of time, the debenture-holders have come along to
squeeze the prefs., and the latter won’t get much sym-
pathy.
The best thins: about the Sulphide' Corp.
is that it issues very exhaustive reports on its mine,
mill, and furnace work. Here, compiled from its reports,
is what ought to be an interesting little table, showing
how the money is spent on a mine. Figures (to the
nearest penny) are per ton of ore
Hauling •
Half-year Mining Develop- Concen* and
’ to (including ment trating. Mainten-
, timbering), Work. ance.
8 d ad a d sd
Deo., 1898 .. 10 6 1 8 3 3 011
June, 1899 .. 9 10J 10 3s 1 0 9
Dec., 1899 „ 10 3 0 9 3 2 010
June, 1900 .. 10 11 010 3 4 0 9
Dec., 1900 11 fl 12 3 1 010
June, 1901 .. 10 9 0 9 2 9 010
Dec., 1901 .. 10 6 0 9 3 0 010
June, 1902 .. 10 3 011 3 1£ 010
• • Q •
If they can stop the serious underground move l
ment that threatens in B.H, Block 10 they will do
remarkaoly good work.
* * * •
As was generally anticipated, solid business is
being done in Charters Towers stocks. There is nothing
Suggestive of a boom, but there is a steady demand for
all leading stocks. Sydney brokers note that they have
plentyof buyingorders which they cannotexecute. Sydney
always was, and, apparently, always will be a market to
buy in—at the highest, and to sell out in—at the lowest.
Melbourne men, attracted by the splendid record of the
Towers for last year, and the tales of 50-bob-a-week drill-
thumpers who are now seeking palatial mansions at Potts
Point and Toorak, seem disposed to chip in. Anyhow,
several southerners are northward bent to make them-
selves acquainted with the field. Adelaide speculators so
far ignore the Towers. Their attention in the north is
absorbed in tin ventures*- which are approaching the
-crucial stage when the unimaginative battery will thud
out the truth. And sickening will be the thud in some
instances.
It 13 not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much of the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as is saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
goid, galena, copper and tin mines in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from them.*
r * * * •
The variations in the value oF Charters Towers’
Stocks' which are quoted are Jan., 1902, £2,300,000;
Sept. 1 (boom), £4,200,000 ; Oct. 1 (slump), £2,578,000 ;
last week, £3,500,000. The falling off from Sept, to Oct.
wa9 over £1,600,000, and since then there has been a
recovery of about £900,000. Present values aggregate
about £lOO,OOO higher than the top values in the boom of
’9l. On present indications it seems likely that the boom
figures of Sept, last will be reached, if not exceeded, this
year.
( Continued on page 30.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
*r.
SPECIAL PURCHASE
GENUINE.
Panama Hats
(FOLDERS)
Price -
Original Value 55/-
27/6
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
RemftvßcQt' Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
” AllL. S i i S and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
~ . * nv| gorating in Hot Climates,
olour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
toy all Grocers and Chemists.
©GRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Cl . . Wholesale Agents for New South Wales-
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Society
[?]
[?]
A political picnic, as conducted by genial
rogue-elephant Lyne or anyone else, is not all
fun for its promoter. Almost always some mem-
her with more assurance than consideration will
bring along an uninvited guest—a pushing con-
stituent or “his boy, who wants to see some
of the country.” That perhaps upsets the
accommodation arrangements, but has to be
tolerated. There is a legend that on one of Bill
Lyne’s picnics he actually had to share his bed
with one hon. member’s son who had unexpectedly
turned up. “The boy” took the foot of the bed •
and, as Mr. Lvne’s bootmaker will recognise’
there was not much comfort in that arrangement
for the then N.S.W. Premier.
. _
•T•• . . , .
Premier James is of opinion that the
smallness of the Federal delegation which visited
Westralia to help turn on the water at Coolgardie
was owing to “the narrow-mindedness of the
press of the eastern States.” If James were a
man of the world he would know that it was much
more owing to the fact that drinks are very ex-
pensive at Coolgardie, and owing to a great un-
„.i ’ i, 6 , f, J,
. y a® w,l ° would pay for them. If
-rremter James had paid the fares and intimated
that every visitor could give it a name at any hour
of the day or night, free, he could have had practi-
cally the whole of the six eastern Parliaments,
and could have had at least three politicians
in the horrors. Politics don’t pay so well that
legislators can afford to go all that way at
their own expense, and George Turner, who
never had the horrors in his life,_ objected to
shovelling out the money. But it wasn’t the
press that was to blame. The press would
have come too, and at least seven editors would
have had the horrors on James’s doorstep but for
the expense. And if James had only been willing
to pay, the compositors would have come along
Premier Tel 'never P seen
horrors, trying to set up a spectral article
with imaginary snakes for type, he has missed
the spectacle of his life.
m
. i • , *. ,
Brieat gun-banging as usual with the
change of Admirals. For the first week the new
Admiral could not ring up the messenger to the
AND GREAT WAS THE YOOMP THEREOF.
P.M. ( unable to make head or tail of accused’s rambling statement): “ Did you shoot the man in
self-defence? ”
HANS SCHWILLENSAUFENGERMANSAUSAGESCHWEDISCHTURNIPSTEIN : “No, Yer Washup ; I shoo!
him in de end of th' back, an' he yoomp de fence."
assistant-secretary to the aide-de-camp to the
Governor without some fool-person bursting forth
with a salute. But it was aggravating for the
sick and seedy to be awakened at 8 a.m. one
morning with an eruption. It appeared that a Mr.
Field, the officer in charge of stores and stationery
and things on Garden Island, thoughtfully chose
that hour to greet the Admiral, and received in
return a salvo of seven guns—“the number,” ex-
plained the papers, “to which his rank entitled
him.” The Bulletin does wish that someone
had bribed the gun-man to give Field eight guns,
just to see what stuff the new Admiral would have
shown himself made of in suoh a crisis.
• * • •
There is no class in Australia so secretivo os
the naval crowd. Its members dodge giving any
information to the papers, yet when errors appear
they ask, “Why don’t these fellows know what
they are writing about?” In Admiral Bridges’
time things were at their worst. The Admiral
treated the pressmen in very cavalier fashion.
They used to have to follow him about, and he
would fling a word at them now and then.
Attempts to get information by telephone were
always futile. Once, as a test, Admiralty House
was rung up at 8.30 a.m. “Can I speak to one
of the staff ? ” the reporter asked. “ They are
either out or not at home,” was the reply.
• • • •
The N.S.W. police-raid on the fortune-
telling brigade is a very half-hearted affair and
will prove abortive. The prosecutions are
taken under an antiquated Act that pro-
vides as a last resort punishment in the
stocks, or is it the pillory ? Had the
authorities left musty statutes alone and taken
the bull by the horns in candidly charging these
people with obtaining money by false pretences, a
good case could have been made out. Meanwhile
the spiritualistic-medium crowd has organised a
“ defence fund ” to fight the case on alleged
scientific grounds. Were there no money in the
game there would soon be a decrease in the crops
of “ meejums ” and far-seeing people who affect to
be “controlled.”
• • • *
Slab from a spiritualist’s letter to the
West Australian :
It is true that post mortem persistence of an individual-
istic nature, in which the segregation of psychic entities is
indefinitely maintained, is negatived rather than affirmed
by a vast preponderance of carefully collated evidences;
still, there is such an overwhelming mass of testimony
exhibiting in abnormal aspects an entirely extraneous
“control” over all manner of mystic manifestations, that
any conception of merely automatic actuation derivative
from unintellectual agencies, either physical or psychical,
is no longer tenable.
• • • •
Another sample of how the Victorian rail-
ways are now run. At Carrum a public meeting
was held to ask the Minister of Railways to send
an assistant to the local station. It was stated
that all the work had to be done by one man,
whose hours were from 6 a.m. until 11 p.m. One
afternoon he fell down from exhaustion, and
assistance had to be procured. The goods traffic
for the past year was over 12,000 tons.
• • • <■ •
Following on the somewhat lucky collision
between goods-trains at Wallan (Vic.) comes a
really serious accident at Wandong (a few miles
further along the main Sydney line), which seems
to be directly due to one of Bents beautiful
economies. When going at 30 miles an hour the
driver of a goods-train felt considerable jolting,
and, ere he could pull up, 21 trucks had gone to
smash in a creek 20ft. below. By the grace of
Qod they weren’t passenger-carriages. This was
a stretch of line where accidents were frequent a
few years back. Since then the line has been
re-graded and carefully watched ; now Bent has
cut down the permanent way service, and the
result is—Smash ! Trucks destroyed, road
damaged, time lost, traffic lost, goods ruined,
inquiry, costs, damages, etc. But Bent still swears
he is making the railways pay. Since Bent’s
peculiar policy of “economy” got to work four
mishaps a day seem about the average. Writer
seizes the latest Age at random, and looks up one
day’s record :
Train delayed three hours at Barnawartha through
broken rails.
Train 45 minutes late at Colac through truck going off
the line.
Train three "hours late in leaving Inglewood, because
the water wouldn't boil—through defects in Bent’s worn-
out engine.
That was an unusually quiet day, too.
• * * •
Events support the views of the experi-
enced Sydney police officials who objected to the
arming of the force under pressure of the scare
raised in the political reign of G. R. Dibbs.
“ We’ll be potted before we know where we are,”
said one inspector. “ The baton and handcuffs,”
said another, “ are our best weapons. The burly
criminal thinks he has a chance against them, and
falls in. "But if he knows we’ll shoot, he’ll shoot
first.” At the same time, now that criminals
have come to systematically carry firearms, the
disarming of the police would be a serious experi-
ment.
• • • *
Apropos the constant shooting of constables
Mr. J. H. Cardew makes a good suggestion :
Handy electrical lanterns are now to be had at a very
reasonable cost, which are charged for some hours’
use, and can be re-charged for a few pence. They can be
carried attached to the belt, or the wrist, or in the pocket,
and their flash is strong enough to blind the eyesight.’
Such a lantern is a far better protection to a constable
than a revolver, as it renders him invisible, whilst the
burglar is paralysed in its dazzling ravs. This small
equipment for the police would be almost as effective as
doubling the number of constables.
• * • •
The names of one or two weaklings with a
political pull being mentioned in connection
with the Inspector-Generalship of N.S.W. police
soon to be vacated by the well-earned retirement
on pension of Mr. Fosbery, it may be mildly sug-
gested that there is no need for the authorities to
ur^er than Colonel-Surgeon Campbell
Williams for a successor. Col. “ Billy ” (who by
the way, earned Imperial rank and fame by’his
services in S Africa) has proved himself a splendid
organiser, an enthusiast for work and a man
capable to command.
Some of the
Melb. churches
are in a bad
way, and even
the picturesque
Pastor Bevan
finds in his
church the con-
gregation dwin-
dling, and the
hreepenny - bit
more ana more
casual. He has
now started an
elocution class
as a standby,
and lately acted
as oratory judge
at the Warr-
nambool com-
petition* The
other professors
of elocution are
simply wild at
his invasion of
theirprofession,
but blame for
it G. H. Reid,
whose recent
praise of Dr.
Bevan has made
that woolly shepherd over-
bearingly conceited.
• • •
Unless .Rumor lies with
more circumstance than
usual, there are several sen-
sational Customs “evasions”
proceedings pending up
South. Why, 0 why doesn’t
Kingston arrange fora little
back door, to be opened,
when necessity
arises, with the
usual golden key ?
It plays the very
devil when pillars
of society and the
church have to face
the music like any
common artful
dodger.
Samuel Way, C.J., has been putting his
feet in it again. At the laying of the foundation-
stone of Adelaide Savings Bank, he mortally
offended the Government by urging the trustees
never to accept a Govt, guarantee, or to allow the
State to take over the institution. There was
great political controversy on these points a few
years ago, when the Kingston Ministry desired to
expand the Savings Bank into a State Bank,
instead of establishing a separate institution as
it was compelled to do by the antagonism of
the Tories. Then on the day the Britannia left
for the West the Chief Justice, desiring to be
lordly in the eyes of George Reid, told that gen-
tleman that the departmental car provided by the
Railway department to take Minister Lyne and
the other Federal legislators down to Largs Bay
was set apart for the particular use of George the
Fifth. Whereupon Reid ostentatiously invited
the touring politicians to travel in “ his carnage,
and Minister Lyne grew so volubly rampant that
Premier Jenkins had to come forward and ex-
plain that all the parliamentarians were equally
free to use the car. “ All the trouble arose
through that meddling little Chief Justice ! was
the comment when the Govt, was approached by
a reporter, anxious to find out exactly for whose
benefit the departmental car was attached to the
train.
• * * *
The mystery surrounding the murder or
Geo. Cullen, found dead with his head battered in,
at his house at Mount Lofty, near Adelaide, is
still unsolved, and is likely to remain so. Cullen
had deposit-receipts for £lOOO in a small box in
one of the two rooms of his shanty, and these are
missing. The murderer must have known where to
find the key, for the box was not broken open,
but carefully unlocked and locked again. Cullen
had a mania for making wills, the latest of whicn
provided that everything should pass to his eldes
son, Bob, who lived close by. It is a coincidence
that the axe and hammer found by the body are
Bob’s property, but his statement that they were
always on the old man’s property is accepted by
the police and proved by others. The decease
had a fondness for swagmen, dozens of whom
camped on his place, and S.A. police are now
busy overhauling every bluey in S.A.
MY
SHA POW
FOR
THE BULLETIN.
TX/HEN I see the people rass
Keen and eager on their way,
Then I mind that .1 esh is grass,
And that grass will turn to hay.
When I see a Man of Note
Swelling by me—l affirm :
" There goes pasture for a goat.
There goes fodder for a worm."
Late I saw a man like this—
Citizen of name and note—
And a continent of bliss
I Cos enclosed within his coat.
In his stomach, proudly fed,
I could hear the good wine churn,
Audi he said: “ When I.am dead
Goats and worms may have their turn."
Men like this I often meet—
Men from twelve to sixteen stone—
While my shadow on the street
Is the only thing I own.
Even that companion dark
Is not proud of me, I find;
As l walk through street or park—
Evermore it slinks behind.
1 can hear it quietly—
Though it does not think I can—
Moan, “ Alas, that I should be
Shadow of a Writing Man!"
I can hear it grumbling low—
Herein lies the bitter sting—
“ Give up writing verse, and grow
Pigs, potatoes—anything !
“ Other shadows, vast and grand,
Simply swallow me complete.
Make me bigger, Master, and
Let me blot them from the street!"
Happier, men, by Love inspired.
Or desire of fame, rise high;
1 am driven, sick and tired,
By my Shadow till 1 die.
N.S.W.
CREBYE ROB.


GO TO lIEGT.-
l(i(>r<ANl» for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hager),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The Bulletin hears that the rule against
Sydney Hospital patients going out on the front
verandahs of the institution facing the
fashionable doctors and the fashionable board-
ing-houses—has been for some time abolished.
It used to be in force—was suggested, it is said,
by two magnates who used to live in houses near
—but on coming to the knowledge of some ot
the members of the committee there was a row.
Then the residents opposite, canvassed by Rev.
Carr Smith, unanimously petitioned that the
patients should have the use of the front verandahs
—not only that but subscribed a sum of money to
make the verandahs more comfortable; and the
restriction was removed.
• • • m
Writes a correspondent to The Bulletin :
The fair-minded conclusion from the Cardinal-and.
Samoa controversy, which is vexing some religious circles
in Sydney to a minor extent just now, is that Cardinal
Moran has been successful in doing what Bacon describes
in his essay on “Cunning” as “turning the cate in the
pan.” Having undoubtedly gone too far in his charges
against the Protestant missionaries and their agents in
Samoa at the time of the recent lamentable and most
unjust war, Cardinal Moran, challenged to prove his
statements, preserved an ambush silence, led his oppo-
nents on until they, in their turn, had gone too far and
were involved in the thickets of untruth, and then sallied
out, not to apologise for his own errors, but to fiercely
attack theirs. It was good tactics from a controversial
point of view, but hardly a candid method. Perhaps
the head of a church can’t afford to be candid ; still I
think that the community in general would have a higher
opinion of Cardinal Moran if he had shown less subtlty
and more plain brown honesty in the matter.
Bedrock facts are these. The war waged by English
and American sailors against the Samoans was undoubt-
edly indefensible ; and there is little reason to doubt
that sectarian considerations had some influence in
starting the struggle. There was in the war ample
reason for condemnation Cardinal Moran added
to his fair condemnation vide newspaper reports,
which he did not contradict at the time—
a statement that Protestant missionaries at Samoa sought
to induce the commanders of British warships to shell the
R.O. church where children and women had taken
refuge. This statement he was challenged to prove, and
never has proved, and, almost certainly, never will prove,
because it is inherently improbable. But, in the attacks
on the Cardinal from the other side, the allegation was
made that the Cardinal had said that the British war-
ships had shelled the church as requested. Cardinal
Moran astutely allowed that misstatement to be repeated
by various Protestant clergymen (whose zeal for the truth
didn’t lead them to investigate the accuracy of quotations
before using them) and to be quoted in a leader by
Sydney Daily Telegraph. Then he unmasked
his batteries, and in the smoke of his indig-
nant volleys against this wicked perversion of
his words, covered over the rash statements which he
made and can’t prove. Perhaps the one certain point of
truth in the whole squabble is the conclusion that in
sectarian controversy, Roman Catholic prelate and Pro-
testant clergymen are equally reckless in statement and
unfair in attack, and equally willing to sacrifice the truth
“ for the sake of the church.” A gratifying feature of the
business is that the community generally does not seem
to worry a threepenny bit about the squabble one way or
the other.
• * • *
“Larry ” Foley, chaperoning the Owe’Sul-
livan, had a gorgeous time in Adelaide. Every-
body interviewed him; for the papers he deftly
mixed politics and pugilism and the destruction
of old buildings, and announced that he would be
a candidate for Parliament at next elections.
OH!
SHE: "Did you speak?" HE: "Not”
SHE: “ Oh, then, it must have been the dog
growling.”
Even the leader of the Labor party came to him
to pick up points. But he was at his very
best when, G. H. Reid and his Dry Dog having
poured upon Adelaide some of the butter it loves
so well regarding its own ineffable beauty, he rose
to the occasion and, on behalf of his protegb and
himself, declared that it was so like the cheeky
Reid to paint the lily and gild refined gold.
* * * *
The authorised raids being made by the
police on Sydney fortune-tellers is another nasty
knock at the revenues of the daily papers. Let’s
see, isn’t the scoundrelly Labor party at the
bottom of that authorisation ?
NO RELIGION FOR AUSTRALIA.
M 'ALLISTER : "I’m heavin’ ye were a Baptist
once, Meester Rogers, an’ were converted to
Pruspyteerianism.”
ROGERS : "That’s so. A long experience of
drought convinced me that the Baptist re-
ligion was no religion for Australia. Why,
man, there were times out there when we had
barely water enough for our whisky!"
Hairdressers’ employees in Sydney, after
vainly seeking to coine to a peaceable agreement
with their employers, intend to bring to the
Arbitration Court their claim for a minimum
wage of £2 10s. a week—little enough seeing that
the work hours are usually 60 a week and the
employee has to find his own razors and other
tools of trade. Among other requests, the em-
ployees will ask the court to rule that they may
not be compelled to shave Chinamen or other
undesirable Asiatics—a reasonable request since
legislation has been in existence for years, the
practical effect of which is to declare that colored
Asiatics should not be allowed to associate with
Australians.
* • * •
North Queensland Bishop Frodsham, who
seems to be an honest parson in a land where
honest parsons are not over-
plentiful :
He was so impressed with the
degraded moral condition of the
bulk of the alien population in
the North that he intended to
proceed at once to Sydney with
the object of stirring up in-
terest in northern missionary
work by recounting the state
of things as they exist at
present. The indulgence in
vices among the colored people
is deplorable. Common pru-
dence calls at once for active
steps. The southern people can
have no conception of the state
of the north from a moral
standpoint.
Reason why so many South-
ern people have “ no con-
ception ” of the state of
the North owing to the
influx of aliens, is that so
many bishops, parsons, &c.,
have gone there, accepted
the hospitality and the
chequesof the rich planters,
whose profits are increased
by nigger-labor, and come
South to prate of the
Christianising and blessed
influence of bringing the
colored man to the Q.
plantations as a sort of half-
way house to Heaven. If
Bishop Frodsham is sincere
in his views, let him now
preach, in season and out
of season, a White Austra-
lia. It is the only way to
reform the conditions which
he condemns. ••
A TRITE TRAGEDY.
Dramatis Personae —He, She, and The Other Fellow.
Prologue :
She and The Other Fellow loved each other and met
frequently. The husband didn’t count.
Act I.
Scene : A balcony after dinner. All three present.
The Other Fellow: “How beautiful the moon is to-
night 1 ” She (sweetly but absent-mindedly): “ Yes,
dearl"
Act 11.
Occupied by the husband’s remarks to She and The
Other Fellow.
Act 111.
Divorce-court judge holds the centre of the stage.
• • • *
The little crowd of Melbourne people—
Danes mostly—who have been petitioning for
the release of Mrs. Cecile Andersen, at the rate of
about one petition a year ever since 1894, are now
easy in their minds. Mrs. Andersen is to be re-
leased when she has served a sentence of nine
years for the murder of John Fraser. Her health
is bad, she will be nearly 60 when she gets back
to her friends (who have presumably made
arrangements to keep her in comfort), and there’s
no danger of shooting John Fraser any more, be-
cause he’s dead. For a long time the barrackers
for Mrs. Andersen spoke severely of the ghost of
Fraser in their efforts to persuade a succession of
Vic. Solicitors-General that Mrs. A. was unjustly
convicted. The last petition, however, was fer
Mercy pure and simple, and Mercy is a very good
thing to grant to a long-imprisoned 60-year-old
woroar.
Two sentences from a letter in Sydney
D.T. :
The fact is that the average man cannot support the
average woman.
We live in mortgaged houses filled with time-payment
furniture.
• « • •
A note of melancholy pervades that
announcement that some temporary buildings
which can be “run up”—the ominous term of the
Jeremiah-builder—at small expense, and which
“will last a few years,” are to be dabbed
down on the site of Sydney’s new,
proposed, unbuilt railway station—the site
where the “most magnificent railway station
in all the world ” was to rear its pompous head.
The new buildings will presumably be a cheap
symphony in galvanised iron and lath and plaster
—if they aren’t built of kerosene-tins and old
packing-cases—and when they have been “run
up” business is to commence on the new site.
The real palatial station is to follow—some day;
probably about the time when the Owe’Sullivan
gets a million of Cecil Rhodes’ money to erect
that Pinehgut statue of Liberty. Minister
Owe’Sullivan is away, and lugubrious Minister
Perry says that the temporary jerry-built device
“ doesn’t necessarily mean that we are taking this
course owing to want of funds.” Not necessarily,
of course ; yet Minister Perry doesn’t deny that
the great dream has fallen through from lack
of loan-funds. Why not try to save £lOO,OOO
a year by cutting off all the ridiculous grants
to agricultural shows, choral unions, schools
of arts (for the State isn’t bound to supply Marie
Corelli’s novels to the public), and many other
things ; put on an extra penny on the income-tax
and double the land-tax on estates above a certain
value ; and build the station with our own money ?
Cohen may stop lending altogether, and Sydney
can’t have a permanent kerosene-tin railway ter-
minus.
* • • •
There’s good common sense about E. W.
O’Sullivan’s proposal to sweep Wexford-street off
the face of Sydney municipality and replace it
with a broad thoroughfare leading from the
railway station to the foot of Oxford-st. Many
new streets are badly wanted in Sydney : half the
thoroughfares which should be through streets
lead to nowhere, and thereby concentrate the
whole of the Railway-Circular Quay traffic into
narrow, overcrowded George-st. The proposed
street should not end at the foot of Oxford-st.,
but should be continued right on to Woolloomooloo
Bay. Were this lone the grade which at present
makes for so much cruelty to animals could b«
levelled down and made much easier.
» • • •
Commenting on the Sangal case, London
Globe of Dec. 16 says that no woman temporarily
reprieved for similar cause has ever been hanged
(in England) in the end, “and the fact that the
sentence will not be carried out is always made
known to the prisoner.” The English practice
seems to be more merciful than the Australian,
and must certainly give the child a better chance
at birth.
• • • *
Barmaid Kate Ahearn, aN.S.W.girl,ought
to be lovelier than a dream to justify all the gore
and trouble there has been about her. Some
months ago a man got a stiff sentence for cutting
Kate’s throat. Now a youth of 19 has cut his
own throat fatally because the same Kate was
going out to a dance. Ye gods! No wonder that
barmaids, as a class, suffer from swollen head as
well as chronic indigestion. Bertie, are you
listening? Look at Kate and ask yourself how it
happens that one “ bloke” is in prison and another
“bloke” dead on her account. Her value as an
object of insane jealousy, Bert, lies in the fact
that all the other fellows appear to think her 15
times more enchanting than she is. -What barmaid
would seem worth all that fuss, Bertie, if you
met her in cold blood in private life, and judged
her by comparison with your sisters and your
cousins and your pretty aunts? Answer that
question.
•
Writes “X.P.T.”
Re par in B. 4/l/’O3. The lot of the N.S.W. pupil-teacher
never was rosy. The pupil teacher starts on a salary of
£4O, while junior clerks start on £5O. But the p.t. can
start at 14 years old, while a “ junior ” must be 16. The
two years’ increments of the p.t. amount to £l7, so that,
if anything, he has the better of the junior. The real
grievance is with the female pupil teachers. On a com-
mencing salary of £24 they are expected to pay for their
board, washing and clothes, buy text books, and in many
instances pay fees to outsiders to coach them in French
on account of the inability of the “ heads ” to impart
that knowledge. The “ fossils ” admit being pretty rusty
on languages (i.e., if they were ever otherwise), and now
that, under the new regulations coming into force, Latin
and mathematics are added to the curriculum of the girls
without anything being added to their salaries, their
future lot must be infinitely harder. Drudging during
the day in a sweltering and fetid atmosphere to secure
“ results” from the inspector, “stewing" till midnight
round an oil-lamp to ensure success at the annual exam,
all this to qualify for an increment, which for successive
years is £6, £lO, and £8 ! Perhaps this will throw some
light on that vexed question “ Why do so few female
teachers marry ? ’’
• * • •
Writes “ Done-In ” :
The approaching N.S.W. Public Service examinations
are hedged with conditions that violate the sense of fair-
play to youths or adults seeking State employment. For
instance, each candidate must advance a fee of 7s. 6d, If
unsuccessful, the deposit is forfeited ; if successful, it is
also forfeited. Further, if successful, and no opening
occurs for the candidate within nine months, he must
stand the exam, anew and deposit another fee. What if
private employers set up such conditions preliminary to
taking on hands! Would not “ sharpers 1” be yelled
from housetops? The P.S. Board may not be obliged to
show a good example to private employers, but it
should be prevented from showing a bad one.
* * * *
The cellarman at an Adelaide brewery was
found drowned last week in a vat of his own stout.
For the satisfaction of a suspicious public, the
stout was afterwards run to waste in presence of
an excise-officer.
• * • *
The ownership of the N.S.W. Educa-
tional Gazette is only a matter for fair inquiry
but certain of the Public Instruction Dept,
officials don’t seem over-anxious for inquiry.
Under the Registration of Firms Act the pro-
prietors will have to register themselves shortly,
and then there will be no room left for doubt on
the question. If it is a fact that the Dept,
purchases 500 copies each issue on behalf of “poor
schoolmasters” who cannot afford the subscrip-
tion, then there is room for comment. Surely a
definite “yes” or “no” could be given to this
question.
• * * •
Sydney D.T. wonders why it was that the
people who framed the regulation that water,
compasses, oil, and a hatchet should be kept in
each boat of a sea going vessel, did not insist that
provisions should also be stored therein. The ex-
planation is, probably, that they thought any
idiot who was sufficiently sane to have charge of a
ship would see that his boats contained provisions,
and merely made mention of articles which were
likely to be overlooked in a time of great con-
fusion. The necessity of provisions should be
the first thing that would occur to any member of
a race which cannot transact the smallest matter
of business, or have a christening, or get married,
or attend a funeral, without adjourning for re-
freshments.
HAPPY THOUGHT.
MRS. TOWNLEY (lately settled on the land):
"’Sense me. One of my little pigs is sick
an’ won’t take his gruel. Will one of you
ladies lend me a feeding-bottle?"
Rumored that a recent sad and sensational
Sydney fatality might have been avoided but for
the fact that there was some hesitation in expos-
ing a naked man to the view of some womenfolk.
* * * #
Adelaide holds more oculists and dentists
to the square mile than any other Australian
city. Not a few of these run motor cars and
palatial suburban or hill residences. The oculist
returns thanks to the “country” for its dust-
storms, magnificent distances, and continual look-
out for signs of rain ; to the city for the fearful
glare of its limestone streets. The dentist extols
the übiquitous mineralised waters.
• * • •
“ Nardo ” 1 In a certain small bub extra-
pious N.S.W. township it was recently proposed
to treat the younger inhabitants to a picnic ; but
the leading citizen declared that he “ wadnacoon-
tenance ony sic warldly divairshon—unless it was
held in the cemetery ! ” And it was.
EPISODE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I trod upon an ant. It writhed a second,
Then lay quite still beside its fallen load ;
The finder of the body stood and beckoned,
And scores of curious friends ran up the road;
They dragged it off with ceremony scant,
And I went hurrying on. ’Twas but an ant 1
I saw a man, in pride of youth and health,
Flung downward, from a high-front temple’s
height,
And, in an instant, all of manhood’s wsalth
Lay flattened, crushed—and.out the guttering
light.
God, on his duty bent, while hurrying by,
Had crushed an ant—the very same as I!
Vic.
L. M. D.
OBSERVATIONS.
If some people only had half as much brains as
they have energy they wouldn’t need to have half
as much energy as they have now.
The lawyer gets the most of what meat there is on
the bone of contention.
It is only natural that people who have made a
great rise should look for a high descent.
It has often struck me that God compensates
the woman for the pain she bears with the know-
ledge that the child is hers. No one else knows any-
thing for certain.
I don’t know why they call them “ the silent
majority.” Some of ’em make enough row on their
tombstones.
Q-
J.P.C.


In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
- IS THE ONLV Correct Hose Su pp orter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET.
Sold only at the Best Shops.
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping's Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 0.5., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxfod-su Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
(NEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
orous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
commended by “ Lancet.”
J- McBRATNEY (Wholesale only)
linders Lane. Melh. 389 Oeotge-st.. Sydney
Sl/%
❖
%
*
*
HEERINGS
CHERRY BRANDY
WITH
V SODA WATER J
s
“gray 7 EMOTES
§t/ UsK
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 27, 1903.
My Dear Arihi—
Vioe-regal ohronicles are “off” fur the present.
In the absence of news, you may conclude that
the Rawsons are able to sit up and take nourish-
ment, as David Harum says of the perfectly sound.
His Ex. leads a life of philosophic speculation
amongst the pines and gums of Sutton Forest,
and will not come to town till March. Mr.
Robertson, who was acting private secretary
during the late Mr. Rowe’s illness, is now a fixture
in the position, and as he has brains and a manner
(there’s a lot of difference between manners and a
manner) he will have more scope and be of more
use to his chief than when suffering under the
disability of aide-de-camping. Any man with a
smile and a bow and a uniform will do for an
aide. Pity to waste grey matter on the billet.
Governor Rawson has been unfortunate in losing
by death two members of his household. Mr.
Rowe’s death was primarily due to a wetting, and
the Governor’s head coachman was drowned—in a
waterhole of the beautiful Fitzroy Falls. By the
way, the editor of Sydney Worker used to
wonder where went the broken-down Sydney ’bus
horses which escape the Zoo and the vehicles
which elude the scrap heap. Now he knows, after
a visit to Moss Vale. There he saw the poor old
horses yoked to sociables held together with string
and tin tacks, and the decrepit combination used
to convey visitors to Fitzroy Falls. “ Passengers
by them get a lot of healthy exercise ; on the flat
their bile is stirred. Up hill they walk to save
the horses. Down hill they walk to save their
lives.” Anyhow, these horses have the consola-
tion of ending their days in the odor of Fashion.
Turf Club races at Randwick on Saturday
brought out nothing much worthy of comment in
the way of smart dressing, save a returned
Ooronator, who wore a pretty gown of what looked
like a pale-green frieze with a white fleck, and a big
hat covered with green acorns. Wearer looked a
combination of Spring and a light snowstorm,
and the English-born followed the hat about with
a tender, patriotic, love-of-country admiration.
Some linen coats, to below the knee, were abroad,
and when worn with a Panama, with a veil
twisted round, it looked the right garb in the
right climate.
But the sight of the day was the lady in a book-
muslin, worn over a thin silk underskirt. Talk
about Rontgen Rays ! Just good old sun-rays
showed her shapely legs and the blue suspenders
that tethered her black hose. The procession of
men that defiled past that woman was like unto
the stage army, which goes round and round, only
that it was constantly reinforced by fresh gazers.
Child _ Study Associations have become very
popular in Australia. That in Sydney grows like
the yeast plant. The child is physiologically and
psychologically investigated, and its individual
gifts, peculiarities and limitations studied. And
the members of the Association record their
views and experiences in papers read at their
meetings. If the enthusiasts of the Association
hear of a remarkable child, such as one of under
three who can spell “ latitudinarian,” they call on
him. At present they have an infant phenomenon
under observation. He is three years and two
months, and is too little to go to school, but he
helps his brother, aged seven, with his lessons.
He learned to read whilst playing with alphabeti-
cal blocks. Now, when he feels “off,” he reads a
S.M.H. leader. He has, besides, an Inaudi gift
for mental arithmetic.
I have been wondering if I should bring under
the notice of the Association a small boy of about
three whom I saw in the tram the other night.
He was the rotund and chubby son of a six-foot
wharf laborer. His eyes were all over the car,
and he sat opposite his disrespected parents and
amused himself by picking up discarded tram-
tickets with the fore-toe and thumb of his right
foot. The practice irritated the father, and he
scowled at the boy and said, “ Keep quiet, carn’t
yer?” “Keep quiet, carn’t yer?” repeated the
mother fiercely. The boy took no notice, and
after repeated threats the father leaned over and
smacked him gently on the calf. Quick as light-
ning the chubby little fist shot out and hit papa
right under the jaw, and papa sat back and gaped
at him for a moment and then growled, “ Keep
yer bloomin’ fists to yerself.” “Well, you keep
yourn,” replied sonny. Everyone beamed on the
group. After the Drakes and Penruddockes it
were refreshing.
Apple butter, baked beans, and tinned tomato
soup are confessedly good food, but just now they
have the value of a new and very palatable religion
to Sydney men. I say men because the High
Priestess who officiates before the china altar,
heating the soup in a silver censer-like vessel and
ladling it to her congregation of men is of
rare prettiness. Rather a new kind of pretti-
ness in Sydney. She is a Boston girl of Scotch
parentage with the kind of coloring over which
Bobby Burns has so often soared into verse.
Blue-eyed, with pale golden hair and a rosily-
flushed face ; the coloring all in the grain, and the
shyness of manner that Mary Wilkins gives her
New England story-girls. She will present you
with a tiny cucumber spitted on a bit of match-
wood, and expound the gospel of baked beans,
according to the evangel of Heintz, who pots
them ; and, if you are a man, you feel “saved.”
If a woman, and have mislaid your husband, lover,
or brother, you may seek him at: the'.china altar
in the Civil Service Co-operative Stores, his eye
fixed on a dainty face rimmed with golden-hair—
the face of Miss Macleod, of Boston,'U.S. A., pro-
phetess of apple-butter and baked beans.
The “ professional gentleman,” who advertises
at intervals for a young lady to make appoint-
ments witli clients and arrange flowers at a salary
of 17s. (id. per week, and never seems to secure a
suitable damsel, made another effort to get her
last week with a differently-worded advt. About
25 girls, some of them from far suburbs, huddled
in a corridor of —— Chambers, awaiting engage-
ment. The prof, gent himself dodged to ana fro
scrutinising them, whilst another young man in a
dingy office received the girls and demanded
2s. 6d. for an interview with the principal, and,
if engaged, the first week’s salary. Some of them
gave the half-crown ; others, their opinion on the
advt.
Anniversary regatta : gun-metal-oolored clouds
rolling low as the warships’ funnels; the war-
ships, now painted gun-metal color, swinging at
anchor in a sea of the same hue ; the grey-green
coast line washed by the driving rain ana veiled
with mist—a picture in distemper. Under the
alchemy of the weather the city looked from the
sea mysterious and remote, as unsubstantial as a
sketch in sepia. Flagship Arcadia lay in Neutral
Bay and took on the look of a low-down emigrant
vessel by reason of the colored washing hung out
on her lines and the seedy-looking, wet, draggled
horde on her decks. Round her water-line she
was barnacled with queer little craft. I can
understand the Yorkshire pitman who, viewing
the sea and shipping for the first time in his
amazed existence, exclaimed, “Oh, look at the
little boats sucking the big one ! ”
Apart from the picture, a regatta, such as that
of last Monday, is to me duller than tame ducks
in a vvaterhole. I can never tell which lugger is
winning, or know the acting from the audience
yachts. But Ido see Swinburne vignettes ;l am
sure the racing yachtsmen were murmuring
“Good-hap to the fierce, fresh weather,” or
“ Forth, with the rain in our hair and salt, sweet
foam on our lips ” ; or “The wind is as iron that
stings, the salt clouds loosen and flee; it swells
and swelters and swings—the pulse of the tide of
the sea.” The beautiful Bronzewing, Commodore
Hordern’s yacht, was amongst the audience boats,
looking like a Cleopatra-going-to-meet-Antony
craft. On board the Arcadia, Admiral Fanshawe
made his first speech, and gave “MY warmest
thanks to the committee for its kindness to MY
squadron and its prizes to MY men.” Also, he
gave such an excellent “character ” to Sir Harry
Rawson that that gentleman will have no diffi-
culty in getting a good billet elsewhere—when he
needs one.
A newly-arrived potentate, stopping at a cer-
tain hotel, is as good as a selection in the land of
Ophir to some of the musical comedians appearing
in our Harbor City. He sits in a stage box and
throws jewelled trinkets among the “Thirty
Tnieves, ” and last week he took a group of
Tivolians out to the ostrich-farm at South Head,
and pretty well bought up its stock of plumes.
Some of the feathers were fac-similes of those
used in the fan sent to Earl Beauchamp’s bride,
and were nine guineas each. And these were
secured by the magniticeut one for a comic-opera
prima-donna.
Lord Mayor Hughes has failed to grasp the
skirts of a happy chance. It’s this way :On .Tan.
23, 1901, the turf around the late Queen’s statue,
in Queen’s-square, was nice and mossy, and there
were dozens of wreaths thereou for the Queen
j ist dead. On .Jan. 23, 1902, there were two
scrubby wreaths, and the turf was an unsightly
blotch ; the fact of Queen Victoria ever having
existed had been quite lost sight of. On Jan 23,
1103,. there were no wreaths, and workmen were
scraping away the turf. ; Presumably, the hard
flint road will again surround the Statue. Now,
if Mayor Hughes had (out of the civic funds)
planted the circle with fine flowers, and made it a
dainty spot all the year round, he could have
ascribed his effort to loyalty and a desire to keep
the late Queen’s memory as green as the turf, and
made it an argument for—well, for anything up
to baronetcy. So long as the city was made more
pleasing by even so much as a violet-tuft, those
who don’t value titles would not object.
There is much mean vicarious service amongst
the degenerate jeunesse doree of Australia. Tue
old men who made them and their fortunes did
not put their hands to much they had not per-
formed, but the grey or bald youths take another
view. Thus P. .Tobson, Esq., is hon. treasurer to
several philanthropicsoeieties. But do the societies
in their working time ever see him? Not at all.
P. J. sends a clerk along, and appears himself at
the annual meeting with a neat “sheet ” ready to
his hand. “Most excellent young man 1 ”
Humbug! Is it not as bad to obtain kudos on
false pretences as cash ?
How the fashion of the wearing of an iron ring
by men is spreading ! It is not a fashion in the
proper sense of the word, but an antidote (or self-
deception) for rheumatism. One rheumatic ex-
quisite had a diamond set in his ferruginous ring,
and since the setting his joints, which had been
at rest, are again racked with pain.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“Ever since her return from Europe, Janet Lady
Clarke has been invalided at Cliveden with severe
malarial or mild typhoid fever. The sufferer has
troops of friends in all classes and, if good wishes
count, she should soon be well. Poor people like
her, because she’s the opposite of a ‘niggardly
scrub.’ Professional, churchy and brainy circles
find her courteous appreciation soothing, in view of
the fact that many of Melbourne’s smartest sneer
and cold-shoulder everyone into the category of
‘frumps’ who does not reckon, an income by
thousands, instead of hundreds. Nice girls in her
own set adore the cordial dowager because she is
' not the least scrap of a cat.’ Instead of keeping
attractive spinsters out of the running for fear
they might chance to achieve a position as high
as her own, she has all along shared distin-
guished guests with her local friends and helped
damsel after damsel to the front. The only people
to nurse a grudge against the genial widow are a
clique of smart high-steppers, who, too selfish
themselves to work for popularity, and too close-
fisted to challenge her liberality, nevertheless
covet her social prestige and almost official
influence. The Countess of Darnley, Lady
Charles Scott, Mrs. Ainslie Mills, Mrs. Francis
Clarke, mav be mentioned amongst the many
matrons, who, as maidens, had 4 lovely times ’
under the kindly wing of dame 4 Janet.’
“ Little Miss Mignonette Clarke takes herself
off to the Big Smoke for a holiday. ’Tis believed
that the Governor’s daughter wants to be for a
brief time with Melba in the big world, and to
finish off her vocal training with Marchesi.
“ Rumors insistently fall on the ears, of the
trials that a certain genius puts upon household,
friends, and associates. An arrogant temper is
the foundation of all the trouble. The inmates
have to bow to the earth and cover their ears till
the roar of the tide has subsided. Then, when in
a time of calm, Genius encounters Servitude with
an expression of craven fear on its face, the hall
eghoes to the roar of laughter. 4 What’s the
trouble? Say, is it your funeral or mine?’ But
Servitude is too afraid even then to smile. The
Reign of Terror has no entr'actes for the sufferer.
“Charles Melbourne Hope, the Melbourne-born
son of Lord Hopetoun, is a sickly youngster,
whereas his elder Scottish-born brother (promoted
from 4 Lord Hope, if you please ! ’ to Earl of
Hopetoun, now that pa is a Marquis) has health
for sale. Perhaps this goes to explain why Lady
Hopetoun was in such a noticeable hurry to get
back to Scotland.
“ There is such a collection of voices that Melba
has sampled and approved for London that the
suggestion has been made to gather all the birds
together and send them in a coop along with the
retreating star. The Govt. Exports Department
might see to it.
44 The most up-to-the-moment girl in this city
wears a veil that is an effective substitute for the
perilous and treacherous ‘make-up.’ It approaches
a pink powdered tint, is undetectable over the
hat and hair, and only deliciously glowful over
the cheeks and chin where it touches. This is
the latest freak of fashion from the Cold Country
for providing an out-of-door complexion.
44 Not every Australian Governor’s wife re-
tains a sufficiently joyful memory of this
social Limbo to dish up her recollections after
an absence of several years. But Lady Hamil-
ton distinguishes Tasmania in that way. She
delivered some pleasant recollections of the tight
little island in a paper at the Royal Colonial
Institute a month or so ago. The wife of Gov.
Robert Hamilton was always reckoned shrewd
and intelligent in Hobart, and her business-like
summary of Tasmania’s claims to consideration,
from a practical and artistic point of view, con-
firms that opinion. It reads like a pleasant
tourists’guide or a modest prospectus appealing
with agricultural and mineral interests to the
money-making and enterprising. The Countess
of Hopetoun. by the way, on the other hand,
told a Melbourne man a few months back, when
taking him over her ancestral hall in the kindest
manner possible, that the Australians treated her
so cruelly, and the press misrepresented her so
hurtfully, that she nas vowed never to read an
Australian paper again as long as she lives.
44 The smart Hebe of the scone-shop confesses
to all kinds of experiences—some ef them merely
ridiculous, others worse. There is the elderly
rambler, who comes in alone, asks Hebe to choose
something for him and to serve it with a smile.
Then he squeezes her hand and leers. She grinds
her teeth and passes on to another. He may be a
Johnnie who is tired, and asks languidly how the
deuce she erects her thatch. She gives him cheek,
and he eats his scone in tired silence. Next occurs,
perhaps, the shy stranger, who goes through every
course, gazing odd times at the charmer’s back-
hair, and wondering if the comely one gets a
commission on the food he consumes. His bill
runs to half-a-guinea. He eats slowly. She tells
the other Hebes, who all peep and laugh, shyness
being a ridiculous sin in a man. Lastly, there are
the cheap flatterers who want to make appoint-
ments, and argue the point, and generally render
themselves objectionable. Then there is the kind
old gentleman or the bucolic swain who wants to
slip a sixpenny tip into her palm.
“A Yankee fashion-journal relates that ‘All
the waists are white this year, several rows of
feather-stitching being recommended as a relief.’
Sounds original—in fact, aboriginal ; but it is only
the terse U.S. mode of describing a dressy blouse.
By the way, these 4 waists ’ come so close to the
shoulder as to send the sleeve-joining down as far
as the vaccination arm-tattoo. This is the ‘Gibson’
effect. It’s all right for the lean and angular, but
how about high-chested femininity? Breadth is
fearfully accentuated by the new fashion. The fat
of the land will suffer.
4 Yarra river picnics are the latest excitement,
fashionable parties gather at the Hawthorn boat-
sheds, hampers in hand, in quite an ’Arriet
fashion, and embark in boats which carry them to
pomts where willows bend and kiss leaves
overhead. There the Yarra is sweet and nooks
exist where the boats may rest and 4 billy tea ’ be
made. The pendulum begins to swing in an old-
fashioned direction if babies and 4 billy tea’ are
to be again installed in high favor.
■ “, The Australian Minister for Customs has a
weakness for picture-galleries. He often takes a
saunter through our National Gallery—alone—
and sits wrapt in thought before the canvases.
His favorite in the collection is 4 Esther ’ that
which pourtrays the beautiful, heavy-eved Queen
o the velvet limbs fallen into a gloomy reverb
m the midst of the laying-on of jewels. Minister
Kingston quite glows when he discusses that
pomegranate-hued beauty. tnaC
“That prominent political widower, who
crowded appearances as chief mourner, fiance and
bridegroom all into the space of one year has
raised a nice point of etiquette. It is’ 4 the
oorrect thing ” when the mistress of a house dies,
for sister matrons to defer their visit of condolence
to the motherless family for a whole year. ‘ I was
coming next week to pay my condolence-call.
Now, I suppose I must turn it into a congratula-
tory visit/ whispered a suburban Martha, troubled
about etiquette, to a crony. ‘ Why not coalesce
them ? ’ questioned her confidante.
“There was trouble at a certain play-house
here, one recent treasury morning. The colossal
salaries that we see in type associated with the
names of the highest stars of a co. ever monopolise
the mind of the public to the exclusion of the
scale of screws allotted to the little twinklers of
the show. Retrenchment was tried at this theatre
on the already small salaries of the twinklers, and
on treasury morning an extraordinary scene fol-
lowed. The managers were in hiding. The girls
went helter-skelter in search of them. The whole
theatre echoed to their lamentations. All threat-
ened to leave. Some hurled the cash offered in
the face of the paymaster. Then the managerial
hearts relented, and most of the reductions were
withdrawn.
“ I have been looking on at the preparations of
a smart and frequent voyageuse. The mind of
man cannot compass the wisdom of a woman who
is accustomed to skip aboard an ocean liner and
gad about the Continent. She puts herself and
properties into the hands of the repairers before
weighing anchor. The pedicurist starts at one
end and the thatch-upholsterer at the other. The
masseuse rubs her up or down, and the man of
physic tonics and diets her up or down, according
to her superabundance of adipose tissue, or her
want of it. Then the outward contractors, ‘line-
repairers,’ chilfon-operators, start constructing
and building up, around and about her. Hips are
portioned out, corsets measured, and limbs passed
through wonderful labyrinths of laces and ribbons.
The sail depa tment looks to the millinery
mounts. On the eve of departure she is the
trimmest, tautest, securest little craft afloat.
“ Melb. people noted with interest that Lady
Forrest, after letting loose the water of that
great Kalgoorlie scheme, was presented with the
gold key of the situation. It is Bigjohn’s dame
who wears the keys. She is the right hand and
the left hand of her husband, and the political
fraternity are wary of the clever lady’s tactics.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Lacte Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free. 229 Bourke-st., Melb. Sydney
agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade, and Miss
Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade, Castlereagh-st.*
Rev. J. S. Hassall, in his “ Old Australia,’
says that a convict servant could be fed and
clothed for £5 a year! No wonder numbers of
them took to the bush.
N.S. W. Political Labor League Conference
has carried unanimously a motion :
That the Federal labor party shall oppose Australian
troops being sent by the Federal Government on active
service outside of the Commonwealth.
A different song to that sung during the S’African
war. But, experience teaches !
Mr. N. N. CAZEN, Sparrow Bush, N.Y.,
wr tes :
“ .lavne’s Expectorant is the best cough medicine J
know of. TT HAS SAVED BOTH MY OWN AND MY
CHILDREN’S LIVES."
The mystery that hung dark and heavy
around the murder of Constable Long, of Auburn
(N.S.W.) was lifted suddenly in response to
prayer. The man who says he had given the
alleged burglars a soap-impression of the public-
house safe-key, followed the murdered officer to
the grave, and on the way his emotions overcame
him so that he rushed into an outhouse and
prayed loudly and fervently for Divine guidance.
A woman who overheard him took the news to the
police-station, and now there are two other men
arrested who may have to stand trial for their
lives. “ Knock and it shall be opened to you
the gaol-door.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Mr. William Amelia, the S M. Herald’s
London correspondent, has induced that paper to
Eublish a scurrilous jibe at the sacred British
r pper House. Mr. Josephine’s story is that the
House of Lords was “ waiting up " for a certain
measure when
Shortly after midnight the Minister in charge, strolling
over to the House of Lords, found the Chamber empty, in
semi-darkness. In a private room there were three gentle-
men seated with three empty tumblers before them. “ Are
you the peers?” he asked. They nodded affirmation.
But don’t I smell whisky and water ? ” “ Yes, you do,”
a noble lord frankly rejoined, “ but you see the glasses
are empty, and if you don’t have them immediately re-
filled we’ll adjourn.” There was no appeal against this
threat. In the House of Lords three form a quorum
endowed with full legis ative power. Here were the
quorum, and if they went away thirsty there could be no
sitting in the House of Lords, a principal Government
measure would be delayed by a day, and so nicely are
things dovetailed in the last week of a session, the pro-
rogation would have to be deferred.
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “ open sesame ” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.


HEART DISEASE!
Have you Heart Disease ? Hundreds never suspect it till the fatal moment!
Healthy people never feel the Heart. Any uneasiness there is a sure sign of Disease.
And there are other signs—dizziness, palpitation, sweating, breathlessness, trembling hands, fluttering
heart, irregular pulse, oppression on the chest and sharp spasms of pain.
But Heart Disease is not hopeless. When caused by anaemia, indigestion or nervousness, it can be
cured. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have proved that positively.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually make new blood. This new blood gives health and strength to the
Heart itself—and it rids your stomach and liver of all the disorders that helped to disturb your Heart.
That’s why Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure Heart Trouble.
SYDNEY WOMAN CURED. —“Poor blood led to indigestion and paralysis,” says Mrs. Rosina Mozelle,
corner of Buckingham and Cleveland Streets. “ Then my heart became affected. Sometimes the action was so slow and
feeble that I could feel no indication of its beating—it seemed to stop altogether. At other times it would flutter and
jump so that I could scarcely get my breath. These sudden attacks made me tremble all over. I dared not eat solid
food, because a heavy weight on the chest and internal pains always followed. A doctor treated me but I got no lasting
benefit till I used Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They are the finest blood-builder and nerve-tonic I ever tried. The first six
boxes helped me a deal and further continuance with them cured me of heart disease, indigestion and paralysis. I’m in
perfect health now and am sure I am permanently cured.”
From Chemists and Storekeepers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Box, 2/9 ; six boxes, 15/3, post free.
Imitations aee Dangerous—Substitutes are Useless.
n
%
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
One of the objects for which Primate
Smith leaves Sydney for England is to visit his
aged father, now 94.
The approaching marriage of Sydney's
Dt osthenes is rumored—the bride mentioned
being wealthy and in the Indian summer of her
charms.
Sir James R. Fairfax, senior deacon
Point Piper Road Congregational Church.”
That’s how the item was printed in a “great”
daily lately.
Mr. Justice Cohen the other day ap-
pointed as his associate Federal Premier Barton’s
eldest son, who has just returned from England
after being called to the Bar there.
Young and nervous barrister (to witness) :
“Er—er—you’re a grazier, aren’t you? How
long have you been grazing?” Judge Paul
(severely): “Mr. Gabbett, I must remind you
that the witness’s name is not Nebuchadnezzar.”
E. W. Webb, editor of S.A. Chronicle,
who has been connected with the staff of the local
Advertiser, in one or other of its departments
longer than proprietor Bonython, was once one of
30 persons who co-operatively owned Melbourne
Age.
When Robt. Softgoods Reid had been duly
voted to the late Softgoods Sargood’s seat in the
Senate he beamed around upon the Vic. State
Parliament and said—“ Gentlemen, will you
kindly step up to the refreshment room.” In the
loftiest spirit of Fatman politics he invited the
Legislature to drink at his expense. Behold, with
how much liquor this country is governed !
Several N.S.W. barristers have already
energetically moved in re the office of Chief
Judicial Adviser of British New Guinea to be
shortly vacated by Francis Winter. The salary
is £lOOO a yearj The Barton Government will
find this particular bit of patronage a political and
social nettle.
IN THE WRONG SHOP: A BLASPHEMOUS
LEGEND OF “SYDNEY MORNING
HERALD" OFFICE.
MISTER JAMES (who has dropped into the front
office by chance): “Is anyone attending to
you, madam?"
THE AWFUL FEMALE: "No; gimme three
penn'orth gin."
Editors have quickly succeeded each other
on Sydney Evening News. Mr. Hogue was fol-
lowed by Mr. Dekker, whose much-regretted
death made room for Mr. Williams. Mr.
Williams now gives place to Mr. “ Banjo ”
Paterson.
Mr. Fosoery, Inspector-General of N.S.W,
police, now about retiring, was throughout his
long official life markedly appreciative of recruits
from the Irish constabulary. The story goes that
the Inspector-General’s father owned a little
estate in Ireland and was one day potted from
behind a hedge by a peasant with a blunderbuss
A returned Coronator with much medical
experience brings back from London a well-circu-
lated clubwhisper that King Ned wasn’t operated
on for appendicitis at all, but for something quite
different: hence the apparently almost miraculous
speed of his recovery. An appendicitis patient
certainly does not, as a rule, get up a week after
the operation.
Pastor Dill Macky put a foot in it at Glen
Innes. He crusaded there one night against the
R.C. grab-all of public offices, not knowing, appa-
rently, that the M.L. A. for Glen Innes, all the
aldermen, all the employees of the Council, all
the committee of the School of Arts, and all the
hospital committee and hospital employees there
are Protestants,
English Good Words has issued an “Im-
perial Number,” mostly taken up with an account
if the Dukelet’s tour to these parts, An extract:
His Royal Highness went straight to the hearts of Aus-
tralian men. . . . Amongst a nation of horsemen, he was
recognised as a good rider. His powers with the gun
wej'e certainly equal, probably superior, to those of any
Australian born.
And so on ad infinitum. Tiy splendid, generous
lying of this type is the unspeakable farce of
royalty maintained.
William, Mcßillion leaves for Europe
Saturday (31st), and hopes to return to this
“ great country of magnificent resources ” about
May. Presumably William goes Europewards to
give an account of how he has succeeded
in damaging Australian manufactures in the
interests of his European bosses The departing
soft-goods man will not have his luggage labelled,
“William McMillan, Knight, Enemy of Aus-
tralian Industry, and Fugleman for Foreign
Manufacturers”; but that’s what he is all the
same.
One prominent Australian politician of
melodramatic mind is fond of telling his intimates
that his doctor has predicted his sudden demise
either whilst he is talking in Parliament or when
he is exercising on horseback. For a man thus
overshadowed, he seems astonishingly fond of
taking risks. He is always delivering “fighting ”
speeches, and takes his relief in horseback exercise.
u Newspaper pars, re Lord Hopefcoun’s
unsatisfactory state of health ” read very like
apologies for his unsatisfactory resignation of his
Australian billet. _ His wife—the Marchioness, if
you please in writing to a Melbourne lady, re-
marked that Hopetoun’s health was “ about the
same. She ought to know. The cable-man now
“entions the Marquis as Milner’s successor in
o Africa.
John Davies, who was the central figure
m the Westralian railway ructions, has got on the
personal staff ” of John Mathieson, now general
manager of the English Midland Co. And J. H.
Smith, ex-Chief Commissioner of the S. Aus.
lines ; apparently expects that his Natal com-
mission will develop into a permanency, for he
resigned the London management of the Sul-
phide Corporation.
They re-dressed and painted up the Com-
modore Goodenough monument at Santa Cruz,
last month. The Commodore, then in command
of the Australian Squadron, was shot there by the
natives in ’74. The arrows were poisoned, and
the immediate cause of death was tetanus. The
body lies in North Sydney cemetery. The Good-
enough Naval Home, off George-street, Sydney,
is a living monument.
The popular F. W. Webb, who retires
from the Clerkship of N. S. Wi Leg. Assembly,
after 14 years in that position, began as clerk in
the Council 51 years ago. He deserted Parlia-
ment for a billet in the G.P.0., but returned after
a brief absence. He assisted to keep on the
straight path the framers of the Federal Consti-
tution, during the time they sat in Sydney. He
never wholly recovered from the shock he received
in the railway accident at Redfern, and several
times since was on the point of resigning. He is
a native of Sydney, and 65 years of age.
It was Lieut. Gov. Way’s mania for butter-
ing his friends that led him into the “blazing
indiscretion” of adjuring 8. Australia to preserve
the present trustee-control of the Savings Bank.
He just mixed up the “ adjuration ” with a whole-
sale panegyric of everybody who had ever had
anything to do with the concern. Probably no
notice would have "been taken of it had not the-
Register proudly remarked that the little great
man was on its side in that question of politics.
In a Tas. railway carriage, the other day,
a potato-raiser, from the N.W. Coast, grew
virulent on the demerits of W. J. Lyne as a
Federal Minister. He was prepared to acknow-
ledge his worth as a man but as a politician—ugh !
He wound up a fine flow of invective with the
assertion that Lyne had been an ardent anti-
Federalist. Here an inoffensive young man,
hitherto silent in his corner, ventured to disagree.
But the other insisted. “Why,” said he, “don’t
I know? I have known him all my life.” “So
have I,” said the other; “I’m his son.” Happy
the politician who is believed in by his son.
THE FLY-DRINKER,
"You seem troubled with flies, Mr. Fagan.”
“Not at all. I’ve been drinking to them all day,
and now they’re seeing me home.”
New Victorian Senator Reid, though the
daily papers scrupulously refrain from mentioning
the fact, is probably the most inattentive ad-
ministrator ever known in a Vic. Government.
During his six months as Minister of Education
with Irvine, the calico boss has been absent holi-
day-making for three terms, aggregating two
months, and he has rarely been at his depart-
ment more than twice a week, and then only for
an hour or so. Yet Trenwith was hounded down
ostensibly for the very same reason.
The Jenkins Iscariot Ministry of S. Aus-
tralia is really a one-man Cabinet, dominated ab-
solutely by the astute Attorney-General, John
Hannah Gordon, K.C. He was one of the
original members of that brilliant band which
composed the long-lived Kingston Ministry, and
probably is at heart thoroughly ashamed of his
present associations. Anyhow, he ought to be,
and The Bulletin sincerely hopes he is.
Vic. Treasurer Shiels has had a happy
time lately “sub-editing” the annual reports of
the Govt, departments. But Shiels himself
added materially to the printing-bill by delivering
three financial statements and circulating effusive
figures among Assembly members. Also, he is
the only present-day politician who insists upon
every word of his speeches appearing in Hansard,
and kicks up a row if a turgid Latin quotation
happens to be slightly misreported.
If Attorney-General Gordon can find a
vacancy on S.A. Supreme Court Bench ere the
Jenkins Ministry ceases to exist, his place as
Chief of the Law Department will most likely be
taken by “Charley” Herbert (formerly of Sydney),
member for Northern Territory. There does not
at present, however, seem to be much chance of
either Way, Boucaut, or Bundey giving up his
x*osy billet and his comfortable salary. There is
no practising lawyer in the Leg. Council.
An official banquet given in Sydney to the
Boer delegates now touring Australia was a
private affair—the press being excluded. No
doubt there was a fear of the Boers (or some of
the guests) saying something awkward. Possibly
the prominent pro-Gores, who were present, feared
a comparison of the speeches they made sitting at
table with Boers who, in manners and all else,
were palpably their equals, with their reckless
lies about the “ dirty, barbarous Boer ’’during the
early stage of the late war. As far as possible, the
Boer delegates are being kept out of sight of the
general public, and wisely enough, for they give
effective contradiction to the miserable slanders
by which it was sought to justify Cohen’s war
against the Farmer Republics.
Australian sculptor Bertram Mackennal
had early last year completed the modelling of a
life-size nude female figure, which he called “The
Awakening,” and which, despite a certain con-
ventionality of treatment, attracted much atten-
tion and more than one cash offer from London
dealers. Mackennal, however, declined to sell,
not because the prices offered were below his
mark, but because he was not satisfied that the
clay lady represented him (Mackennal) at his best.
In answer to an Australian enquiry, he writes:
“To tell you the truth, ‘The Awakening’
gradually got on my nerves, As time passed I
liked her less and less. She was too pretty ; you
know what that means. Well, last Sunday, being
alone in the studio (my family was out, not
necessarily at kirk), I attacked her with a hammer
and shattered her to bits. It was a real nerve-
bath, and I have felt good ever since.” The rising
artist who can deliberately spurn hundreds in cold
cash in such fashion for the sake of his ultimate
repute and feel “ good ” afterwards may be rightly
held to think big beer of himself, but it is an en-
tirely admirable self-confidence all the same.
Mount Barker (S.A.), this
month, inaugurates a monument to
Captain Collett Barker, after whom
the town and the adjacent hill were
named. Capt. Barker, just over 70
years ago, was ordered by the
Governor of N.S.W. to report as to
the connection of Lakes Alexan-
dria and Albgrt with the sea at
Lu counter Bay. Accompanied by
iy - K en t he walked across the
Mt. Lofty ranges to the Murray
mouth, near where Goolwa now
stands. Leaving his companion
on the bank he swanr across the
river with his sextant on his back
to take observations on the further
side. He climbed over a sand
mound, disappeared from view, and
was never seen again The natives
of the Coorong murdered him.
1 here is a handsome mural tablet
to his memory in St. James’s
Church, Sydney. Capt. Barker
had been Govt, resident at Meh
ville Island and at King George’s
Sound (a Westralian Mt. Barker
was also named after him) and he
had won the respect of the natives in both places
by his kindness and consideration. The district
surrounding Mt Barker, S.A., which was settled
as soon as that State was founded in 1836, is one
of the most beautiful and fertile in the Common-
wealth.
After much labor, £lOOO have been raised
™ r . ™ J ° hn Robertson monument, and sculptor
White, whose mana is now great in the land, goes
to work. Robertson headed four Ministries before
his coalition with Parkes. Of the first there is no
second, only Salomons is left.
Of the thrnl, Baker Lackey, and J. F. Burns are
still alive, and of the fourth the same Baker and
Th?fiin£o d u W i,A‘ Lo ? g are all thafc remain.
Ihe £lOOO should have been more easily raised,
na i? Son ' ° n first coming into power, ordered
all the old convict records he could lay hands on
to be burned.
Ihe widow of the late naval contingent
Commander Connor, who died suddenly at Glebe
Point, is daughter of an official much in the
public mind some years ago. He was Arthur W.
Manning Under-Secretary in Queensland, and a
brother of Justice William Manning, of N.S W
Supreme Court. Mr. Arthur W. Manning had
been solicited to appoint as Police Magistrate one
iSannerman, and refusing, was savagely assaulted
by that individual in the publio street in Brisbane.
J. he blows on the head were so serious that he had
the Under-Secretaryship, and he
resided lin Sydney till his death. The affair was
a sensation of the time, and all sections sympath-
ised with the unfortunate Under-Secretary.
Colonel Arthur Lynch, found guilty of
high treason at London and sentenced to death,
presumably failed to establish the contention
that he was a legally-naturalised Boer citi-
zen when he fought against the British.
If he so failed, his position is legally iden-
tical with that of the National Scouts, who
changed sides in favor of the British during the
late war. Had the Boers hanged all the Scouts
they got their hands on (as they had the legal
right to do, just as Britain has the right to hang
Arthur Lynch) what an outcry of Barbarism there
would have been ! Probably, however, both for
iloer and for Irish reasons, Britain won’t make
tne mistake of executing Lynch.
After all, Mr. J. R. Martin is not yet
mahout to Australia’s political rogue-elephant.
Reported that Premier Barton refused to confirm
a recommendation by Minister Lyne for his
appointment as private sec., and there the matter
stands until Mr. Lyne’s return from Westralia.
there is some question as to the right of Mr
Barton to interfere with Mr. Lyne’s choice of a
private secretary, and the action may seem un-
gracious. But there is a precedent. When Mr
Barton was chosen as representative of N.S.W to
see the Commonwealth Bill through the Commons,
he wished to appoint Mr. R. R. Garran as his
private sec. Mr. Lyne, who was then N.S.W
Premier thought that Mr. Percy Hunter (of
Sydney D.T.) was the man for the post. End of
sec WaS that ® arton went without a private
An interesting Melb. personality has just
passed away in T. G. Rogers, one-time Anglican
chaplain among the Van Diemen’s Land convicts.
He was fond of narrating his old-time experi-
ences, and was probably well-beloved, as parsons
go, among convicts, for on numerous occasions he
was allowed to venture in among them after
a murderous emeute, without sustaining a scratch
as the result. Mr. Rogers, who was 98 years old
when h e died, was an Oxford M.A., and ’verted
fa) the R.C. church after the “Oxford movement.”
J.hen he went back to England. Later on he re-
turned, and spent the balance of his life in Vic-
toria as a tutor and also as contributor of some-
what heavy papers to Melbourne periodicals.
He was father of J. W. Foster Rogers, formerly
M. L. A. and Melbourne’s “ Surplus-wealth-tax H
advocate.


THREE STAR
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
“Jimmy the Ringer” gives his views on
“billy-tea”:—
The secret of billy-tea lies not in the tea nor the billy-
can, but in the method of making ; and the boil after the
brew, that aroused Miss Goldstein’s scorn, has more to do
with it than she imagines. Australians know nothing
about tea. They are only guided by the price, and are
perfectly satisfied so long as that is high. At times,
when the drays have been late, 1 have “ rung ” the ration
tea into “ the house,” and no one was any wiser, and
had the satisfaction of hearing the station Bills and Jims
raving about having been up to the house kitchen “larse
night, when Gerty give me a cup o’ tea as was a cup o’
tea. My oath ! ” It is all the same whether it be “ strong
sound ration tea at 6d. per 1b.,” or the best Ceylon or
China blend—put the hut tea in the house, and it is
good—put the house tea in the hut, and it is bad. The
tea is nothing, but the imagination is everything. Only
about 2 percent, of the Jims and Bills, and not half that
percentage of the Mary Janes and Dorises, also the
Vidas, ever get beyond the great Australian method of
heaving a handful into the pot (and they throw the same
handful into a one-pint- billy as into a family
two-gal-teapot), and pouring' on the water.
Over the tea-cups one hears the ladies swapping
wondrous recipes; but, bless you, these are only
meant for the teacups. They could not leave the good
old fistful if they tried. One of these favorite recipes is
that of putting a teaspoonful for every person and one
for the pot. And this you see sometimes carried out by
half-filling the teapot with leaf before adding the water,
and sending it in with about a gallon of water to “ break
it down.” The stew is then poured into the cups, sluiced
with water, and handed round. And then throughout
the land is the parrot-cry of “ Such lovely tea at Winjee-
bullocky 1 Never tasted anj’thing so nice; cost four
shillings a pound.” The secret of billy or quart-pot tea,
or any tea boiled in the open, is that you are watching it,
and catch the water just on the boil, and the water has
not been steaming or stewing in a fountain or .kettle all
day. The boiling-point is the critical point That is
just the right degree of heat to make drinkable tea. And
that the right degree has been reached will be shown by
the immediate saturation and sinking of the leaves when
the tea is thrown into the pot. Sometimes the billy is
taken from the fire a second or so too soon, and satura-
tion being arrested, the leaves float, when it is necessary
to put the billy 7 on th° fire again for a few seconds, until
fusion is completed. I his is what town folk are so fond
of calling “stewing,” and which they invariably rush in
to tell us to avoid. There is no mistaking “stewed
tea.” Taste it once and it will haunt you.
For a great number of years we got tea in bulk from
Sydney—one brand, 11SX, for ration use, costing 91d.,
and the other, 127 A, for home use, Is. 6d. per lb. When
Federation came in, with a view to dodging the duties,
we laid in a couple of years’ supply, and, of course, fell
HIS ONLY SUIT.
Photo, by W. H. Biokerton, Christchurch, Maoriland.
in. Last week we sent in an order for another lot, and,
when it came, found that 118 X was still the same price,
while 127 A had advanced a penny. When we asked these
ruffians why we did not get the benefit of the duty rebate,
they explained that all those years back they had been
selling these brands at a loss, and had only discovered it
—when the duties came off.
• • • •
“ Binga ” : Re “billy-tea” (B. 10/l/’O3) :
When I was a kiddy, quart-pot tea was as much cracked
up as billy-tea is now, and with perhaps even less reason,
for the tea then met with on any N.S.W. station, from
the Dawson to the Macquarie, was green tea of the very
worst sort. I recollect seeing tea at a dealer's on Brick-
field Hill, Sydney, marked “ Shepherds’ Tea, 9d. lb.”
Billies there were in those days certainly, but they were
only used for carrying water on the run. Everyone used
the quart-pot, small at the mo*»th and widening down-
wards, with pint-pot to match. 1 have seen as many as
12 quarts down at the fire, and many a squabble for the
best place at it. This was before the advent of the “ Jack
Shea.” The “ other bushman "is pretty right about the
preference o' the average Australian for a decoction of
tannic acid Often I have seen a bucket standing at the
tire in the men s hut never empty. As the liquid dimin-
ished it would be filled up, another handful of tea chucked
in, and the performance repeated till the bucket was half
full of tea-leaves. I may remark that in such places there
was no question of “ ten twelve, two and a quarter,” but
there was a great demand for Holloway’s Pills. I
generally fought shy of tea of that sort ; and though I
have been 60 years in the bush, I prefer tea made
decently in a teapot, after all.
“Glenara”: Re “Chasselas” and “An-
other Bushman” on billy-tea (8., 10/l/’03): I
fancy few bushmen will dispute former’s assertion
as to the distinctive (and superior) flavor of the
twice-boiled brew. The effect on the drinker may
be disastrous, but by the time the man-on-the-
track has gone through the delightful items the
Australian climate treats him to, he is far too
careless to think of after-effect, and goes straight
for what he considers the most relishing.
• • • *
“ Frank B.” on the tea question :
With the exception of Sunday-school picnickers, who
cook their tea in muslin-bags, and very hard-up swag-
men, no one “ boils" tea in the bush.
* * * *
“Alia”: Consider the exigencies of the
Australian climate !
On the Northern (N.S.W.) rivers, one of the “ gardens
of Australia,” after a long spell of dry weather, the Dec.
rainfall amounted to from 8 to lOin. and vegetation didn’t
grow—it simply shot up (some cane crops on the Clarence
showed 2ft. of growth for the month). Rain came too
late for the potato crop, which consisted largely of
marbles—and amounted to an export of about 2000
bags. (Last year’s crop was 40,000 bags from the Clar-
ence alone, and tons rotted on the farms and wharves,
owing to inadequate shipping facilities.) The maize
crop, however, was struck by the rain at the right time,
and a record yield was expected on the Manning, Maclea.v,
Clarence and Richmond rivers. Then came the heat
wave, with the glass at from 100- to 120- for upwards of a
fortnight, and wilted the pastures and withered the corn,
reducing a promising harvest by one-half.
* * * *
“Chass”: I recently plucked some ears
of wheat from a field south of Ararat (Vic.) One
side of the ears was good grain and the other
smut balls. I have had many years’ experience
of wheat-growing and never saw the freak before.
It considerably capsizes scientific theories on the
subject.
* * • *
Going from Broken Hill to Queensland
you get a striking illustration of how the drought
has broken. A third of the way there is still
unbroken desolation ; after that, feed for half the
stock in the State, and practically none there to
eat it. It gives birth to mixed emotions, this
sight of graceful Mitchell grass bending its head
over thousands of whitening carcases.
* • • *
Some big crops are reported in the neigh-
borhood of Adelaide. Within 20 miles of the city
artesian bores are now being put down ; good water
is found at about 60ft., but 100 ft. is needed to get
enough pressure. At Morgan, on the Murray,
mature green wheat was cut Jan. 18 that had been
sown ISov. 5 ; this was grown under irrigation,
and will run from If to 2 tons to the acre. Down
in Kangaroo Island barley is the chief crop, and is
this year very heavy, 30 or 40 bushels being not
uncommon. Again, at Riverton, 60 miles north
of Adelaide, with a fair rainfall, 500 acres of wheat
were cut when the grain was in the doughy stage.
It ripened later, and was then removed, running
to 20 bushels—at ss. ! The straw fetched another
£3 an acre, making a total return of £4OOO from
the 500 acres !
* « • .
“T.J.G.”: On Dec. 25th, ’O2, a cow
belonging to Mr. G. H. Goward. Middle Park,
Wolumla, brought forth five calves—three males
and two females—all dead. Same cow, about two
years ago, produced three calves—two males and
one female—which were all reared. The previous
year this cow produced two calves—thus having a
record of ten calves in three years !
THAT ZEBU.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE GUM-TREE DISEASED-MEAT
BOARD (at the Zoo): “Great Snakes! if that
ain’t the champion tumored cow ever I seed!”
An Avoca (Vic.) farmer lost 10 head of
cattle lately from some mysterious disease. He
was a thrifty cow-puncher, and didn’t propose
wasting 10 fat carcases, so he turned his 36 pigs
on to the banquet. When 20 of these had
perished likewise it dawned on him that thrift
isn’t always as profitable as it looks. What
became of the pig carcases—whether they were
fed to the poultry 7 , or what—hasn’t transpired.
• • • *
“Trotter” : Re par. (B. 30 11/’Ol) about
M’s.P. visit to the Murray Flats (S. A.) and the
condition of the German farmers there. When
I was in that district some three years ago the
farmers were on the verge of starvation, and men,
women and children used to cut and load malice
at 4s. a ton. They lived on damper, rabbit,
wallaby, ’possum, and ’goanna. And this is one
of the “natural industries” in which the im-
porters’ political pimps want Australia to put its
trust.
• • • ♦
“ J.W.R.C.” writes :
Many years ago, when hawking in New England and
Gwydir districts, bought an alleged half-sheep from a
selector. I found the meat excellent, and was told that
the animal had been a sheep-and-goat cross, and ttiat lhis
cross was freely obtained, was very hardy, and could live
on almost anything, especially in dry seasons. Salted
and smoked, the flesh resembles bacon.
• • • •
“ A West Queensland Half-caste ” writes
re some recent remarks by “ Thula ” :
In what way are half-castes detrimental to a White
Australia? If they were, I don’t think they would be
admitted as members of the Western unions. The
majority of half-castes marry whites ; also, white pre-
dominates in many of them, especially on the unexposed
parts of the body. “Thula” ought to go back on their
parental side to get at the question properly. As for
attending dances—that is only an Australian past me.
Perhaps “ Thula ” would place half-castes on the social
level of the Australian aborigine, but there are plenty of
the former whose principles and character compare
favorably with those of any ordinary citizen of Australia.
• • • •
Characteristic letter sent to a Vic. Govt,
department by a man on the land who feels that
the authorities are not spoon-feeding him enough :
The secretary. Dear sir,—l owe you a good bit of rent,
I would of sent it before, but the draught has been so
bad there was neither grass or crop. And I thought it
was very hard to pay rent when I got nothing off it. I
have two tenants of my own, and I got no rent from them
on account of draught. Not but lam able to pay it, but
on principle, for I paid you a lot of rent, and I think I
ought to be allowed something. Hopping they may see
the way to do so, yours respectfully .
From which it seems that the poor farmer has
concluded that he must have a share of the general
spoil, but is not quite prepssed to admit that he is
stricken by poverty.
» •
“ Bullaman ” : Travel-
ling from Lake Darlot to
Lawlers (W.A.) in ’97, I
came across an iguana
with two heads. I was
quite sober at the time
Tying the camel down,
I gave chase and ran
the ‘ 1 go ” up a tree,
knocked him off with a
waddy, and took off his
skin with a view to send-
ing it to Sydney Museum.
Tied the skin on the
camel’s crupper (the camel
was quite sober at the
time), but, being well up
among the branches of
the mulga and jam wood,
the skin got torn off, and
I did not discover the loss
till too late. The reptile
was 3ft. long, and had two
perfect heads springing
from a neck of about
ordinary thickness. The
separation of the heads on
the inside was just behind the jaws.
* • * •
“Goonanga”: “Wanda” (8., 27/12’02)
says that very few whites were ever speared in
W.A., and that most of them had themselves to
blame. Early in ’94, near Yilgangie, Mt. Mar-
garet, young Mack and his mate had given an old
nig. and his gin a feed, when the man picked up
a tomahawk with his foot, and cleft Mack’s skull
with it. Again, one Killis was fatally speared at
the head of Granite Creek in ’94. Again in ’94.
at Lake Darlot, Cable, Foreacher, and G-annit
were speared at night by three nigs, to whom
they had given a feed. I could quote many more
instances, if space permitted.
• • • •
A White Cliffs (N.S.W.) opal-gouger
lately added to the curiosities of that remarkable
field by breaking into a cavity which contained a
small nest of active ants. The insects—in appear-
ance like common “meat” ants—died almost as
soon as they were exposed.
“ Bob R.” : The Cape marigold * s
rapidly spreading over N.S.W. In th 18
district (Junee Temora) the hills ar e
covered with the yellow weed. Som e
stock owners consider it a good fattener-
whilst others declare it to be a scomge>
which will eventually destroy all the
native pasture. It is said to have been
introduced into Australia by some
soldiers from S. Africa, who had their
mattresses stuffed with it. The stuffing
was thrown out near Flemington, and
the seeds thus scattered. What with
rabbits, sweetbriar, prickly pear, water
hyacinth, Cape weed, etc., Australian
agriculturists will have more serious
competition than that of the mueh-
talked-of Argentine Republic.
The J.P. in Bananaland. a s ore-
keeper (himself a J.P.) applied recently
at Allora for a certificate to deal with
poisons. One of the justices at once
opjxised the application, saying that
the indiscriminate way in which poisons
were used locally was scandalous,; only
a few days ago his son had had valuable
dogs poisoned ; and he thought the sale
of poisons should be strictly super-
vised.” The applicant: “ All the store-
keepers in Allora are selling poisons they
have no right to sell, and I bought some
at your store this morning.” “Did
you ?” said the J. P. ; “ well, I hope you
will use it.” Then the learned bench
decided that the applicant was not a
person to be entrusted with the indis-
criminate sale of poisons.
» » * •
“ J.” : Re citizen (B. 17/l/’O3) whose little
unpleasantness with his wife cost him, besides a
broken arm, &c., a 40s. fine. Know a Wimmera
women whose long-suffering, over-bossed husband
one day opened her head with ashingling-hammer.
She prosecuted him, but as property and stocking
were hers, and he was the nobody who toiled un-
complainingly for tucker and a clean shirt, she
paid his fine—.£s—and told him to go on hoeing.
» * * *
“Five-corner”: Re “Silly Billy’s” in-
quiry (B. 17/l/’O3) about Swamp Oak Falls:—
They are in Terrible Billy Creek, which drains Swamp
Oak and empties itself into Dungowan Creek. This
beautifully clear, cold and pure water-supply flows into
the Peel River which exhausts itself in the Namoi below
Tamworth, the waters of which practically join the
Barwon at Walgett. Then, after passing Brewarrina and
arriving at Bourke, people who know call the overflow
the Styx ; people who don’t know call it the Darling
until it joins the Murray ; 25 years ago I prospected
for gold the greater part of Swamp Oak and Terrible Billy
Creeks, and there is tucker to be made there anywhere
on the alluvial flats below Terrible Billy Falls (said Falls
being at least 200 ft.).
• » * •
“Jaf”: Re notion that a fox cannot be
enticed to take a bait. Try this, and there’ll be a
poisoned fox. Mix some strychnine with fat, put
in the bottom of a sardine-tin in which the oil has
been left, and leave it where reynard frequents.
•** ' •
“F.” : Called at a bnshman’s home in a
Vic. country town. Asked if I could get dinner.
“Yes,” replied the landlady, “but it’s a bit
rough, and you must eat in the kitchen.” Went
in at the head of a procession. On a comer table
stood a large pudding in a rusty dish, in the cen-
tre of which were two roosters bogged to the
feathers, pecking away for all they were worth.
The mistress “shooed” them off in a careless
kind of way. I ate no pudding, but the others
“wired-in ” regardless.
♦ * * •
“T.8.D.”: Travelling down the Barwon
last year I staved at a friend’s place one night,
and next morning was startled by a kind of com-
bined dog-howl and rowster-crow. Investigated
and found large rooster strutting around the yard
and an ordinary sheep-dog watching'him. Roosfer
started crowing and got as far as “Cock-a-doodle”
when the dog joined in with a doleful howl, com-
pletely swamping the final “doo” ; the effect was
weird and wonderful. Only explanation my
friend could give was that the dog, when a pup,
“ work" d ”- fowls “ on his own,” and whenever the
roosters started to crow, promptly sat up and
howled, either in protest or fright.
THEN MYRTLE TOOK A FIT.
MYRTLE HYACINTH ROSEBUD SPUDS (to new
parson paging his first rail at Weebuckebong
crossing): “I know what sort of puddin'
we’ re goin’ to hav. ”
NEW PARSON: “ What kind , my little dear?”
M.H.R.S.: “ Ro’eu-Poley."
N.P. : "Pray how did you find that out?”
M.H.R.S. : "Cause mother's only got one stockin’
on.”
more : He foxes and cats and rabbits
( - lyhree, B. 2, 12 '02): I have done much
t tapping, and I never knew a cat to eat more than
head and neck of bunny, doing the same to several
till satmhed—the carcase being always left fit to
skin. Jr oxes are too suspicious to go near a trapped
Kk-h ai m. for eatlll ff they prefer “kitten”-
rabbits. They make a hole just over bunny’s
nest and eat the young ones at their leisure.


STARVATION
White Bread starvation is the unsuspected cause
of wide-spread weakness and debility. The
strength ot Wheat lies largely in the Bran-
Phosphates, which are, however, removed in
making White Flour, but are restored to the
diet by using CEREBOS SALT at table and
in cooking.
From Qracers and Stores,
Wholesale Agents Harrison «£ Attvrood, Sydney.
Fathers
What more suitable
Wedding Present for
your daughter than
a Cabinet of Spoons
aad Forks ?
WEBB’S, of London (Court
Silversmiths of England), who make posi-
tively the most heavily-plated Spoons of
those made in England—absolutely the
best made. They will last 20 vears.
We are still selling them at their London
Catalogue Prices.
They are the Cheapest Spoons and Forks sold
in Australia.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Australia,
23 HUNTER STREET.
JSB
A Complete
Cabinet of 6 each
Forks, Spoons
and Knives, with
Fish Carvers,
£ll 138. 2d.
A Cabinet of
12 of everything,
£l7 168. 4d.
“ Banco ” : “ Crippa
C.” (B. 30/9/’O2) may hand
Ids money back to the take-
it-on-trust bushy who backed
the gohanna against poison.
He says the gohanna, after
taking the bait, fell off the
tree and stiffened out. Had
“C.C.” gone next day to the
place where the reptile
“died” he would have
found no gohanna—it would
have been prospecting
around for more baits. In
Western N.S.W. the gohan-
nas follow the trail of the
poison-carts and eat up the
phosphorised pollard with
relish. No poison has a
permanent effect upon them.
You can stiffen them with
nicotine.
• • »
Badly - written orders
from country places to whole-
sale houses sometimes pro-
duce amusing results. An
hotel 200 miles above Broken
Hill once received six cases
of monkey soap and 31b. of
currants. A shearers’ rep.,
in sending an order to a local
store, asked the storekeeper
to send out ss. worth of
newspapers week while
the shed lasted. He received
10 copies of the local rag.
Some years a%o Warenda
Station, near Winton, Q.,
received by mistake a ton of Eno’s Fruit Salta
and two tons of shovels ! There’s salts and shovels
on Warenda yet.
* * * *
Regarded as a plain horror the story of
that old hermit at Albury (N.S.W.) who was
stricken by paralysis and partly eaten alive by
ants before he was discovered is hard to beat.
The ant and the crow supply some gruesome
reading in Australia. And Solomon, who wrote the
“Book of Platitudes,” told the world—while he
had otto of rose poured over him in his marble
palace and had many girls to fan him as he loafed
over a cool drink—to go to the former insect.
* * • *
“E.J. : Re the lack ot “ stopping
power of modern arms of precision. I was
disturbed not long ago by a “cats’ concert” out-
side my bedroom, and, seizing a small Winchester
rine, I hurried to the trysting-place. It was quite
dark, but I suddenly saw something white flit
past me, and fired at it as it was disappearing.
Nothing fell, and I thought that I had missed,
but next morning there came crawling past me my
PROCRASTINATION.
BILL : “ Never saw such a cove as the boss for
postponin' things."
HIS MATE : “ Yes. When he’s goin ’ to peg out
I believe he'll put it off till the last moment."
white cat, looking very seedy. I examined her,
and found that the bullet had passed clean
through her body. I gave the wound a dressing
of carbolic oil, and the cat is now as well as ever.
• » • •
“Ooloo’’: My brother and myself were
quarrying stone at Mt. Garnet, near Talbot (Vic.)
I prised up a boulder with a crowbar, and in the
clay beneath was a sft. brown snake coiled up. I
at once dropped the erowbar on him and chopped
off his head, afterwards leaving the body on the
main road. Later on a man told me “There’s a
snake crawling along the road up there a bit.” I
went to look, and there was my headless snake
crawling blindly about the road where I had left
it three days before. The time was the middle of
winter, and the reptile had been hibernating when
I executed it, which probably explained its
tenacity of life.
MISS FLORENCE SCHMIDT, THE AUSTRALIAN SONGSTRESS, AND HER HUSBAND-BLECI
(MR. F. DERWENT WOOD, THE ENGLISH SCULPTOR.)
Photo, by J. H. Hogg, London. Photo, by J.H.Hegg, London.
“ Frank D.” on rabbit-trapping :
Haying heard so much about the money to be earned
at this game—as rnueh, sometimes, as £lO per week, I was
told—l thought I d have a try at it. I bought 100 traps,
selected a spot literally alive with bunny, and set a trap
at every likely-looking burrow in the paddock (1500 ac.).
Visaed each individually after 10 o’clock that night, and
found I d captured one solitary rabbit and the leg of
another that had freed itself, Round again at daylight,
but I had no occasion to re set the traps
This went on for a week, with a total take of 11 rabbits.
Then an experienced hand suggested wiring-in the tanks
with netting as the only certain method of securing a bio-
catch. I went to considerable expense to do this, but
bunny persistently remained outside, and the cattle tore
my wire to pieces.
?^ en an °kh er " expert” advised me to try shooting as
on^A 6 on *X , wa y *-° get rid of ’em.” Bought a rifle and
2000 cartridges, and sallied forth one afternoon to the
slaughter. But, though I fired hundreds of shots, and
must have fatally wounded hundreds of rabbits, they
somehow managed to crawl into the burrow out of the
way. For the expenditure of the whole 2000 cartridges
I secured 22 rabbits, and these happened to be phos-
pliorised, and could not crawl to the burrows.
By this time, I was about sick of it, but the good-
natured owner of the property whereon I was camped
came to the rescue, feeling sorry, he said, for my hard
luck. He proposed that I should find the phosphorus
and pollard and he would find the horse and poison-cart.
I would get more skins in a week with poison, he said
than by any other process in a month. So I spent my
last cent on the needful stuff, and in two days poisoned
the whole of his run. Next morning at daybreak I set
out to collect the spoils, but not a carcase was to be seen ;
so, thinking the phosphorus had not had time to act,
I waited till next day. Same result; though, judgin"
from the powerful smell in the vicinity of the log fences",
there must have been pounds’ worth of skins lying there
if a man could only get at them.
As a last resource I tried digging-out; but., while I
plied the mattock at one end, the rabbit always escaped
at the other. And now, if any Bulletin reader wants
100 traps, 250 yards of wire netting, a “Daisy” rifle,
28 sticks of phosphorus, and a bag of pollard, he can
have the lot precious cheap. I can’t see £lO a-year—let
alone a week—in the game
• * • •
A line from Cairns (N.Q.) :
Banana growing is entirely in the hands of the Chinese
up north. There was a white man in Geraldton who
tried it, but the Chinamen hustled him out. The China-
men built junks and used to meet the steamer in the river
with their fruit and bustled round to get it on board first
(fruit in the hold first on the small steamer is on top and
gets earliest delivery when transhipped). The white man
generally turned up when the ship could hold no more.
The captain offered, if the white man would meet the
steamer, to stop anywhere and take on his fruit, but the
white had the exhausted sensation very badly and just
gave up.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
R o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be ret urned un •
less stamps (of any State) accompany
K.L.8.: Mr. Brunker really is and ever has
been a political nonentity. He is merely an honest cow-
merchant who writes a lovely copperplate hand, but he
has the virtue of being related somehow or other to the
S.M. Herald. .. .G.B. : “The sun sinks in the western
sky.” Novel; but too rash.... Will Wills: You might
get published in China. Try !.. .Bert (M.L.) : Apparently
written by an irreligious lobster with one claw. What’s
the matter with the other claw? Red mark : Perhaps
so. Tiie Bulletin believes in keeping advertisements to
the columns of newspapers ; outside those columns they
should be Put Down, especially when they constitute any
sort of a nuisance.... H.S.R. : Well, the Krupp (Germany)
libel action has been abandoned, which may be an indi-
cation that there was foundation for the newspaper
reports that the dead iron master lived in Eastern
voluptuousness at Capri Scarp S. : Too cheaply melo-
dramatic.. .G. Hop. : Yet another version of a venerable
lunatic yarn; and you “lie with circumstances," too..
Tuo: But the Law doesn’t admit any necessity for
granting “ late permits " to certain respectable pubs in
order that pressmen may not be poisoned at disrespect-
able pubs which trade after hours without a permit.
The Law does not wink at law-breaking. It’s the police-
man who winks Onlooker (Melb.): Have you really
only just discovered that men go to open-air concerts in
the evening to pick up girls and vice versa f Perhaps you
that i tbe ? T hief attracti °n in a Fireworks display is
the I-.reworks. Not so. The surrounding darkness Is a
Xnr P «° te '? t Ch l rm i You evidently don’t know much
abouLSunday-school teachers and magic-lantern shows.
c i There are climatic reasons against holding
the Saturday corpse till Monday. If the undertakers
merely wish to abolish a sentimental custom, they can
charge Sunday burials overtime rates, and proWdent
Rn!e b R U > S W -’ t D. en u tak 1 ® care to die on Tuesday
Rule Britannia : Right; but don’t worry about any effect
on international politics that a Sydney daily paper is
likely to have. The articles setting the Germaif Kaiser
i r o?i‘l t ’n orsevere r y " W^ rning ” the Czar are intended for
local consumption solely... .John K (Mail-land', -
doubt as to whether Govt, could be sued ulider the c? r !
cumstances , impossible to sa.y certainly without inspect-
ing the indentures signed. Better see the Tern be? for
your district, who will probably be able to secure an
equitable settlement for you Emo : Half the adul
terators of food and drink think they square matters
when they cite some medico to ‘the effect that
such and such chemicals are “no injury to
health when judiciously used.” But is the ? adul
, e / ator Tl to b e the judge of what is judicious
AR• i& wT er may b ® youngor o,d diseased.
A.K. . It s just this way : When various correspondents
send various accounts of a matter that is beyond our
of rh°r a °b serva tion, we have either to accept the yarn
we T k J l , ow to be reliable, or of the man we
don t know. Latter may be even more reliable but it
takes some time to find that 0ut.... Pakeha • The annnint
ment rests with the Cabinet-which, in practkie PP often
means just the Premier T.P D• To fully pvnlain rap
qualification for the House of Commons franchfse wouW
nmn to f° muc .b B P a ?e- Members are elected on a purely
property qualification. Ownership of a freehold estate of
clear yearly value 40s. is one qualification pothers are
those of mortgagee, the beneficiary of a trust and
a, leaseho d of a certain value. There is further a
hahH ISe f ° der • q » allfication > exten ded to the “ in-
habitant occupier” and all lodgers whose rental for
un urn,shed premises is £lO pe/annum? or over
h P - SS,b y ” '' Fat ® 8 Ir °ny : Remarkable hash. Off
distinctioi/of'form'.'. Klo’T! j MusT t 8 m ° re
far "hack 8 f' ‘ MB -. : Thanks ; but date of last May
f „ lr . b^f k f ° r special reference. Will bear in nn’nd
Pat: Too doggerelish.... W E.B • Hone it’ll
when.you die ...Saracen: Not’skill Enough Mabel"
possibly M Lockie : “ Sale ” not enough interest
riT" ir bonle P ,all| tive merit, not force enough.. Merlyn •
Biank as a gaol-wall Papyrus : Bar the point that V"
the Austr U anan e xT Chet’s t 0 d ? fend his ticket against
(Ah ' vn’ th n ?■ no , th ,' ng 10 >t E.A.S.: Un-
suitable.... E.\ .C. . Declined “at a fair value ”orat an
unfair value, o- at any value Riverina : “ Se’rved ” has
fair point ; brt can’t save without re-writing wholly
Frederick G “ Empty Stall ” doesn't read as if wWUen
.iith,scountr/....E..1.C. (W.) : Call here and we’ll tell
you what we know. ...Hubert C. (M.L.) : The reply was
to another writer.. .. Medical (Cairns) : Far cheaper and
a million times better for you to visit Brisbane P and be
examined by a first-class man. Send stamped addressed
tioner Pe GTO “n ,^, comn ’ end >' ou to the right practi-
tioner. . . .U. 1.0. . Dull, and you can't even spell the
name of the mountain in question S. Aviss • Hardly
up to pnn -level h.G.D. : Doesn’t strike us hanl
enough Max H. : Rather crude and flimsy EL •
The pheasant is the lyre-bird. Both names are used
hv y ‘S so,ne of Gippsland.... Edina G. :
Spoiled by a flavor of artificiality, though “Miranda”
goes near to acceptance-mark.... Orient :It reads as if
straight out of the Family Herald..; Harry D. “ Discus-
sion of such msects rejected without thanks Pits’
S n t P-tunim there was absolute certainty on the
P Unsuitable O.G.R. • Photoeranh
Teb'ci d AniC,e not general
interest.... H.E.8.. Used as a paragraph D. : Yes....
P.C. . Can t classify ; but if we owned a Museum of
Pats y -Snicid ab6 fl “ PrehiBtori c ’’ and chance it
Pat S. . Suicide reflections very hackneyed... RSO • A
plscoe S ’°A d nlf ta^‘ ng a long time in the telling.*...
w;m° e ' du • ” arratl °n of circumstances C.WP •
Wildand garish yarn suggesting a distracted Marie
Corelli raging against all the probabilities H.A. : Your
experience, not a story ” seems to us to be a story and a
very inexperienced story at that... ,G. Hop. : would need
very bright description to make it go Lola - Yes will
consider again if you care to take the trouble ; that doesn’t
necessarily mean “accept.”.. ..Tarboy : Doesn’t make a
matic eno Frm,crßk‘v'VAR k ‘v'V A B T^ Unreal and mel ° d ' a -
Nar "'R vJii Not enough m any of them....
enough AHi declined Stranger : Neither good
e T"° Ugb --,Y A -H A. : One returned.. ..R.E. : May do
(M L)’ Far a too^n y re iT fc below the I’ne.... Democrat
(M.L.). Far too long and lame Brigadier G. : Thanks •
wiwi “o several times already.... W.A J•’
6 d A sturb Somebody’s Darling”....Kauri: Too
slow.... Caro: Doesn’t ring truly....R 0 l. ; Unusable
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
r (Tas.) : Already printed in Bullbtim H B R •
utt ® rly 0 PPOsed to Tub Bulle-
tin s politics. Held for return General: Rose-tree
chfldfwrth 8U :^ to a - rtist ’ ’ • - Mrs - M - : We don’t like
cniid-birth jokes in picture form J.S.H • Quite
! U e«ona ed f t0 lllustration - You should take ‘drawiU-
lessons from a competent instructor... .Maisie S • Very
idea-- J Xed U , Di “°’’ ’ • A ’C. J. : Will serve as IZ
H.W.T. ‘ A “ d J ' S ‘' Please cal1 ’ ’ • • Unavailable :-L.O.
In th e Canefields.— A Test of White
Labor.
J. F. Keane writes to The Bulletin :
In accordance with my plana, of wiiich I notified you
shortly after the coming in force of the restrictive
Kanaka legislation, I have been working for more than
three months in the most northern canefieids of Queens*
and. Between the dates 8/9/’O2 and 27/12/’O2 I cut and
loaded cane for the Mossman mill on 95 davs of 12 work-
ing hours a day ; which means that, omitting Sundays, I
lost no time. Being determined, as a conscientious
White Australian, to give the work the fullest possible
trial, I never once took a turn at plate-laying 1 , getting in
roads or chaining, but stuck strictly to the knife and the
bundle, every hour of the time.
Within three days of starting work I learnt all there
was to be learned about cane-cutting ; the secret of speed
is ambidexterity. Thenceforward I always found myself
placed in the first flight, and that in a gang composed
for the most part of practised cutters from the Mackay
and Bundaberg districts. From the first day I ex-
perienced no difficulty in making u; the bundles of cane,
shouldering them and depositing them quickly and neatly
on the trucks; nor have I at any time since found the
labor such as should be in the least degree trving to
a healthy man. Owing to the nearness of the ocean and
the never-failing trade-wind, the climate is as favorable
for white field-labor as any within the tropics with which
I am acquainted.
Not only have I never felt any distress, while at work,
from excessive heat, but I have, during the last three
months, put on 4flbs. “ live weight,” and my biceps and
deltoids have developed to an extent approaching very
nearly the abnormal. If asked where I would place cane-
cutting in relation to other forms of field labor, with
reference to laboriousness, I would say that it is not so
monotonous and irksome as hop-picking, nor is it so
arduous as hay making, with scythe and fork, but is
something between the two. A good navvy or lumper
would be thrown away on it; it is work more fitted for
active youths capable of sustained light labor, or men,
like myself, past their prime, but still able and diligent.
Seventy-five per cent, of the unemployed of the Common-
wealth are capable of becoming good cane-cutters, while
there is no man who can totter under a swag who could
not earn his living trashing, chipping, or doing some one
of the many knockabout jobs now done by aliens in
Queensland.
Our gang has been paid 4s. a ton, and, despite the fact
that we have been working 48 days out of the 95 in cane
going less than seven tons to the acre, my earnings have
panned out 7s. Id. a day ; living expenses, Is. 9d. a day.
As may be supposed, the wages to be made depend on the
crop to be cut and the price to be paid for it. In
“middling crops,” going about 18 tons to the acre,
moderately fast workers, receiving 4s. a ton, can make
10s. a day. In heavy, clean, well-trashed carie going
over 30 tons, at the same price, very good money indeed
could be made.
In stand-over, fourth rattoon, or dirty, untrashed,
light, rubbishy cane going from one to seven tons, on
broken, precipitous country—it is not possible to make
more than rations at any price that will 'eave a farthing
of profit to the grower.
This last is the description of cane upon which white
labor has been almost exclusively employed during the
past season, the best crops having been all reserved for
colored aliens. Whether or not the rebate of ss. a ton
on white-grown sugar is intended to assist unscrupulous
growers to make a profit out of otherwise worthless cane,
with the aid, also, of sweated white labor, is a question
that should be taken up by the authorities before the
existing opportunity is further abused. Unless it is
made clear that that trick is played out, it will go rather
hard with the honorable and well-disposed employers of
white labor, of whom there are some in N. Queensland.
The dogged determination with which the men have
fulfilled their agreements, realising the almost impossible
nature of the tasks treacherously set them, fighting for a
principle only, when all hope of earning wages had gone,
has shown the straight-haired native to me in an entirely
new light. I had hitherto regarded him rather as a tally-
maker than a stayer; it is now evident there is bottom in
the bush-workers which it will not be wise to ignore. The
cancellation of clause 6 of the Regulations, in compliance
with the designing, if plausible, plea of pro-Kanakas,
would mean nothing less than a shameful betrayal of the
hundreds of white workers who have sacrificed much
during the past six months in the cause of white Aus-
tralia. The utmost that should be conceded is that first
rattoons may be registered for white labor—that is, two
years old cane that has not been cut more than once by
colored labor may be passed on to whites.
[J. F. Keane is, of course, an exceptional man,
and, as his photograph shows, one of a very fine
A WHITE WORKER IN THE QUEENS-
LAND CANE-BRAKE .
type. He is credited, at one time or another
during 36 years’ wanderings, with having done
almost every kind of manual and mental labor—
coal-trimming in the Red Sea, coal-heaving in
Bahia, stevedoring at Point-de-Galle, Madras and
Singapore, navvying in N.S.W., open-cut mining
in the Flinders Range, and wheat-cleaning in the
northern areas of S. A. As a journalist, he was
on the Pall Mall when Stead was editor, and
the present Lord Milner was press-experiencing
in the office. It wouldn’t be reasonable to expect
every man to do what Keane could do. But cer-
tainly his honest testimony after three months’
experience is of value as to the real degree of
arduousness of cane-cutting.—-Ed. B.j


Wfe" 7
Wljeii
t]o
£ i&T&fc %
S.| 1 /|
jjlfc QW**f "•*" niu<rr,c ’u
/ \ | > '" r °
' J \l7\ ;
V Y /f'
W-A %
x Rests "fte CooKm« C«w^ I '' 1
>a,uSte i sheets Inco-Tc Tv
* J* b «/
//: IrVine (to new en©|ne driVe r?v> /,
/ o-T *1 Vh 5 £W
‘liere » S* ll Sonre-fff.nff %«-
yottVe "forgottin I
before fou worK
Vl lf*f 1 i i k +" it"
Vo irnnforTkl u |( J
on dye W-. jjj
Jrsl
lij< v i .' f °' r 3
f© min' o•h° *
o\ho ' \
1 /*//&> , T IW" 1 ''s*///''
f\e»d —"Hullo Whetf* **fe yoa £ol^.
John Bull ' To Protection , i-^wakT
Re,a - '* ViVj'/* I'm §«»no V
Vow 'lh« r fc. x jp
.JB . y yes. 1 lm^‘^%
*<*y*
In
dS'c -
%* -
°H ,c * r !> W n * **•
J}*i. <&r<«
°\ *> c \
w 77 vA /
jgr&N //
|p or<«»
'Sj't voirs of \
v
jP§=%s t t~JsTi r f'"*r*l~*' 1C A t
poal/i bo» by %e niST'i lo* °f V nTM^erV^n l
.A—~ "-'jiatejt' _g~~' ‘ =&•-«»?.-I
-- Jo fo -.T J
; - *• 0‘ Tm S*HW* % ; rw|
up-
MELBOURNIANA.


RE POOD “ PRESERVATIVES."
“ Professor F. W. Tunnicliffe, M.D.,
in his report, stated that he had made
experiments as to the effects of boric
acid on the pig, which ‘is more akin to
man than is any other domestic animal/”
The N.S. W„ State Govt, will take a,,;. can
advantage of ©we’SulHyan’s absenee to
run up a “ temporary buitiing ” to take
the place of his projected “finest railway
station in the world.
( '‘This,'' says his acting substitute,
■ will relieve the congestion which exists
at Redfer-n -Station.” But its “not
necessarily for lack of funds, he adds.
BUT WHY DRAG IN MAN 1
To put up a temporary building of kerosene-tins, second-hand fence-rails, or any old
thing, may “relieve the congestion” at Redfern, but it will give O’Sullivan a
l g§n decided “congestion ” when he returns
\ (j —j - and finds it there and compares it with
original design.
Late Occupant of the old Devonshire-st. *
cemetery ; “Ha ! was it for this our ;
long rest was disturbed in the dear old :
iburial-ground! ”
His Mate : “ Yes, they’ve spoiled a first-
class grave-yard to put up a building
that no self-respecting remains would
want to occupy as a morgue ”
Here u the original design. The gentleman standing at the entrance is Mr.
O Sullivan himself. (Our artist apologises for having to draw him so small,
but it had to be done to show what
colossal ideas emanate from this
ordinary-sized mam)
“ Undertakers’ UmoN.-r-At a meeting of the
Sydney Undertakers’ Employees’ Union recently,
reference was made to the cessation of Sunday
burials, and it was claimed, that the employers
had .decided to cease this custom rather than
incur the special rates of pay awarded for
Sunday duty.’
’ pistoJ > *•
stand bugs fleas l beCaUSehe “ COU,dn ’‘
tralian society He hT* Aus '
three first wiH aot the
him, anyhow.
New-Chum : “ Have you anything that
will prevent insect-bites 1 I’m pes-
tered to death with mosquitoes
and .
Tradesman : “ Oh, yes ; which will you
have—inspct-pow(j£r,£j' a, pistol 1 ”
It is now considered.* good joke by the yokels when they attend Geo.
J&eid’s Dry Dog Entertainments to bring their own dogs with them, who
take part in the show by barking at the wrong moment. Reid has had
1» reconstruct his poster.
Nigh to a grave TTi&t was newly made
Leaned a sexton old on his earth-worn spade.
His eye was dim as he paused to wait
For the funeral train . . .
which didn’t come along till Monday ; and he
might just as well have had the day to himself,
only his eyes being too dim to read the papers,
and as nobody had told him about the new rules,
you see, he rather anticipated matters.
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, CUTLERY,
OPTICAL AND LEATHER GOODS.
Gent.'s LEATHER ROLL,
containing Two Hollow-ground Razors, Corn Knife,
Nail Scissors, Tweezers, 20s, 255.
Similar, with 1 Razor only, 15s.
GENT.’S HANDSOME PRESENT.
SHAVING OUTFIT, Pure Silver Soap Holder, Shaving' Brush, and Razor,
in silk-liii-J case, £2 10s.
r I
Ladies or Gent’s WRITING FOLIO,
Polished Morocco, containing- Blotter, Notepaper,
Envelopes, Reference Book, and Stamp Ticket
Case, and every convenience, 255.
Heavy Silver Mounts. 455.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, £l.
SMELLING SALTS
BOTTLE,
Solid Silver, 21s.
Cheaper lines Cut Glass,
Silver Tops, 8s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s (sd, 10s, 15s.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver-mounted TOILET SET.
Hair Pin Holder, Soent Bottle, Puff Box, and Pomade Pot, £2 10s.
Larger size, £3 10s.
ilii
First-class
Gent.’s
SHAVING
BRUSH,
5s 6d.
Extia
mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6'd,
15s, 21s.
LADIES' TRAVELLING COMPANION
Containing-Hair Brush. Cloth Brush, Salts Bottle, ’Mirror
Comb, Tooth Brush. Scissors, Nail File, and Giove Hook 15s fid
Gent.’s, similar, with Razor, 17s Bd.
A LALIES’ PRESENT.
Pure Silver-mounted Glove Stretcher, Shoe Hook, Glove Hook
and Shoe Lift, in nice leather case, 25s ; smaller, 22s 6d. ’
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and CO JIB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styles, £2, £2 10s.
Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP DISH,
in Silk Case, £2 12s 6d.
* •.
L-
Pure Silver Pearl Handle BUTTER KNIFE and
JAJI SPOON, in Silk-lined Case, 20s.
Similar, las 6d, 17s Od.
HANDSOME PRESENTATION TEA AND OOEEEE SET, HOT WATER KETTLE AND SAT VET?
The very best English plate, manufactured by James Dixon ana Sons, makers to Royal Eamilv Bekntif.illv “f", * ,
The lot, as above, 25 guineas. Other Tea and Coffee Sets, £4los £5 £6 £7 rum, d ’ nd ornamented.
We will be pleased to submit special designs if required.’ ’ ’
99
8f
Mi,
11l
Risks
mi
pSsaaai
N«MI
ra
•■■SB
m^msdMr
A NICE PRESENT.
Geat.'s CIGARETTE and CIGAR
CASE.
os 6d, la 6d. Ids 15s, 20s. 255.
Pi ice according to quality and
mounting.
Gent.’s Silver CIGAR CUTTER and
PIERCER,
very useful and acceptable, lCs.
9ct. Gold, 255.
mm
w
Nicely Chased and Carved JEWEL CASE,
pui-e Silver-plated, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s.
Pure Solid Silver-plate PUFF BOX,
20s.
In Solid S lver, £ > and £2 10s.
Pure Solid Silver MATCH-
BOX, nicely chased,
t'B 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
Solid Silver-plate Gent.’s
MUG, Gilt inside, 2Cs.
Other styles, 10s, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, ‘2ss.
SEND FOR OUR
PRICE wIST.
PRESENTATION
design, £
PROTECT YOUR RYES.—Oust and
Most Soothing to the Eyes. Is 6d, 2s Or 1 ,
Sun Protector.
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
Ladies’ PURSE and CARD CASE,
Crocodile Leather, Silver-mounted,
5s 6d ; with Shield, 7s tsd.
Other styles. 10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH
beautifully chased and ornamented
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s
A. SAUNDERS.
I .ladies’ Present
Ohalle
SPEC. CASE.
3s 6d, 6s, 7s 6d,
10s. 15s. 20s,
30s, £2.
V
A. SAUNDERS.
“ Swan ! ’ Pure Silver
PIN CUSHION,
XMAS PRESENT.
Pme Sil ver Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH
Other qualities, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
12s 6d. Very Cheap.
A Nice Present.
ss
2i
'A?
m
'S-ei
za
Ladies “ MIRROR,” Pure Silver mo inted.
beautifully chased, 255, 30s. Other styles, £2, £2 10s, £3.
136
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN CASE, Ss 6d. 10s. 12s 6d.
Gold Filled, 17s 6d. 20s, 22s Hd.
Solid Gold. £2.
9
s JEWFTTPR .
809, 811, 813, 815. 817 GEORGE-STREET
opposite redfern eallway
, SYDNEY.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dosfen, free by post throughout
A ustrul in.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE &. SONS BRISBANE.
MODEL ENGINES,
SCIENTIFIC MARVELS, &c
Send for New Catalogue.
Osborn & Jerdan,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
And at Brisbane. Post Free to any Address.
THB
S T O M A C Hl
MAKES THB MAN.
A competent stomach means vigour, vitality, health, for
by digestion alone can food be transformed into blood, brain,
muscle, wasted tissues repaired, decay arrested and life sus-
tained. Imperfect digestion (indigestion) upsets the whole
u C< L°^f iny , I “ e * k good food poison, breeds dolts, laggards, '
hobbling rheumatics, nerve racking pains. Seigel's Syrup ensures
digestion, dispels disease, produces health. Backed by 34 years' un-
broken success in 16 countries.
0
YRUP
“ Two years ago I contracted indi-
gestion and had it pretty badly,” says
‘ k Mr. Geo. Matthews, 93. Bourhe St.,
Sydney, N.S.W. “I suffered from severe pains in the stomach, sleep-
lessness and vomiting. I lost flesh and strength rapidly and could
work nearly so well as previously. My wife induced me to
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. The first bottle relieved
.me wonderntlly and before the second was emptied I was
k t quite cured and as ** right as rain.” July Ist, 1902.
TONSB THK
STOMACH.
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND
Is adapted for use from birth.
INVALIDS
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
ONE HUNDRED AND NINTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT
—OF THE—
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney,
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House,
George-street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 20th January, 1903.
mHE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
-*- 31st December, 1902, and present the following Report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued interest
on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, providing for land and income taxes
and bad and doubtful debts, as well as granting to the Officers a bonus on their salaries, amounts to £76,846 18 11
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the late of 10 per cent per
annum .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £50,000 0 0
~ Balance being undivided Profit .. .. .. .. .. 26,846 18 11 £76,846 18 11
In consequence of the resignation of Mr. E. W. Kxox of his office as Director, the Honorable F. T. Humphery,
M.L.C., was appointed by the Board, in term* of Article 94, to fill the vacancy. Mr. Humphery is eligible for election
at tlvs meeting, and has given notice of candidature.
Tile directors report with deep regret the death on the 12th August last of Mr. Nathaniel Cork, who for thirty-
seven years faithfully managed the London Branch. The vacancy has been filled by the appointment of Mr. F. A.
Scrivener, of the Head Office.
During the half-year branches have been established at Alstonville and Pambula, in this State.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO 31ST DECEMBER BY CABLE.)
To Capital
~ Reserve Fund
~ Reserve Capital
To Capital Paid-up
~ Reserve Fund
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Deposits and other liabilities
Profit and Loss Account
000 0
.. 505,903 0
.. 675,182 14
..11,804,567 13
84,064 10
£15,079,717 17 11
By Coii: and Bullion in
£5,363,346 17 8
Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank .. 9,269,271 0 3
~ Bank premises, furniture, &c 447,100 0 0
£15,079,717 17 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills .. .. £7,217 11 2
„ Dividend Account for payment of a
dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum .. .. 50,000 0 0
~ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year 26,846 18 11
£84,064 10 1
By Amount undivided from last h 'lf year.. £25,391 15 7
~ Profit for half-year ended 31st December,
1902 .. . 58,672 14 6
£84,064 10 1
£1,010,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND.
1902 —December 31sb
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J SOITTAR, Accountant.
Sydney, 12th January, 1903.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the Head
Office of THE COMMERCIAL RANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, and have compared the returns of
the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance-sheet.
J O. FAIRFAX \ . ...
W. L. DOCKER/ Audltol ' 9 -
The following resolutions were carried unanimously :
“ That the Report and Statements of Accounts be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among the
Proprietors.”
“That the Honorable F. T. Humphrey, M.L.C., be elected a Director of the Bank.”
“ That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager and Officers of the Bank
for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIRBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Mr, G. J. Cohen, said ■
I have much pleasure in stating that the Report and Accounts now submitted to you show that we have had a
successful Half-year.
The number of our Current Account has increased, as also that of our Proprietors, the. register now totalling
I 1065, being an increase of 62 during the past six months.
Comparing the Balance-Sheet with that of twelve months ago, we find a contraction of £506,000 in the gross
totals. The details show that this is due to the dry season through which we are passing resulting in a short harvest
and wool clip, our customers consequently doing a less amount of business.
During the twelve months we have increased our Coin in the sum of £91,000. It now stands at upwards of two-
and-a-half millions.
After much consideration the Directors decided to establish a Provident Fund for the Officers of the Bank. In
future all entrants joining the Bank will come under its rules. To ensure permanent solvency of the Fund, officers
of 33 years and under only are allowed to join. The Fund is a simple one of Benefits in return for certain p*{-mente
provision is made for an Actuarial Examination every five years.
Business, Robbery, etc,
S.Q. : The ways and means of Q. brewers’
agents. Know a publican in aS. Queensland town who
having ordered a couple of hhds. beer—Melb. beer—from
the brewery’s Brisbane agents, was required to answer
these questions, despite his recommendation to them by
their traveller, and though the publican himself had been
a previous customer:
1. Cost of hotel.
2. Value of land.
3. Amount of mortgage, when payable, and rate of
interest. “
4. If interest paid to date.
5. Value of stock, furniture, etc.
6. Total liabilities to merchants.
7. Total receipts for the last six months.
The publican replied as follows :
1. More than I ever expected.
2. Very fair ; but not so much as I wish.
3. Higher than I like ; time no object.
4. My business only.
6 ' S ni " c t* mixed > "either time nor patience to un-
ravel this riddle.
6. Enough to cause most of them headaches
7. How much do you think?
Agents, on receiving this reply, telegraphed Ale
railed ; will you accept; wire ; reply paid.”
* • • »
Judge Backhouse dealt with a legal puzzle
recently-. A. B sued O. D. for over £lOO in Brisbane and
obtained a verdict. He failed, however, to collect the
money. C. D. opened business lately in Sydnev under
the name of E. F. A. B. sued E. F. in Sydney on the
Queensland Court judgment. E. F. denied being C. D
but the judge held the firms were identical. However
as A. B sued E. F. and not C. D. he gave a verdict for
defendant, without costs.
• * * *
A Sydney publican was recently “had” by a
couple of smart sharpers. They called at his hotel ap-
parently drunk, and ordered “ a big bottle of gold-top ”
Payment was not forthcoming, and the hotelkeeper
threatened to have the men locked up if they did not
pai t. One of them took from his finger a diamond
ring, and told the publican to keep it as security, and he
would call in next day with the money. The publican
got the ring cursorily valued by the nearest jeweller, and
was told that the diamond alone was worth £BO. Next
day, the two men returned, and, after redeeming the
ring, ordered another bottle of fizz ; and” the
owner returned the ring to his vest pocket. “ You don’t
seem to think much of that ring,” ventured the publican
“ Would you take £25 for it ? ” “ No,” said the man ■“ I
brought that ring all the wav from S’Africa.” “Would
you take £35 for it?” asked the publican. “ No, indeed ”
replied the owner. Then Sharper No. 2 mentioned that
he might as well sell it, as they were a hit stumpy. The
publican, seeing that his chances of a bargain were rising
shouted champagne, and after a little talk got the ring
for £35. The men then left with the cash ; and the pub-
lican again went to the jeweller to realise on his pur-
chase. He found then that the stone was a paste fac-
simile of the one originally shown him, its value at the
very outside 255.
• • • •
Editor Bulletin.—Your paragraph re “the
perfume industry in Victoria being paralysed by the
Federal Govt., and the fact that certain Melbourne firms
are persisting in the industry infers the contrary,” is
misleading. The industry that is paralysed is the scent-
plant growing industry ; and the industry that is per-
sisted in is conducted by a firm that had the foresight to
anticipate the jumping of the “cat” and laid in years’
supply of duty-free spirit, made into perfume with Vic-
torian-grown flowers.—Rock Lily.
* • • •
In a Sydney book-canvassing case it transpired
the other day that the canvasser’s boss enjoined him on
no account to miss church on Sunday morning as it
looked well and helped to push sales. And ironically
enough it fell to the lot of a good Hebrew (Justice Cohen)
to read in open court this awful commentary on commer-
cial Christianity
• • r •
The dearness of meat is having a disastrous
effect on retail butchering in Australia. Many butchers
have been forced to bankruptcy, while others have
voluntarily gone out of business as there is no money
to be made at it. In Sj-dney and suburbs the number of
butchers has been reduced by nearly 30 per cent.
* * • *
Some interesting evidence as to what “genuine
cognac brandy ” is stuffed witli was given in an English
Court t’other day by Julius Rohtnann, who swore that he
was an expert in distillery work. Some brandy, he said,
was made from potato spirit, some from rice, some from
beet-root. There was no grape spirit used at all in stuff
of the quality under review (cost 455. per dozen in Eng-
land). British brandy was made of potato spirit, as that
was the cheapest; it was flavored with sherry or with
“ cognac essence ’—a chemical preparation. Real cognac
brandy sometimes ran in price up to £5 a bottle.
• * » •
t To “Quex” (B. 10/l/’O3) let me say
that I didn’t take a wheelbarrow wherein to get my Jib.
of biscuits, of which nearly a quarter-weight proved to be
paper-bag ! Neither did I take a set of scales wherewith
to test the grocer’s weight of 21b. of jam, including the
tin ; or of my Jib. of tea with three wrappers—one of lead-
paper. Neither did I take any other weapon to ascertain
how much mustard, icing sugar, spice, etc., ivasn’t in the
tins containing these articles respectively ; nor did I test
the bottle of “ finest malt vinegar,” for acetic acid crystals.
Also, I didn’t ask for a bottle of diluted aniline dye when
I speculated in a bottle of “ raspberry vinegar ” at Is. 4d.
because, now I know, I will purchase my aniline dyes at
l-10th the cost at the chemist’s, under their correct titles.
My par was simply intended to let the grocer-sharks
(presumably including “ Quex ”) know that their mean
little “scoops” don’t always go unnoticed. I don’t ask
for “ charity from the grocer,” but I do ask that small
consumers like myself should be protected from
the cumulative small “ steals" of the retailers.
[And, as to the cost of paper hags (much overstated,
anyhow, by “Quex”), it is the grocer’s business so to
adjust his calculations that he shall be able to sell for a
given price a given (nett) weight or quantity. When he
does otherwise (which is always), or when he vends an
adulterated article as pure (which, again, is nearly always,
in British communities), he is simply obtaining money
under false pretences, and should be (in France or
Germany certainly would be) punished like any other
petty peculator. “Quex,” further, foolishly argues that,
when paying one’s grocer’s account one doesn’t present
him with a silver-mounted purse containing the money.
Why should one ? In paying the demanded prices the
purchaser fulfils his part of the contract. Let the grocer
do likewise.—Ed. B.j
* • « •
“ Comma ” : Re adulterated raspberry-vinegar.
I knew a raspberry-grower who had made some pure
raspberry juice, for which he could not get a decent
price. Finally, he persuaded a cordial-maker (a Vic. pub-
lican) to buy. The purchaser at once proceeded to adver-
tise the stuff by means of a Govt, investigation of the
adulterated concoctions of rival manufacturers. The
humor of the business is in the rush of manufacturers
(well-known in the trade as rank adulterators) to adver-
tise their mixtures as “ made from pure fruit-juice, and
entirely free from chemicals.” The public, however,
won’t pay for a pure syrup, and, when it is considered
that cordials can be bought at ss. 6d. per doz. (of which
Is. 6d. is the cost of bottles), the wonder is that the
maker doesn’t simply bottle water and a little dye.
* * * *
“Algol”: Re surgical appliances (“Sans,”B.,
10/l/’O3), a reputable truss-maker informs me that 10 per
cent, of the population are ruptured, ahd that the num-
bers are increasihg since the Sandow craze. [Claimed
for Sandow’s abdotninal-inuscle exercises that they render
the subject insusceptible of rupture. —Ed 8.l I had an
unpleasant experience with trusses until I struck an
artist who can fit me like a glove, and to whom an ex-
N.S W. Governor sends for trusses from London. Strange
that, though doctors always advise patients to have a
rupture sewn, many of our leading medicos themselves
wear trusses. The sewing treatment Co3ts about £5O and
takes a month’s time I asked one herniated doc. (a
friend) why he didn’t undergo the operation as he advised
me to do. “ Can’t spare the time, old chap,” was the
answer. By the way, English medical journals, discuss-
ing the greater liability to hernia of civilised than of un-
civilised races, arrived at the conclusion that the cause
lay in the fact that, during a very necessary process, un-
civilised races support the muscles of the abdomen with
th« thighs ; the civilised have reformed (?) all that.
A Near Thing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jf! f d Pet f Dorsin-you remember Pete rrith
the big head and no neck to speak on-well, me
and Pete was once making for Forbes, and we hsd
oriol ,’ e Laclllan ‘ The Lach.’s an orl-right
kin dry weather—yer can most walk over; bub
our turn it was up a banker and bringing down
trees and fences to call on their folks at the other
' Star , ted to swim our nags over, but half-
way a blessed fence smashed agin my beast’s
knees an broke em, an’ I got rolled over. After
a tussle Pete hauled me out, but afterwards I was
pretty bad. Yer see, when the nag rolled me
over, that there fence had a go at me, too, and I
was off my nut for a week or two, but Pete stuck
to me an I pulled through.
’Twas about six year afterwards I was parsin’
the post office, and I thought Fd step in an’ see
for letters, though ’twasn’t that I was expectin’
any havmg nobody much to write to me. “Here’s
f ° r yer s BayS the boy - 1 °P ens ifc and
dyin’.’” C ° me an 866 y6r ° le pal Pete wat ’ s
lto myself: “I’ll come straight along to
you, Pete, ole feller.” So I starts off for Nyrang
wnere 1 ete was shearin’. I hadn’t gone far when
i inerts a chap.
“ Hello, mate,” says I; “goin’ far ? ”
Don’t know,” says he.
“Shearin? ” says I.
“ Don’t know,” says he. “Where to yerself
I m makin’ for Nyrang to see a poor chap
wot’s dyin’,” says I. p
“ Maybe I’ll go your way. ’S’pose he pegs,
p’r’aps I’ll get his place.” p B ’
He were a dull mate—never speaks a word ’less
ffitcf Pete° lm ’ When we getß to Nyran 2 I goes
Says he: “ Joe, old chap, yer ain’t married, is
yer t
“ Not me, ” says I.
. “Then,” says he, quick-like, “I saved yer life
in a creek once ; d’yer remember?”
“Yer did, Pete.”
“ An’ yer owes it ter me yet, Joe?”
“ I do,” says I.
■ <Tr' A k? 11 ’i»u er , c , an pay , me now," says he.
Ji<mbly . he calls out; an a fine-lookin’ woman
comes out o the next room. She was cryin’ a lot.
Joe, says Pete, “ain’t she a fine gal? She’s
been with me nigh on five years now, an’ as good
a gal as any man’s wife. I’d a marri’d her then
only her ole man wasn’t dead ; and now I wants
yer to marry her.”
Yer guess I were a bit flustered, an’ looked it.
Fete up an’says, “I saved yer life, Bill, an’l
loves her, an’ she’ll have no one when I’m gone.”
I were a soft-hearted chap, and Embly was
looking so sad an’ so pretty that I says, “ I ain’t
got much ter give yer, but if yer’ll have me, why.
Embly, girl, I’ll marry yer for Pete’s sake.”
Pete grabs my hand, and says he, “ Ye’re a real
pal, Joe, an’ I ’opes there’s some like yer where
I’m going to.”
Well, it was getting a bit arkward, so to liven
up tilings I says: “Embly, my girl, there’s a
better-looking chap than me outside, and p’r’aps
yer’d rather ’av ’im,” an’ I bolts for the door, cos
there was a choking in my throat, what with the
woman cryin’ so an’ Pete lookin’ so bad.
Outside I met the chap as had come on with
me. I says, “ Come and see if yer thinks he’ll
peg.”
So he conies in with me.
Pete was sittin’ up in bed an’ Embly was holdin’
his head comfortable like.
I sees Pete turn a bit whiter an’ when Embly
sees my mate she lets out sech a screech.
The chap cotne up quite quiet-like and he says
to.Embly : “ Never mind, tile gal. I missed yer
lots when yer left me. Yer’d best come back, now
the other chap’s done for.”
An’ he was right. Pete just gives one look
round queer-like an’ he says in a whisper, “Best
go back, Embly,” and then he died.
Embly’s husband got his place.
That were 20 years ago. It were a near thing
for me.
HELENAC.


e. HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy's
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
i‘A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
cfelightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Fluid is sold by all Chemists
fhrougliout the British Empire*!* Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “Condy’s
Fluid. 1 Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
Paine and address is at foot of labeL
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
269 OollliM-st,
Melbourne,
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter.at, Sydney.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERB
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
■tractions and Price List, ourm^ell^’-aceuroto
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight and del
teraune for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it t*- ' “
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
_»7l_Ooorge-st li _Bydney [ -xt A-jTri.ev
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearl 3 and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
I
“Don’t shout”
" 1 hear you. I can heax now
as well as anybody.
*" How ?' Oh some'
thing new —The Wilson.'
Common-sense Ear*
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. I wouldn't
. know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
k The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable ' Totally
, - 1 different from any other de-
vlc * Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
J. if-'tti Collins ft!., Help.,
sfa
Australia does not want an A.N.A., but
an “ Australian Bond,” with no condition of mem-
bership but a white skin and fidelity to Aus-
tralian interests.
It is seriously stated that Q. State Govern-
ment is throwing all possible obstacles in the way
of Federal Govt, prosecutions of certain alleged
offenders against customs law.
Westralian Government seemingly finds
the experiment of running a State hotel at Gwalia
so successful that it has decided to start another,
and has accepted a tender for the erection of a
State hotel at Leonora.
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent on
the Parliament of Britain:
The two Houses of Parliament may, indeed, be fit
tingly described, even at the present day, and in spite of
the widespread principles of democratic government, as
the House of Lords and the House of Landlords.
Victoria’s ex-Premier, Peacock, reaped, in
his defeat at the Senate election, the reward of
the man who wobbles on the political track. Mr.
Peacock has lately set himself to be nothing in
particular, and the logical consequence is that he
finds himself nobody in general.
There being a proposal to give Australia
the “privilege,” in return for tribute, of finding
common sailor persons for the English navy, it
should be remembered that in that navy lads are
still flogged, though flogging has been abolished
in the navies of some other Powers.
Some Q. bush men, disgusted with the
imposition of the poll-tax (which, in their opinion,
puts them on a level with the Chinaman) are
leaving that State. A healthy race of democrats
are the Q. bush men, but the apathy of the
southern town-workers cripples them politically.
TWO OF A KIND.
NEW DOCTOR : “ Look here, my boy, that clock's
all wrong!"
INMATE: “ I know it is; if it was all right it
wouldn't be in here”
In proof of what a discriminating,
emaciated, harmless sort of infliction is the Vic.
Land Tax an appeal against the valuation of the
Commissioners heard in Melbourne last week was
the first for 20 years. And the record might as
well have not been broken : appellant failed, with
costs of course.
The jeers of Sydney Daily Telegraph and
the Sydney rag-men at the Labor party’s “secret
caucus ” are foolish. The D.T.’s attitude on every
question of policy is the result of a secret caucus
of its board of directors, and both the Freetrade
and Protectionist parties continually hold secret
caucus meetings.
When Victoria elected its six Senators
J. L. Dow was seventh man on the list, and
Robert Reid (now elected temporary Senator,
chiefly by the votes of the House of Landlords)
was eighth—3ooo votes behind Dow. Plainly the
people preferred Dow the Protectionist lo Reid
the Importer, but Reid gets in by the grace of the
House of Landlords.
N.S.W. has 67 miles more railway at work
than it had a year the net revenue for the
half-year just closed is £225.021 less than that for
the last half of 1901-*-a drop from .£751,479 to
£526,458. In view of these results why does the
Owe Sullivan howl, and imagine a vain thing, and
try to persuade the country that his new works are
already yielding 4 or 4| per cent ?
“ E.M.P. ” : Re the “ closed roads ” swin-
dle (B. 17/l/’03):
One shire council (Vic.) proposed that all closed roads in
the shire be thrown open, but found no seconder. I
think The Bulletin’s estimate of the area is excessive,
though its estimate of the privileges accruing to holders
of closed roads seems defective, as it takes no notice of
timber (wattle-bark, red gum, &c.) growing on roads,
which holders are jealous of anybody else appropriating.
Victorian Government, in ukasing that
the Railway Unions must abandon their affilia-
tion with the Trades and Labor Council, is guilty
of an act of tyranny which should not be tolerated.
- 16 )>^ ea the T. & L. C. is a “ political
oody” is too thin as an excuse, for in Vic., as in
N.S.W., the political and industrial sides of
the labor movement are represented by different
organisations.
“ Alone ” : It must make every man in
the A.N.A. (with the instincts of a man) squirm
to see the branches—under the guidance of bucolic
flatheads humbly holding out the hat for charity.
When they promote an annual competition or
entertainment, the hat is taken round the town-
sjiips cadging—d la Salvarmy. It is good to see
the Govt, auditor disallowing a contribution of
£lO from Ararat shire funds, under the heading
of “charity,” to the local A.N.A.
There is a deep, underlying motive in the
constant misrepresentations of Sydney D.T. on
labor matters. The offer of N. S. \V. Government
to fee counsel on both sides, so as to settle clearly
a very vexed point in industrial arbitration, is
deplored bv the D.T. as “carrying on private liti-
gation at the public expense.” But, as a matter
of truth, it.is quite obvious that what the Govern-
ment requires is to settle the law on a disputed
point once and for all; and is taking the beet
steps to that end.
Brisbane papers quote an “educated China-
man” as saying, “Australia
is now in the same position
as was China 4000 years
ago, when the Chinese
built a wall to keep
everything and
everybody out.”
Taken on the whole,
the Big Wall was a
very sound policy for
China. Nearly all
of her recent misfor-
tunes have arisen
from the fact that
she didn’t build the
wall strong enough
and line it with the
proper sort of rifles
and machine guns.
Australiandemo-
cracy may yet erect
a monument of brass,
with epitaphs let-
tered in gold, to the
memory of Irvine,
Shiels and Bent for
services rendered
against Toryism.
Judging by hints
dropped intheCham-
ber of the 48 Rich
Landlords, old age
pensions are to be
abolished, free edu-
cation dropped over-
board, and all State
assistance with-
drawn from hospi-
tals and charities—
and if all that doesn’t
lash the people who
work with hand and
brain into physical
revolt against the
rule of those who
toil by watching from afar the
processes of compound interest, the
said workers will deserve all they get,
And get all they deserve. Every demo-
cratic advance is followed by a Tory
reaction, and if the reaction is strong
enough, that phase of Conservatism dis-
appears for ever. The Irvine-Bent reaction
Is not strong ; it’s positively rancid.
G. D. Clark, replying to hat-man Storey’s
frenzied squeak against N.S.W. Labor party
puts his finger straight on the spot:— ’
The real difficulty with Mr. Storey and the representa
tives of the Taxpayers’ Union, is not the Labor caucus
but the higher wages and better conditions which have
been secured for the operative classes since the advent of
the Labor party. The whole trend of public opinion is
against the sweating and wage slavery of years ago and
that, it seems to me, is the explanation of the bitter feel
ing displayed against the Labor party at the present time.
The pot and the kettle. Moulden, who
ratted from the Conservatives in 1889 to take
office under Dr. Cockburn as Attorney-General
and a few months later resigned because his pro-
fessional business was menaced by the progressive
land-tax introduced into the Cockburn policy has
written an hilarious letter to Adelaide Register on
the subject of this once-Radical Cockburn’s action
in supporting a Tory candidate for London Uni-
versity. Moulden is now president of S A
National Ass. and the most defeated or “retiring’"’
—he frequently shirks the poll—candidate in local
politics.
The election of Robt. Reid, against
Peacock, as temporary Senator, showed the 48
Rich Victorian Landlords that they are, if any-
thing, stronger in a joint sitting than as a single
House, as long as their present restricted qualifi-
cation obtains. With the solid Council vote of
40 Reid only wanted the help of a quarter of the
Assembly members present to secure an absolute
majority. He got 68 votes out of 131 the first
time of asking.. As even the most democratic
Assembly generally contains a fait percentage of
hide-bound Tories and time-
serving rail-sitters, the Land-
lords are likely to look more
favorably on the joint sitting
than heretofore. But the
voting tor the Senator was by
ballot; that the result would
have been different with open
voting was shown by the sur-
prised glances cast by many
Assembly members at those
of their fellows whom
they inwardly accused
of ratting.
Peacock’s often-
vaunted personal
popularity
counted for
little in the
election of a
temporary
Senator by V.
Parliament.
Some of his
best friends
in the Assem-
bly are said to
have voted
against him in
order to keep
him in State
politics. A
large section
of the Assem
bly also con-
sists of men
who haven’t
got on terms
with the genial
Smiler, and still
regard him wrath-
fully as a political
ogre who has stalked
over the country with one
boot branded “ Ruin ” and
the other “Desolation.” The
Labor votes were mostly taken
away from him by the nomination
of Stephen Barker. Peacock’s fall
was probably made more abject by the fact that
one or two of his votes came from Leg. Councillors
desirous of having him out of the way when the
final tussle over the Factories Act comes along.
The chief reason Vic. Protectionists had
for making J. L. Dow stand out of the running
for Sargood’s Senate seat was his writing connec-
tion with the Age, and that paper’s careful
barracking on his behalf. Since the Trenwith
case Syme s tuchxcl as a political friend and helper
has declined sadly. The Age, by the way, did
not assist the candidature of Protectionist nominee
Peacock by a single word.
H.P. : The drought has done much to
awaken people to the fact that many Vic.
squatters have had thousands of acres of surveyed
roads so long in use that they resent any reference
to the fact. In some parts, where some of the
,4 s l 4 en latel 7 cut U P for cultivation (the
Wickliffe Road plains, for instance) the roads
have even been ploughed up and wheat crops
raised on them. The cool cheek of the Vic. land-
holder extends as his acres widen.
Dry-Dog Reid made what the importers’
papers call a “great fighting speech “ at Perth, in
the course of which he contrasted the progress of
Victoria for the last ten years under Protection
with the progress of N.S.W. (under M'Millan’s
largely-protective tariff till 1891, Dibbs’s wholly-
protective tariff till 1896, and his own partiallv-
protective tariff thereafter). He called that “ the
great 1 reetrade epoch in N.S.W.” It is wonder-
ful how these Foreign-trade politicians practise
Protection and call the results “ the beneficent
effects of Freetrade.
The Irvine Government has ordered the
unions of Victorian railway workers to sever their
connection with the Trades Hall, and a very-
elegant row ought to ensue. The Irvine Govern-
ment s principal characteristics are a habit of being
grossly offensive in small matters, an old womanish
desire to pry into other people’s business and to
look through keyholes and to get on a stolen egg-
box so as to peer over back fences, a buzzing
frame of mind like that of a small fly inspecting
carrion that doesn t belong to it, and a bullying
desire to kick everything that it thinks is small
enough to be kicked with impunity.
The 40 Fat Landowners and the score of
Lower House Tories who brought about Peacock’s
discomfiture showed the wisdom of the serpent
Peacock s transference to the Senate yvould have
left Trenwith leader of Opposition with the wav
OP TI° T c & of Liberals and Laborites
and the formation of a strong democratic party
As long as Peacock is there, such a thing is hope-
less. He must be Premier and Treasurer and his
incapacity in the latter position is monumental
Meanwhile, there is httle light ahead, and what
of Fat here 1S obstructed h y 48 unwieldy masses
From a recent English work “Our
Empire under Protection and Freetrade ”;
Taking Bodia’s prices of wheat in the nrincinal
Continental markets for an average of sivlpn v.
the cost of wheat in a quartern
London cost, is as follows :-In Paris and Brussels three
quarters of a farthing more ; in Amsterdam, Quarter
of a farthing less ; in Rome, half a farthing lessin
two farthings less :in Buda-Pesth tu-n ’ ln Ber ' m >
farthings less, and in Vienna, five i^ ee ' qUarter
And all these years the Englishman has been
on , the supposition that Freetrade
oUhe ChipSaf 1 Pre ' emimi, ‘ tl J' «» country
Lieut.-Gov. Way (S. A.) shows up the ab-
surdity of our system of putting the Govt, policy
into the
opening
Way, who
tral i a ”
Bank a
a session
the pro-
who were
fidence, to
figurehead’s mouth at the-
of a session. For Mr.
now “adjures S >uth Aus-
never to make i ' - Savings
Govt, institution oniv
or two ago announced,
posal of his Ministers,,
supposed to have his con-
make that very change.
RECKLESS OPTIMISM.
INEBRIATED LADY: “If me pore dear ’usband
could on’y see me now e’d (hie) break me
'ead.”
“F.C." : No doubt the exigencies of space
account for Ceylon being placed as far from W.A.
as Tasmania from Vic. m that map drawn by
A. E. Moore, in B. 10/l/’O3, but it’s a pity the
artist hadn’t taken another quarter-inch and
shoved in Hingland right alongside Ceylon, and
put in Peru beside Maoriland. As a sober matter
of fact Ceylon is just 200 miles nearer to Derby
(W.A.) than to Freeman tie, and the saving of
about 10 hours in the journey to Hingland hardly
justifies us in building about 1500 miles of line
across a lonesome waste of shifting sand.
Amusing to note Melb. Age’s tip for Vic.
Opposition leadership in the event of Peacock’s
election to the Senate. It carefully excluded
Trenwith, who must necessarily, by reason of his
debating ability and the fact that he was Peaoock’s
first lieutenant, enter into any calculations, and
adopted, in preference, Duggan, who hadn’t the
ghost of a show. The paper’s real nominee, how-
ever, was Donald Mackinnon, the clever lawyer
and squatter Liberal, who has established himself
as the coming man of Vic. Parliament. If there
was anything to damage Mack.nnon’s chances, it
was this mention in the Age, and probably ex-
P.M.G. Duffy would have had the best show at a
party caucus.
Writes “ Westralia ” :
A correspondent (8., Dec. 27) takes you to task for
dubbing Premier James (W.A.) a mediocrity, and puts in
contradiction the fact that he is a K.C. This is humor
indeed. The honor in question has been dragged in the
mud here, and ought to be abolished. The late Justice
Moorhead publicly announced that it was once refused him
and others on the Bar because Premier Forrest kept it for
political supporters. James got it from his pal, Leake,
over the heads of numbers of his seniors in the profes-
sion. It has been consistently denied to one gentleman
who, after Burt, K.C., has been at the head of the pro-
fession here for years, and whose name I need not give,
for everyone here knows it. As to James’ claims
on the C.J.-ship, your correspondent must be jok-
mg, or else he is further astray than when he
claims a Westralian K.C.-ship to be a badge of
merit. The pettiness of James and the legal clique to
which he belongs is shown in the way he filled the two
vacant judgeships. Burt, K.C. (who wouldn’t take one)
had first claim, and after that the gentleman unnamed
who has been kept out of a K.C.-ship. James first de-
clared that there was no local man available, and sent to
England, actually naming as one of the selectors a mem-
ber of the firm of solicitors who are legal agents for his
own firm. He then selected as the next judge the local
Crown Solicitor Burnside. He was either right or wrong
in sending to England in the first place. If right, he
should have gone to England in the second place also. If
a local man was good enough to choose in the
second place, he should have been selected before the
English judge, who is coming out to a pretty hornet's
nest. James is a mediocrity, chock full of conceit.


REMEMBER
PALING’S
For PIANOS
Wb«o Boyiog.
tbe
Latest
M^iSiC
Catalogues
FR€€
Call or
Write
for
Paling’S Import Violins, Cornets, Plutes, Banjos, Guitars, Mandolins, Autoharps, Accordeons, Concertinas,
and Sell at Lowest Possible Prices.
W. N. PALIN6 *C° L” 338
6EORSE STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbaoc
Newcastle
Went to Launceston to abuse the
Proprietor of
VITADATIO
Buf now words fail me to express
my gratitude to this gentleman for
the effects of his
GREAT HERBAL REMEDY*
Chronic Enlargement of the Liver for
Twonty-One Months.
Mr. W. WEBBER.
Dear Sir—My suffering was intense for about one year
and nine months. I took all sorts of drugs, but got no
benefit. Mv medical adviser assured me, after a most
searching examination, that I was the victim of chronic
enlargement of the liver. When all else had failed my
wife pleaded with me to get a supply of VITADATIO
and give it a thorough test, seeing it was doing so much
for others who suffered. Complying with this request, I
procured four bottles of the medicine, and by the time
they were used to all appearance I felt much worse. My
neck had very much swollen, and my eyes were constantly
running with water. In this state I began to feel so
annoyed with the proprietor that I took train and went
to Launceston to give you the full force of my mind about
what I thought of you and the remedy, and called at
your place of business, but did not succeed in seeing you.
Before I left home, notwithstanding I was so ill, rny wife
pleaded with me not to return without bringing a few
more bottles, she evident!}' being of opinion VITADATIO
would ultimately effect a cure,'and, strange to say, I did
so, although personally I had lost all faith in the remedy.
However, I began on the fifth bottle, and before it was
finished there was a decided change for the better, and
when I had used the sixth the change was still for the
better; and by the time the seventh bottle was used I
did not know I had a liver, and my trouble was, as I have
since proved, completely gone.
Seeing that it is quite twelve months since my restora-
tion to good, strong, robust health was effected solely bj
the use of Webber’s VITADATIO as the means used, I
feel it to be a duty I owe to the public who suffer, as well
as thanks to the proprietor, to give this testimonial
without reservation.
Yours very gratefully,
JAMES KIRKCALDY.
Brookville, Westbury, December, 4, 1900.
Tasmania.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
ISA Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautifnl Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
58-, P.O.O. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Cermany
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of tiik Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telethons; 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
“ Henare *’ writes Napier (M.L.) .
lie Prohibition par. (B 20'12/’O2). In my humble
opinion “Dunedin Man” is (tee)totally wrong: re the
likelihood ol the milk-and-water vote increasing. A
large number of the Prohibition votes came from the man
who likes his “ pot ” in moderation, but who is “ full ” of
the tied-house business and—as one of him puts it—
“ wanted to give Mr. Brewer a bump.” The result, how-
ever, was a staggerer to the same casual “ potter.”
Chances are that next Bocal Option returns (in the North
Island, anyhow) will point to a reaction, and show a fair
majority for Glorious Beer. State Monopoly is bound to
be a prominent phase of this question in the near future.
South Australia wanted some cast-iron
pipes lately, and called for tenders ; and its own
Works Dept, offered to do the job for £58,000, or
about £9OOO less than the next-lowest among
nearly a dozen tenderers, and the offer was taken.
But it is too early yet to say, as some are saying,
that it is a triumph for State enterprise and an
exposure of contractors’ greed. When, by honest
account-keeping, it is shown that the work has
paid at the price, then we can talk. So far the
tender, after all, is merely the estimate of officers
who don’t undertake to pay out of their own
pockets anything above that amount which it may
cost; and that is the big difference between this
offer and the others. Just at present the business
of every man who has anything to do with the job
is to see that it does pay ; it's a chance that
doesn’t often come to demonstrate a principle.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Pilea no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cure ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and t is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarant X 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CC hoe-
lane, London, England.*
j “ Glenara ” writes :
I The Bulletin’s advice (10/l/’O3) to Bent ftn.
how to make some Southern Vic. railroads pay«
dinned into the ear of successive Parliaments 101
but without effect. Local press and politicians, ly
R. F. Toutcher, member for Ararat, barracked strongly
to get the Peacock Government to buy some of the
Western district estates, which were on sale at that time
at a reasonable figure, but David Syme didn’t say the
word and the chance was lost. And probably the present
advice will go equally unheeded, for later-day politicians
appear to be equal only to clipping a shilling or two off
old-age pensions or giving under-paid railway men holi-
days without pay. It is a bitter shame to see thousands
of acres on estates like Yall-y-poora, Edgarly, Blythervall,
Mt. William and others growing only sheep instead of
being closely settled. On some of the stations varying
areas of land have been let out on the “share" and other
systems, but at best that will only produce a spineless
peasantry. In fact, the giving of “ tenant dinners ” bj
“ the squire ” (in quite the good old English style) has
already been started.
ARTIFICIAL LIMPS^
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
m
Sole Agente and Manufacturers:
DENVER BROTHERS, 281 SYDNEY, ST
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne
Catalogues and Prices on application.
CALLAGHAN SHOE
BY POST
r to any address
1 in these States
The Lady
was much
pleased
evidently
IfBS
'
V
Sjsfii
NO
RISK
IN
FIT
AND
VERY
LONG
WEAR
“ Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON.
“Dear Sirs,—The shoes came safely
to hand, and I am more than pleased
with them. They are a most Comfortable
shoe.
“ E.H., Delegate.”
12/11
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
13 6.
/-AMERICAN GLaCE KID SHOE for
-! LADIES, with Dress}’ Patent Leather
l. Toe-Cap, and new fashioned Collarette.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note with order.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies,
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3ST.S.-W.
Q|ontdepieteOJH.C°>btd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager,
"—'l'll R-n
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITJOJ.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, F.dwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Brunches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
itc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
or Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Iffice, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
H E S A V I MGS BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
it FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties; £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES, and
iutus from £5OO to £2OOO at 4) per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH OPTION OF
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
joans up to £2OOO at 4) per cent. FOR 31) YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne.
r— A i\| Accident and Guarantee
UUC.MIN Co L td. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. IV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. VV.
Farquhar J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
500,000
Total Capital .. •• £2,500,000
-|-HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murra.i
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
our No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
a the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
In daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application
Jam es MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street
Nr. King-st., Sydney
SUpplng.
axr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving 1 MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Glass Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and O., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 18th FEBRUARY.
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about 18th FEBRUARY.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£16 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
pddart, Parker & C°’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST ANP BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
Bank of Netv South Wales.
Establishkd 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,300,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. 5,800,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLadrin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walkkr.
Hon. Reginald James Black, H.LO.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uthbr, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all-the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
TN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz. , the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
!)ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS aad ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
“A Plunge in Panamas/'
fAESPITE the scarcity of this fashionable headgear, as
” the result of special arrangements when visiting the
centres of manufacture,
CHARLES GILBERT Qent.’s Outfitter,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
has received another large shipment in Folding and
Alpine Shapes, which will be SOLD at prices no other
firm in the Commonwealth can BUY them for. So great
s the demand, and so scarce the supply, that every hat
:ould be sold wholesale at a big profit, but he prefers to
rive his retail customers the benefit of his keen buying,
and thus increase his connection.
Note his Prices—lB/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/» to 45/- (for
cash with order). Sent securely packed and carriage-paid
to any address. Satisfaction guaranteed or cash returned.
Automatic Slot
Machines, Novelties, &c.
Hotelkeepers, Tobacconists, &c.
Send for our CATALOGUE of the LATEST
STYLES of SLOT MACHINES and NOVELTIES.
Supplied for QUEENSLAND by Agent:
ARTHUR C. BRAY, 92 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Supplied for TASMANIA by Agent:
VERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN & ANDERSON, 71 Collins St,
Hobart and Launceston.
Supplied for VICTORIA by Agent:
ALFRED W. JONES, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS, AUSTRALASIA :
J. LANDES, 108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tklepuons 1092.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA 1
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.. LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
FEBRUARY 23, MARCH 23,
APRIL 20.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON*
Niagara Falls , one of
the World’s Wonders
Visited Without Extra
Expense.
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
TTgt ' -
SPOONER’S
&
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning’ and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
INFLAMED EYES and EYELIDS
Positively Cured by
ROSE’S CELEBRATE C
Eye Lotion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
Free for Asking.
to us and we will forward vou our scientifi<
T" book, which will show you how to' cure disease am
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of yom
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you w
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body wil
vanish like rnaa-ic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free Write
to John Wilson, Box 135. G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.’ 1
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping:at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, January 30
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, January 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Jan. 30
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Feb. 7.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Feb. 14
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND Q COMPANY’S
* " V/ * ROYAL MAIL BTEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageriea
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers havingroom.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Acting Agent.
63 Pitt-street
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtiia
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, ami PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Ratavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet)
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoa
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter*
colonial Ports are available for return by P. ami 0 ,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THB • .
“E. AND R.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. iTns | Commander. Leave Sydpey.
EASTERN . tadOo'winthrop Ellis .. February 19
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms ./March 19
EMPIRE .. 4200)W. G. McArthur.. April 16
These steamers specially built for the Entern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE.
Onution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS DROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS a*
Sepu 2 6, l&yd, says?
“If I were asked which single medicine.l should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusiou of all
others, 1 should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourlv Fringes, 4s 6d to 30a each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6(1 to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
ifeT" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRA.IG & AITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOE
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addkkss.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St. ( Melbourno.


Biliousness
KNOCKED OUT BY
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price, 1/6. Just what you need.
Biliousness is a condition characterised by
a disturbance of the digestive organs. The
stomach is debilitated, the liver torpid, the
bowels constipated. There is a loathing of
food, pains in the bowels, dizziness, coated
tongue and vomiting, first of the undigested
or partially digested food and then of bile.
Take three Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each following day for three or
four days until the bowels become regular.
If one tablet is not enough to cause a free
movement of the bowels, take two; or if one
acts too freely, take only one every other
day. Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets should be taken immediately after
supper. Eat sparingly and of easily digested
food, such as boiled rice and milk toast.
Drink no coffee.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street Sydney. 120
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G-. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
The 11 Enterprise ”
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
turo’sown way.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the crow’s
feet" in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - •
(with FREE Sample
Jar of “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
Box 133, Q.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO., melb.
When ordering please mention this paper.
THE OWL
CUT-
RATE
DRUG CO.,
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists*
Especial attention is devoted to
the treatment of Heart, Kidney, and Liver Troubles,
parts of Australia.
Testimonials from all
SOLE AGENTS FOR—
Dr. Clarkson's Re-Invigorator.
A Concentrated, Vitalising, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and
BI 00D STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for any case we
cannot cure PRICE, 7s. 6d. PER BOTTLE, 3 BOTTLES £l. Post Free to any Part of Australia,
cannot cure. ’ REFRESH THE STRONG, REVIVE THE DEPRESSED,
ACT LIKE A CHARM. Regular Price, One Gumea. Cut Pnce, 10s„ Post Tree.
tr-ss- ePprsnn should wear one of these Belts. .
£3- Every Person we agk Itg merita as a CU rative agent will then be recognised.
Price 3s 6d. per box, or 3 for 10s. ; postage 6d. extra.
FITS, EPILEP.-A Sure Cure for Epilepsy in all its forms. Write for particulars.
Electric Belts.
Pyramid Pile Cure*
Note the
Address :
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET,
Opposite Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
C. P. FINOHAM, Chemist.
THE PIANOLA
4fgM tr^T^
»\<yL *> iv \Xc,d^i
L. ft
K
sjvA;
/i,to
M/
rr,
refa^A,
T %
L . 1.
IP* 7 . •'**/ ' MvMvm
'/r/Mi
V ‘S '■> •. fi/PL}
cV>
. . % 1,. J 0.% iL ~W 1(1
*
wn
H i
1 f
Wliat
It
Means
To
Yon
If you could suddenly be provided with the ability to play
the piano perfectly, and to retain the ability without the necessity
of constant practice, would you not gladly pay £6O t
The PIANOLA will provide this wonderful ability. It will
give to any one absolute control over the piano.
It will enable you to play your piano, although you may not
have played one note in your life.
No musical knowledge is necessary and the possessor of a
PIANOLA finds himself master of a technique greater than that
of any artist that ever lived.
Is it not worth while to consider the advisability of owning
a PIANOLA yourself ? If you will write us, we will mail you
free a catalogue describing the instrument. When writing, ask
for Catalogue “ B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash, or £65 on
moderate monthly payments.
Henry M. Birge & Co
323 George Street, Sydney;
185-187 Collins St., Melbourne.
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.-- See captule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. BNO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
. by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Memos, for Reference
NO other Cameras can be compared with
the “ PREMO ” and “ POCO ” Series
for adaptability, accuracy, light
weight and artistic finish.
The “ POCKET POCO ” and the
“ POCKET POCO A ” possess all the
possibilities of the most perfect Ladies’
Camera.
The “ SNAPPA” is the 20th Century Ideal of what a
Magazine Hand Camera ought to be.
“AUSTRAL” PRINTING PAPERS fresh from the
factory daily. No streaks, spots, or waste, as a result
of protracted shipments.
Reduction of 25 per cent, in price all round.
Sydney.
Melbourne
Adelaide.
Brisbane.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A nd at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
The Ideal Hangman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Victoria has had many official stranglers, and
the greatest of them all was Michael Gately, now
almost forgotten by a generation which knows
little of his picturesque iniquities. The hangmen
before Gately were obscure personages, picked up
for the moment from the ruck of prisoners for the
bribe of a few special concessions. Gately was
the first in Victoria who raised hanging and
flogging to the level of an Art. But it was not so
much his devotion to duty which led to his fame.
It was his striking personality and the wide
tatholicity of his misdeeds whilst out of gaol that
made the public stop and read every time the
name of Gately appeared in print.
A born criminal —a degenerate of the most pro-
nounced type—Gately had reached middle age
and had a prison record comprising almost every
known offence, ere there came a tide in his affairs
to lead him to greatness. He was a man of 50
serving a sentence in Melbourne gaol. A miscreant
was to be hanged, and there was no man-butcher
available. Gately saluted the nearest warder and
asked an interview with the gaol governor. His
offer was snapped up, and he murdered his fellow-
prisoner with such neatness that the authorities
immediately made his appointment permanent
In those days promotion in the public service went
by merit, not seniority.
A big, powerful man with slouching gait and
long, gorilla-like arms, Gately was the very beau
ideal of a hangman. His face, unlike that of most
real offenders, was exactly that of the criminal
of popular imagination and the comic carica-
turist. His flagellations are still spoken of with
admiration by old-time prison officials. Apart
altogether from the profit to be gained, Gately
was one who pursued his art for art’s sake.
All who saw him scourging knew that he
would have taken on the job for nothing
rather than have missed it. He revelled in his
task, and the excellence of his flayings proved
Sandow’s theory that the man who puts his will
into his muscles makes those muscles twice as
effective as those of the perfunctory performer.
Gately would be downcast for a week when he
failed to bring blood at the second blow. He was
known to strip an offender’s skin at the first.
Possessing a commendable esprit de corps, he made
subtle distinctions between those of his victims
who belonged to his own class and those who were
not professional criminals. Murderers of the
latter type had an unfortunate way of falling
through the drop sideways, or getting the rope
caught under their arms, while Gately’s old prison
pals always died “instantaneous.”
When out of gaol Gately spent much of his
time with a select coterie of male and female com-
panions in a humpy erected in the scrub on Yarra
bank at the foot of Govt, House domain. There
they would live on the proceeds of burglary and
robbery until an ungrateful police force gave them
publicity by rooting them out, generally with
violence.
Like many other eminent men, Gately had his
romance. One dsy he was waiting outside the
office of the Penal Department for the £5 which
used to be the fee for a hanging, when a bright
little damsel of 16 came along to transact some
business at another Govt. Department, it was a
case of love at first sight on both sides, and the
smitten hangman poured out the sweet old tale
into the willing ear of the blushing little school-
girl, to such effect that she left her business un-
done and repaired to Gately’s humpy on Yarra
bank to make merry with the fiver he had col-
lected. The girl’s parents —respectable people,
but unromantic—objected to the proceeding,
and Gately stood once more in the dock,
charged with the comparatively trivial offence
of abduction. To a man of his experience
this was a mere fleabite. With the quiet,
whimsical humor that was all his own, he scarcely
deigned to make a defence, and took his sentence
with the air of one conteut to suffer for his love.
The sequel to the trial was that the girl refused
to return to her parents, and remained faithful to
her darling hangman until he completed his
sentence, and was restored to her arms again at
the gaol door.
But Love seemed to be Gately’s undoing. The
strong man faded before the glance of Beauty.
His hand lost its cunning, and in place of taking
a pride in his art, he began to forget the pretty
patterns he was wont to score on the backs
of the men who hung before him on the triangles.
Officialdom looked askance and, shaking its head,
said, “ Gately’s getting old.” But, for the sake of
old times, it forebore to dismiss its old servant.
Even officialdom has a heart, and it could not
escape the memory of necks well broken and
backs conscientiously scourged at the hands of its
faithful henchman. So Gately continued in his
work, his hand growing less sure day by day, and
the revels on Yarra bank growing more and more
frequent, until at last a happy chance gave official-
dom a way out. Gately disappeared. One morning
he failed to attend a flogging, and the job wai
handed over to an aspiring novice, whose bungle
only served to show, decaying giant as he was.
how great was Gately’s artistry. The novict
swung the cat without an eye to either grace 01
effect, and if he did make the victim howl, it vva
not the beautiful, long, harmonious, sustained
howl that Gately was wont to wring from thosi
on whom he operated. The flagellation lacke<
finish, and the governor and the gaol doctor, anc
the rest of the officials, went to lunch heart
broken.
And Gately, what became of him ? No man
has yet been able to discover. He disappeared
as completely as though he were another Elijah !
Iheones were advanced, inquiries made, but
Gately for 25 years has been merely a name,
borne held that an excessively drunken orgie or
the Yarra bank led to the great hangman beinj
murdered by his mates and thrown into the river.
Those who knew the immense strength of the man
and his capacity for carrying liquor smile at this
Others advanced the theory that he became oon
verted and went away to lead a new life. Tht
men intimate with Gately’s nature know this tc
be a foul libel upon an absent man. Othei
dilettante detectives averred that he discovered
his love to be losing her regard for him and soughl
solace in a suicide’s grave. But then Gatelj
would have first wrung the neck of his beloved.
The most feasible theory was the dark rumor
that the old birds of Pentridge tell to the present
day when the “screws ” are out of earshot. There
was but one man of all the hundreds that Gately
had before him on the triangles who took his
punishment without a whimper. He was not
silent. He spoke slowly and determinedly through
the ordeal of blood, and he made threats of
vengeance to Gately, not after the wild mannei
of the common offender, but like the man wh<
means what he says. He was not a professional
criminal, this man, and when he was at last taken
down, torn and bleeding, he turned and spat fair
in the face of the flagellator- A cup of water was
proffered to him. He waved it towards Gately.
“ Give it to that ,” he said ; “he wants it
more than I do.” This man was discharged from
gaol a week before Gately disappeared, and no
trace of him, either, was ever seen again.
SNOUT.


FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
“Train up a Child the Way He Should Co,”
and when he is old enough he will walk
straight into our showrooms and buy a
RED BIRD BICYCLE.
Facts are stubborn things, and speak louder than words. Don Walker rides a Red Bird and
all the professional records were put up by Plugger Bill on our simple, innocent-looking little wheel
We still have one left for you. Call and see it.
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO, } 64 King-sta* Sydney.
From a correspondent :
The Lands Dept, portion of the Irvine Govt, went out
to Hamilton (Vic.) with a great flourish to buv the
Tarrington estate, but it is doubtful if the deal is half as
good as it is alleged to be. Of the total area of 4300
acres only about 1700 are first-class land (fit for cultiva-
tion without the use of artificial manures). The rest is
described as “ fair grazing and cereal country.” As the
average price is £9 per acre, to which must be added
another ss. per acre for drainage, survey, road-making,
etc., it looks as if the “ closer settlement ” it is intended
for will have to be very close indeed to make the estate
return anything like a fair profit. Certainly the breaking
up of almost any estate, even at a slight preliminary loss,
is an onward move, but considering the small extent of this
one, and the price paid for it, the transaction does not
speak too highly for the business ability of the number of
well-groomed personages who took part in it.
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per hox, post paid. F. J. Timbury
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
A curious story from Tasmania :
There are a few genuine humorists still pervading the
sleepy isle of Tasmania, and one of them lately took a
considerable rise out of the local police. About
November, 1901, £3OO mysteriously disappeared from the
mail bags between Burnie and Zeehan, and no trace has
since been found of it. The police, however, fixed on a
man at Burnie and assured him he knew a whole lot
about the missing gold if he would only tell ; and it
would be to his advantage to do so. They pestered him
so much that that harassed man finally, with much
tremor and many stipulations of secrecy, said he would
show them where the gold was hidden. So a num-
ber of police functionaries came all the wav from Hobart
the local bobbies annexed spades and lanterns, and at
dead of night, the amusing inhabitant led them to a
secluded spot on the West Beach at Burnie, where they
commenced digging in the sand a few yards from the
water s edge. Of course, the sand was wet, and as fast
as the hole was excavated more sand rolled in ; in fact
they never got beyond a depth of lain., but that
didn t disturb their gutde ; he wasn’t doing the digo-n--
He just stood off, and consulted a plan occasionally,
and urged the force to increased exertions, while the
Commissioner and the Superintendent and the Sub-
inspector eyed hnn suspiciously. After about four hours’
digging the informant suddenly discovered that what on
his plan looked like a blot was really a nought, and the
operations should have been conducted at 500 yards from
the water instead of 50. So next night the party tackled
the treasure-finding job once more, and the informant
was specially enthusiastic and cocksure. ** Buck in lads-
haveV f t 0 Bhift H: only a fevv feet »>ore and you
have it 1 Come now, move yourselves ! ” Of course there
was no gold found. The wicked inhabitmlt wanted
the officials to come down again next night and
have a real good try at another place; but"by then
the population had got wind of the proceedings, and the
ocal bobbies got weary of the borak poked at them and ran
their guide in on a general charge of insulting behavior
for which a humorless beak gave him 14 days After
wh.ch the commissioner, the super, and the rest of the
deluded party hurried back to Hobart in a state of
explosive but impotent rage. “ Blate 01
Sick Headaches
Cured by
Db. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Sick and nervous headaches are amongst the
worst ills of life. The man or woman who is
subject to headaches at irregular intervals, goes
through life bearing a load of misery and
wretchedness that is terrible to think of. Head-
aches, as a rule, result from a disordered condition
of the nervous system. Mental excitement, loss
of sleep, and disordered digestion are exciting
causes. If the liver and kidneys are inactive, and
the digestion deranged, headaches invariably
follow. The most persistent cases of sick head-
ache, indigestion and biliousness are permanently
cured by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Mrs. W.
Cummins, Wellington, New Zealand, writes as
follows:—“ For many years I was troubled with
biliousness and sick headache, so that at times I
was completely prostrated, and unable to attend
to my household duties ; I started to use Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and experienced
immediate relief, and since using them I have not
had a recurrence of the trouble. I consider Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills an invaluable remedy,
and will always be pleased to say a good word for
them.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills get at the
cause, they cure permanently and positively
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and female
ailments. Put up in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
• •
Kuppers Elberfelcl Lager.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The recent adoration of bookmaker Joe Thomp-
son by the local “ great “-newspaper interviewers, Lord
Mayor Gillott, and the whole blessed fraternity of Ikey
Mochampagners, was, perhaps, a little 100 ridiculous to
be classed as a public scandal. Mr. Joe Solomons (after-
wards Thompson), for all the adulation of such papers as
the Argus, is hardly the sort of gentleman that a city
should be called upon to honor through its head. Still
he has had a strenuous career. It was in the early 60’s he
and his pals came down from Lambing Flat where they
had got a “ bit of gold ” by striking small reefs in the
saloons of that auriferous and lurid locality. It was there
that 6ft. Joe made a woeful appearance as a pugilist. He
tackled Meyer Balloon for a purse of sovs., and the
Balloon knocked him out in two rounds. Those were the
days when “The Indian Queen” reigned on the Flat.
History records that Joe Thompson, after trj ing his for-
tune in Melbourne, went to Sydney and struck good luck
there, and with the capital thus gained the King of the
Ring bought a crown and a sceptre, so to speak.
• • • •
Once lucky S.A. turfite, F. W. Allen, is ex-
Eeriencing a cold snap of bitter luck. Day before Gunga
'ins Adelaide Oup Mr. Allen refused 10n0 guineas for
Royal Artillery, and that nag injured himself so badly
that he’ll never race again. Troubridge, too, for whom
he refused £lOOO as a two-year-old, broke up at three
years, and after coming round considerably has now met
with an accident that will keep him off the track for a
long time.
• • • •
Just possible that the fact of Wakeful’s stable
chum, Irwell, being backed and made favorite for New-
market Handicap prior to weights appearing may have
influenced handieappers, for he has been placed fairly
safely ’twixt the best and the worst of the three-year-
olds. It has not yet been proved that he is the wonder
that public opinion evidently regards him. If anything
happened to justify the betting it occurred where the
tout was not and the turf scribe ceased from spying.
Which is quite possible with that particular stable. He
is a great, ungainly gelding, unlikely to jump into his
stride straightaway, and not too generous at the barrier.
Still, when he does get going he’s like a high-geared
machine, and goes to some purpose in a smooth and
effortless fashion. He is 3 years old, by Bill of Portland
from Mersey's daughter, and will carry 8.2 if he starts.
• • • •
Told by Joe Thompson that Flotsam and Rock-
sand, present favorites for English Derby, belong to Sir
Daniei Cooper and Sir James Miller, and are in one
stable, for which crack 'Ome jock Maher rides, and it has
already been agreed that his mount shall be decided by
the toss of a coin.
• • • •
The relative importance of things in Australia
was pretty accurately gauged in a recent copy of Melb.
Age, which devoted three-quarters of a column to the
arrival of metallician Joe Thompson, and dismissed the
ditto of Admiral Fanshawe in an inch.
• * • •
Recent Drouin (Vic.) races provided a weird
eventuality. Only starters for the Steeple were Domino
and Nobleman. Former streaked away a street m
front with Nobleman absolutely out of it, till Domino’s
rider, instead of finishing up the straight, continued on
over the ’Chase course till stopped. Then he came back
and spite of the big disadvantage passed the post first.
Later his jockey, Croker, was 31bs. under weight and
Nobleman got the race. Ugly talk caused committee to
withold the stakes which after inquiry they decided
to retain permanently.
* * • •
It could easily be made out that Parvo (6 9) is
about the best handicapped horse for the Newmarket, on
his last year’s running in the same race, and his stibse-
quent struggle with The Victory over 7 furlongs, also at
the V.R.C. autumn meeting, He has been a disappoint-
ing one, and probably he’s a rogue, like others of Pad-
lock’s stock, but a colt that could run The Victory to
half a head at a difference of 51b. only ought to be worth
considering if he comes fit to the post.
• • • •
It is “up against ” the mares to supply the
winner of this year’s Newmarket Handicap. The autumn
is their time for blooming, and the 6-furlong flutter was
won by a woman six times in the thirteen years from
1889 to 1901. Carinthia, Chantress, Fishery, Mavis, Dul-
cimer, Heloise, and Careless are t he best known members
of the sex that appeal on the Newmarket list.
* • • •
Harvest Lad’s scooping of First Nursery
Handicap at S.T.C. meet on Saturday was somewhat
staggering, considering that the betting indicated he was
not fancied in the right quarter. From four to one he
drifted rapidly till tens were available, and then went
out and jigged in front the whole way. Donegal, loaded
with public wealth, slipped from tens down to five-to-
four, and only got third. But then racing was ever thus,
otherwise bookies wouldn't swill champagne nor their
woinen-folk wear crystallised (sunsets in their hair and
decollete corsages.
• • • •
S.T.C.’s Challenge Shield field of 16 was the
smallest for 14 years. Eight were spiritedly backed.
Though Fungus was a hot f ivorite, sixes were available
about her at flag-fall through the opposition of the Vic-
torian bookmakers, who had come over for the meeting.
Inside the distance Rose Petal (12 to 1) beat Cloehette,
only to be threatened in turn by Silver Ray, Sir Leonard,
and Milos ; but it ended Rose Petal first, and Silver Ray
and Milos second and third respectively. The favorite was
nowhere, but Sir Leonard (9.10), the top-weight, ran a
great race. Rose Petal is by Grand Flaneur, from Rose-
cleer, by Trenton from Rosedale (imp.), by Tvndal, and
was bred by F. A. Long at Chippy Norton, N.S.W. She
will carry 31b. penalty in Newmarket lor this success,
which brings her load to 7.3.
• • • *
J. M’Gee, a N.S.W. rider widely known in
show-ring jumping contests, was kicked on the head by
lepper Camden at Mt. Keira, last week, and died.
• • • •
Abundance has not been doing well of late,
otherwise the double Derby winner at 8.10 would look
tempting for the Australian Cup, as far as any first-class
animal can be considered a hopeful investment nowadays.
Revenue, last year, was a “dead bird” for the Aus-
tralian Cup until he got galloped on, buffeted, and pretty
nearly killed in the race. A first favorite can avoid
accidents in the straight-coursed Newmarket Handicap,
but how is he to keep clear of the young ruffians who
work for Ikey Mo. in a 2J-miles-jostle round a circus-
track? Until the stewards legislate honestly and severely
to put down foul riding no public favorite will have a 2 to 1
chance of being allowed to do bis best in a big betting
race. And the stewards can’t be expected to do much in
that way whilst their own jockeys win races by foul
tricks.
• *. * •
Australian Pee>\ sire of Australian, Australian
Star, Australian Colors, and others, died of pneumonia
near Tungamull, last week. Derby and Sydney Cup were
among his victories.
• • • •
Died in Melliourne, recently, John Iliffe in hia
70th year. He was a bookm iker once, and a good turf-
man always; and owned many good horses which won
important races. Aruma was his when that nag won the
“Oxboro” Handicap He was also owner of the notorious
lepper Hubbub, and once named a horse “Joe’s Indian
Queen,” in honor of a bookmaking friend.
Inkstand’s win ofS.T.C. Anniversary Handicap
(ljm.) at Randwick, Monday, was a marked reversal of
form. Previous Saturday the same horse started favorite
at “threes” for the Turf Club Handicap, a quarter-mile
less and only ran third to Ryde and Contest in slow time.
On Monday he beat a better field out and out in much
better time over the longer journey. And the stipendiary
steward■» never made a sign. Inkstand, of somewhat un-
lovely appearance, is a hardy customer, and is credited
with being a descendant of Betty by Hector. He showed
only moderate form in northern N.S.W. till he swooped
down on Newcastle Cup in record time. Time, 2.38 for
Anniversary is fast considering the heavy nature of the
going. Lucknow did it half-a-sec. faster last year, while
Dandy did it lisec. slower the year before.
* * * _ •
Shop betting and street betting have almost
disappeared from holy Adelaide, owing to the new laws
which provide a fine of £2O for being found on pre-
mises suspected of being kept for betting purposes. A
similar law in Sydney would, if rigidly enforced, make up
the deficit in a month.
• • • •
The joy of being a racehorse-owner. Owner of
Bugler backed his horse when the prad ran second on two
occasions and once when he was unplaced. He then
wrote that Bugler was to be withdrawn from Warwick
Farm engagements, hut the letter went astray and the
brute won the Welter mile with never a cent of his
owner’s money ou him.
• • • •
There’s some grumbling at the paucity of the
prize money in the recent Sydney Cycling Carnival.
Major Taylor, who couqieted in at least a couple of
events each day or night, headed a long list with seven
wins, worth £l7o—of which £lOO was for the Test Mile
alone. Don Walker, with five firsts, four seconds, and
one third, scooped in hut £75; Gudgeon won £46 10s.,
with his four firsts, two seconds, and a third. On the
hand, Curley got £llO for but two wins. Alto-
gether the average prize was never worth more than £2O,
and riders strove their hardest to get it. Apparently
times are had with a lot of riders, or else the sportsman-
spirit is on the increase, for the great majority of the
starters seemed in deadly earnest in their attempts to
finish first. But against all this it must be remem tiered
that the League was at great expense. It had to pay
Taylor—who, in spite of his spiritual kink, seems to have
a keen eye to treasure elsewhere than in the new Jerusa-
lem—£lsoo to appear. Then it had to make terms with
Sydney 0.G., and Sydney C:G. people are not modest
where asking for money is concerned ; and as for the vast
crowds who flocked there, for those who sat in the
members’ and ladies' stands the League received never a
cent. And those two stands hold a lot of people.
• « • •
The trouble with the Sydney cyclist seems to be
a too serious appreciation of champions.
• • • •
A fault of the Taylor cycling carnival was the
arranging of the finals of “ the World’s Test Mile.”
Walker and Gudgeon at 8 p.m. rode a gruelling race in 2
3 4-ssec., to see who should meet the dusky champion.
Gudgeon, the winner, half-an-hour later, met Taylor,
who had not previously raced chat evening ; the arrange-
ment did not seem fair to the local man. For business
purposes, it was doubtless better that Gudgeon and
Walker should race on Wednesday night, but care should
have been taken to ensure that Ta.vlor had some of his
superfluous steam expended also. Possibly it made no
difference in the result, but the race ought to have been
differently arranged.
• • • •
Gudgeon, the bikist who is on his showing
entitled to the championship of N.S.W., hails from Cobar,
where the copper and some gold comes from. He has
been riding but two years and is now only 23. He beat
Walker in great style, and justified Taylor’s remark that
he was the best handicap racer in the State. And Taylor
ought to kmw something about cyclists.
• • • •
Major Taylor’s repeated defeats in Melbourne
are understood to be due to a slight attack of influenza.
• • * •
The stench arising from the Austral Wheel
Race is in a way of being disinfected publicly. Mem-
bers are making charges against various officials and
committee-men of wholesale betting, and one official con-
demns the private tote run in its rooms by the M.B.C.
Westralian M’Donald wants to meet Major
Taylor over a quarter-mile unpaced, and one and three
miles paced, for £lOO a-side, within six weeks. M’Donald
has more than a possible. He beat Taylor fairly on his
merits at Sydney C.G., after publicly announcing that he
would go near doing it. Mac can sprint longer and
stronger than any other Australian, and at the ’9B Apstral
Bob Walne (then at his best) went down to him in a mile
scratch event, the last lap of which was a world's grass
record (23 4-ssees.) Bit I martin, Yankee Ivor Lawson, and
Englishman Jack Green have all been beaten by M’Donald.
Taylor seems too good a sportsman to decline the offer.
• • • •
Sydney opponents of Rugby and Association
football are endeavoring to give the Australian game a
much-needed boost. Contended that it is the fashionable
out-door sport in Victoria—less brutal than Rugby, and
more scientific than Association. Doesn’t pan out that
way in practice. Melbourne football is, on the whole,
rougher than Sydney football.
• * ■ •
Marylebone C.C., the English cricket govern-
ing body, is not likely to alter the area of the wicket,
just yet, anyhow. The batsmen don’t want it altered ; the
fast bowlers don’t want it widened, but raised ; while the
slow ones don’t want it raised, but widened. So at
present the M.O.C. is likely to let it stand as it is.
• • • •
N.S.W. Cricket Association and Sydney Cricket
Ground trustees are at loggerheads over the proposed
visit of Lord Hawke’s team. As usual the greed of gain
was on the Cricket Ground gang, and it wanted to run
the whole show and pocket all the loot. But the Cricket
Association kicked to such effect that the gold bugs of
Castlereagh-street backed down. The more these two
bodies quarrel, the sooner the public is likely to get
another recreation ground, and some arrangement by
which athletes who cater for the public amusement wiil
be provided for, when injured in the catering, out of the
funds they help to accumulate.
• • • •
At Adelaide, Saturday, in the Junior Associ-
ation competition, A. S. Day clean bowled six batsmen with
successive balls. A chance was given off his seventh and
a run made from his eighth. Then he banged the last
man’s 9tumps ; which made his score 7 wickets for 1 run
—all bowled. Second innings he took 6 for 19.
• • • *
Western District 15 (11 fielding) recently de-
feated the South Australians at Bathurst. S. A., 305
(Hill, 146), and 4. for 124 (Hill, 77); Western D., 358
(Payne, 176). Bayne, whose score included one 6, 5 fives,
and 25 fours—is a fireman, 32 years of age, and has (in
district cricket) been compiling centuries every season
for the last twelve years. He is a left-hander and a
forcing batsman. He would undoubtedly have been in
inter-State cricket years ago had he been playing in
Sydney.
• • • •
“Algy”: While watching Vic. v. N.S.W.
cricket match in Melbourne, t’other day, a long, dark,
grey-whiskered man near me was skiting about old times.
At last when he said that Stuckey knew nothing about a
fast one of TrumpeFs I said to a friend, “ These old
jokers who come to a match once in ten years and give
opinions about things they know nothing of make me
tired.” My friend said, “ Oh, ho know's what he's talking
about all right. That’s llarry Boyle 1"
• • • •
ThusaWinton paper (W.Q.) in sober, serious
earnest: —“ The Win ton cricketers enjoyed their trip to
Hughenden immensely, but the sooring was a bit one-
sided. The five men with most practice made two runs
altogether, and the selection committee only made one
between them.”
• • • •
“ Jab ”: Sydney sporting press has had much
to say regarding continual clinching often rendering
bruising struggles wearisome. Spectators insist that the
referee in the ring is the preventive. Rats ! the referee
in the ring only encourages it. M.Q. rules—supposed to
govern most matches-nowadays-supply the remedy.
Let either man, when both hands are free, punch away,
and then there’ll be no clinching, for while t’other chap
is hugging he’ll be getting smashed without protecting
himself or retaliating in the slightest degree, and then
he’ll cling just as long as it takes this fact to dawn upon
him, which will be quicker than a flash, if he isn’t
knocked out by the first blow.
• « • *
The tired or broken-up png. has discovered a
new method of gaining breathing-time. He goes up
from his corner with glove-strings loosely knotted so that
they come undone when required, and the butchery is
stayed while the referee adjusts them. Which is all a
distinct breach of the rules. The round should last three
minutes, and if a man's glove-strings come undone during
the round that’s his funeral.
• • • •
Watts, of Newtown, and “Psycho” Hansen, of
Balmain, put up a reasonably vicious scrap at Golden
Gate A. 0., last week, which lasted Ih. 20min , and
showed some fast, heavy thumping. The men seemed
so well matched that it was merely a matter of endur-
ance, and, after 20 rounds, referee M’Donald declared it
a draw. Still, Watts’ work was somewhat cleaner and
better polished than Hansen’s.
• * * *
Two thousand people watched the Blackmore-
Vercoe padded fist fight at the Sydney National Sporting
Club. Vercoe is a new arrival from the novice ranks, and
Blackmore, a clever sparrer, had won only a few unim-
portant affairs. It was a one-sided, but fast and willing
contest. Vercoe, shorter in heigh and reach but stouter
built, hurled himself on Blackmore a to the thrasher and
the whale ; but Blackinore declined to play the whale and
evaded cleverly. His baulking and side stepping pulled
him through, although he forgot all about guarding right
or left or even countering, and mostly kept his frying-
pans hanging at his sides. Vercoe got a frightful bat-
tering, mostly through rushing against Blackmore’s fists,
and in the seventh round a long-range swing of the right
from somewhere down near the hip fluked Vercoe’s chin,
and then there were stars, notes of exclamation, and a
sonorous voice that counted 10.
• • ■ •
Heavy-weights negro Barnes and Newcastle
Bill Smith put up five wild scrambling rounds at Sydney
Gaiety on Monday night. Twice the black went
sprawling face forward from heavy hooks on either
buttock. Smith hurled dozens of swings and jabs, but
only got two home. Eventually Barnes was counted out
after being reduced to a plain black wreck.
• » • •
A big drop in attendances at Victoria-N.S.W.
cricket, Saturday, and Sydney Turf Club meeting, Satur-
day and Monday, was noticeable, compared with previous
years. Former only had 10,000 at most, when double
that number was expected. S.T.O.’s 8000 (Saturday)
and 5000 (Monday) were among the smallest gatherings
recorded.
• • • •
H. Moon, the youth who is to swim George
Read when the latter visits Adelaide, will be fortunate if
he escapes swelled head. The Advertiser of Jan. 15 says
that he was asked by a friend to go rowing, but preferred
to swim, and swam alongside a rowing boat for three
miles without inconvenience. The implied suggestion
that Moon (or anyone else) can swim as fast as another
man can scull is very beautiful. Moon is further credited
with intending to go to London, “ if he beats Read,” for
the English Channel swim.
• * • •
Swimmer George Read announces his intention
of turning “ professional ” and competing at S.A. Carnival
next month, where he’ll probably gather in all the plums.
Local champion Moon is not likely to push him, excepting
over the hundred ; Read cannot sprint like Lane orCavill.
• * * •
Jack, the son of Elias Laycock, won all-comers'
single sculls, from scratch, at Sydney Anniversary
Regatta, beating O. Towns (39secs. behind) and S. Pearce
(IBsecs. behind) and other good ones. Pushed at the
last, he skimmed lightly away from the brother of the
world’s champion at the finish.
Bird’s Billet.
The coldest, or very nearly the coldest, job in all
Australasia just now is that held by Treasurer
Biiu>, of Tasmania. The island lost a larger pro-
portion of its revenue by the abolition of inter-
state customs than most of its neighbors, and
Bird is trying to find .£135,000 to fill the gap
He reckons he can find £30,000 by retrenchment
and £105,000 by new taxation. Now, Tasmania
has sundry Foreign-trade newspapers, of which
Launceston Examiner is the largest and silliest
example; and the attitude of the Foreign-trade
press is as follows: —
(1) All customs duties are paid by the buyer, therefore
Tasmania has been relieved of at least £135,000 of taxa-
tion by the Federal Customs Tariff.
(2) Therefore if Bird saves £30,000 by retrenchment
and only puts on £105,000 of taxation, Tasmania will be
paying £30,000 a year less taxes, according to all Foreign,
trade logic, than it did before. •
(3) Nevertheless the Tasmanian Foreign-trade press
denounces poor old Bird’s £105,000 as new taxation—as
an additional grinding impost levied on the people— and
demands that Bird should save more than £3O 000 bv
retrenchment. ' y
The Examiner has one dull unreasoning brick
which it throws at poor old Bird all the time.
Victoria, it says, also has a deficit through the
abolition of inter-State customs ; Victoria is meet-
ing more than half its deficit by retrenchment, and
the rest by new taxation ; therefore Bird should
do likewise, and retrench to the extent of at least
£ii7,500. And it is no earthly use for Bird to
point out to this crowd of bowelless sweaters that
its story is all a delusion and an invention.
More than half of Victoria’s alleged retrenchment
isn’t retrenchment at all, but a stealing of sink-
ing funds and railway reserve funds ; these steals
represent £300,000 out of an alleged saving of
less than £OOO,OOO. And Bird is denounced be-
cause lie doesn’t make a legitimate saving, at
least equivalent to Bhiels’s misappropriation of
the sinking funds. This is the reward of the
honest Treasurer in Australia ; whenever a dis-
honest Treasurer in another State makes his
accounts profess to balance by political fraud,
every honest Treasurer is denounced for not
doing likewise. So profound is the aversion of the
average Australian to paying his way that a
Treasurer who won’t lie and steal and cook the
accounts in order to avert taxation has a mighty
poor show. Then Shiels, of Victoria, proposes
to save another £OO,OOO by paring down old age
pensions, and the Tasmanian Foreign-trade press
denounces Bird, who lias no old age pensions to
cut down, for not keeping pace with him. Shiels
reckons that he can save something out of Vic-
toria’s expenditure of £0 2s. 7d. per inhabitant
per annum. £ "Romanian importing press calls
its Bird anything snort of a pickpocket because
he can’t save even more out of his expenditure of
£5 os. 3d. per head per annum. The situation
for Bird is even worse than it looks, for when
Victoria has paid the interest on its public debt—
a matter on which it is not possible to economise—
the other items of expenditure—the ones in which
economies may be effected—represent £4 Bs. 9d.
per inhabitant annually. When the mild Bird
has paid his interest bill, which is, in proportion
to population, a much heavier one, the other
expenditure, on which it is possible to make
economies, is £3 2s. 6d. per cent., and the life of
Tasmania’s financial man is made a misery because
he can’t save more out of £3 2s. 6d. than the other
fellow does out of £4 Bs. 9d. Tasmania represents
almost the irreducible minimum of expenditure,
and is far and away the record economical State
of Australasia, and what it badly needsis to about
double its taxation so as to enable it to do away
with its loan policy. But judging from present
signs there is very little hope of anything like
that. A larger and stronger Bird than the
present one might make the attempt, but it
would require a very large Bird to do it.
“ Kiwi ” (Maoriland) writes :
That shameless report about the cowardice and in-
humanity of certain Austrians at the Klingamite wreck
illusirates once again how little of alleged “ Biitish fair-
play ” there is where “foreigners” are concerned. The
truth is the Auckland people are rather uneasy in thyfr
consciences, and so are the Auckland papers (if the latter
have any consciences) as to the uncailed-for hardships
imposed upon foreign gum-diggers, who are mainly Aus-
trians, and they gladly seize on any statement which may
afford a shred of justification for such treatment as the
maligned Boers were never guilty of in their country.
Stupid prejudices, emanating originally from a few un- ,
scrupulous shanty-keepers, w hose grievance was that the
Austrians were too sober, were finally made the subject
of a vile crusade by the Auckland press The Austrians
are unquestionably more sober, more moral, and more
industrious than the average English-speaking gum-
digger, and their children, if not themselves, will be good
Jlaorilanders. Naturally they feel sore, as any self-
respecting people would, about such uncalled-for slurs
as that Klingamite story of Austrian cowardice. It is
just such lies as that which would keep alive their
nationalism, and make them an element of real danger
if circumstances were favorable. We need more people
out here- people of the right sort, bet us have the
color-line by all means, but surely all white races should
be treated on a footing of equality.


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH*
N&SS and DELICACY
°/ FLAVOR as wHen
newly caught. * *J» *i»
0
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
========== station in the State.=====
SMOKED FISH (our own curing) forwarded
by Post to back*country districts
Please sen<l foe Catalogue of
tlxe different Kinds and prices!
15he N.S.Wo FresH Food (El Ice Co.Xtd.**
Office and Refrigerating WorKs, Harbour St.,Sy dney
The Massey-Harris
Ot’EN
Saturday
Afternoon.
Bicycle does not attempt to compete with those who, to {rain a low price
sacrifice quality and strength. B p ’
v ® r ything about the MASSEY, from bearing to crown is manufactured
from the best materials available in the markets of the world, and no labor
expense, or experience is grudged to produce a perfect machine. This is the
reason of its great popularity. 8 1110
Call and see our New Models.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches In Every State. 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Drink
Franz J osef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. ....
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY
BUY A
WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
7T
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remlng-ton Arms Company,
Head Office : 215 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS,
REMINGTON RIFLES
£5 10s. to £l5
23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & HICC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
THE - BALLARAT SCHOOL OF MINES
will re-open on the 10th 'FEBRUARY.
FRED. J, MARTELL,
DIRECTOR.
SHARPSHOOTING
w \v
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nbtt. •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CRiENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Creener’s Representative).
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS'
FOR HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &G. ARE WORTH TRYINC l
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALVITIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS-1/-, 5/-, 10/-, 207-
SAL V ITIS ROUP PILLS, 1/6 per box.
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
-riOR NIGH A CENTURY
£ WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, The Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp forJY'illiams’ Changing Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it r J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.; and 232Clar@nce-st., Sydney
Martin’s Apinl and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, \v. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
!am»WWM HflTOHln*,*
"ptOR the person who 5s not a millionaire. there 5s ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PAT.ACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is "Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” -»!
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
57
/r
im
What
an
Improvement
the new Vulcan.sed
puNifip Tyres
make in the running of a Cycle.'
There’s no drag about them,
they glide along with the
minimum of exertion and
vibration.
Durable
and Reliable
Beware of
Imitations I
No Tyre is a genuine Vul-
canised Dunlop unless it
is embossed with this
Trade Mark and the word
“Vulcanised.”
The Dunlop Tyre Co. of Aus, Ltd ,
160 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY . .
jure at ' i . ' { ' •, ' : *
S^3—hi i Mtlbwnw, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Lord Roberts refuses to accept his knight-
hood of the Garter because fees amounting to
.£1000 would have to be paid. A proper attitude
on the part of a poor man, but from Lord Roberts,
who lias just bagged £ 100,000 from the British
taxpayer for “ending” the late war, it looks
rather mean.
An expert in shorthand writes to Tite
Bulletin a warning against the “ New Short-
hand ” which is now being advertised in The
Bulletin and other papers in Sydney:—
Mr. W. Charlton Hubble is advertised as the chief
examiner for Sydney of what is called the “ New Short-
hand,” which, as far as Australia is concerned, is under-
stood to have made its first appearance in Adelaide city
under the direction of a Mr. Crew. Big advts. appeared
in the press guaranteeing that pupils could attain
reporting speed in two or three months, and the following
glittering bait was held out:
SPEED RECORD PRIZES
WILL BE GIVEN AS UNDER I
For 225 words per minute—One Year’s Engagement at
any one of the Studios.
Salary, 200 guineas.
For 210 words per minute—Cash prize, 10 guineas.
For 190 words per minute —Cash prize, 5 guineas.
For 180 words per minute—Cash prize, 2 guineas.
For 160 words per minute—Cash prize, 1 guinea.
For 150 words per minute —Cash prize, £ guinea.
Those over 225 words per minute shall have another
Contest during ,th£ month of May, and the Quickest
Writer shall have an additional 50 guineas in cash,
in addition to the year’s engagement, and such person
shall be called the “Champion of Australia" for the
“New Shorthand."
It is no wonder that hundreds of persons, many of them
too lazy or dull to learn, say, Pitman’s shorthand, shoujd
• have tumbled over each other on this short cut to attain
reporting speed, plus the chance of a big money bonus.
For a time Mr. Crew waxed fat, till Mr. Ponder, one time
vice-president of the S.A. Shorthand Writers’ Association,
declared publicly that the offer of a premium for a speed
of words a minute was misleading, and he challenged
Mr. Crew”or any pupil or teacher of his to write even 120
words a minute, backing up his challenge with a promise
to donate £10 to a charity in the event of any of them
passing the test. Mr. Crew, by advt. in the daily press,
declined to accept the challenge. That was the beginning
of the end of the “ new shorthand ” in Adelaide. But it
is still flourishing in Sydney where similar tactics have
been adopted. The same series of prizes were offered,
the examination to take place “ about June next.” (Offer
of prizes, by the way, was withdrawn a few days ago.)
The office in Sydney has been open for more than three
months, hut is not publicly known to have produced a
writer at a high speed. Their show pupil is said td be a
girl who, “ after eight weeks’ tuition, can write 120 words
a minute," but this has to be proved before a competent
tribunal.
In what respect the system is “ new ” it is impossible
to discover. It appears to be an imitation of the Sloan-
Duployan system, with the defects of that system aggra-
vated.' The fantastic outlines are, judging by the
specimen before me (a printed sheet), three to four times
longer than the Pitman outlines For the same words. The
, system as a means of writing shorthand is no better and
no worse than scores of other “ systems,’.’ more or less
foolish, which enthusiastic crajiks have'given to the
world from time to time. To pretend that anyone could
write 225 words a minute by it after three months’ study
is all moonshine. I doubt whether any of Mr. Hubble s
pupils of three months would pass a bond-Jide test of even
50 words a minute.
There is no royal road to shorthand-writing.
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Common wealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
At Poverty Point.
The rumor that Adelina Patti has been tempted by the
Melba success to organise a concert eo. for an Australian
tour is proliably only a rumor, started by a canardian
paragraphist. Patti, the sexagenarian, is now a mere
English institution, like Sims Reeves of yore. And she
knows the truth, more or less. She reads French anil
Italian newspapers, and notes what their London corres-
pondents say about her—writing with meat-axes.
If Patti has the intention, attributed to her in some
quarters, of coming out to Australia, it is safe to affirm
that she will be sadly disappointed at the result. Aus-
tralia has been too well served with first-class talent for
years now to enthuse over a star who had her night
well back in last century. Apropos, a book just pub-
lished, discussing Patti’s earnings in her zenith, computes
their total at not less than £1,000,000.
** Vul " : Had they themselves been different, Sydney’s
R.A.A. bandsmen might have expected (and received)
some practical sympathy and support from the general
public when faced with partial loss of the State subsidy.
The band was supposed to play bi-weekly either in the
Sydney Gardens or some other public park, but the two
performances were seldom given, and sometimes not even
one, members considering themsehes quite within their
rights in letting their employers (the public) go hang, and
betaking themselves to some private or official function
where they were paid extra for appearing. Only about
£l5O is being saved yearly by reducing the band to one-
half its late strength, and the sum is so small that the
public might have been relied upon, under other circum-
stances, to meet it by private subscriptions.
~ p.” . p o p U j ar n]mor 0 f Williamson and Musgrove
having already gone, or being about to go, into full part-
nership again is discredited by people who ought to know
something about the business of one of those theatrical
potentates. By the way, who was responsible for the
Sydney newspaper statement that “ Edward Lloyd has
been induced by Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove to
appear on the concert-platform in Australia ”? If W.
and M. are combining to import an aged tenor to Aus-
tralia, how comes it that the forthcoming revival of Amy
Castles (with sister Dolly) is announced as a purely
Williamsonian business?
The recent Senatorial interment was a good thing for
biz. Thousands of people who, like the Duchess of I’laza
Toro, “ love an interment,” came from the country and
remote Melbourne suburbs to see the procession, and
many of them decided to spend the rest of the day in
town. Their appetite for sight-seeing was whetted, and
they went to one or other of the theatres in the evening.
In the interests of theatrical managers, the funerals
(with trimmings) of “ great ” citizens ought to be per-
petrated on a Saturday in every case. Also, the deceased
ought to be held over, so to speak, for a couple of weeks,
in order that his obsequies may be elaborately prepared
and voluminously advertised.
" E. F.” : Always understood that it was Calcutta where
Titheradge read the document declaring Queen Victoria
to be Empress of India. Anyway, the proclamation was
made at other cities than Delhi.
Miss Ada Lawrence, who figures as a saucy soiled dove-
let in Anderson's present drama at Melb. Royal, is said to
be a strong emotional actress when she gets the chance.
But her successes as Camille, etc., have thusfar been con-
fined to the outer circle. An Australian artist with no
means of “starring” herself on an expensive scale, might
be the finest tragedienne in the world, and Sydney and
Melbourne would never know it. Essie Jenyns. of old, was
“ discovered ” by her native country because she had a
step-father. Bill Holloway-, who was able to give her a fair
show in Shakespearian plays. Previous to her l>oom she
had one engagement as ieading lady for Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove. The play she appeared in was a
failure ; the Firm wouldn’t take the risk of producing the
clever Australian girl in classic drama, and they let her go.
Wirth’s circus opened in Adelaide, Jan. 17, with a good
show and a full tent. The Holy City is always a sure
mark for an efficient circus ; there are hundredsof people
who never go to theatres or music-halls yet are ready to
patronise spangles and sawdust. The jokes of circus
clowns attract the pious in that they have the hoary
antiquity of Bible stories and the anecdotes told at tea
meeting's and Sunday schools
One Brooks, who has been running a small circus In
N.S.W. northern river districts, turns out to be a son of
the head of the famous " Brooks' cotton ’’ firm, and has,
it is said, just inherited £7S,(XX).
The management of the Fisk Jubilee Singers denies a
statement in last week's Bt’LLKTix that the Sydney
season “ flattened down ’’towards the end This paper
is too tired to argue, so the season didn't flatten down.
Instead, it rose up like a giraffe awakened from sleep, or
a dynamite explosion, or anything the management
pleases.
The catchy little song, “The Silver Lining,” which
Maud Harrington sings in the Melbourne panto., was
composed by that bright young charmer, Gladys Ure.
Miss Harrington gives it in a very high soprano, but
Wallace Brownlow will introduce it to Svdney as a bari-
tone song, the moral lesson whereof is “ Buck up.” By
the way, Brownlow’s months in Australia are numbered.
He has a fine, fat American engagement, starting next
July.
The full amount realised by benefit and subscriptions
for the blind William Rignold in London was £l4Bl, which
was handed over to him.
Mr. J. F. Sheridan denies emphatically the report in a
South Australian paper, that he was recently “ quietly
married ” to a member of his company.
“Thesp”: All the members of the Cathcart family
were well-trained, capable actors and actresses, but not
one of them had a touch of genuine emotion, or of the
divine spark of genius. Fanny (Jathcart (Mrs. Robert
Heir), who flourished exceedingly in Australia with G. V.
Brooke and Barry Sullivan from ’54 to ’66, would have
been deposed by Miss Mortyne but for the premature and
tragic death of that moving actress in '59, as effectually
as she was in '66 by Miss Cleveland (afterwards Mrs.
Stirling). Fanny had a fine stage presence and a robust
style the same in everything. Probably her most con-
vincing part in her younger days was Julia, in “ Tne
Hunchback ’’—a character built on purely conventional
J'nes- J- F. Cathcart’B reappearance on Melb. stage in
82 as Richard 111. stamped him as the heaviest and most
unexhilarating of Shakespearian star performers. In
fact, that was the only star part present writer ever saw
him attempt. But he S)>oke the (Queen’s English, and his
generally-useful range was unlimited.


iSISiM
§!
5H2r5 »."*£*%•;*>. : ii: iVjHPH :jT: £
rr: :JfJ* :! *; r - r “ : :* : **C
---.£.- >::; U-^Jr'JVKS&XI
z +-\ : < If# : r * -i : f : :?J_ S :' :Si:Us»~iS:>*H:K:: : .i::i
iifes£si^S*=s£^ite;-=?!2iSS:!:i;
AH NO ‘S3MOWS
ONV3IOA TfgiSNas V
3MM
Are you Saving the Photos?
For every hundred forwarded to us we will give (or post free) a HANDSOME CLOTH-BOUND ALBUM made especially to contain
the Photographs. It will be well worth your while to have one.
OGDENS, LIMITED, 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
From a pen-picture of the American Con-
gress by Sydney Brooks:
You catch the American note, the note of unmitigated
democracy, on the very threshold of the Capitol. Any-
one can enter who cares to, without reference to age,
color or sex, “ previous condition of servitude,” or pre-
sent condition of clothing. . . . The House of Repre-
sentatives is an enormous chamber —three times as big as
the House of Commons. . . . Each member has a re-
volving armchair, with a spacious desk in front of it,
where he can write letters and busy himself among his
papers in a way that must be horribly disconcert-
ing to an opponent in debate. On the opening day
of a session these desks and armchairs are overloaded
with bouquets sent by admiring constituents. . .
From my seat in the Press Gallery I could watch honor-
able members lolling in their seats and smoking cigars.
Then I was greatly interested in the barber’s shop, close
by the smoking-rooms, ail equal y visible from where I
sat. Democracy, indeed, took on quite a new significance
for me when the colored barber, finding business dull,
opened the door, and, standing in his shirt-sleeves and
barber’s apron, half in and half out of the shop, joked
with Congressmen and listened to the speeches till they
bored him. But for sheer homeliness the palm must be
given to a phalanx of small boys, the sons of Congress-
men, who sat on their father’s knees during the debates.
The colored member, I was enraptured to see, brought
his little piccaninny along. Some of these infants, tiring
of the paternal lap, would climb into the nearest chair,
and there experiment with its rotary mechanism, and
the Congressman to whom the chair belonged, so far
from making any effort to expel the intruder, would
smile a bland smile and walk off for a cigar. . . .
What with the immensity of the House, the buzz in the
galleries, the calling for the pages, the scratching of pens,
the crumpling of newspapers, the banging of desk-lids,
and the thump, thump of the Speaker’s gavel, it needs a
man with a powerful voice to make himself heard. As a
matter of fact, complete silence is so far from being ob-
tained that members who particularly wish to hear what
is being said leave their seats and gather round the
orator, just behind the official stenographers, who take
down his speech standing.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Petersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
HAVE von
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when von
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
?,,, v , 1 , s . cd ,, t , 0 ,, 8 ," bmit t0 amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
do ?’ t 8 ®y perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs.
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Siores,
il J„ Gr f? t Bri,ain - 1/Hd. per b .x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 1 3, I arringdon-street, London, England.
Agents i.LLlOT 1 BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers sliould
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on s
green label on tach box. (Regd. copyright).
JOYFUL NEWS
I
/.
k
N
y
For WEAK MEN.
For men whose bodies are racked with pain, and whose
minds are tortured by the realisation of the loss of
youthful vigor; men whose physical force is being
destroyed by Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder or Stomach
Troubles. Are you a man of this class ? If so, you must know that
what has restored the joy of life to thousands of other men must be
a blessing to you. The Dr. Austin Electric Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of Electricity into the
affected parts, thereby effecting a practical, certain and speedv
cure. We are so positive of the tremendous therapeutic properties
of this wonderful Belt that we will send it, with all attachments
complete, to any person writing us, and you can wear it for
90 days, and
PAY ONLY WHEN CURED.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— If you have a Belt which has failed, or
burns and blisters, or uses vinegar, I will allow you for it in exchange
for mine. 6
CALL TO-DAY and test Belt free. No charge for consultation.
... FREE BOOK.— If you cannot call, write for my beautifully-
illustrated Medical Book, which every adult should read: sent
sealed, free. Write to-day.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
T7ST H 1 ? N you ? an q uickl y and permanently cured bv taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALP ALINE Vitalitv Pill* a
\\ thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY and all /hich f\° TY
T ▼ is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case no matter of how of that which
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or bv nil a d, ” g \ and *? e ll!
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality? Pamphlet sent o piee eSPair ’
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Anaemic Women
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder and Blond
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by ’
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
lerwise affected, should at once communic
rvice, and his
Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affee+ed
RAS9MUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their serS and hiT’ 06 C ° mmumcate with HERR
will cure them.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes is
ms jire^Wor and _his_ PILE PJ3 WDE RS never Fall ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . . ar m im
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office— o‘ri Creorgß St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOOBLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FBEMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY ■ Piesse St.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St^
SYDNEY,
4
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
touch .he LIV E R
•■hey
There’s SECURITY in
BARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price
Carter’s
Be Sure they are
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free
Y By FRANK RENAR. Y
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
The Royal
Bank of Queensland, Limited.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1865.)
Authorised Capital .. .. —•-
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. ..
Reserve Fund (Invested in Government Stock)
.. £1,425,000
£456,027
176,239
68,000
£691,166
THIRTY-FOURTH REPORT.
Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting: of Shareholders held at the Banking-house, Queen-street, Brisbane,
on TUESDAY. 20th January,' 1903.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interests °n De-
posits, providing for Contingencies, Payment of all Charges, and reducing valua-
tion of Bank Furniture and Fittings, amounted to .. i dna is «
To which was added the amount carried forward from last half-year 1>403 18 6
Giving an available Balance of .. 14 4
Which has been distributed as fol.ows
To Dividend for the half-year, at the race of 3 percent, per annum on Ordinary
Shares, and 3J per cent, per annum on Preference Shares -• 343 j 3 5
Dividend Duty on above 2 000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. •• *‘ "* ” ** " ” ’327 g g
Balance carried forward to next half-year .. • • •• •• •• •• • £10,049 14 4
By order of the Board.
EDWD. D. DAY,
General Manager.
Aggregate Ba.l2.ncc-Sheet of the Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
31st December. 1902.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
LIABILITIES.
. £456,327 6 0
56,000 0 0
.. 10,049 14 4
Bills Payable
Liability to Treasury for
Notes held in Reserve..
Deposits and other Lia-
bilities
7,477 15 8
33,500 0 0
774,938 6 0
£522,977 0 4
815,916 0 8
£1,338,893 1 0
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers .. .. • • £176,006 3 4
Bullion .. .. .. 26,626 13 0
Treasury Notes on hand.. 36,270 0 0
Government Stock .. 69,918 5 0
£298,821 1 4
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c 62,006 0 7
Bills Discounted, and all other Debts due
to the Bank.. 978,065 19 1
£1,338,893 1 0
Profit and Loss Account, 31st December, 1902.
Dr.
To Salaries, Rent and other
Expensesat Head Office
and 17 Branches .. £9,39#
Interest paid and ac-
crued on Fixed De-
posits, Rebate and Ex-
change paid .. .• 10,405 55
8 6
£19,800 6 10
10,049 14 4
Balance
£29,850 0 2
~ “ Cr.
By Balance brought forward
Gross Profit for the Half-year..
£1,403 18 6
28,446 1 8
£29,850 0 2
Reserve Fund
To Balance
.. £58,000 0 0
£58,000 0 0
By Balance invested in Government Stock £56,0000 0
Transfer from Profit and Boss Account 2,000 0 0
£58,000 0 0
Audited and found correct. .
GEO. FEED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.Q.,
CHAS. A. CLARKE, A.A. (Eng.).
Brisbane, 6th January, 1903.
Auditors.
P. L. CARDEW, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager
Auditor's Report
„ „o f. r., Knee-sheet. made up to 31st December, 1902, and report that we
We have examined the foregoing Aggr g Balances in the General Ledger at Head Office, and to the
find the several items therein stated to coniorm t being certified to by the respective Managers and Accountants.
Balance-sheets furnished by the Branches, thew Jtte cert ne Brisbane on the 31st
We have counted the Cash, and examined t t The Securities held at the Head Office have, at the
ultimo, and hereby have f b ° y u^ n r ; chambers, Bruce and M‘Nab, Solicitors to the Bank, and we have
seen their certificate to the effect that lhe J'^ r .® ~ " o rr t e p id Aggregate Balance-sheet is properly drawn up, and ex-
“S *2 the book * on tl,e 3l!t D “ emb "’ ,9o! ’
OEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.I.A.Q. \
OHAS. A. CLARKE, A.A. (Eng.), /
Auditors.
Brisbane, sth January, 1903.
Skin -Tortured Babies
AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Cuticura
Instant Belief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Coticcba Soap, and
gentle anointings with Coticoea Ointment, the great skin cure and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses of
Coticuea Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the blood. This is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and economical treat-
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, irritations, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet componnded.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, lor preserving, purifying, and beautifying
the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
(Stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, m the form of bathg
for^annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspira-
tion hX form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative,
antiseptic purpose, which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
moSs and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. No other
“SS soap ever compounded is to be compared with it for preserving
Durifvin<r an d beautifying the skm, scalp, hair, and hands.
foreign or domestic toilet ?oap, however expensive, is to be compared with
lt for S all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery Thus it combines
in One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
BEST toilet and best baby soap in the world.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
brated liquid Cuticura
cures. Put up in screw
Cuticura Remedies are sol
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse 8
Cobp., Sole Frops.t Boston, U
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
d throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Bydney. British
q„ London. French Depot: fi Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potteb Deuo and Chem
.8. A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPJESTITIOIff.
WINES
I7te Best Brands Only of
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
OKTIS
CORSET SHIELDS
>
Q*'QktlS~
CotscrSimui
Th'WiS
QjßsffSmuo
DOUBLE
THE LIFE
OF YOUR
CORSET
“Prevention is better than Cure”
and the Oktis Corset Shields, put into a new Corset, prevent split seams
and broken bones, and more especially that ugly ridge that so soon
appears, and spoils the appearance of the best fitting gown.
It does not Increase the Size of the Waist
ASK for the OKTIS, and see that you are not _P U * °IT vvlth Imitations.
On each one appears the name P. & S.—OKTIS— P. at, S.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order! HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.-Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUB SPECIAL No. S
£8 18/6
Delirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Hail ways, Station
£lO 10/-


HUMAN POISONS
i i . ft-
Continuously being made in each of us! Tfnir fatal nature!
Why they are made! The diseases they cause! How to
render them Harmless 1 Their antidote !
Life is maintained by a process of waste and renewal. Tt is as essential to life that the tissues of
the body should continuously die, as it is that they should be continuously renewed. To the unin-
itiated this may sound strange, but any doctor or scientific man will tell you that the tissues of the
body are in a constant state of decay, and that the decayed or dead matter must be removed, or it
will accumulate and cause disease or death.
THE KIDNEYS AS CLEANSERS
It is the function of the kidneys to remove, in the form of uric acid and'urea, a large proportioi
of the waste matter caused by the decay of the tissues. It is the failure of the kidneys to efficie'nth
remove uric acid and urea which causes people to suffer from Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia
Lumbago, Backache, Sciat ca, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. Tl>
most common indication that the kidneys are not doing their work properly is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A much surer test as to whether the kidneys are in thorough working order is an examination of tl
urine. If some urine passed the first thing in the morning is placed in a bottle or covered glass, an
is allowed to stand for twenty-four hours, and it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediint-i
in it, or if particles float about in it, then you may be sure tliat the action of the kidneys is impede
bv weakness or disease, and no time must be lost in restoring them to effective vigour, or uric pois<>
ing in some of its many forms will be the result. When you suffer from Rheumatism, Gout, Neur
gia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone or Catarrh of the Bladder, you a
suffering .from , a
URIC ACID POISONING.
But there is no reason why you should continue to suffer from any of. these oomplaints, It is on!
necessary to restore the kidneys to health, and all uric acid and other urinary p -isons will be luly e>
pelled from the system in a natural manner. Since the discovery was made (about thirty yeirs agi.
of the remarkable power possessed by
Warner’s Safe Cure
to cure all disorders of the kidneys and to restore to vigorous health those vital organs any perst
who now suffers from any form of disease oaused by failure of the kidneys to efficiently performtlie
office, suffers needlessly, because a course of Warner’s Safe Cure will speedily restore him or her t
full blooded health. Warners Safe Cure is an antidote to all poisons formed in the human bod
owing to incapable action of the kidneys or liver.
Mr. Murray L. Allen, of 4 Marsden’s Terrace, Clifford Street, Goulbourne, writing on the las
dty of the old year, says:- I have had a bad attack of inflammation of the kidneys and calculn
(stone), both of which yielded to the power of Warner’s Safe Cure.”
Remember that pains in the back, painful passing of urine, inflammation of the bladder tomb
liver, cloudy urine, pains in the back of the head and neck, rheumatic pains, swellings of the bod
all are Natures means of indicating to you that your kidneys are not able to do their work bronerl\
and also remember that Warner’s Safe Cure will speedily and permanently restore your lost nealtli.
Warner’s Safe Pills are a gentle cathartic, and assist in accelerating the cure.
A treatise containing full particulars of Warner’s Safe Cure and the diseases it cures will be sen
post free on application to the Australasian Branch, H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
DFROBERT S’
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
OINTMENT
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over 100 years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 V.’
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots. '
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1 %; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, K.D.
Born 1766. Died 1234.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle -
Posted to any State, ss. '
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bhllktin* when writing.
Some of the “curious mistakes” of im-
porters (none iof them meant to swindle the
Government—they were all honest mistakers)
which that ruffianly tyrant Minister Kingston has
just brought into court at Melbourne: Calling
-drachm bottles 5-drachm bottles; calling woollen
, r uods cotton-piece goods; describing flannelette as
rotton-piece goods; stating that an American pro-
letary medicine was made in Australia; mis-
aking milk-coolers for pasteurisers. All these
ionest mistakes involved a shortage in duty—
n some cases a very considerable shortage.
CINEMATOg RAPNT
Paul's New Century Animatograph, £6O
Paul’s Celebrated Picture Films, 9d.
per foot.
/
Full Particulars on Application to Paul’s Agents, viz.,
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Amusements^
Lyceum theatre, Sydney,
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
Up-to-date and Full of Local Interest and Color,
BLAND HOLT’S Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
fS n ITER IO N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
801 j: LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
LAST NIGHTS of CINDERELLA.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 31, the Farcical Sparkling
Musical Comedy in Five Acts,
THE LADY BARMAID.
A’rilten by Fred. Bowyer and W. E. Sprange. Music by
John Crock.
AS
WILLIAM
WHITE.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
f AS
{ KIMBERLEY
l. CAPE.
FULL CHORUS AND BALLET&
W MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, 2 p.m. tS,
Box Plan and Farly Door Sale, 269 Pitt-street.
fHEATRE ROYA l] SYDN E Y.
* Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson,
ontinued Triumphant Success of G EORGB M USGROVE’S
NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
the Romantic and Fascinating: Hungarian Comic Opera
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
normous Success of MADAME SLAPOFFSKI and
MR. LEMPRIERE PRINGLE.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan Now Open at Nicholson’s.
) ALACE THEATRE, ~
Lessees Messrs. Lee and Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIA ISON,
very Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
:OYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in
THE MIKADO.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 31, ROBIN HOOD.
Plan at Nicholson’s. SW PRICES AS USUAL.
r» V 0 LI . THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mb. Harry Rickards.
Triumphant Success of M. JACQUES INAUDL
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
plendid Success of FR£D POPLAR, Miss KITTY WACER,
Series of Triumphs scored by J. W. WINTON and
M‘GINTY, the Clever Ventriloquial Entertainer.
FARL LOVELL, WILL WOODS, SYLVIA WILSON,
ALVENA MOORE. PROFESSOR MACCANN, and
all our Great Tivoli Co.
RICKARDS' NEW OPERA HOUSE,
1 MELBOURNE.
>!e Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
ATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
SPRY and MONTI.
C. SPRY. C. W. HUNTER. DIAMOND DUO.
■ELSIE M 1 LACHLAN. LES WARTON. WELBY COOKE.
BIOSCOPE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. Plan aY Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
.nthusiastic Reception of
25 -A. 25 A,
■ Comedy Drama in 5 Acts, and the Most Remarkable
ay of the Century.
MISS N'LLIE STEWART as ZAZA, Supported by Mr.
eorge Musgrove’s New English Comedy Co.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
" . T Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
uM*j J ames Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
YILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
in the Intensely Interesting Sensational Drama,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
[’rices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamso.v.
sus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
Electric Success of the Greatest Pantomime
Australia has Ever Seen,
)ICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
With New Effects and Fresh Novelties,
-ntrancing Music rendered by an Opera Chorus and an
D . t t > Opera Orchestra.
Prices as U Bua l. fa Box Plan at Allan's.
MELBOURNE
Saturday,
ARMES BEAUMON
TOWN HALL,
JANUARY 31,
CONCERT D’ADIEU,
at which, the
- ... ™AL PUBLIC APPEARANCE
of the Popular Australian Tenor will be Rende
__ Memorable by the
RE-APPEARANCE, FOR ONE NIGHT ONLY, ol
MADAME MELBA
Who Generously gives her Valuable Assistant
T . D . . , SICNORINA SASSOLI.
e Principal Vocal and Instrumental Artistes of Me
n?, ? e .\ the U, Lyric Orchestra. St. Paul’s Cathedr
Quartette, and MISS AMY MURPHY (who comes special
from Dunedin) will also lend their aid.
FIRST SEATS, 10s. SECOND SEATS, ss.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
». S, SMYTHE.
JAYNE'S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE 'WORSTCOUCHiSj
Bnseis shares have had another set- back,
alleged reason being some paltry dispute with the
Brothers' Home co. as to the disposal of debris. The
genuine reason is that operators are losing confidence.
The long-promised 2CO tons of tin per month stage seems
as far off as ever. The studied silence as to the retire-
ment of Mr. Hawley from the management is not reassur-
ing. A competent man doesn’t resign an important
gisition like that without cause. Melb. papers state that
owes Keljy and Langford have visited the mine, and are
satisfied with the progress which is being made in the
removal of overburden, and that it will not be long ere
big returns are recorded. These semi-official intimations
are valueless. Kelly and Langford are as estimable and
honorable as they are enterprising men, but they get
beyond themselves if they assume that they are authori-
ties on the hydrostatic and other problems which pre-
sent themselves at the Briseis.
• • • •
Glenfine South (Vic.) although not yielding up
to the expectations of two years ago, still makes a good
showing. Last half-year 15,200 tons were treated for
6,690.j0z. ;an average of 7£dwts. Divs., £10,500, making
total paid £63,875, on an actual cash capital of £26,150.
Development work is very backward and co.’s shaft
seems to be badly placed for working the deep ground.
Long crosscuts are necessary to intersect the lode track,
and then longer levels have to be driven to reach the pay-
able formation. Each successive sink makes things worse
in these respects. Co. is now nearing the point at lowest
level where the pay ore should be met with. If it proves
all right, co. would do well to consider the advisableness
of sinking a new shaft.
• • • •
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), last half-year
won 5,6820z5. from 10,229 tons, and paid £9OOO in divs.
This has been one of the most consistent mines in Vio.
The reserves of ore are large, and lode is reported to be
showing well underfoot. Any practical man reading the
report of Zeb Lane, sen. (the veteran manager), must
marvel at arrangements not being made to double the
output. There is nothing in reports to suggest a reason
for shareholders being satisfied with Is. divs., when they
might be drawing 2s. What is the fly in the ointment?
* * * •
“ The severe depression in W,A. undertakings ’*
is the reason assigned by the directors of the london
W.A. Exploration Co. fora loss of £46,210 last year, as
corhpared with a profit of £64,513 for previous year.
Shares which were over-quoted at £2 7s. 6d. are now to
be had, minus the £2. This is a company-mongering
corporation which will be gradually depressed out of
existence as the process of legitimating W A. mining
goes on.
• • • •
Perseverance, champion mine of W.A., the
production of which, it was asserted a year ago, was
being forced, has so far justified the policy of the
management by results. The croakers paid for their
temerity in bearing the shares by losing their money.
The monthly yield for the year averages 16,1000 z., and
shows marked improvement at the close. The efficiency
of the treatment plant has been materially improved, with
the result that the percentage of extraction has steadily
increased, and is now about 6dwt. better than a year ago.
To those in the know the mine is looked upon as’ the pick
of the basket, and carries good ore right down to 900 ft.
Manager Nicholls has been absent the best part of the
year, but his subordinates are so well drilled that his
absence does not endanger the welfare of the mine. The
oxidised ore is now worked out and future returns depend
entirely on the sulphide plant. So far as ascertainable,
the returns can be eavily maintained on a current basis.
* » • *
Horseshoe has run theJPerseverance pretty close
for pride of place with a monthly average of 15,8000 z.
The worst feature of the returns is that nearly half the
gold comes from smelting small parcels of rich sulpho-
telluride ore. Were this source' of supply to fail there
would be a tremendous slump. During the year co.
acqftired the adjoining 57 kcres on the south known as
Hannan’s Golden Treasure, and is no longer cramped for
room. Co. has five lodes running through the property,
but most of the gold won comes from the boundary lode.
At various times this lode has been alleged to be dipping
back into the Great Boulder, but the statement is with-
out foundation.
• • • •
Great Boulder,. aiv_'"tgh running into third
place as a producer with a monthly yield of 13,9000 z., is
really behiqd the Ivanhoe in value of output. This co.
has, in some respects, been very disappointing. In the
eastern portion of the leases, despite much diamond-
drilling, nothing payable or promising has been struck.
The sinking of Jansen’s shaft-, to test the northern run of
the Ivanhoe lodes, has met with so little success that the
result of operations remains a profound secret. Luckily
the main lode on the property continues to go down,
and, at 1600 ft., is of good average grade. The old battery
is being dismantled, and co. will in future depend on the
sulphide plant for results. During the year Merton’s
furnaces have been installed, and will ultimately super-
sede Edwards’ furnaces. Co. has in turn tried battery
treatment, the Koneman and Riecken process, and
Edwards’ and Merton’s roasters, so management can’t be
accused of conservatism. Future outlook is promising.
Had co. shown half the enterprise of its neighbors it
would still be top dog.
* * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.), which nominally conies fourth
on the list with a monthly average of 11,9000 z., is very
economically run by Manager Nicholson. There is no
secrecy whatever about this mine, and reporters are
welcomed at any time. The five lodes on the property
have been proved down to 860 ft. and continue of very
uniform grade. The treatment plant -has been thoroughly
overhauled and- is now in first-rate order. Everything
points to a verj- prosperous future for the co., and the 4s.
div.,paid this month should be a quarterly fixture in
future, besides leaving a suhstantial balance for a Christ-
mas box.
» * • * .-,
Associated Northern (W.A.) is; at present, the
next of the Kalgoorlie mines as to output. As its place
is secured by packing the eyes out of the mine, it is un-
likely to long maintain its position. Reporters are not
allowed below at any price, though, during the year,
several more or less well-known experts have, by per-
mission of the directors, made exhaustive inspections
followed by most glowing reports. Some time ago
Manager Rodda stated that the low-grade ore in sight
was sufficient to pay a t'2 div. on the shares. Scrip has a
good speculative value, as. should the result of the drill
at 900 ft and 1100 ft. be confirmed by sinking, the position
of the co. will be enormously improved.
• • • •
Kalgurli (W. A.), after years of disappointment,
has at last been placed on a sound basis. The first treat-
ment-plant was a dismal failure both in extraction and
output, and its consignment to the scrap heap showed
Manager Moss’s pluck and judgment. The mine itself is
looking better than ever, the deepest level, at 1100 ft.,
showing very good ore. The lodes on this property are
so enormous that the cost of mining is the cheapest or
the belt. Regular quarterly divs. of 2s. 6d. per share
seem assured for some time to come.
* * • •
Oroya-Brown Hill (W. A.), from present appear
ances, has a good future ahead of it. In Capt. Parkes
time secrecy was unknown, and the mine was open to in
spection practically at ahy time. Now it is another story.
Even if Brown Hill is worked out, .as generally asserted
the two Oroya blocks are quite capable of making thingf
hum. The south block, above 600 ft. level, has much
one ounce ore developed, and a very high average cai
be maintained by a judicious mixture from the riel
chute in the north lease. If the Associated Northeri
once confirms the diamond drill results at 800 ft. an<
1100 ft., the Oroya’s north block will be a very valuabl
asset. By working backwards, the same run of ore ma
be traced into the Brown Hill, and further enhance th
value of the concern.
••• _ •
Hainault (W.A ), has hitherto been a great dis
appointment, but under Mr. Moss it has been licked ini
shape, and, as good ore is showing down to 650 ft. and th
stopes in places are 60ft. wide, prospects are undeniabl
good. The battery equipment in being doubled, and th
second portion of the plant is nearly ready to start. Th
ore is too low-grade for the mine to make much of
splash even with 20 head running, and it is hoped tha
the near future will see further additions made.
••. ' • •
Patents wor Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con
suiting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.
John Byrne, of Goodna (Q.), who will be
100 next J une, walked half a mile to a picnio the
other day. He entered for the Old Buffers’ rao
and won the prize—but then he was the only com-
petitor.
The Papacy compelled by a recent
French scandal, which showed that applications
to the Pope for decrees of nullity of marriage
were made opportunities for grave corruption and
merciless fleecing of suitors—has decided that, in
future, all divorce proceedings, even in the case
of crowned heads, shall be in forma pauperis. The
Monaco Royal divorce is said to have cost £lOO,OOO
at the Papal Court.
A Yorke’s Peninsula (S.A.) town clerk and
rate collector has such a way with him that in six
years he has got in every penny of the rates, anc
in most of the other 13 years of his experience ht
has been less than £l short.
They are all throwing; stones at it now
Professor Goldwin Smith :
This fit of Jingoism, megalomania, or whatever it is t<
be called, came on yesterday and may end to-morrow
History teaches us to be patient and hopeful. lam no
so much afraid of Mr. Joseph Chamberlain. The pol
tician who spins about as he has done is generally devoid I
not only of principle, but of well-settled plan. I fancy 1 j
discover in him symptoms of a nervous apprehension that |
the nation is coming to its senses again.


MEDICAL REVOLUTIONS.
CURED TO
STAY CURED
IVr OTHING wrecks a man’s life
more surely or quickly than
derangements of the vital
organs. A weak man is a drone
upon Society, lacking that natural
strength which is the keynote to
commercial success and domestic
happiness. His deplorable condi-
tion haunts him day and night; it
is never absent.
Thousands of men who have
been restored to Health and Vigor
have applied to us after years of
bad treatment by quacks and
charlatans. They have had years
of intense suffering, they had given
up hope, but we have cured them.
We are so certain of establishing
Quick # Thorough Cures
that we take no case in hand unless
we are positive we can cure. Piti-
able cases of nervous wrecks and
run-down men and women have
come to us every day and we have
made them perfect in health. We
have re-invigorated them in a few
weeks by our wonderful
Electro-Medical
Treatment
or the combined use of Electricity
and Medicine.
Our system of Home Treatment
is availed of by thousands of per-
sons resident in the back country
where medical men are few. We
daily receive testimonies from per-
sons who have been cured without
even consulting us personally. We
never take a case in hand without
we are certain of a cure. We are
under a guarantee
Bond of £lOOO
for the faithful performance of all
Medical contracts undertaken. We
cure many so-called “ Incurable ”
diseases thus described by the
medical faculty.
islOffiHSslaffl
mwm
i
UPS
3 s:;§;KiJE S
Sjafssg
r : : !»
;
mmmm
> “Li ■--
/
i.-v.li
.
• : . ;;; i:
•:-... :6
>3«£»
ir"‘
> -m
m
cjj
j
I
s 'fv? 5 „
i
■
; i Egi ; „
S | S ’
n 1” - <jr
¥ ! ?£3§«« “‘"S?? M
# tc _
ar>
it
mmmmmmmmrnsmm
m
m
TheFR£EMAN«WALLACE
f Y JM§>TrIITOTE/
SYDNEY
S&S&gKSS
MBm
::::
sSk&s
M
SBi
rim;
’„ -A" <f *Vfflng, Tip , , f„ sr]'\
mm
oB|i
! » :■ &
MM
m
m
m
a
o
cr
amirnm^mC
30 </>
m
1 ■ c
3C . 33
M 1
m
m
v*
m
m
I iiii
1
Ipi
BSigg
Extracts from
Patients’Letters
HERE are a few extracts from
patients’ letters which you
should read carefully and
think over. They are only a few
selected from many scores which
are received daily.
Mr. Philip Newbury,
the great English tenor, now starring in
London, writes :
“For years I suffered from uric acid in
the blood. Thanks to the wonderful effi-
cacy of your Electric ‘ IN VIGOR ATOR,’
I am now completely cured.
“(Signed) PHILIP NEWBURY.”
A Victorian says—
“ Warwillah,
“ Hawkesdale, Victoria.
“I acknowledge receipt of Electric
‘ INVIGORATOR,’ which I have used
according to instructions. I sleep much
better. I feel a different man since I com-
menced your treatment.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ H. J. SHERRING.”
Newcastle Man writes—
“ Merewether,
“Newcastle.
“ Please forward me more medicines. I
am improving. Those ‘INVIGORA-
TORS ’of yours are very good. I have not
had any pains in my shoulders this last
fortnight. Am pretty well right again.
“ Yours truly,
“WILLIAM DAVIES.”
A New Zealander attests—
“ Limestone Island,
“Auckland, N.Z.
“Your uelt ’ came to hand all right, I
am wearing it according to instructions.
I was as bad as ever before its use, but
since, I feel much better. It seems to
make me sleep well since applying it.
“Yours sincerely,
“H. HEWLETT.”
A N.S. Wales sufferer—
“ Adelong Crossing,
“ via Gundagai.
“ I have received your ‘ INVIGORA-
TOR,’ and lam thankful. It is doing me
a lot of good. I cannot but send you a
good testimonial showing what benefit the
‘ Belt ’ has given me in so short a time.
“ Truly yours,
“JAMES NEVE.”
Don’t such letters give you hope ?
You should write for special
brochure of testimonies, illustrated.
You may find there a case similar
to your own.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice and Medicine, ONE POUND only.
Electricity and Medicine is the new system of treating debilitating diseases. Scientists employ it, the public praise it. The “ INVIGORATORS,”
worn round the waist nightly, re-invigorate the entire nerve-centres of the body. The medicines, which are of a specially reconstructive character, tone up
the digestive and nutritive processes, laying the foundation of a grand new healthy life. These “ INVIGORATORS ” are modelled after those used by
three Physicians to the late Queen ) they are perfect, and in bad cases will completely cure INSOMNIA, INDIGESTION, EPILEPSY, RHEUMA-
TISM, CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA, SCIATICA, and FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS. They are good for women to wear. Consider these
prices well with those you are asked to pay for old-time Electric “ Belts. ”
sm- NOTE.—The Fliysician-in-Chief is the only Registered Medical Practitioner advertising Electric Belts in Australia. (See N.S.W. Medical Gazette).
PRICES.
You see here the value :
Solid Cold (2oz. IBct. Cold), £lO ; Solid Silver, £3 ; Electro-Plate, £1 10s; Copper-Plate, £l.
Practical Private Tests given. Certificates of Genuineness shown from Electrical Experts, proving they have the true non-conducting vulcanite
insulation, without which no “ BELT ” can give a true medical electric current.
Registration by the Medical Boards of
New South Wales
South Australia
Victoria
England
and
America
Open for inspection of the PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF to the Institute, of
whom SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART., says: “ / entertain a high
opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his professional qualifications .
The operations of the INSTITUTE are world-wide. Scarcely a day
passes but SOME GREAT CURE is reported through the medium of
the SPECIALISTS’ SYSTEM of HOME TREATMENT. Patients are
treated as well in THEIR OWN HOxMES as if visiting personally. To
the poor professional advices ARE ALWAYS GIVEN EREE.
The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement
is rapid and certain.
gS»AN
\o V l
•’ffVw
Post Free, Is.
Medical Health Guides
The finest friend any man or woman can possess is a good instructive
book upon health and how to act when disease enters into the house.
Here is the very book required. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,”
550 pages, 31 chapters,
150 MEDICAL PLATES,
full of interest and instruction. Tells you what to do in sunstroke or
in cases of FEVER, DROWNING, " APOPLEXY, BURNS and
SCALDS, SNAKEBITE or POISONING. Where there is no medical
man, that is where this book finds a place.
It is a handsome volume, highly finished in every way, a splendid gift
to a friend or a valuable companion for yourself. It thoroughly explains
the use of Electricity to the human frame. Post free to any address.
One Shilling in Stamps Only.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., LF.P.S, E.,L.M , Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free From Observation and sent to all parts oF Australia.
Letters treated with ProFessional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


Victorian Railway Dept, thinks of follow,
ing the example of the English N.E. Railway Co.
in running petrol motor cars on the poorly-
patronised lines. The English car, the type that
is propose 1. is 52ft. 1 >ng. with a passenger capacity
of 52: each car has an engine at one end and a
conductor's compirtment at the other, and attains
a speed of 30 miles an hour within half a minute
of starting. On lines where accommodation for 52
is ample, the experiment should be scccess’‘ul
enough, seeing that it would save the cost of
dragging about a lot of useless and unnecessary
cam at the tail end of the worn-out Vic. locomotive,
and would likewise allow of the rolling stock being
us<d where it was more needed.
Germans hare a new fodder for horses and
cattle, consisting of nut-busks, nut shells, mousses,
and “ steam-dried blood.” It is said to be good
and economical.
Mr. John Young’s proposal in Australia
that the building of the Federal capital should be
entrusted to a syndicate almost synchronised
with the death in America of Alexander R. Shep-
herd, the head of the syndicate which undertook
there-building of T7.S. A.’s Federal capital. He
and his ring “ boodled ” enormously, and, though
they did the work pretty well, lined their own
nests to such an extent that, after a four years’
trial. Shepherd was kicked out.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s owl
CIRCULAR-POIXTED PENS J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention u aUo
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
Eieh pattern being made in jour degreea of Jlex&AUty arid Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. orits : BIR MIN GUAM, ENGLANf
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty o Brea tng, oarseness, Pam or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it e .ects a are. It is most com-
forting inallaving irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to op. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at me beginning, a dose ts genera.iy sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RTTLIL
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
At. W. G. Hfimf. —Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell too
about the wonderfni cure roar medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the couch was not severe, but it gradually sot worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept' rav very beet thanks. —Tours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-read, S.E-, London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS' CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AMD COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARSES BRONCHITIS CURE
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and durinjr that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful med: : ne : does good at once,
and “can't be licked." —Yours sincerely.
Mode wane, Victoria. W. TREMEIXEX.
▲ Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BT A BOTTLE OF HEARSE'S
BROSCHITIS CURE
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear SSr. —Kindly forward ire a
battle of your Bronchitis Car* as as poss'ble.
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
hai a bottle from you before for mv Pule riri when she
was seven months aid. She had been suffering from
braoehitis from her birth, and now she is S years old. and
has not had a return of it sritoe. It s a splendid medi-
cm for bronchitis or coids of any sort.
I remain, yours truiv,
Ura H. RAMAGE
Violet Town, Victoria
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IV ENGLAND.
**Mr. Heame.—
“ UenweTlyn,
“ Katanga, Vic.
“ Dear Sir. —I am very much pleased with the effects
of toot Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had Terr had coughs. and one bottle cured the
three erf them. The cusemaid also bad such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greaUy from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN'S. MORTIMER-“
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR IS MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOB YEARS.
" 8 Watson-street. Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
" Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sr. —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you wfll be glad to know that your Brooch:; is
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suSering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sen: for my own doctor, but had
not had one night's rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding Hit blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and hack without feeling any firgne- I had not
done that previously for IS months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distr-ss in
the chest. I alwsvs walk now, and Dever feel it. and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
"Yours verr taulv,
“M. MORTIMER
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, UenweUyn, Katanga,
Victoria.
FTER DAUGHTER HAD BEKS' VERT Ilia
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CUBED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE
The extract runs as follows : —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feel in? stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, bat Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful- I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I mast ask you to send me six bottle* more of the
medicine, as I wish to hare a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
hare a bottle to see what he could do. He tell* me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I bare never kept in bed cne day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be. and was always taking
end liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while St" —r for it such a long distance.
“Soc > more I must tell yoa. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her c-ough n< so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it. and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
bat send it back again. She had su -h confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it- On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night's rest was very good, and cough and bleed ng
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did net require any more medicine.
So you see what great gpod h has done, and she wiahe*
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING. SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sr.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased hy any remedy, dorters’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to ssv that the cough, pain in the chest,
and d : fsr-olry of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain. Sir,
touis most respecsfaHv.
• WILLIAM CROCKETT.
“Baker’s Swamp P.Q., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Fire Year* 1 Ca,#e,
CUBED BY OXE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr W. G. Hearne.— Dew Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of yoar Bronchitis Care. I am more than
pleased with the results of toot wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five year*, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
X remain, youri reapectfu'ly,
AGXES F. KEXXEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria,
A Srren Year*' Case.
EXPECTORATIXG BLOOD AXD MATTER.
COMPLETELY CUBED.
“ Mr. VT. G. Eeame.
“ Dear Sir, —Your med'crne has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, daring which period I was scarcely ever free from
ooughs. and frequently tbe difficulty of breathing was so
distress ng that for nights in succession I had to git up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been retting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent rough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
Tbe first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued tbe treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN' TEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES
Mr. Alex. J. Audersc-i. of Oak Park. Charieville,
Qaeer.<atd. writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, ard having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit. I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, arjd since then,
wr.irh was in the begetting cf 18SS— 75 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it The medicine qui
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommendingit.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1533, he stats*:—'‘ I
am keeping very well now. Sever have the alights#!
ettim of the Asthma"
PREPARED ONLY AKD SOLD WHOLESALE AXD RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor. Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street. Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size. 2s 6d; Large. 4s 6-d. Sold by Cbemists and Medicine Vendors. Poncardcd by Post to any Addr**s net obtainable Locally .
THE
SMELTING t REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
'Mr 1 y y - —v—v— u
Highest Price paid for Gold. Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Tor all Information regarding Bates, apply to the Manager, Head Office. Dafto;
or, A. E. B UDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY* Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable."
Lwnxw >£et'jcal Jcrts.
Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own."
Redoes.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON/ ”
Benger’s Food
For Infants. Inva'ids. and the Aged. Dehclous. *9tr*r*> and Dmsctiu*
5 Food is sold br Chemists, & c . , E«rxwber- ' V
Extracts from Private
Letters.
« Mr last little boy was
fed isctst upon it fro®
birth, and » bealrfiiff
child it would be difficult
*.-> had. Mt wife sounds
the praise of 1 Bengw’s
Tcod' everywhere.*
"IT eeery mother knew
of is* value, no o*b«
wv»-ald be asei-


Just a Word or Two with you
on the Watch Question.
f ould notbe ‘ he lawst saving on a Watch-the real economy
of honest wear and correct timekeeping is the true test of value. The
Wrn W u T y ar a Itte price for a Watch « ets bat Httle satisfaction-
ppmw , c d h f r<ily . expe s* more - We have built up a reputation for
Eelmb e Watches and we intend to keep it by selling only the dependable kind.
We illustrate and describe a few Watches here—for others see our large
Catalogue, which we send free to anyone who cares to send for it.
No. Glooo.—This is a particu-
larly neat little Jewelled
Movement Steel-cased Keyless
Watch for a lady; price,
£1 2s. 6d.
</vyv>v*
a<3£
12
K
V
10
inwMi
4
Lady’s Key-Wind, Solid Silver, lingraved
Case, Jewelled Movement Watch, with
Silver Dial, exquisitely deooated with
Gold; price, jE2 2s.
Lady’s High Quality, Keyless,
Hunting Waltham Lever Watch,
Solid Silver, Engraved Oases, and
for extra strength Casj is fitted
with Solid Gold Joints ; price,
£4.
The Waltham Lever Watch, with Fine Jewelled Movement and Solid
Silver Hunting Case, Keyless, Brequet Spring, Compensation Balance,
Pbice JE3 10s.
The “ Princess ” 18ct. Gold Hunti g-
Gased Watch, with a thoroughly good
Jewelled Movement : price, £5 10s.
If Open Face, £4 10s Silver
Hunting, £2 10s. Open Face, £2.
No. F9s6.—The Silver “Triumph" Watch,
suitable tor men or boys, Jewelled Movement,
Keyless, Solid Silver Case ; price, £1 10s. In
Nickel Silver Case, 18s. 6d.
The “Eclipse” Watch, Key-wind, Capped and Jewelled
Movement, Strong Solid Silver Hunting Cases, price £2.
Open Face, £1 10s. Lady’s Sizes, with Engraved Case at
the same prices.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free*
No. F934.—A }-Plate, Jewelled Movement,
Keyless, Solid Silver, Hunting- ( ase, English
Lever Watch, with Compensation Balance and
Brequet Hair Spring ; price,
.£4 10s.
No. E9666.—A Highly-polished, Steel-
eased, Keyless, Open Face, Crystal
Glass Lever Watch for Ladies. It has
a First-class, Jewelled Lever Move-
ment ; price, jgg S S .
8
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
fALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
MtorioiE
w
WHICH IS MADE BY
The Gramophone Typewriter [td.
This is a “ JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tHe intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum—and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Platon, Benaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Bichard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Bobey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA -
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


HEALTH AND VIGOR RENEWED.
CONSTIPATION
REMOVED.
The only remedy for constipation lies in
restoring the digestive and other functions to an
active and healthy condition.
It is useless to use purgative medicines only for
this purpose, as whatever effect they may have is
but temporary, and they leave the organs weaker
and more inactive than before.
As a general strengthener, cleanser, and stimu-
lator of the digestive and functional organs, nothing
will be found more effective than Kutnow’s Powder.
Irresistible Testimony.
“ 10, Abercorn Place, London, N.W.,
“January 22nd, 1902.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have used Kutnow’s Powder as
directed, and find it very efficacious ; more so than
other preparations T have tried. I shall always keep
a bottle of your Powder and make frequent use of it.
“ Yours faithfully,
“GEORGE ELLIOTT,
“ Clerk in Holy Orders.”
BILIOUSNESS
BANISHED.
Sufferers from Biliousness are also likely to
be victimised by Loss of Appetite, Furred Tongue, a
Bitter Taste, Sickness, Constipation, and Headache
usually situated immediately above the eyes, the
upper half of the balls of which are painful on
pressure. Sometimes the pain occurs at the sides
and top, and occasionally, though more rarely, at the
back of the head.
Drowsiness, with a feeling of great depression
and general malaise, is a frequent accompaniment of
a bilious attack, while, on the other hand, a condition
of sleeplessness is almost as common when the head-
ache is severe. The remedy is
KUTNOW’S
POWDER.
THEBE ARE FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
BEWARE OP THEM !!!
I INDIGESTION
ERADICATED.
When Indigestion has continued long the sys-
tem becomes so weakened that almost any disease
can secure lodgment in it, and hence it is only a
matter of time when the sufferer’s life is brought to
a premature end.
Fully half the ailments the average medical
practitioner is called in to attend have their origin in
disorders of the digestive organs. Dyspepsia is
quickly remedied by Kutnow’s powder.
Irresistible Testimony.
“ 62, Somerset Street, Hull,
“January 22nd, 1902.
“ I was greatly pleased at the efficiency of your
Kutnow’s Powder. It is also extremely palatable
and greatly invigorates and relieves the system of
any tendency to biliousness. All persons troubled
with constipation will find in your Kutnow’s Powder
a pleasant, speedy, and sure cure.
“CHARLES ALCOCK.”
KI TXOM ’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that
the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “ S. KUTNOW
and CO. (Ld.)," are on the label and carton. ONLY SUCH ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “ KUTXOW’S ”
AND EIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OETEN INTERIORS. ’
Proprietors : S. KUTNOW & CO.; LTD., 41 FARRINCDON RD., LONDON, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. : Kutnow Beos., 853 Broadway, New York.
s—ll
m most of the clerical offices of N.S.W.
railways (writes a Bulletin' correspondent) the
pruning-down has been done so finely that, in
order to get through the work, overtime is usual.
For this overtime no extra money is paid, and if
any individual grumbles he is dismissed. In one
of the railway offices many of the clerks fre-
quently work from 9 in the morning till 10 p.m.
Victorian municipal councils attend to
everybody’s business except their own. Bendigo
council, at a recent meeting, was severely spoken
to by the auditor about the misappropriation of
nearly £300. mostly for entertainments and ad-
dresses to Governors, military celebrations, and
such-like whoopiugs. Some public bodies would
have felt confused at being thus found out, but
Bendigo Council proceeded,. as if nothing had
happened, to discuss a motion condemning the
Immigration Restriction Act. The time will yet
come iu ictoria when the suspected embezzler
in the dock will move that the anti-Kanaka
law be repealed, and the motion will be
seconded by the policeman who ran him in, and
carried after an animated debate, in which the
Judge, and bis associate, and the person whose
money was stolen, and the fattest witness, and the
baldest juryman, will speak eloquently at great
length.
A letter to the Abgus on “ Christianity in
India”—which is much the same as elephants in
Greece:—
Mr. Patera's figures look vastly encouraging—on paper.
But “a century of progress in that direction is still un-
traceable,” however discouraging, is probably not far
wide of the truth. A grey-haired old missionary in India
was asked by a friend of mine, *' How many real converts
do you believe you have made to Christianity?” “So
help me, God, I believe not one,” was the reluctant reply.
Christianity, as a matter of fact, is at a terrible
disadvantage. When the most successful con-
quering natious of the world go preaching the
doctrine of peace, and non-resistance, and laying
up of treasure in heaven, even the most undressed
type of nigger can see the discrepancy. The white
man tells his colored brother that the meek shall
inherit the earth, but the vigorous and well-armed
and bounceable are inheriting it all the time, and
the nigger has seen the title-deeds.
Britain, standing in with Germany to de-
mand satisfaction from Venezuela, is reminiscent
of a time 40 years ago when Britain. France and
Spain howled jointly for satisfaction ou the coast
of Mexico. During the great Mexican civil war
much foreign property was confiscated, mostly bv
the Conservative or church party and its boy-
tyrant Miramon. When he fell his successor, the
patriot Juarez, was visited ere he had even time
to gather up the ruins, by three armed fleets de-
manding cash and satisfacton, and flatly refusing
to allow time to raise the money. Curiouslv
enough Miramon. the cause of most of the
grievances, came with the French to help to de-
mand satisfaction for his own deeds. Britain and
Spain backed out disgustedly without getting their
money. The French set up a Mexican empire with
Maximilian of Austria at its head, but Juarez
the ITnqnenchable came out on top after four or
five years of bitter war. and executed the new
Austrian 4 potentate at Queretero as a casual
brigand who had entered the country with arms
in his hands when his nation and Mexico were at
peace. Tne affairs of Napoleon III. never looked
up after that luckles* 'euture. Now Kaiser
Will am sh urs signs of a desire to do in Venezuela
something like what Napoleon did 40 years ago in
Mexico, and if he gets his way his Hck will
probably be about as bad as the other man s.
“ F.” i Sharks do not attack clothed per-
sons—as witness divers, also the numerous bodies
picked up in Sydney harbor, untouched save for
small fish pickings at face and hands. The late
James Putwain, a well-known diver, told me that
although he often worked where sharks were and
was always prepared for them, they never
molested him.
In her early years “ John Oliver Hobbes ”
(Mrs. Pearl Craigie) sat under Dr. Parker, of the
City Temple and “ Damn the Sultan!” fame. Her
first story was published in a paper edited by him.
Later, she ’verted to R-C.-ism. When she wrote
announcing the fact to Dr. Parker she added
saints’ names to her signature, thus—Pearl Mary
Teresa Craigie. The reply was signed Joseph
Matthew Mark Luke John Parker.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
L-—-
WABASH
Expansion
Business
Systems.
Letter Filing
Devices.
Card Index
Systems.
Fob all
Businesses.
We Systematise your Office Free of Charge.
Write us for Must rated Catalogue,
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney-
Sole Agents, Australia.
Don’t wait for This!
ARE YOU BALD
Let me examine your scalp, and I will tell you whether
or not you can be cured. The great majority of those
who are bald CAX be cured, and if I undertake your
case I will make a small charge for treatment in addition
to the cost of CAPLLLA used.
GAPILLA HAIR TONIC
If this Preparation is rightly used it will produce' the
result I claim—it will make your Hair grow. And if
you will call on me I will convince you.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is obtainable at all Chemists—2 6 per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor and Inventor, 164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
"Steele Rudd.’
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM
anv ll oUler - » b specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
ed-e thj- is reonired pn-'it/ **' gr.nding. Beinc practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the evict kind j!
&ir 3 ’ "
The "PLUM’' RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Raior, 7s. S 3.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER. 6d cake
Pxics (|i n e! e £*“*• in fron? Case, 10s M; Patr, m beautiful Morocco Leader Ows. Zis.
\ Single Razo., m Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handies. iatawtihU IS
Rwistkrsd axd skst Post Fkks to any part op th* VTosul
Please add cd. exchange on Country and U. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st*, Sydney.
4
DARK OR AROMATIC
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.


s£ I
COc
P.D
CORSETS
)♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ”on band inside, as •, > /
The NEW SHORTHAND (Rgd).
Reduced to 21 Lessons for 21s. to Completion,
Payable 2/6 first, 2/6 second, 1/- each lesson for the next 16, and the remaining 3 lessons free.
Copy of letter received Jan. 20, 1903.
Brown Street, Armidale,
19th January, 1903.
W. Charlton Hubble, Esq.,
Gibb’s,Chambers, Moore Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,-I have much pleasure in testifying to the merits and advantages of vour “ New Shorthand »
s/sfems tmanS Sho, ' thand tor elght yearS lamin a to oo.tq.are and eontnvst these t-o
follow^nFreasons:- 10 " Sayit '° emphatically that 1 conside r your system far superior to Pitman’s for the
1. It is much more easily learned.
2. —lt is incomparably' easier to read.
3. There are less abbreviations, grammalogues, etc., to remember
In the fortn.ght I took lessons from you I have attained a speed of 45 words a minute and tu;= -I™ •
great point in favour of your system, viz., that speed follows quickly ’ d thlS alone 18 a
I naturally was prejudiced, or at least sceptical towards the merits of your new method but now t
more than pleased with the results and can heartily recommend it.- Yours faithfully 1 1
Melbourne Studio: 406 Collins Street.
(Seepage 6.)
W. Charlton Hubble, Chief Examiner for N.S.W.
Branches at Hobart, Launceston, Brisbane and Perth
(Signed) ALEC. DOYLE.
Sydney Studio - 7 Moore Street.
Our New Selection.
DAD’S TRIP TO BRISBANE.
[For the Bulletin.]
The wheat was in, and Dad decided to take a trip
to Brisbane. For seven or eight years lie had
been thinking of that trip, but something or other
always came to prevent his going. According to
Dad himself, the farm would suffer if he went
away for a month ; there would be no one to look
after it, no one to manage. According to us there
would be no one to look on while the cows were
being milked ; no one to stand in the paddock all
day while the hay was being raked and carted
and stacked ; no one to fuss round and be a
nuisance to Dave while he sold a draft of fats to a
butcher, or drove a profitable deal with the pie-
buyers ; no one to yell boisterously for the where-
abouts of any of us when we chanced to be con-
cealed from view for a moment or two by a dray
or a hay-stack, or something; no one to annoy
the men who worked hardest, and to incite them
to strike and seek employment elsewhere ; no one
to molest Regan’s bull when it came round our
way; no one to take the gun down when little
Billy Bearup came to see Sarah ; no one to sool
the dogs on to travelling stock and challenge the
big dusty drovers to get down and be obliterated •
and no one to aggravate Dave and Joe to
blasphemy and rebellion.
Yes; we would miss Dad when he was away
Still, we encouraged him to go. We were not
sjlfish. We said it would be a pleasant change to
him. We said nothing of the pleasure it would be
to ourselves. We only thought of Dad. Some
families never think of their father at all. We
never forgot Dad for a day. He was with us in
everything we did. He was never out of our
nnnds.
Mother was to accompany Dad to the city, and
Bill, with the buggy, was waiting at the door to
take them to the train.
. f £ et ’ now ’” Dad ad J'ured Dave for the
hundredth time, “ter start chaff-cuttin’ t’morrer
an’look out th’milk doesn’t be late at th’fact’ry—
an’ see Regan sends that collar back t’day—an’ if
tliet feller comes for pigs, have them all ready for
urn—an nnn if Thompson”-(Sarah exchanged
kisses with mother, and hoped she would have a
good time and sent her love to Norah)—“ wants
th lend o th filly, he carn’t git her; dam ye, loeh,
horse ! --(the animal switched its tail just when
Dad placed his foot on the buggy step)—“don’t
ter—(“Won’t you wear your best hat,
Dad . from Sarah) —“ ter start chaff-cuttin’ first
thing— yveh ! will yer-an’ see th’ men aint loafin’
about all day.'’
.“ It ’ 11 , be , orl right,” Dave answered ; then Bill
stirred the horse up, and the buggy started.
So-long! Dave said. Sarah waved her
hand. lake care of y’selves,” Joe called out;
remember me to Henry Norman, and watch you
don t get run in.’’
Dad turned his head and shouted back, “Don’t
leave th cows too long in th’ luce’ne.”
“ Bust, th’ cows ! ’’—cheerfully, from Joe.
, “P o ?,’* , Iftave th ’ °uws too long in th’ luce’ne,”
Dad yelled again.
“ Or -rif/ht!” Dave shouted between his hands
feud enough to be heard in Parliament. “Or-
rii/ht / ” from J oe, louder even than Dave. “Poor
Dad ! Sarah mused, “the cows are a worry to
him.
A few turns of the wheels and the buggy
stopped. Dave wondered. “ Changed his mind ”
said Joe. Sarah laughed.
“Hadn’t y’ better put them out nowt” Dad
shouted.
“For Heaven’s sake, get them out,” Joe
advised, “or lie won’t go.”
\ airs, yairs, ’ Dave bawled, and packed Barty
off to turn the brutes out.
* * * •
Then the buggy disappeared round the corner ;
and Dave and Joe and Sarah and the rest of us
marched inside and looked round. All of us
rejoiced. We had never had so much freedom at
home before, and felt we would never have again.
Joe pulled on an old faded smoking-cap of Dad’s
that lay on the parlor table, and declared himself
king. In a voice like Dad’s he ordered Bill to
“Clear t’ th’ devil, an’ do some work.” Bill dis-
obeyed. Joe took him by the neck. Bill resisted,
and a brilliant engagement took place on the new
carpet. They tumbled and rolled about like
bullocks, broke the legs of two chairs, and shook
an enlarged picture of Dad’s father that cost a lot
of money from the wall. Sarah flew into a
passion ; said she wouldn’t stay another hour in
the house if that was the way they were going to
carry on. And when the combatants fell under
the table and rose with it on their backs, and
tilted it with a loud crash against the piano, she
appealed distractedly to Dave.
“Steady there, now, you fellers,” Dave said ;
“ steady ! ”
“It’s only th’ pedigree,” Joe answered, puffing
hard, and restoring grandfather to the shattered
frame.
Sarah was irate. But Barty’s voice announcing
the approach of Billy Bearup calmed and con-
ciliated her.
“ He’s no:! ” she said, eagerly turning to the
door. Then, changing color, cast an eye over her
attire, and fled to doll herself up.
A new idea occurred to Joe: “See me startle
Bearup,” he said, and pulling the smoker on
again he slipped away. Robing himself in a
familiar old rag of Dad’s, he took down the gun
and hobbled forth to welcome Bearup, who at the
moment was bending from his horse to open the
gate.
“ T’ ’ell outer this ! ” Joe roared at a range of
CO yards. Bearup looked up and saw the gun.
He didn’t wait for anything more; he didn’t wait
to open the gate again either. He spurred his
horse and galloped down the headland. Joe fired
the weapon off, and. yelled as Dad several times
had yelled before.
Bearup made a wide circuit through the stubble,
doubled back on Joe, reached the gate at racing
speed, and while we wildly rejoiced from the
verandah, disappeared down the lane and was lost
in dust.
“ You’re nothing but an ass ! ” Sarah said when
Joe returned. “You’re a fool! I’ll let father
know your carryings-on when he comes back.”
Then wj went cheerfully to work.
Dad and mother arrived in Brisbane at dusk
and alighted at the Central railway-station. Dad
shouldered his luggage, and with mother lumber-
ing a bag, went to seek lodgings.
They were welcomed to a boarding-house on
Wickham Terrace that Norah had recommended
to them. A daughter of the woman who kept it
taught in Kangaroo Point school with Norah.
Twas a large house and a lively plaoe to stay at.
Twelve boarders in it; 12 gentlemen boarders of
different degrees and dress and dispositions. One
was born with a gift for music, and had the
patience and courage to develop it. He used to
spend his nights thumping “Alice, where art
thou?” out of the piano. Another constantly
mortified the landlady, and made her miserable
and unhappy. He would stay in on evenings she
had company, reading the newspaper ; and when
the room was silent would straighten himself up
and read aloud the house advertisements dwelling
on the “comforts” and “accommodation” with
emphasis that made it sound like an indictment
tor perjury.
And there was a luxurious lodger who always
had a ball or something to go to, and used to
leturn late in the night or at early morning in a
cab, and fly up the stairs pursued by the cabman,
l ie others were harmless, quiet-living fellows,
who only growled about their shirts every week
and gave notice to leave.
* * • .
Sweeney, a cheerful, red-haired lodger, coming
from the bath, discovered Dad and mother
mooching about the balcony. He didn’t say
‘brood morning” to them, or anything. He
stared with all his eyes, and darted into a room as
if they alarmed him. Then he and three of the
, harmless boarders poked their heads
through a half-open door and grinned and
grimaced at Dad and mother.
But Dad didn’t notice them. Nor did he
notme that they stole into the room of Doonan
(the nasty member of the house). Doonan, who
had lost a lot of sleep, was angry. In a loud
voice he abused Dad and mother, and accused
them of tramping about all night, and asked if
they were elephants. Then he took observations
m them, and hammered on the wall of his room
and called lustily for Jacobs, another lodger, to
come and see Esau.
The bell rang, and a host of gentleman boarders
with high collars and stiff shirts and soft hands
trooped in to breakfast. The lady of the house
stout and stately, sat at the head of the table
guarding a dish of sausages.
“See you’ve new lodgers, Mrs. Foley?” said
one, a thin, satirical lawyer.
The others sniggered ; the lady coloring slightly,
smiled, and asked Mr. O’Rourke what he would take'.
‘; Sausages, I expect,” Mr. O’Rourke said, sadly,
seeing no second dish.
“Sausages for choice,” the lawyer replied, and
there was more sniggering, and fresh color came
into the lady’s face.
Doonan bounced in.
“ Hello ! ” he exclaimed ; “ where’s Esau ? ”
Sweeney spluttered, and lost some of his tea. A
small, big-footed girl, pouring out tea at a side
table, giggled into the cups and scalded herself.
The lady rebuked her.
“ Mary ! ” she said ; “ Mary, behave ! ”
Mary bent forward to place a cup of tea beside
the lawyer and broke out again in his ear and
emptied a quantity of the boiling beverage into
his lap. He sprang up and said “ Blast it! ” and
Mary was sent to the kitchen.
Then came a noise as if someone was leading
horses down the stairs, and Dad and mother
wandered in, looking as though they were afraid
of being turned out again.
Makin’ a start ? ” Dad said, pushing mother
to the front and removing his hat, a broad-leafed
felt trimmed with white calico.
I he gentleman boarders looked up, then dropped
their heads like curlews hiding in the grassland
at intervals stole glances at each other and at Mrs
Folev.
Mother showed signs of uneasiness in the
presence of so many strangers, and sat on the chair
as though she distrusted it. She had no appetite,
and would only take a cup of tea. But Dad
squared himself and breathed noisily and took
sausages every time.
Conversation flagged. The rattle of cutlery
was the only sound for a good while—until Dad
stirred his tea with a knife and started to drink
Then Sweeney, who had no self-control, lost some
more of his tea.
Mrs. Foley looked distressed, bat Doonan, who
always knew when to say something, relieved her.
, Was that you walking about early this morn-
ing?” he asked of the lawyer, sitting opposite.
The lawyer smiled and reached for the jam.
“Where was it,” Dad joined in; “up here’”
pointing his fork, with a sausage impaled on it, at
the celling.
Doonan chuckled and said, “Yes.”
“Thet wer’ me,” Dad answered proudly ; “but
it weren’t early”— (turning to mother)—“ wer’nt
it after four ? ”
Mother timidly thought it must have been.
“I expect you are used to early rising Mr
Rudd ? ” said the lady to Dad.
“Well,”—stowing away the sausage he had
been pointing at the ceiling—“middlin’, muni'
’bout three mostly. Dave, he gits up fust; then
Joe an’ Bill they gets th’ cans ready, an’ Sarah
she sees ter th’ tea fer th’ yard an’ ”
The boarder with the mania for music suddenly
left the table. “A minute or two to spare,” he
said, addressing no one particularly, and threw
himself down at the piano.
The others swallowed their breakfast hurriedly
and left. Dad had another sausage, some more
bread and his fourth cup of tea. Encouraged by
the music or the absence of the boarders, mother
tackled some bread and butter.
Dad finished, and shifted his chair beside the
piano and stared into the face of the musician.
The man of music became flustered and struck
wrong notes. He wasn’t used to being admired.
“ Wot’s thet the chune o’?” Dad asked.
Without shifting his eyes the other shook his
head as though he didn’t know.
“ Wot are y’ playin’?”
No response excepting a violent conglomeration
of sounds.
Dad waited till the storm was over, then put the
question again.
“ Al’ce’r’art Thou?” the musician hissed, striking
a run of discords, and poking among the keys for
the lost notes.
“C’n y’ play th’ ‘ Wil’ Colonial Boy ’ on thet ?”
Dad inquired.
“Play th’ deuce !” the musician said, savagely,
and jumped up and ran away. In the hall he en-
countered Mrs. Foley. “ What is it'/” he asked,
turning his thumb in the direction of Dad ; then
went out into the street, working all his fingers in
imaginary manipulation of the key-board.
* * • »
Dad and mother thought they would “mooch
about ” a bit, and strolled into Queen-street. They
stood at the Ooukiek corner for half-an-hour,
staring in wonder. The people, the traffic, trams
going and trams coming, and the row and rattle
of it all bewildered them. Dad confessed that
Brisbane had changed a bit since he knew it 50
years ago. They strained their eyes and ears
trying to absorb everything, and got headaches.
“Look here! look here! look here! Eighteen
lovely epples fer wan shellen’, and put ’em in a
baag ! ” Dad felt his pocket. Twenty news-boys
rushed him, pushing and scrimmaging, shoving
their wares into his hands and into his face, and
claiming his custom.
Mother smiled compassionately on Dad, and
they both moved with the throng.
A female astride a bike attracted Dad • he
grabbed mother by the arm. “Look at’thet
’un ! ” he exclaimed; and both of them stood
staring and grinning after the wheeling female
until she was lost to them in the traffic.
Three more pedalled past. “ Another ! ” Dad
gasped, tugging violently at mother again—“two
— three of ’em, be d d ! ”
The excitement wag too much for Dad. He was
compelled to rest. He leaned against a verandah-
post and reflected on the scene around. “ Never
see th’ like,” he said to mother. ‘‘They’re
thicker ’n wallabies ! ” And a cheerful growl
rumbled from him.
1 hey walked Queen-street most of the day, and
went without lunch. Dad was not a success on
the pavement. The city people claimed all the
space. They got in his way, pushed him about,
collided with him, and whenever he stood a
moment to stare back at anything, they carried
him off his feet. Dad got sick of it all,
and took to the street. The street was wider, and
more in Dad’s line. He got on well there, could
see everything, and was striding along, his hands
locked behind his back, one eye on mother, the
other on some girls hanging out of a window in a
top storey, when a’bus-briver yelled—“Heigh,
there ! heigh 1 ” and cracked his whip.
Dad felt the moist breath of a broken-winded
horse on his neck, and had just danced safely to
one side when a, fat, perspiring female, moving in
the same direction on a bike, spurted to pass the
bus, and drove her front wheel fair between
Dad s legs, and lifted him up in front of her.
Then, like a woman, she let the handles go and
screamed, and turned the bicycle over on the
wood-blocks and mixed Dad up in her skirts.
Dad was more bewildered than ever. He didn’t
know what had attacked him until he regained
his feet; then he scowled on the fallen female,
struggling and kicking at the machine like a horse
m a fence, and clutching her skirts to hide her
great, black-stockinged calves, and said—
“ One o’ them dam things ! ” and returned to the
footpath.
• • • *
Dad joined mother again, and together they
purchased some fruit and explored George-street.
Several barristers wearing wigs, their gowns
ballooning in the wind, issued from the Supreme
Court and swept by. Mother watched them till
they were swallowed up in Burnett-lane, then said
she supposed they would be bishops.
Dad shook his head. “ Might be Judges,” he
remarked ; “ ain’t bishops, or they’d be in tights.”
Assembled at the gates of the courts were a
number of legal lights. Among them Dad recog-
nised the lawyer from the boarding-house. Dad
was delighted.
“ Hello ! ” he said, “ this where y’ are ? ”
The Law resented Dad with a look. But looks
were nothing to Dad. The rest of the fraternity
smiled and smoked.
“Have some o’ these,” Dad said, producing a
fistful of bananas from a large brown paper parcel
that mother was hugging.
The lawyer frowned. “No, thanks,” he snapped,
turning his back on Dad.
Put ’em in yer. pocket,” said Dad, amiably,
proceeding to load his reluctant beneficiary with
the fruit.
I ( ire flashed from the lawyer’s eyes. He drew
back fiercely, and shouted : “ Go to the devil.” His
learned brothers laughed, and they all moved
away, leaving Dad staring perplexedly at mother.
* • • *
Dad and Mother tramped about Brisbane for
three weeks, and but for meeting old Delaney
dodging through the crowd one evening they
might have been strolling about there yet. Dad
and old Delaney were enemies at home, but
when they met. in Queen-street they gripped
hands and rejoiced as though they were never
to part any more. Dad laughed and said
oo oidn t know Delaney was down, and inquired
where he was staying. “An’ how’re them boys
o mine doin’ ? ” fie asked.
“Doin’splendid,” Delaney said.
Dad was pleased.
They guve great raices in yur paddick a week
come Winsdy.”
Dad stared and struggled for breath.
‘ ( An’ they’re to guve a ball to-morrer.”
“Whaht?” Dad shouted, opening wide his
mouth and attracting much notice— “ Whaht?”
Next moment Dad was stumping up Edward-
street in advance of mother, who was compelled
to trot to keep in sight. Brisbane had no more
charm 3 for Dad.
* * • *
At 9 o’clock the following night Dad and
mother arrived at Saddletop. Grey’s cart hap-
pened to be at the station, and they were given a
lift to the gate. Mother thanked the man and
gave him a banana, but Dad was thinking heavily.
Sounds of music floated on the peaceful air aiid
provoked Dad to profanity. He threw wide the
big white gate, leaving mother to close it. Dogs
barked and bounded down the track, at first
threatening to eat Dad, but then, recognising
him, jumped for joy, and climbed and clawed all
over him heedless of kicks and curses.
Dad expressed no pleasure on seeing the house
again—you would never think he had been away
at all. A large area of newly-ploughed land dis-
cernible in the moonlight, and a number of fresh
lucerne stacks that changed the whole aspect of
Ruddville failed to attract his eye. He noticed
nothing till he came to a long line of saddle-horses
fastened to the fence. One had its nose in a bit
of hay. Dad spotted that horse and, like a plain-
turkey taking wing, threw out his arms and
rushed on to the verandah.
Inside the “Prince of Wales Schottische ” had
just ended, and the perspiring party stood round
the ball-room, ablaze with candles, listening
attentively to the voices of Miss Tod and the
schoolmaster’s wife blending pathetically in song
together.
“ After th’ball is o-ver ” they were screeching
just when Dad burst into the room.
“Wot th’ devil’s this ?” he bellowed. (They
stopped like a clock.) “ Who brought all you into
my house?” (Consternation.) “Out of here! out
o’ this —th’ whole dam lot o’ you.”
“Dad I” Sarah gasped, her voice scarcely
audible.
Dad’s enraged eye rested on the trembling form
of Bdly Bearup by her side. Such a howl ! A
brown paper parcel he held in his hand, containing
a pair of heavy boots, flew at Bearup’s head and
struck big Mrs. McManus on the chest.
Commotion ! Screams! and a wild rush to
escape. In the stampede Bearup was left behind,
and while the little fellow frantically forght and
sparred for an opening, Dad kicked at him as if
he were a wallaby fast in a fence.
“ Stop it!” Dave cried angrily—“don’t make a
fool o’ .”
But Dad silenced Dave.
“Clear out!” he roared, shoving him ; “leave
my house.”
Dave was inclined to resist.
''Leave th’ place,” Dad yelled in a wild, broken
voice, “or I’ll send for th’ p'lice.”
“Pshaw /” Dave hissed, and walked out.
The ejected guests secured their horses in haste
and left in disorder.
Sarah and Dave and Joe, bareheaded, stood in
the yard and silently stared after them. The last
one passed out and the gate closed. Voices and
hoof-beats died away. The neighs of a horse and
the “whoop, whoop,” of a night bird came from
the iron-bark ridge.
‘ ‘ Robbed—ruined ! ” from the house.
The clock struck two.
“ Ruinin' me ! ruinin’ me!” from the house
again.
“ Mo-poke, mo-poke,” from out the gully on
the reserve.
The clock struck three.
The moon ceased to shine, and Dad to shout.
Sarah dried her eyes and stole quietly to her room.
“Ah, well!” Dave said, “let it rip,” and he
and Joe turned to the barn and camped with the
men.
STEELE RUDD.


Debility
BANISHED
X
\
BN
The following case of Mrs. Ellen Moore, of 12
Bray-street, Erskineville, Sydney, is a fitting illustra-
tion of the marvellous efficacy of BILE BEANS in
curing the most severe forms of liver disorder, and the
multitude of ailments arising from such. This lady
says: “Some seven years ago I was troubled with
very severe pains in the small of my back, accom-
panied by constipation, a poor appetite, and a worn-
out feeling, making me feel very miserable and
unfitted entirely for my household duties, and in time
my system became completely debilitated.
For some time I was an out-patient at the
hospital, but I was told that I could only
be patched-up, as I had a congested liver.
It was then I decided to give Bile Beans
a trial, having heard of their
efficacy for liver disorders. The
first few doses made a great im-
provement in my condition, and,
continuing with the course, the
pains quickly left me, I regained
my lost appetite, and was quickly
restored to health and vigor.
Asthma has also fallen to my lot,
and I find Bile Beans afford me
great relief, and have every hope that by continuing with them I will, in time, he
rid of this distressing complaint. One of my daughters suffers occasionally from
Neuralgia, and I find a dose of Bile Beans speedily brings her relief. I will never be
without such a valuable medicine in the house, and always recommend Bile Beans
to fellow-sufferers, and will be glad at any time to answer queries in regard to
my statements which might prove of value to others.”
BILE BEANS have been proved to be an undoubted specific for BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, BLOOD IMPURITIES,
CONSTIPATION, PILES, PIMPLES, AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BAD BREATH, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, FULNESS AFTER EATING,
NERVOUSNESS, INSOMNIA, ANAEMIA, SUMMER FAG, and a host of
other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and
m ile
earn
digestion. BILE BEANS
are obtainable from all
Chemists. Price Is. lid.
or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX
(containing three times Is.
size).
ONE BEAN
ONE DOSE
-Bute
am
A soothing Balm and Embrocation, will be
found a certain cure for Cuts, Bums, Boils,
Barcoo, Eczema, Sprains, Ring-worm, Sore
Feet, all forms of Skin Disease or Muscular
Affections, <fcc. From all Chemists, 1/6
per tin. A free sample will be sent you.
Address the Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt-street,
Sydney, enclose a penny stamp for postage
and mention this paper.
NOW READY,
PEARS’ ANNUAL
Christmas, 1902
Published by the Proprietors :
A. & F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75 New Oxford-st., London, W.C.
Containing an Old-Fashioned Romance, entitled—
MERRKNILP’S MILLION
By R. E. FRANCILLON
With 22 Illustrations in Black and White by FRANK DADD, R. 1., in Handsome
. , , Colored Cover.
W ith the above are—
-4 LARGE
PRESENTATION PLATES
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most Artistic Style
or the Chromo-Lithographic Art* ....
1. A Breezy Day.
From the Original Pai
Size 2S by 19i.
2. Impudent Hussies !
From the Original Pai a I
Size 234 by IS.
3. Spring Blossoms.
From the Original Painting by BIRKET FOSTER, R.W.S.
Size 28 by 194. Printed in 13 Colors.
From the Original Painting bv Miss M. GROVES.
Size 23* by 18. Printed in 13 Colors.
AND
4. The Ferry.
?£i m ici t i e ,? ri S inal Painting by W. S. COLEMAN.
Size 16* by Ilf. 'Printed in 13 Colon.
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Booksellers and Newsagents all over the World.
The Valley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Valley with its shining streams,
Its silver streams, smiles now in vain—
-0 Love ! O Life ! O Youth and Dreams !
Comeback, comeback, comeback again!. .
Through all the lands where I have been,
Where women love, I still recall
The myrtle in the midnight green,
Her wistful eyes at evenfall.
She was so fair, so sweet and fair,
So sweet and lovely to behold,
The sunset lingered in her hair
And made a sheen of misty gold.
Born under tender stars was she ;
Nature had still some new surprise
To fill her heart with ecstasy
And lure her soul to Paradise . . .
All in the first white Hour of Dawn,
When pale-eyed Night from her last tower
Beholds, with visage sad and wan,
The coming of a Shape of Power:
There we would watch the great sun rise,
With herald-clouds of rose and gold ;
And I would gaze into her eyes,
A fairer dawning to behold.
Oh, then we knew the mystic speech,
The spell to break our prison bars !
Then we could hold out hands and reach
To thine, O Watchers in the Stars !. . .
I called, and there was no reply,
I called her by her dearest name :
I heard a far-off curlew cry—
Alas ! no other answer came . ..
What is there for the Man who sings ?
He faints and falls upon his way ;
The skies are black with Vulture w*ings.
The Vultures know their prey.
Wherever mortal man draws breath
Upon the land or on the wave,
He finds a grief more deep than Death
And lonelier than the Grave . . .
The Valley with its shining streams,
Its silver streams, smiles now in vain—
O Love ! O Life ! O Youth and Dreams !
Come back, come back, come back again !
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
I Remember.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was “brought up” in the bush—not the Out-
back bush, but in what, with some grain of truth,
might be termed the forest, the bush of a N.S.W.
coastal district. As children, we played in the
bush, and learned the secrets of its denizens,
especially of the birds. A thought of the sum of
my child-knowledge then amazes me now w ith its
vastness. I knew the seasons when each of the
native trees flowered, and the particular birds to
expect in those seasons; the birds that came and
went, and those that were visible at any time of
the year ; the morning, noon, afternoon, and night
birds, and their names.
We had no knowledge of scientific terms. To
us they were froggies, gillies, leatherheads,
coachies, black - caps, yellow' - hammers, big
thrushes, little thrushes, spotted thrushes, and
wattle thrushes, blood-birds, tits, w*rens, cobblers,
red-heads, honeysuckles, w*oodpeckers, big ’keets,
little ’keets, bluies, diamonds, big and little silver-
eyes, diamond sparrow's, maggies, pee-wees,
jacky-winters, willy-wagtails, curlews, mopokes,
and others, the names of which I cannot at the
moment recall. We knew- their habits, what they
fed on, and the particular kiud of tree most
frequently selected by the different sorts of birds
for their nests. I remember that the froggy usually
built in the turpentine, that being also a favorite
tree with theyellow-hammer. The former attached
the nest to’ the small branches among the
leaves at the end of a drooping bough ; the latter
built in a fork formed by one or two small
boughs and the trunk of the tree, which was usually
a small one. We have watched the little archi-
tects at work, and marvelled at the ingenuity dis-
played. With a rash idea that we could surely do
as well as a little bird, we tried to make a nest —
got shreds of bark, and moss, and cobwebs, and
hair—but the result was always a sad failure, and
bred in us a huge respect for the feathered
builders.
Then the eggs ! How' delicate, frail, and inex-
pressibly beautiful were those little niysteries as
thev lay on the soft nest bottom, like precious
jewels loosely strewn in their caskets. We knew
the size, shape and color of every variety of bird’s
egg in the bush, and where to the uninitiated
there appeared no difference whatever, we could
detect it immediately. The redhead preferred
the topmost branches thick-foliaged tree,
and because the situation was exposed to wind
and rain, the nest, built of grass and some long
shreds of bark, and lined with downy feathers,
was big and bulky, and thatched to the thickness
of several inches at the top and sides. The tit
sought the low ? er branches, or thickly-growing
scrub, while the w ren dearly loved a heap of dry,
grass-grown brambles. The jacky-winter was a
hardy citizen. He sought no shelter, but built
his nest on a fork of a branch high up and far out
from the tree trunk, the mother protecting the
eggs and young from wind and rain with her own
body.
\\ hen, after a wet season, the “manna” ran
down the grey gums, we have sometimes caught
froggies and Slack-caps by creeping up to the tree
where they were fe;isting and putting a hat over
them. (The hat was generally old, and shapeless,
and limp, and very adaptable to the purpose).
These things concerning birds we knew, and much
else long ago forgotten.
We knew something of insects, too : especially
ants. There were big and little ants, black, white
and red ants, black joeys, red joeys, jumpers,
sugar ants, soldier ants, wood ants—and stinking
ants. "We us» d to watch them dragging loads
bigger than themselves, and would rescue them
from the “devil's-holes” of the But
against the black joeys and red joeys we waged a
war of extermination! With miniature clubs in
our hands we marched to the black joeys’ head-
quarters, stamped on the nest, and stirred it up
with sticks ; and then, to draw the enemy, made
a mock retreat. The enemy was nothing loth.
They swarmed out of the holes, ran about
bewildered for a few moments, until the out-
scouts picked up our direction, then gallantly
they charged and the slaughter began. Often we
got stung (we were, of course, barefooted), and
then the youngest of us would howl lustily, but
the older ones bravely repressed their tears and
“ took it out ”of the enemy. To us those historic
battles with black joeys and red joeys were as to
Ulysses when he —
Drank delight of battle . . .
Far on the ringing plains of windy Troy.
When we tired of killing, we watched the
enemy’s ambulance-corps carry the dead and
wounded back to the nest, there to be buried and
nursed—or, perhaps, eaten. Snake-hunting was
also a pastime ; but we confined our attention to
young ones, and slow-worms, avoiding the big
black fellows with the red bellies and the horrible
eyes.
We knew all about five-corners, ground-berries,
“puddings,” geebungs, native currants, and native
cherries. We knew when and where the wild
vines flowered, and we twisted them round our
bodies, made armlets and necklets and crowns of
them, and, thus decked with the sweet-smelling
spoil, were completely happy.
One little insect, a kind of spider, was rarely
noticed, for it lived among the dead leaves under
the trees in the thickest parts of the bush. It
was just a speck of red, and looked like a tiny
piece of scarlet velvet, every part of it soft,
downy and shining. I cannot recall anything I
have ever seen more delicately beautiful.
What primitive little savages we were ! But
we were happy, and we felt innocent. We found
a keen pleasure in learning bush lore about birds
and trees and insects ; for it never seemed such a
burden as our school-learning was to us. True,
we sometimes did cruel tilings to the helpless
bush creatures; but, spite of these occasional
lapses, our relation towards most of them, and to
the trees and flowers, was a sense of friendship, of
intimacy, of brotherhood. We, too, were of the
Bush ! That comforting sense of the motherhood
of the Earth, which comes to older persons, was
unknown to us. The bush, all we knew of the
earth, was a friend—an intimate friend —with
many attributes and aspects, entertaining and
lovable.
In trying to recall some item of that long-past
child-knowledge I have often felt a poignant sense
of irreparable loss. I have asked myself what I
have learned in the years during which I was for-
getting so many things that I had gained a know-
ledgeof with such unalloyed pleasure. Truly, I now
know of Shakespeare, and Homer, and Dante ; of
Greece and Rome, England, France, Italy, Spain,
and the rest. But what is “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream ” to one of those old Spring days
in the bush, when the vines were in flower, and
the birds were building their nests ?
ULOOLA.
Recent Melbourne analyses show conclu-
sively that there is a certain proportion of beer in
every pint of salicylic acid brewed. Another
triumph for the brewers.
Senator Clark, the “ Montana Copper
King,” offered a million dollars (.£200,000) to the
first of his sons or daughters who presented him
with a grandson. The prize was won by his
second son. An event of this kind, with a bigger
prize—the Crown of England for the grandchild—
was decided among the sons of George 111. early
in the nineteenth century. The stakes were
handed over to “our late beloved” Victoria.
Vic. Minister of Agriculture Taverner has
for the time being resisted hints dropped to him by
interested parties that he should get rid of
Williamson Wallace, who was imported a year
ago to take np the work of director of agriculture.
Whether Wallace is a good agriculturist or not, it
was absurd to expect him to grip the essentials of
his task in a strange country in a few months, and
to remedy the mistakes perpetrated in the depart-
ment for years past, largely at the instigation of
the very persons who have been whooping for his
dismissal.
An engine-driver writing to the Sydney
press suggests as a remedy for the partial suffoca-
tion endured by passengers in the Glenbrook
(N.S.W.) tunnel :
I have worked on the Great Northern railway as an
engine-driver for a number of years, and always adopted
the following plan when passing through tunnels : If
with a voods train, and the draught was following me, I
would reduce the speed. The consequence was that the
smoke, etc., would go in front of the engine, and give me
a clear atmosphere to breathe in.
But that won’t do at Glenbrook, which is in the
middle of a very steep “rise”; the trains approach
it at the rate of four or five miles an hour onlv in
many cases, and you can’t reduce that speed
sufficiently to cause a draught. What is wanted
is proper ventilation of the tunnel, possibly even its
re-building—a costly undertaking which is practi-
cally impossible just now. N.S.W. western line,
the most important from a traffic point of view on
the continent, will have to allow this weak spot
to stand (and also that other danger, the Penrith
viaduct), because the folly of the past makes it
impossible to get money for absolutely necessary
works now. It would’ be a cruel, but quite
possible, comment by Fate on the See-Owe’Sulli-
van regime if a western train on its way to the
opening of the new Sydney station—“the most
magnificent in the world”—a year or so hence,
were to kill a few dozen passengers.
“The exclusion of the six English hat-
ters,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “is regarded with serious alarm here.
‘ What are our colonies for except to exploit in
the British Fatman’s interest ? ’ is asked in various
guises and disguises on all sides. Vacuous queries,
backed up by bases of festering ignorance and
decked with writhing distortions of fact, may be
heard or read in treble key or leaded type ques-
tioning the poioer of the Commonwealth to make
such laws. Even ‘Bunco’ Bottomley, in his
’apenny evening paper, the Sun, forgets' there is
a Commonwealth at all, and eructates thus:—
The authorities of N.S.W. do that which no other civi-
lised Government on the face of the earth would do—
that is, prevent half-a-dozen skilled artisans from Eng-
land from following their calling in Sydney, and the same
day they take powers to borrow another four millions
sterling from the people of England. No doubt the
money will be got; but if our skilled artisans may not
land in Australia ; if our fellow subjects of dark’ skin
may not live in Australia ; if our steamers may not trade
except upon grossly unfair conditions—with Australia,
the time cannot be distant when British investors will
ask themselves whether they cannot find a better market
for their money than spendthrift, drought-stricken Aus-
tralia.
The Bottomley person evidently never heard of
the U.S. and Canadian immigration laws ; and he
doesn't even know that these six hatters are
peacefully* ‘ ‘ following their calling ” and making
the Fat Man’s beauteous bell-topper in Sydney
to-day. As for the British investor deciding to
lend us no more money, may that time come
speedily!


For All the Familv
Our Old Family Medicine. Good for Father, Mother, and the Children.
Purifies, Builds Up. Experience of a Trained Nurse.
!
.-I
nr:
■/tv
Lf
Mrs. John Evans, of Subiaco,
West Australia, sends this pho-
tograph of herself and children,
and says:
“ Whenever any member of
my family becomes pale, weak,
debilitated, or suffers from im-
pure blood, I always fall back on
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Ayer’s
Pills. I give the Pills to keep
the bowels all right and the
Sarsaparilla to make the blood
pure and strengthen the nerves.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla carried my
husband through a bad attack
of inlluenza, and later it also
cured him of rheumatism. I
have often given it to my chil-
dren when they have lost their
appetite and become listless. I
practise as a nurse, and fre-
quently recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the very tryingclimate of this country.
And I can truthfully say that both nurse and patient are always greatly pleased.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This testimonial should convince every one who reads it of the great value
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a blood-purifier and general tonic. Mrs. Evans
speaks as a mother, ever watchful over the health of those most dear to her.
She also speaks as a professional nurse, one who knows just what effect these
medicines have on those who are suffering.
Be sure you get Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. There are a great many substitute
Sarsaparillas on the market that will disappoint you. Avoid imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Great Blood-purifier and Blood-builder
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the otner.
Prepared by SB. J. C. ATEK & CO.. Lowell, Mass., XT. 8. A.
v >li
->£RFUL
cles, compris
•>st pocket a/
H 1
*
VV t/
rr
UIC€
; iA
w i
The “LANCET” says:-
“ We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
“ Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water or
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sals Consignees:
EVANS SONS, LESCHER, <t WEBB, Limited,
London and Liverpool.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros., T-td. ; J. Cosskll A Co., Sydney
IX Cohen <t Co., Newcastle.
SORE
SINGLETONS EYE OINTMENT ■
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND |
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES
1\) ELVEIR F"AI L-3.
Ask your Chem st fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
■ -*- - - - q ’
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
“IT’S A MARVEL!”
EVERY WOMAN
:
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and.directions invalu-
able to ladies. Kmlursed l»y Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO.
OF AUSTRALIA.
Camden Building, 418 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydnc
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
B E lills
Ij'Oß Bilious and Nerrous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &o. THE FIRST DOSE
WILT, GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GOT A A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosbbl'd of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beer,ham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he uor/d. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
Roberts' Hotel
Corner GEORGE and
'ft fIARKET STS.
The Most Comfortable and Most
Centrally-Situated in Sydney.
TEEMS. —The Convenient and Up-to-
Date System of paying for , a room on
arrival and meals as tiiey are had.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single) - - 3s per day
BEDROOM (Double) - - 6s per day
Single r ooni, w th -full beard, Ss per
day, or £2 2s per week.
Engage your Room at . . .
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
Roberts’ Hotel, Sydney,
Jan. 29tb, 1903.
Dear Old Jack,
Dad has made a discovery ; he has worked
it all out, and can prove to anyone that
Roberts’ Hotel is the “ plumb-centre ” of
Sydney because it is just half-way between
the Town Hall and the Post Office. lam so
glad, because I am sure dear old Dad would
feel out of place anywhere except on the pivot
of creation. I like being here because you
can get to all the best shops without being
drenched in the rain or broiled in the sun ;
and all the theatres are so close that you don’t
want a cab, which saves one’s frocks getting
crushed climbing in and out.
Yours forever,
BRENDA BRAGGS.
P.S.—No postscripts this time.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
lIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
iM
"Made in half,
a minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-"
IN I*INT
PACKETS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
Dr.b.b.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.F.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and. Nerve
diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
taily at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete Methods discarded.
3R. MARTIN'S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood Disease, Nerve
Vffections, Paralysis, Lung-, Heart, Skin, and all Diseases of Men and Women. His
Consulting Rooms are replete with all the latest and most scientific improvements in Electric
\ppliances, etc. Country Patients treated by correspondence at their own homes. Advice and
Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers, who do not wish to consult a doctor, should write for a copy
>f Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “ Mind Over Matter ; or, How to Secure a New Lease of Life
vithout Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums,” This work should find a place in every household, as it contains
, , full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present Age. It has been the means of
luring Thousands who followed out the instructions contained therein. This Marvellous Treatment
lleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest Treatment in Existence, as
tothing but the Book is required
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
Delay is Dangerous. Obtain a copy at once from the Publishers, •* ELMLEY HOUSE”
11 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. ;


CELLULOID
COLLAR
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nice, white, dean appear-
ance, atid stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
l m^}s £2. 10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
* ree W heels. Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in \Australasia,
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
using 2id. stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co. C E§T*
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. c. ZEXiZDIRXIDG-IE & 'CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
CentUry Order t by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON
(Bole Australasias Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 it 34 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Bend, for Catalogue*
9
pocket'Knives
Celebrated
* . PLATE and
Scissors CUTLERY
J. * J. MAX FI ELD, PiOFMlt BSHFTUB*
At tli* Showroom*—
Empire Chambers, 93 York«St«
SYDNEY.
Also m
“TELE BLOCK,*’
Col I insist., MELBOURNE.
H. P. GREGORY & CO., Jf, 2££Z?. * Y «? EY ;
Have for Sale and to arrive— IVIELBOU RN E , 435 BOUfkG StTGGti
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern anc? approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St,
Sydney
ADDRESSES :
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
-offerers from Deafness or Hei.~ poises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
.0 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet descibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
/•il
Size, s\" % 3|* x s*.
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE —
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.,
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USINB
10
10
■0
hi
tin
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED'
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- &. 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
NERYOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, 'will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.’
patent
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Ihreshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
l—j
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Toss Pricb
Double Purchase Jack 4 65/-
» 99 n 675 "
Sin £le „ „ 2^40-
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING CEAR, 5/- extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
