

McEWAN’S ale.
IKY.
Reicl’s London Draught Stout.
R. 6. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
290
PRIZE
medals
MKUALO
AND
GRAND
PRIX
PARIS
1000.
sd
26,000 Steam Engines Sold
f
HERVEY’S
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
TEARS DYEING
' FOR THE LADIES.
w. c. .& co:,
DYERS & CLEANERS, ’
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
i opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
85 Pitt Street
ootior
SOLE AGENTS FOB
& Co.,
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PGRTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
aSfaeab*-
_ _
, ft/I
llvl AND
Motit
ENGINES, BOILERS and PUMPS.
"iiraaliixis Machinoa, Saw Benoliea. &o
Send for Pricea and Particulars.
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
1
WHISKY
ÜBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
-X#S-
MSIi
(jadleys Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
B
USHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
*• - £
P A .. J ~'
V
• -
“An interesting Contest for RdcS Drills was held at K algoorlie on Tuesday evening, in which various makes of Rock Drills were brought to a test. The
tests were made on a huge block of granite. Weighing several tons, which was brought from the quarry at Bulla Bulling. The different drills operated on the
stone, and put in holes a few inches apart, so that the same class of stone would be assured for each test. The machines were driven by steam. The New
Ingersoll machine was the first to operate, and in 8 minutes 43 seconds put in a hole 47|in. in depth. This was taken as a period for the test, and each machine
was given a similar time to operate to see what it could do. The Taylor Horstield ‘ New Type ’ National Drill then started and put in excellent work from the
first stroke, and soon got to the extent of its longest drill It was then found that this drill had put down a hole to the depth of 53 £ inches, and that it had been
at work for only 7 minutes seconds, or 1 minute 34§ seconds less than the time allowed for the test. The Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill was then set to work, and
having operated for the full time, 8 minutes 43 seconds, the hole was found to measure 48 inches.
“The following will give a definite comparison of the result by each drill engaged in the test :
.
Nfev Type National ‘
Sec.
IXCHES.
•m
mm
m
rV/.;.<
,\ r 'j.
SMS
7
JL
•v \ , .
! l v2Bant ...
V>M
v *
w j.,1. r,«n::: ::: ::: ::: 1
.
On 21st June, 1902, an AIR CONSUMPTION" TEST was held at the Great Boulder Mine, Kajgborlie, W.A. The Air-receiver was filled to7olbs. to the
square inch, and drill started With full air on and kept working until air was reduced in receiver'to 301 hs. ! e-ults were ns*follows
. Wjui-t. Cylixlkr.
TAYB.QR HORSFIELDi ~,,
Nfav Tvpfc National J :4
HoLi.MAN ... ' ... ...- ... -V' 7"
New Tviwicpohf, ... ... ... '3f" • 7"
IxCEr.no-LL Sklil RANT ... 3l" ()"
u J ' " r ' " * ■ '
Stro.ck.
6"
Starting Pressure lbs.
70
•J&SinVKli TO LBS.
30
70
70
70
30
30
30
Time (mins.).
19
11
11
iH
From above it will be seen that the Taylor-Horsfield New Type National Rock Crill holds the- highest records both for Speed
, anc Economy in Air Consumption. More Hors field Drills used in Australasia than all other machines. put • together. Flatterm* Testimonials
rom mine managers everywhere. Large Stocks carried at all the Agencies*
New Zealand : HADLEY JA'O.. Au,kl--nd. Tasmania : VVM. HART & SON, Launceston. Weit Australia : RENNIE TEA RE * CO., Perth, OoofiardL and Melbourne.
lCoOx.a. MILLER u CO., Ballarat. Queensland: JOHN REID and NEPHEWS, Brisbane ; and BORNS, PHILP & CO., Charters Towers N.Q.
Sole Agents for Nsw South Wales
PUmiWSER, LOVE
MEMO,
==£===
FOR 3904 : «
v » nr •»» m» ■■■»,: » . »■ » ,
AUT HELIDON AUT NIILLUS.”
The Bulletin
Vol. 25.—N0. 1263.]
[Thursday, April 38, 1904.
Registered at the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Recent
>n & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Griffiths, Geo., A Criminal Croesus, p. 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Mitford, Sirdar's Oath, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, p. 6d.
MaeteWinck, M., Monna Vanna, 4s, postage 4d.
Glasgow, Ellen, The Deliverance, p. 2s (id, c. 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Morrison Davidson,Precursors of Henry George,ls 3d,p.3d
Per twee, The Reciters’ Treasury of Verse, Serious and
Humourous, 3s 6d, postage Bd.
Write, t.n us for
Turner, New Treatment of Consumption, Is, postage 4d.
Hocking, Joseph, Esau, paper covers 2s 6d, e. 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Dalziel, The Collie, 3rd edition, Is 3d, p. 3d. ,
Barrett, Hidden Gold, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Philpotts, American Prisoner, 2s 6(L cloth 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Mitchell, The Despoilers, cloth 3s 6d, p. fld.
Jack London, Call of the Wild, col. illus., 6s, p. 6d.
We are always pleased to answer inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doora South of King St.) $ at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
-mm
...
*<2
m
I
iiv!-.#
xvi
m
i
%'M
sdf
The AustV&taw)Mecht&rG&zerfe s^ys,-
Jot &re*t Service if) T A(feclions <
of tbV Voice.
Sold by Chemists, tins, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hu0SON, Chemist, Ipswi' h, London
Stamps. Sydney Depot : 5 &7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Austrian States** -Z-, and at Kege
THE RED PAGE.
M.M.M.
MINISTER of Mines and the Muses—it is
an attractive title for Peter Airey, the
canny Lancashire lad—schoolmaster, ver-
sifier, and Labour politician—who has
just taken his seat in Q. Cabinet after sitting but
three years in Q. Assembly. The occasion is
fitting for a summary.
Aireyage ? Say thirty-eight. Appearance ?
A slight figure and tough ; not tall ; shrewd
face, with mouth set in the schoolmaster s peculiar
way ; a lofty skull revealed by the student’s
baldness. He looks energetic, self-assured, with
the air of a man who has read much and reflected
much. Dawson, Browne, Higgs, Hinchcliffe,
Airey—the Q. Labour party has been fortunate in
attracting many such men whose outstanding
characteristic is integrity, the democratic
anchor —men whose principles do not permit them
tb play false., For Labour in Queensland, the day
of the glib lawyer and the blustering self-seeker
seems ended : the electors ask for plain men,
staunch men, and they are finding them.
Airey came to Australia as a boy, lived in
Queensland as a bookish lad, drifted easily into
teaching school, and taught sohools north, south,
east, and west. Good service earned him a good
place in Brisbane Normal School. Then the
departmental prejudice against his Radical
opinions banished him to Hughenden. a teacher’s
penance-town in the N.W. baokblooks — and
unwittingly founded his political fortunes. For
the injustice stirred sentiment in his favour ; he
commended himself to the Labour electors of
Flinders as he had already commended himself
to the Labour heads in Brisbane ; and in 1901 he
stood for the Assembly seat and won it. There
his native shrewdness, his solid convictions, and
his headful of intelligence made their ma^k —all
the bigger mark because he is no firebrand, carries
a full freight of Lancashire caution, is content to
hasten slowly. “I started life _ as a joyous
enthusiast and regenerator, ” he said some years
ago ; “ but I have come to the conclusion that an
indispensable preliminary to social reform is the
extermination of two-thirds of the social re-
formers.”
Airey’s literary work is nearly all in verse—
some two hundred uncollected pieces contributed
to The Bulletin and other papers over the
signature .of “P. Luftig"—a German trans-
position of P. Airey. To his knowledge of German
and French Airey is considerably indebted. Many
of his rhymes are versions or imitations of Heine,
IJhland, Lessing, Beranger, and others. For the
greater part, they represent a task entered upon
as doggedly and conscientiously as the correction
of school exercises, and with as little poetical in-
spiration. Sometimes, however, feeling or a
strong conviction give them value, and often the
phrasing and rhyming are dexterous and happy.
The best are distinctly polemical, with a solid
argumentative force—glowing with the writer’s
hatred of the lies of civilisation and the cant of
convention, shining with his sympathy for the
weak and oppressed. They are democratic kettle-
drums, if not a democratic clarion.
But Airey does not hesitate to satirise de-
mocracy : he sees both sides of the medal'; and
his keen wit and hard sense are not to be dis-
comfited by platform magniloquence. Vigour
and common-sense are his keynotes. His senti-
mental vein, borrowed from the German, is less
satisfactory. Yet occasionally he will leave socia
topics for romantic and* * urn old romantic ideas
into a new strain, sung with all his head—
A true* to this trimming and pruning our lives,
This bending of backs and this kissing of gyves,
' This drilling a man from the day of his birth,
This drumming his steps to the ends of the earth.
Away ! let us leave them their weariful road,
The ruts of the waggon, the pricks of the goad ;
For a while we ’ll be healthy old heathen again,
And lift up our voices in Vagabond Vein !
In sum, Airey’s verses are of little poetical
account: his intellect overweights his emotions.
But one can choose a score of pieces that for terse
strength, plain speech, and clanging rhythm, are
democratic battle-cries not soon to be forgotten.
Let us close with his creed.
CREDO.
1 do not call him king who thrones in purple,
I may not hail a crowned puppet “ Lord! ”
I may not doj) the cap that decks a freeman
Because I see you bend in false accord ;
I only kiss the lips of those who love me,
I only hail as king the soul above me.
I may not bow me in the house of Rimmon
And feign a worship all for slavish fear,
I may not fawn to win the passing favour
Of them whose only god is golden gear ;
1 hold it worse to creep a crooked craven
Than bend the back to imagi old and graven.
1 hail each ancient creed whose gentle preaching
Can quell the brute inborn xvith charmed call ;
But more I love the right of freest teaching,
For freedom's flag is error’s funeral pall.
Who seeks to hide a truth is blind blasphemer,
For Truth and Truth alone is Man’s Redeemer.
i
And this hath ever been my chiefest solace,
To banish clouds that make my vision blear ;
To leave awhile this world of sordid serfdom ;
To find a soul in every daivning clear ;
A pulse within the breeze that flutters by me,
A God within the flower that whispers nigh me.
1 hate these foolish fears of dim hereafter,
These fetters on the mind that should be free ;
I love this little life of tears and laughter,
This dreamy isle that dots a slumber-sea ;
And when the brooding Night shall nestle o’er, me
1 dread no kiss of kindly Earth that bore me.
I feel that far adown the gleaming vistas
There dawns for man a day spring fair and dear ;
The chiming bells of future golden ages
Still peal at times upon my listening ear ;
And in this Earthly Heaven for Earthly Human
I see the goal of every fighting true man.
Selling Books.
CMACK JOST says:
• “I sell books.
“I sell other things as well —every-
thing connected with reading, writing, ’rithmetic,
and no, not the use of the globes. I keep the
globes for my own use, or one of them : give me
earth, earth to sell books over, arid sea to carry
me to the ends of the earth to sell more books
over, and keep heaven for the heathen in their
blindness to whom I can’t sell books. Put me
down bookseller, first and last and millions of
books in the middle.
“Booksellers are born. I was born. I was
born at Edinburgh forty-four years ago. Forty
years ago I sold my first book at a farthing profit—
Brewer's Guide. Pointed out to another four-
year-old that I had bought that Guide on special
terms, and could sell it to him cheaper than any
shop in the Cowgate. He realised the force of
the argument, and I made my first profit. Have
gone on selling ever since; but I get a bigger
profit nowadays.
“No, I haven’t a shop. I carry nry shop on
my back, as a snail carries its shell. Two tons of
samples all round the world from Hong Kong to
Vancouver, and back by London and Bombay to
Sydney—new books, old books, any book that
will sell except a second-hand book. I’m a pub-
lishers’ drummer, booksellers bummer—what do
I care what they call me as long as they call me a
hummer?
“I’m a hummer, and I hum. Round the
world every year for six ■ years now: before
that managing a London wholesale book busi-
ness. I sell for sixty houses—English and
American publishers like A. & C. Black and
Hurst & Co., of New York, and European makers
of stationery and fancy goods. Open to sell for
sixty more: one helps the other; and System
keeps the lot whizzing like a train through a
time-table. Time ! that’s the word of power.
Make a cult of Time, and Eternity will do your-
bidding. Think of it!—twenty-four hours in a
day, sixty minutes in an hour, sixty seconds in a
minute, and every second good to sell 1000Z. of
books in. What a glorious scheme of Creation !
“Consider me as Apollo, fhe Light-Bringer—
selling books. I sold 500,000 David Harum in
Australia and Maoriland—all editions down to
sixpence—the orders I took and the orders that
were taken from the orders I took. When I leave
Australia I go by the Philippines to China and
Japan—to Japan, where eighteen months ago I
sold to one bookseller, Maruya of Tokio, 5000Z.
worth of books in a week—regular sittings of two
hours a day, with champagne sauce. How is it
done? Large orders and low prices. Bookseller
buys in London and pays 4s. 2d. for a 6s. book.
Bookseller buys from me and pays 3s. for a 6s.
book. The twenty-shillings net book costs the
bookseller 16s. 8 d. in London : I sell for 13s. 4d<
That’s how.
“You know Australasia, in proportion to
papulation, buys more books than any country
in the world—to the tune of 500,000/. yearly.
Yes, and Maoriland buys more than Australia.
The best business town in Australasia from my
point of view, is guess? Wanganui. Best
proportionate trade, done quickest. All over
Maoriland they are smarter than Australians—I
don’t mean keener intellectually, but going faster
and going to the point. Australians are languid.
Man stands in his shop-door, nobody in the shop,
and says, ‘Not ready to-day. Got your cata-
logues ; have n’t had time to look at them.’
What’s he doing? Nothing. I put it down to
climate. Melbourne’s more energetic than
Sydney : Adelaide less if anything ; Brisbane’s
too tired for words. Maoriland is all alive, like
Canada : they hustle together.
“ Canada does business briskly, but not enough
of it. There’s a 20 or 25 per, cent, duty on
imported books there, with 10 or 15 per cent,
preference to England : still, the duty helps to
keep books out. In Canada too, any book not
copyrighted locally within three months of
publication can be reprinted locally. They say
that’s good for the local trader—printer and
publisher; I say it’s darn bad for me. I don’t
meet business dishonesty ; I’ve lost onlyfour-and-
sixpence in six years round-the-world trading,
although I’m supposed to be responsible for the
orders I take; but I find the book trade less sound
commercially in Canada than elsewhere. And in
spite of what they say against the Japs, I’d trust
a Japanese firm as soon as any firm.
“ What do the Japanese buy ? Educational
books—history, geography, science—no fiction.
Facts and figures they want —dictionaries,
encyclopaedias, arithmetics. And imitative 1
They took a standard algebra—Chrystal’s Alge-
bra —and photographed it—every line down
to the English imprint. The English edition sold
at 23s. ; the Japanese sells at 2s. I’ve known
them take a small English printing-press—cost
about 15/.—take it to pieces, reproduce it part for
part exactly, and sell their press for 21. But three
years ago Japan came under the Berne Copyright
Convention, and that's ended as regards books.
“China? No good for the book trade. Very
little sold, outside of cheap educational books for
mission students * and others; and that little
mostly smut. India? There ’s small profits and
quick returns for you. Know that in Bombay
bazaars you can buy heaps of English goods at
landed cost —Walker’s whiskey, for example.
But they charge you twopence for the case, and
they make their living profit out of that twopence
for that case ! Same with books. Big trade in
educational books for Babus and school and uni-
versity students—the cheapest kind of books at
the lowest prices. But if bhe book is right and
the price is right you can get 1000/. orders. And
the buyer gets possibly Id. per Z. profit. Why, 'a
man I know took an order from one customer for
1400/. worth of lead-pencils—price about 3s. per
gross. The Indian‘trade is a trade for three hun-
dred millions of poverty-stricken people.
“Now I’m off. Going to sell a Sydney man
fifty Hastings’ Dictionary of the Bible, in five
volumes, 71. a set. Yes, I sell the Encyclo-
pedia Biblica, too —or I offer it. But the
theology’s twenty years in advance of the times :
the Higher Criticism has n’t struck Australia yet.
Parsons can’t feed their congregations from a
book which says that virgin conceptions are all
flam, or words to that effect. Now Hastings is a
good, safe, orthodox chap—I oan sell Hastings.
So long.
“ I ’ll see you again.
“I, ”
The Passing Scribe.
Verestchagin, drowned in the explosion of the
Petropavlovzsk, died probably the death he
would have wished. His is one of the names in
modern art that Australians value by hearsay ;
though the English version of his Auto-
biography (1887) sufficiently revealed the
man aside from his work. Original painter,
sailor, soldier, traveller, his sixty years
of life were stirring and full of accomplish-
ment. Gifted with exceptional energy, lie lived
for his art. Abandoning the classical school and
the mythical subject, he became one of the most
literal and uncompromising of realists. Pictures
of war especially, in all its crude savagery, he set
down on’ canvas with a force that set his
Russian critics crying “Brutal ! Repulsive !
even “ Unpatriotic ! ” There is a profound moral
in the picture of the defeated Russians at Telisch
—a gloomy field of dismembered corpses, with
two figures only oil the extreme left, scowling
soldier and praying priest. Verestchagin had
seen the reality, and ruthlessly he stripped the
military Moloch of his tinsel trappings. Ardent
and laborious, his numerous pictures give a pain-
ter’s view of muoh of the Russian history of his
epoch ; and he was seeking fresh subjects when
he met his doom.
J*
One of the critics of Letters from a Self-Made
Merchant to His Son, remarking the coincidence
here noted between Lorimer’s philosophy and
Franklin’s, says it is a little curious that the man
who has written the modern Poor Richard’s
Almanac should be the editor of the paper that
Franklin founded and edited—the Philadelphia
Saturday Evening Post. “ There is more of ‘ Poor
Richard’s ’ incisive wit and illuminating wisdom
in the Letters than in any book of its kind that has
been written in this generation. That a man as
young as Mr. Lorimer should be able to deal out
such wise saws and modern instances seems
almost incredible.” The Letters, in fact, con-,
tain Franklin’s philosophy from the Chicago
meat-packer’s point of view; and probably
only a man circumstanced as Lorimer would
ever have thought of the combination. George
Horace Lorimer is the son of a Baptist minister,
himself an author; and will be 30 years "Id
on 6th October next. He received a college
education, and got employment in Armour’s pork-
packing house in Chicago, where his father was
then settled—pleasing Armour so well that he
was drawing 1000/!. a year salary after ten years
service. Then literary heredity and training made
him dissatisfied, and he r went into Boston jour-
nalism. Joining the Phila. Post, an old-fashioned
family paper, he became editor in 1899 ; and his
work chiefly has raised its circulation to 700,000
copies a week. It is distinctively an American
paper, pious and commercial in the-old Puritan
way, with an especial audience in the farmers’
homes. The parson’s son, trained in the pork-
packer’s methods, is just the man to'edit it.
The illustrations to April Scribner’s are inter-
esting : often the illustrations in Amer. magazines
are more attractive than the subject-matter.
Despite the domination of the shirt-waist
audience, catered-for by pretty sentimentalists
like Howard Christy and Harrison Fisher, you do
find occasionally a virile drawing, expressed with
a strong harmony of colour. See the Raven-Hill
London series in Scribner’s, and mark the essen-
tial commonness, the barrenness of his work.
R.-H. has done better than these, but he always
strikes you as an illustrator who is exploiting a
meagre talent to the utmost with pains and
cleverness. For effective contrast with his night-
pieces, there are two or three reproductions of
Rembrandt in the same number : they measure the
gulf. Then there is a drawing by F. C. Yohn,
polished like a boot; and some work by Ivanowski,
who does not content himself with combining two
or three “good bits,” but tries to make a picture.
Yet he too is in the American mode, and sacri-
fices strength to smooth sentiment—or, worse,
sentimentality. With art elaborately tailored
and barbered always before their eyes, can one
wonder that some Americans complain that
Sargent is too brutal ?
William Winter, dramatic critic of New York
Tribune for nearly forty years, reviews the Amer.
stage from Dan to Beersheba with the saddened
eyes of age, and finds all barren :—
Veterans who might have played before Noah when he
landed from the ark, wander about the flats and totter
and mumble. Persons who were “ supers ” yesterday are
“stars” to-day. Three-cornered girls, proclaimed as
“ actresses,” rasp the welkin with voices that rival the
screech of the peacock.
The slimy muck Of Mr. Ibsen and the lunacy of Mr.
Maeterlinck are made to trickle into the public mind and
turn the publio stomach. Degenerates from foreign
lands, provided with rancid plays about libertines and
wantons, fix a steadfast gaze upon the coast of Greenland
and whisper to the scenery in the third groove, and are
vaunted as prodigies of “ genius ” and “ intensity.”
Historical demireps of England and France are
theatrically celebrated for social delectation: women
whom scandalous divorce has made notorious diffuse
upon the theatre the effluvia of their foul repute. Prize-
fighters and unspeakable cranks are obtruded as
“ actors.”
There has not been a time in fifty years when the
theatre was at so low a level as it has reached to-day—
when the impulse is vanity, the motive is greed, the
method is sordid engrossment, the aim is exclusively
" business,” and the result is a barren traffic and an arid
waste.
A fine, comprehensive curse this, and an in-
citement to curse.
Who curses wholesale alone is free !
Sit dawn, good fellow, and curse with me —
As W. W. might say to Jonah.
+
Christina Kossetti’s wombat was made to “ crawl,” last
issue. It should have “ prowled ” —
One like a wombat prowled, obtuse and furry .,.
Twenty-five numbered proofs of the interesting illus-
trations of artists’ borrowings, here given on March 17,
have been printed on art paper as a supplement to Phil
May in Australia. The few remaining copies may be had
from The Bulletin office ; price fid., posted 8d.
E.W.D.: Sorry to judge not up Wegg: Declined.
A.Q.S.
An Evening on Old Bendigo.
I saving the court, we hear the town crier r Eg
: bell. “ Oh yes— oh yes f-oh yes •Th'sisto g
bice to all and sundry that Lolar Montes, the late
een of Bavary, will appear in a bran ”h side-
,<redy to-night at the theatre—to be follered by a side
fttin- comedy. No reserved seats. Ctanwn«M|rt
ht punctualiv. Roll up ! —roll up . ro p
SS'SX'U**. th *«3?, a co',“S“,
>nts that quickly follow on rich gold discoveries are
ticeable in several places. Canvas and calico are being
perseded by more substantial structures of sheet-iron
d weatherboards, indicative of faith in permanent
asperity of the field. Bendigo boasts of a tb ®
s a personage than an erstwhile favorite pf Kof
to be the principal performer this evening. Before
wing the Mother Country I read and heard muchof
3 notorious Lola Montes-actress, adyentu*e«8, aBd
stress of the weakminded ( LouIS T aT ’^„ ri
long the audience. In a few minutes the primitive
ifice is so crowded that barely stan t dl , n^ 0 ° t I ? e Ca d n 00 b 1 . e
tained. A written placard is posted on the door,
ring the titles of the pieces and the names of the
rformers. The admission fee is five shtlb "S a a
d the packed houses every night demonstrate that
e enterprise of the owner or lessee is justified.
There is no mistaking the leading star when she
ikes her appearance. She has evidently malted **e
st points of her aristocratic Irish father and ha " d '
me Creole mother. One has only to look at hei i a .
ficefit dark, flashing eyes, her willowy form, the traces
former beauty, and her lithe, active movements, !.) see
,at one is in the presence of a very remarkable woman,
id it is not hard to believe that she should have been
lie to bewitch a king and cost him his thrOue. ATter
■r expatriation from Munich she gravitated to California,
id again went on the boards. She soon tired of Frisco,
id now we have her on Bendigo.
The burst of applause that greeted Lola a appearance
is subsided, and scarcely a sound is heard but the
lice of the speaker as she takes up her
ggers are intently watching her. Most of them are
inversant with her parentage and antecedents. Alt oi g
inounced as sensational by the bellman and the wr tt
jtice, the piece is tame and unedifying to most of those
-esent. The subordinate members of the company are
nusingly deficient in their parts-the voice of the promp-
r being distinctly audible in every part of the building,
id provoking at times uproarious mirth. Lola s delivery
somewhat imperfect, and clearly not understood by
lany of her patrons. But they are in a good-natured mood.
he is a stranger and a foreigner, and they exhibit an
nount of forbearance for shortcomings that is often
und wanting in more select theatrical assemblages.
OLA DEFYING THE LIGHTNING.
But an unexpected interruption now occurs. The
raraa is about half through, and a loud peal of thunder
idicates that the storm which has been threatening all
ay is about to break over Bendigo. A little later a
errific crash is heard, as if thousands of cann ”''' v ® r i ?
ischarged simultaneously, and a blinding dash of forked
ghtning passes through the roof of the building and
/recks a part of the stage scenery. Lola Montes has
.een within a few feet of it, but is the only one present
rho looks unscared. Without the slightest tremor in
ier voice, she announces that “there is to be a little
hunder and lightning in the latter part of the play, but
t this sort of thing goes on” (pointing to the wrecked
cenery) “we shall not want any sham affair—only a
ttle brandy an4 ” , ,
She pauses abruptly, either from want of language or
.shamed to complete the sentence, and leaves us to guess
he unfinished portion by saying, with a coquettish shake
if her shapelv head and a musical laugh, You know .
If doubtful as to what she was about to suggest, most
>f us knew, at least, that we had before us an astute and
ascinating woman —one possessed of iron nerves as well
is of unbridled ambition. But her frivolities, and the
wonderful self-control she displays on so trying an
icoasion, are regarded with admiration by many of the
diggers, and we hear such expressions as-“ Isn t she a
bunner!” “Bravo, Lola!” and from a pock-marked,
rugged-faced man, with red hair and an aggressive cocked
nose, in the front seats, “ Oh, but you ’re a darlint, Loly .
’Tis a pity yez are n’t some dacent man’s wife . imp y-
ing that he (the speaker) would be a fitting consort for
the late “ Queen.” He is a lucky digger, and considers
himself quite good enough to mate with a scion of
Royalty. His face is all aglow with suppressed admir-
ation and indulgence in rum. His apparent commiseration
of liola’s forlorn celibacy evokes peals of laughter ,,
which the “ ex-Queen ” herself heartily joins. 1
Although rain is descending heavily, the recieni/ltcg,
thunder denotes that the starm is nearly spent, and ulne
play is resumed. But the recent common danger iHim
broken the reserve that has hitherto existed between
“ her Majesty ” and the audience, and she. is njrow
familiarly addressed by the diggers as Lola. bl *eH »
requested to “stash” tragedy and give them comeiWiy.
She essays to carry out the entire programme, but »»ey
won’t have it. They want something to send them awfcy
happy. .
Making a virtue of necessity, the management cu«
short the melodrama. The comedy turns out to be just
as weak, but it atfords Lola a better opportunity to dis-
play her shapely limbs in a fandango dance.
ROUND THE DIGGERS’ TRNTS.
We have some four miles to travel to our tent, but t e
night is still young, and the air deliciously clear and
bracipg 1 after the recent storm. We retrace our P
leisurely ; for there is something animating and interest-
ing to lie seen in every gully. Hich leads have been fou
in all, and their margins are thickly lined with ten •
Music, song, and laughter are heard in every direction.
The German camps are strong in music, but the} lap
into silence when stirring martial strains » re commen
on the bagpipes by enthusiastic Scottish Highland ,
who are numerous on Bendigo, every gullv, in >
having its piper and pipes. , ,
In Golden Gully we find a party of four
negroes entertaining a group of miners...- lhe
song, and music have an exhilarating effect upon
bystanders, and in a pleasant mood we Pj* ss on l0 „
hill that leads to our tent in Kangftioo Gully.
something fresh arrests our attention. A party
Britishers or Americans are seated around a camp >
I and one of them is singing the latest popular > ■ >
“ Ben Bolt of the Salt Sea Wave.” The singer hasi amen,
powerful bass voice, into which he throws much fe
We hear the song for the first time, and ars fascinated oy
the pathetic sentiments —
There's a change in the things that we loved, Ben o ,
There’s a change front the old to the new.
Fifty y r ears have gone since I saw the singer and hear
his song, and both have ever since held a strong place i
memory. And to-night in fancy he is again before™,
and I hear his rich, deep-toned, far-reaching voicerever
berating throughout the gullies of old Bendigo, a
more telling—
Of all the crowd that assembled then
There’s only you, mate, and 1.
A little later the only sound heard is the barking of »
dog, as some solitary digger, returning from a miio
carouse with a friend, steers too close to a strange teni •
At 11.30 the vast masses of humanity on ® en ~f ° W( i
enjoving the rest that is begotten of health and h
physical toil, and over the great tent-studded field nap*
a silence as profound as when the solitary •
recently pastured his sheep on these gnlhes a
that contained under a few feet of soil untold wealth.
Such, with slight variations, was life on Bendig
’62r’53.—W. Crais, in My Adventures on the Australian
Goldfields.


sd
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH*
PIGS and CALVES at- - - CITY YARDS,
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO
ARE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale. OffICCS ♦ 48 BRIDGE ST*#
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYF LASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
I. Hollis
& Sons’
The Reliable,”
££!» £6 12s 6d
m
NUI
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action, Keal Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt, Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-
end, chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “ KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2|in. cartridges,
left choke, right cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap
fore-end, half pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
POWDER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price
£5
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
&UN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin.
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States
£l2 12S
■WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING- RIFLE, 1903 model, Special
22 Calibre, fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight s|lbs.
£5
AMMUNITION.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB „
E. B. SMOKELESS
AMBERITE
~.G.
-12 g. 6/-
-16 g. 6/6
~ 12g. 6/6
*. 12g-. 6/6
». 16 or I2g. 9/-
•• 12k. 11/6
12g. 12/-
per 100
PerlOO. Per 1000.
fsd
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MU3T ACCOMPANY ORDER.
fsd
Folding:
Collector Gun, 410 g.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel
barrel, case-hardened locks
WINCHESTER ” S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or Y sights,
scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lbs
it REMINGTON ” S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in. barrel,
weight
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifles, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine ... Round barrel, 555. ; Octagon barrel,
FIEPER’S “BAYARD” S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weighb
3flbs 13s. 6d.
£1 15 0
0 18 6
10 0
2 17 6
1 1 6
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE. STATES.
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATTand
RELIABLE.
f
‘ x lf|el v je\ir\ v e”Qifle
22 <&horf or Lang. /Jin fine, Boff A effort .
Round 8/ued She e//a inch BerreJ, Weight-2/* D
ffifed tr/fhpisin If 'or J/zd/ng Bock J/ghis
(duerran&ed for3oo ros) . Po/uheawa/nor
Jfocfi. Pojfege onft/f/e, hdo exh&.
MCK SIMMONS
H&ynarker, cbYDnev.
sdf
Rifle Aparf
sd
WITH PLAIN SIGHTS 13/d
SLIDING- SIGHTS TO SOOYDS IS/<5
Cartridges Can QafyQe Defire red by Rail or Boat
fsd
You are suffering from lack of nerve force, the vitality in your system is nearly a thing of the past. You
have lived in too big a hurry; you have wasted your nerve force in many ways; you know how, and so do
we. You want it back, and we can give it to you. Every man who suffers from Nervousness, Weakness,
Lame Back and Kidneys, Indigestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Varicocele, Hydrocele, Rheumatism, Lumbago or
Sciatica, needs our assistance, and until he gets it he never gets well. We are the only Specialists in these
complaints who treat them in a commonsense manner. We simply restore to the body Nature’s vital element.
We give you a steady current of new nerve life, flowing for hours a day into your jaded and run-down
system. We cure because our treatmont is honest, because we know that there is only one way of restoring
life to your weakened and enfeebled organs. Electricity
sleep. It is the foundation of your very existence, and
you must use it; you need rothing else.
Dr. McLauchlih’s
Electric
has cured thousands upon thousands of cases, previously given up as
hopeless. More cases than all the Medical Institutes in Australia ever
handled. It will cure you. It gives new hope in the first application,
and new life begins with the second night’s wear, and pain disappears
with the third. The method is simple, but grand. The new life element
brings back the old sparkle to the eye, makes the step firm and elastic,
builds up and strengthens the weakened tissues and organs and fIUIkOS
a M£Ul out of what God intended to be a man.
]At
is a natural cure. It cures while you
if you desire to get your health bach
tsr MAN ! REGAIN YOUR VITALITY
X
w
"////Mi///
SPECIAL OFFER.^__
Every day we have complaints from disappointed people
who have bought for a few shillings what they were LED TO
BELIEVE was an Electric Belt “as good as McLaughlin’s,”
only to find it a rank imitation and utterly worthless. If you
have been taken down in this way write us full particulars,
and we will GUARANTEE TO CET YOU YOUR MONEY BACK or
its equivalent In value. This applies to any article bought
during the last two years. Be sure you state your case
plainly to ua.
W DON’T BE INDUCED TO BUY WORTHLESS IMITATIONS OF OUR BELTS. YOU’LL LOSE MONEY.
FREE BOOK.
Our beautiful Illustrated Book will be sent to you Free and
Postage Paid on receipt of a post=card. It explains how we
cure all the complaints peculiar to Weak Hen. It should be in the hands of every
man and woman in Australia. It shows in great detail just how we treat the
ailments of men which do the most to make life miserable.
DIAGNOSIS FREE.
No charge is made for a Diagnosis or Advice.
Call and see what wonderful results are obtained,
and how we cure Chronic Ailments.
DON’T DELAY. CALL OR WRITE TO-DAY AND GET ON THE ROAD TO RAPID
RECOVERY AND ROBUST HEALTH. HOURS-9 a.m. to 9 a.m.
THE McLAUGHLIN CO.,
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE OFFICE—I67E. BWANSTON ST. N.Z. OFFICE-54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON
DUDLEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I have suffered with Chronic Lame Back for years. Some time ago I
purchased one of your High-Grade Electric Belts, and after using it for three months
lam pleased to inform you that the result in my case was marvellous. I feel better
now than I have felt for the past ten years. My advice to any man who is suffering
with a bad back, is to get one of Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belts, for it will cure when
Drugs fail. I remain, yours gratefully, ISAAC CLARK.
HIGHTON, YIO.
Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in stating that your Belt has cured
me of my complaint. I have never felt the pain in my back since I
have been under your treatment. The Belt has done all you said it would, and I feel
quite a new man. You have my permission to let all sufferers know of this great cure,
and I would be pleased to answer all inquiries.
Thanking you for the kindness you have shown in my case,
I remain, yours faithfully, A. J. MoDERMOTT.


A NOVEL PRESENT.^*
HN receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward te
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
oct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either feell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 16ct. G.P. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King 1 , Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
7
kv
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELEOTRO-GALVANIO
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and othei
DISEASES in all STAGES
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTICE . —Before purchasing', we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC) ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
VANISHED VIGOR,
■ Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vineoar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s., eng.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dry Thin and Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and irritations, with loss of hair, when all else fails. Sold throughout the world.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq..
London. French Depot: 6 Rue de la Palx, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem Coep.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a riew, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cole-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and liuniour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest,
most successful and economical blood and skin ‘purifiers, humour cures, and tonio-
digestives, yet compounded.
f
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructation*, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Grarel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEF
DS
MACN
sdf
9
file/deaf aflfd/cfoods for fobfC//ma}e&.
A progressive
dietary suited to the
growing digestive powers.
The Milk Foods are as easy of digestion
as maternal milk, and promote both vigorous and
healthy growth. The "Allenbcrys'’ Foods are especially valuable
«n hot climates. They are in the form of pgwder and kyep perfectly.
Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING Wp«6ce) Free.
Men & Hanburys Ltd Xipm&an/st-.. London*
f The'Allen burys' *
i Milk Food N9l. >
I from i/rt/i to 3 mpnt/is. «
r The ‘ALLENBURYS’ !
Milk Food N? 2.
/ivm 3to 6 mont/js.
The‘ALLENBURYS’
Malted Food N 93.
From 6mo/rt/is ofitrsrt/s. j.
ANDRADE'S
LIST OF
sd
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engraving’s,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Datk, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for tob
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
VENTRILOQUISM MADE EAST, Is. UP-TO-DATE COMIC
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6c<. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels. 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydnet
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. Mv Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ’•
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Writs Sighs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d,
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
®tc., Is 3d. How to Plat Billiards,
illustrated, ls.‘ That Rascal Gustave, Is; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Evert Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Js.
Women s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Last, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, bv Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Lnquirer’s Oracle ; 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvik’s Hearts of Gold
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Makb Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
l>y Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Cd.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer 1*
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and is 3d
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s pou
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. WannanV
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6.1
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, is-
posted, 1* 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d. ’
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will’ do. Free
catalogues : —No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No ?, ■
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No 6 •
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE'S
CURES THE
WORSTCOUGHtS.
REGULARLY at BEDTIME
USE
CALVERTS
20 per cent
CARBOLIC
SOAP
to prevent Mosquito bites. It is an excellent
antiseptic soap, refreshing and beneficial
to the skin, and a useful remedy for insect
bites, itch, and other skin irritation.
Each tablet in metal box.
CALVERT’S
15% CARBOLIC POWDER
offers a safe and simple precaution against
the spread of infection and disease.
Cheap to use, as it is so strong.
i lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
P. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England.
NERVOUSNESS.
£iOBB of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a BIMPLB KEANS of SELF
CURB, win forward the same, free of
ohargo. to anyone Interested.
Address I A. KINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
fsd
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises,no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St. .Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy*
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinookstick & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. '
soi.d in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.ll.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb & Truman,
71 Old Kent Hoad, London, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by using
O 6 R I CORO*
The cniy Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125. , or four quantities in one, 36a. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne; N.S. W.— Fauldlngr & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney*
Sending, mention this paper.
w.
T7IREE BY POST.—A reliable
recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CUKE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereagh=st., Sydney.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
Free to Men.
WKITIi to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Hons. Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders Sfc..Melbourne.


A little vanity is a good thing.
Every woman should try, at all times,
to look her very best. But it certainly
must be discouraging to have your
mirror tell you that your hair is gray
when you are only thirty or fifty!
Gray hair adds twenty years to the
age. Why not look as young as you
are, or even younger ?
Ayer's Hair Vigor
Always restores color to gray hair,
always. Brings back all the deep,
rich, beautiful color of early youth.
Perhaps the color of your hair suits,
but you are losing the hair itself. You
are threatened with thin hair, rough
hair, scrr.ggly hair. Your hair seems
weak, not well nourished. Then give
it Ayer’s Hair Vigor, a true hair-
food. It stops falling hair, makes
the hair grow, and keeps it soft and
silky.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
SPOONEE’S
m
v. m
Sfj.yJgfc.H
SPOONERS
V
i
*
%*»►•*• *»*« «r##***»
*UNT LEATHER BOOTS
'CUZCO KID& K
" >“* -X?-, a' J r ’ ■
4k»k’lt>+ r i J>;H *lft
rs^LL'UliJ
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) Bd. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROOATIOM,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
R
EYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the People, for the People.
PRICE- ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, Eng.
HOW’S THIS?
I offer Twenty-five Pounds Sterling
(£25) Reward for any case of Piles
that cannot be cured by
“PETERS’ PILE CURE,”
when used according to directions.
Ask your Chemist or Store-
keeper for Peters’ Pile
Cure. If he cannot supply (accept
no other) send me his name and Five
Shill.ngs (5/-) and a Box will
be sent you by Return Post.
Each Box contains full Direc-
tionsfor Use, also Certificate
of £25 Guarantee.
None Genuine without the
Autograph Signature of
F. A. Peters in Red across
Label.
Sole p
Proprietor ■ 1
A. PETERS,
BOX 617, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
u 4. i Kuda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
TTc^?Hs u^, lno<^a * i ' on * n Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSiVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
IRISH
V
L /
_9
S)
WILL CUr?E ,I HAT
Hacking Cough,
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza.
Asthma. Bronchi his. Consumption l
I A ROE & SMALL BOTfifS 16*2 6 !
% f
SMITH
feS3
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Reeeived Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Tours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part ot
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
HJJIAIS ‘d ‘H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
OY40 Y 4
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES. Hi
It’s the modern and systematic manner of loading that makes
Winchester Shotgun Cartridges shoot stronger, give better
pattern and penetration and more uniform results generally than,
any other makes. No black powder shotgun cartridges compare
with Winchester “ New Rival ”in any way; while Winches-
ter “ Repeater ” Cartridges, loaded with smokeless powder, are
far ahead of all other makes, when the price is considered.
» INSIST. ON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE.
New Zealand Loan * Mercantile Agency Co.
XLa'tsCfl.*
SYDNEY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
.m
£
Concerning Elgin Watches^
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6<f, Sliver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Bilver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents : SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold (Jity or
flood Dairy Farms, Agricultural
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.)or
Suburban Properties,
and Grazing Lands
Government Stock of
iy >? the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term,
without notice or payment of any fine.
Current Rates of Intei tst.
or made repayable by
instalments,
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Philosophy’s Gospel.
Against vanity they warn us ;
Yet ’tis vanity they teach,
And a gospel built on vanity
The gospel that they preach.
We and all our little doings
In this little life we live
Are things over which —they tell us—
Heaven’s angels joy and grieve.
And our minds, our petty, little thoughts,
Our souls, and how they fare,
Are —they tell us—of the utmost,
Of the greatest, deepest care
To that Deity they worship
In their self-belauding creed;
To the Great, Supreme Creator,
To the Sower of the Seed.
Think ye of that changing picture,
In His mind, which is the world,
We are aught but scattered fragments,
Whirling atoms, madly hurled
Through the Finite; then, like wreckage,
Flung upon th’ Infinite shore —
Human flotsam, living jetsam,
Minute fractions ? Nothing more ?
Think ye in the dream He dreameth
We are aught but shadows gray,
Yague night forms that dimly hover,
Fleeing with the coming day ?
Can our little souls, our little lives,
Our thoughts be aught to Him ?
Recks He of the picture’s atoms,
Of the dream-born shadows dim ?
Better then it is, I hold it,
Let the End be what it may,
To enjoy the fleeting sunshine
Of our life’s short winter day ;
Brief it is, and quickly waning,
And its noontide none too bright;
Take each moment of your sunshine—
Swiftly, surely comes the Night.
Cause as little harm as may be,
Giving pain the least you can,
Though you may not help to raise him,
Trample on no fellow-man;
Though this earth be nothing bettered
By the little life you’ve led,
You, at least, can do a little
For the ground, when you are dead.
N.S.W.
C. E. HOWELL.
A Song of Seasons.
Green and gold on all the land, clouds that fly and
follow;
A stray wind, a gay wind that sings in every tree ;
Blossomed boughs on every hill, and fern in every
hollow,
Sweet of all the Spring-tide, and love for you and
me.
Sunny sheen and scent of rose and many a per-
fumed garland,
A new sky, a blue sky that stretches to the sea ;
Deep adown the forest ways a bird calls from a
far-land—
Summer’s clasp on all the earth, and love for you
and me.
Miles of yellow harvest, fruit a-ripe for falling;
A glad song, a mad song of vintagers in glee;
Autumn bringeth treasure trove—a tiny voice
a-calling,
Joy that nestles in ypur arms, and bliss for you
and me.
Cloudy spectres on the hills, rain upon the heather,
A cold wind, a bold wind that moans at our roof-
tree;
Heap the blazing logs, sweetheart, and laugh at
stormy weather—
Winter bringeth nothing but content to you and
me.
S.A.
A. M. BOWYER-ROSMAN.
At Moonset.
Between the palms the swiftly-setting moon,
Peering o’er fairy stems and white hill-crest,,
Silvers the fallen rose-leaves, blown too soon,
Touches with gold the clouds within the West.
Roses and rosebuds ! folded leaf on leaf,
Pearled with the gems that come at dawn of
night.
Clustered and starred in one sweet glory-sheaf
Among the leaves —a swaying foam of white.
Out on the creek the shadows loom and lie
In violet tints, and flakes of sombre gray,
And on the bank, against the fading sky,
The old fence rails look dim and far away.
How still and lifeless, dear gray world, you are !
Yet you have stirred at coming of her feet,
At glance of her young eyes—star chained to
star—
At her girl-voice, as something passing sweet.
Do you remember how' your grasses bent
In worship as her little feet went past ?
How all the roses in your gardens lent
Their fragrance, and the coolest shadows cast ?
How one white night, when all the world was
still,
When by the creek the mangroves hardly
stirred,
We, Land in hand, climbed up the blossomed hill,
To listen to the singing of a bird ?
Between the palms, a haze of mystery ;
A sudden darkening of the sky-rim low ! .
So, too, my Moon of Life went down for me,
That shadowed eve those ye irs and years ago.
Q.
ELFIE V. KELLEHER.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established is 49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
d .®-i > -i C r e b ' n « d > Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
_. cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
;er ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. : F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
nnrv—RicHAnn Twwnu' PTA ppa pod n
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker , , , uc „. aul
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.I A.F F A FS S
!atv nwirinri' sy? ctdi.l™ ’ •’ *•*■*■■•
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mv ho^i
HIVH 0003
Aul Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Ilair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. °lfit is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
RW For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
#
c*?
Washinotok n. Soul & Co..
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
ATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemislß, Queen Street, Brisbane: Mr. GORDON 92
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and ’ “
Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
sdf
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
SSSjKG^m
*
*
*
*
2
a
No
Darkroom
Noiu
I
pEVERYTHINfI
fSS^f-S^yn
m
s£*>ls?:
ta/opue 1 '
Ms paper
284IC0LLINS ST
Hg^MELBOURNE.
71
iw
SPECIAL
TRIAL OFFER
The finest Electric Belt in the world is
what we offer you. Our improved Belt is
superior te any other made. It is not charged
in corroding vinegar. It gives a stronger
current of Electricity than is possible with
any “ vinegar belt.”
It is a guaranteed eure for all cases of
Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lum-
bago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver, and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
We are practically giving this splendid Belt away on trial, as the price has been put at
trio lowest possible figure, so that it is within the easy reach of everybody.
We send absolutely free to every person writing us our beautifully Illustrated Medical
Book and the Best Improved Electric Belt on trial. We offer a better article at a lower
price than any other, and all writing us receive immediate attention.
What we offer you is this: Our,Medical Treatise Free, together with our best Belt on
fair trial. Reniember our Belt is positively guaranteed to be the strongest made and will
cure you. Write to-day. It costs nothing to try it. Address —
The Or. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DEPT. M.,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Now Zealand Branch: 19 Princes Street, Dnnedin.
GRAMOPHONES
The “ MONARCH ” Gramophone is the “ King " of Talking Machines.
The “ DE LUXE ” Gramophone is the “ Queen ” of Talking Machines.
The “MONARCH Junr.” Gramophone is the “ Prince ” of Talking Machines.
WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT ?
Or will you take the whole “ROYAL FAMILY”?
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland
HEINDOREI BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. . .
Send for Price Lists
and Catalogues of
Records.
<2
The ‘MONARCH’
Triple Spring
Gramophone,
Fitted with
Tapering Arm,
complete—
£l4 10s.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


No Heart. No Energy.
Tortured for a Year.
Weakness and Weariness Replaced by
Health and Vigour.
The Case of Mr. IJ. TREMAIN'
(by our reporter).
Australians are neither short-sighted nor
reckless, and they always think it well to
brush aside irresponsible rumour and gossip
and to enquire without prejudice into the
history of the affair in question. Hearing
that investigation was courted on a certain
matter, a reporter called on Mr. Richard
Tromain, of No. 131 Macquarie-street
South, Surry Hills, who answered a question
by saying
“ When I was living in the northern
district of New South Wales, about five
years ago, my health appeared to bo drift-
ing away. I felt that I had neither the
heart nor the energy to do my work, and
the gloom and depression which hung over
me took every pleasant thought out of my
mind. Nearly all day I felt as if I wanted
to be lying down, the drowsiness which
affected me being quite overpouring. It is
awful to have work to do and not have the
necessary vitality to get it out of the way,
and that is exactly what was the matter
with me. breams at night whenever I
slept took away all the refreshing influence
which rest generally produces, and when I
left my bed in the mornings it was with a
feeling of being utterly exhausted and worn
out, while my limbs ached to an extent
which was almost unbearable. It was
absurd to think of eating any breakfast, for
as soon as I sat down my stomach revolted
<•*. smell of the food, and I often got up
wituout, touching it. The nasty taste in
my mouth had something to do with this,
1 believe, because later in the day it was
not quite so bad, and then I sometimes ate
a little, but I even felt worse after taking
nourishment than if I had let it alone.”
“ That is remarkable,” asserted the man
with the note-book.
“Not at all, under the circumstances,”
was Mr. Tremain’s reply. “You see, the
trouble was that I could not digest what I
had eaten, and the suffering of pain was
only what was to be expected. I felt it
very much just a little below my neck,
where the shoulder-blades are situated, and
the stomach became distended with gases
which seemed to rise to my chest and
prevent my breath from escaping freely. I
could hardly move myself about for the
terrible aches in my loins, and if I stooped
for any purpose my head became quite
giddy. The wretched headaches which dis-
tressed me seemed to produce a feeling
rbout my eyes as if they had swollen, and
my nervous system was altogether run
iown. It was the wretched condition of
tny nerves which made my life a misery, for
f became afflicted with the maddening pains
of neuralgia, from which I suffered for
twelve solid months. I was nearly dis-
tracted with it, and as I now got less sleep
than ever I gradually wore away to a com-
parative shadow, and with scarcely an ounce
of strength in my body. From eleven stone
odd I came down to nine stone, so that will
.ell you how greatly reduced I was. It was
only natural that such an alarming state of
iffairs should prey upon my mind, but,
"‘hank goodness ! when everything looked as
olack as could be, a happy thought sud-
denly came to my mind. ‘ I will try some
elements Tonic,’ I said to myself.”
“ Why was Clements Tonic suggested to
jrour mind ? ”
“ Because people coming to my store had
<o frequently spoken in praise of it, and I
bought when so many folks agreed on the
tame subject there must be truth in what
r -hey said. And what a blessing it was that
remembered their conversations, for I can
aonesth state that several bottles of
Clements Tonic thoroughly cured the
neuralgia which had tortured me for a year,
*nd I knew t bat I was now towed to safety
so far as my digestive organs were con-
cerned, as the systems of indigestion soon
began to leave me. To feel a sense of ease
after my meals was a treat which I enjoyed
through Clements Tonic removing the dis-
comforts arising from flatulence, and I was
glad to get rid of the nasty bilious taste of
a morning, for I could now e_it heartily of
anything that was put before me After
experiencing weeks and weeks of sleepless-
ness you can understand how grateful I was
to find that the taking of Clements Tonic
meant plenty of sound rest every night, the
mornings bringing feelings of content and
animation, which had deserted me for many
months. I made up my mind not to part
company with Clements Tonic so long as
there was anything for it to do, and a final
obliteration of all my aches and discomforts
resulted. Indeed, it was a coni) lete release
from painful captivity brought about solely
by Clements Tonic, which also toned and
strengthened my system so well that all
nervousness vanished. Before this I had
been treated by a doctor, and had also
bought various medicines from chemists,
but I did not get the slightest relief from
any of these physics, the only one to wh ch
I am indebted being Clements Tonic, which
was a perfect success, as it went to all parts
of my body and left health and vigour
where weakness and weariness had dwelt so
long. What I have already told you is
something which the most ungrateful mortal
in the world would be thankful for ; but
there is part of my experience which you
have not yet heard.”
“ I would like very much to hear it, if
you do not mind,” interrupted the reporter.
“ Well, this is it: From the time that I
was sixteen years of age I was subject to
rheumatism. It had me crippled so much
that I could not get out of bed, and for
three years I was almost helpless, although
I had some of the best doctors in the city
attending me. This will help you to form
an idea of the great pressure that had been
placed on my constitution previous to my
taking Clements Tonic, and I think that
medicine is entitled to all the more credit
for making me as sound as lam to-day. It
was when I was taking Clements Tonic for
my other ailments that I discovered its in-
trinsic value as a remedy for rheumatic
pains, for, as I said before, it found its way
to all parts of my body and gave me relief,
and as this came after trying all sorts of
medicines to no purpose, it is easy to under-
stand why I regard Clements Tonic as the
most effective physic. Mine was a com-
plication of complaints of a most obstinate
and distressing character, and as Clements
Tonic proved itself to be master of them all
I think I would be doing a wrong to the
public if I did not place my experience on
record, so that anybody in a similar position
can act as he thinks fit. In any case, these
facts may prove serviceable to many
sufferers, so you may publish them in any
way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Richard Trruais, of 131 Macquarie-street
South, Surry Hills, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read th*jmnexed document, consisting of five folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to five, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in anyway
my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900. .
rtLyn/Cid tJtcut'dUC'
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this fourteenth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two.
bofore me,
P. J. BRENNAN, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMPETITXO3V.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. fa.
Kent Brewery, SIHPNEir.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id
Post Free,
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for——^
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
ril Try It”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japiilarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasta or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SO4.E AGENTS.
Th* Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WIIAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PlliliS
Is the Great jLiigueih due lur CjUUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
sd
Acetylene
Gas
TABLE LAMPS.
OUR ADVANCE is
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
ACETYLENE GAS
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Large Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO.
161 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
FREE CURE.
Wonderful Home Treatment that Cures 1
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Bice (Dept. 1317), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
Mb. A. Dochebty.
avoid all questions of doubt, he
seDds free to every sufferer a
free trial of his method, and
there can be no earthly reason
why anyone, rich or poor, Bhould
not avail themselves of this
generous offer. As an instance
of this remarkable method,
the cure of Mr. J. J. Hogan,
Cobar, N.S.W., is well worth
noticing. He was cured at the
age of 70 years, after suffering
10 years. He made an affidavit
to this effect, of his own free
will, before two J.P's.
Mr. J. Kubank, a farmer of Yarloop, Western
Australia, was cured after suffering 48 years from
a scrotal rupture. Mrs. F. Medley, 177, Sturt
Street, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia, was cured
after suffering 5 years. Mr. A. Docherty, 23, War-
wick Street, Birkenhead, Cheshire, England, was
cured of an irreducible scrotal rupture—one of the
worst kinds known. No treatment he had used
would enable hjm to return the rupture to its
proper place. He tried the method of Dr. Bice,
which not only reduced the rupture, but also
effected its complete cure, and he is now as sound
as a bell. A full description and sample 'of this
remarkable method of cure will be gladly sent
upon application. It has cured thousands. Do not
hesitate to give it a trial. Write at once— to-day.
Don’t delay in a matter of such importance, - ■
Everest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wb called him Everest for various reasons. He
was a medium-sized dog of an indefinable color,
and bore the appearance of having been sadly
neglected by the world in general and himself in
particular. A part of each ear was missing, and
a variegated assortment of scars, evidence of
numerous encounters with man and other beasts,
dotted his hide. His tail was an abbreviated one,
and the portion of it that still remained attached
to him couldn’t be said to add either charm or
dignity. He was a hairy dog in places. In con-
siderably more places he was a hairless dog. In
fact, I never knew a dog with so much hair to the
square inch and so little to the square dog. Of
his moral character I shall say nothing, but he
owned a perfume that allowed of no serious com-
petition. I have known the gentle zephyrs to
zephyr round about him, then go away and
meet people and make them feel uncomfortable.
Councillor Goggin, at one of the usual fortnightly
meetings of the Bogville Shire Council, said the
fact that Everest was at large was “ striking testi-
mony to the triumph of intelligence over a sense
of duty in the police department.” But, even
with all this, Everest was a humble dog. Nothing
apparently would have made him haughty.
He entered our church while a prayer was on.
He proceeded down the aisle as if his visit was a
strictly informal one, and he didn’t want any fuss
made about it, reached the pulpit-end of the
church, and lay there. Presently, the worshippers
in the front rows grew restive. The thermometer
was high, but it wasn’t a circumstance to the dog.
Within five minutes of his entrance, he had made
his presence felt throughout the building. I never
knew a dog with such a penetrating and far-reach-
ing influence. For a while, there was a terrible
silent struggle between the congregation and
Everest. Everest was the only creature in the
building not interested in it. His indifference
amounted almost to being dead. But it was
apparent that the unequal struggle couldn’t last.
Something had to go—the dog or the congrega-
tion, and it was any odds on the dog being left in
possession unless something desperate was done.
There is no advantage in having the title-deeds of
a place when an animal like Everest gets in on
you.
The verger went out into the yard and took in
a full load of unadulterated atmosphere. Then
he walked down the aisle, and, grasping Everest’s
ear, endeavored to persuade that nonchalant
animal to withdraw. He had dragged his charge
about half-way, when the latter broke away and
slunk again towards his resting-place. As he
moved back, Mrs. Jackson, the station-master’s
wife, who was sitting next the aisle, cast a look
of mingled terror and disapprobation at him.
The misguided creature, mistaking her look for
one of sympathy, made towards her. Mrs,
Jackson was a wildly-excitable female, and she
stood up, raised her parasol, aimed a violent blow
at Everest, and hit Mrs, Muggins, who was
in the next seat, in the neck. Now, Mrs,
Muggins is a large, fat woman, and she showed
her Christian fortitude by dealing Mrs. Jackson a
violent push, which upset that lady’s equilibrium
and landed her, of all places, on the dog. Ih.e
latter, up till now, had taken only a lukewarm
interest in the proceedings, but he livened up con-
siderably. When three or four of the men
endeavored to annihilate him, he skurried away.
In and out he went, between and around the
seats, between the legs of the men and under the
skirts of the women. Old women dodged and
young ones went into hysterics; men kicked at,
and mostly missed, him; women struck at him
with their parasols and missed him, for he was a
swift dog when he got going. In the midst of the
commotion a rush was made to get out. Everest
became wedged in the crowd, reached the door, and
went out of the yard. I don’t know why he went
out of the yard, but probably there was nothing
in there that he wanted. So he went out of the
yard and along the street, pursued by as much of
the earth as could be handled in the time. It was
a dog with considerably ruffled feeling* that
stopped a few streets off to think.
A few days ago Everest met with an untimely
death through being in a loaded bag which a
Chinaman threw into the river. I don’t like
Chinamen as a rule, but they have their uses.
JOHN PHILIP COOK.
Victorian police officers assert that the
men who were drafted into the force from the
South African cohentingenters are causing a deal
of trouble. They are referred to as “ the South
African bucks.” One of the “bucks ” tried the
game of stealing his mate’s kit which he had
learned in South Africa, and was “ fired.” Having
lost his own handcuffs he quietly commandeered
those belonging to another constable. He over-
looked the fact that the number of the stolen
handcuffs didn’t correspond with the number of
his own kit.
“ Hiphen ” muses :
Necessily is the mother of invention.
In the inversion of the above is the solution of the
problem of our decreasing birth-rate.
For:
Population is our necessity.
Our women are unwilling to become mothers (rt’dtf
N S.W. Koyal Commissioners).
Therefore, let science step in and replace women by
invention (something in the incubator line).
Then will invention be the mother of our necessity.
A Maoriland Judge lately complained in a
tone of bitter grief that a judgment of his,
reprinted by a law office, wasn’t really his at all,
because it didn’t contain his punctuation.
Whereupon a brother Horsehair said that he had
been similarly treated, commas that he never used
being scattered over his remarks. Then the Chief
Justice fell with a crash on a lawyer who had set
out his case on foolscap instead of on quarto size
“an unwarrantable breach of court rules, and a
thing that wouldn’t be tolerated.”
“ Owl-light ” : Most of the men and
women about Bega (N.S.W.) district have not
much hair on their heads above the forehead.
This is through milking cows. The Bega girl
spends much of her time sitting under the cow,
with her head pressed hard against the animal’s
stomach, and the hair is chafed away and never
allowed to grow again. I went to a country ball
the other night. The girls—they were all dairy-
maids—were not very light of foot, and about
3 a.m. they grew exceedingly heavy. I went
up to one, sitting quietly in a corner, and
asked her if she would “try this” (meaning the
final waltz). She didn’t appear to hear me, so I
repeated my request. Then she spoke, drowsily,
and said, “Bail up, Spotl” It was cow-tirr«
again.


iinissn
BUNDY.
Insist
Upon
Having:
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
Corner George & Market Sts.. SYDNEY
Has just been re-furnished and renovated throughout in the most up-to-date style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy first in the public’s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY POE, WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
SYDNEY.
BE WISE
IN TIME.
Wise folk never hesitate to
spend money when the
Right Thing is offered at
the Right Price-
This happy combination will be found at our
“GIVING UP THE RETAIL” SALE
as there is not a single Department, be it
CHINA and CRYSTAL WARE,
HANDSOfIE LEATHER GOODS,
ELECTROPLATE and SILVER,
HOUSEHOLD REQUISITES,
SADDLERY and SPORTS fIATERIALS,
but at the present moment are offering “ The right thing at the right price,” so “ Be Wise in Time/
REMEMBER—What we say we doi we do do.
Holdsworth, Macpherson &Co.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Imported expressly for those who place
QUALITY first.
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
ARE
NOT
“CHEAP” CIGARETTES.
«
V.
n
s
Hi?
gw**®* '5
; -
t ®fe!
m
&
■ft'
X//
:*
///-4
-ft !>
i*
IS'ft
■■ • ■ ■ •-'»
■
m
!T
rstfi
m it --, y
d’iim
4!
|££|B§
: llilllllh
OT&S
aißoaai I caangel lanHDßßat vi aNSKM
4» IfrTJjTJ;■■.
Mg
i if
-I ! '
&
’ S' •
wu
*****
m
1 *
. .•/ }' V’ r ' '•: 'r! v '. ;
'. N ■ •,.. I
■ ./ . . : . .
v*'7V« > • • .
r /M
1 ... :. -'{ ;»
•J..': '•••■•.•.'•.''.•s'- . - •
RUBEROID ROOFING
IS THE ROOF FOR YOU.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vot. 25.-No. 1263.
THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1904.
Price tin.
'Candidate Fdß re-election : “And let me again
remind you that it was the party to which I
belong that despatched troops to South Africa to
help the dear old Asiatics get employment ; the
party that stamped out the pi leastways, we
despatched troops ”
THE PLAGUE.
ANOTHER CASE IN SYDNEY.
INCREASE OP INFECTED AREAS.
Yesterday the fourth patient in
connection with the present out-
break of plague was discovered.
THE GENERAL, THE SENA-
TOR, AND THE COLONEL.
Hutton : “ Well, I’ll be !
• • and —— !! ! ——ed if I
know which of you to put
under arrest! ”
" Austin Chamberlain, Chanoellor qf
the British Exchequer, lias £5,000 000
deficit,”
Gwe’Sullivan : “ Now, fancy trusting
a valuable deficit like that to a mere
boy 1 ”
POLITICAL SiUSICAL CHAIRS,
Australia : “Well, the graveyurd
doesn't look quite so lonely as it.
did. It’s beginning to fill up,"
MOSTLY COMMONWEALTH MATTERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
4 * A list rat in /or Ihr .1 itsf m/itt ns.**
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £) 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiie Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
S/>rr hit Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A m.utours in. IllnaJe unit White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted.for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted .for direct reproduction
— i. e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludyate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetoivn ; U. R.
Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia;
and others.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
T^e^^rxlle^oi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1904.
TO PREMIER WATSON, OF AUSTRALIA—
GREETING!
The Federal crisis brought J. C. Watson to the
top of things as Premier of Australia. The new
Premier is a man of education and high repute,
with a valuable name for honesty ; and he is a
grave and cautious Scot, the very antithesis of the
rampant iconoclast with bees in his hat, which is
the Freetrade paper’s favorite picture of a Labor
politician. With a fair opportunity he should go
far and his Ministry should live long. Unless
some sudden intrigue, or violent shuffle of the
political cards, or unexpected uprising of dis-
appointed billet-hunters should upset the new
Government at the very outset of its career, there
are great chances in its favor. What it mostly wants
is time to develop its policy, to show that a Labor
Ministry isn’t anything like a shindy of the larrikin
shis of the upper classes at a university function,
and that it doesn’t drink or break things, or start
revolutions, and that it has constructive ability ;
and to prove to the unthinking majority that the
imaginary picture of it drawn by the malicious
liars and crude perjurers of the daily press is just
the lie that the thinking minority has always
known it to be. With Premier Watson as
Premier and Treasurer the public finances will at
least be in safe Caledonian hands. And sound
finance is at least one-half of every successful
Government’s policy.
The Watson Government begins well by
acquiring office honorably on a clean and honor-
able issue. The Federal Constitution says that
the Australian Parliament shall have power to
make laws providing for “ conciliation and arbitra-
tion for the prevention and settlement of industrial
disputes extending beyond the limits to any one
State.” There is no provision for making this
law apply to one class and not to another, but the
Barton Government, in its pitiable servility to
Irvine and Bent, agreed to exclude certain classes
—the public servants of the State. It is so rarely
that a dispute does extend beyond the limits of the
State that in practice it probably mattered not
very much which way things went, but the
Watson party came into power because it stood
for adhering to the Constitution, and the Deakin
party went out of power because it insisted on
perpetrating an outrage on the Constitution.
Also, in another important respect, the new Go-
vernment stands for maintaining the Constitution,
and its two predecessors did not. The Federal
compact gives to the Commonwealth power to levy
any and every kind of tax—customs, excise, land-
tax, absentee-tax, income-tax—which the revenue
or the state of the country may r equire. This is
set out with absolute clearness in part 11. of
clause 51 of the Const tution ; the clause gives a
general power of taxation with no limits whatever.
But the Freetrade and Tory press, before even the
first Australian Parliament met, started a won-
derfully unanimous and sustained lie to the effect
that direct t ixation was reserved wholly for the
■States, and that customs and excise revenue was
the sole resource of the Commonwealth. It was a
C .se of the ear'y bird lying to the worm, and it
took this course for four visible reasons : It wanted
to keep the Commonwealth Government poor so
as to restrict its operations, and thus, by forcing it
to leave many matters to the States, to belittle it
and aggrandise the States. It was anxious to avert
the l'Cdcral graduated land-tax which would
break up its beloved big estates and provide the
people with land for settlement. It desired to
make sure that there would be, through sheer
want of money, no all-Australian old age pension
system. And it sought, above all things, to force
toe Commonwealth Government to encourage
large imports, in-order that it might get a
sufficient revenue by import duties which would
necessarily be devised on a purely revenue basis ;
and to discourage Australian industries, which the
unpatriotic shoddy press hates with an over-
whelming hatred. The Barton Government
struck a compact with the enemies of Australia on
these lines to make the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and Parliament as poor, helpless and incon-
siderable as possible, and to read the Constitution
as giving to the Commonwealth powers of indirect
taxation only. The W atson p arty, which advocates
a Federal graduated land-tax to break up big
estates and provide land for settlement purposes,
stands by the letter of the Constitution here also.
It is the constitutional party in every sense of the
word.
* * » *
Probably the best advice that can be tendered
to the Vi' atson Government now is to make haste
to unfold its policy. The best features of its
policy must almost certainly remain mere matters
of theory until next session, but that is no reason
why they should not be declared. The passing of
the much-needed measure for the appointment of
a:i Australian High Commissioner in London, the
settlement of the vexed and harried Federal
Capital question, the completion of the Concilia-
tion and Arbitration Bill, possibly the creation of
the Inter-State Commission, and a few minor
matters, together with the work of learning the
routine of their offices, and keeping General
N kilo in all his millinery from falling
upon and publicly disembowelling his old
enemy, Field Marshal Hutton, will probably
keep the new Ministers busy all this session. But
it should be definitely and clearly announced that
the policy of the Watson Government includes a
Federal graduated land-tax for the breaking up
of large estates in order to provide land for settle-
ment ; an absentee-tax; encouragement in every
possible way of Australian industries; and Federal
old age pensions on a moderate scale. Above all
things, it should be made extra clear that the
Watson Government is to b§ absolutely, wholly,
and permanently a non-borrowing Government,
except when it borrows for the renewal of State
loans; that it proposes to provide for all public
works out of revenue; that it will do its best to
arrange for the taking over of the State debts;
and that if it succeeds in taking them over it will
make the first beginnings, no matter how small
these may be, of a sinking fund for the repayment
of the huge liability. This may seem a large order,
but it is a perfectly feasible one—and Premier
Watson is a Scotchman. The world has a great
and well-grounded faith in Scotchmen in matters
of finance.
• • • *
There are good reasons why the Watson
Government should definitely commit itself to at
least a few leading features of its policy. Its
position in a Parliament of three parties is pre-
carious. The position of every Government must
be precarious while the -Reid Foreign Importers’
party insists on splitting Australian politics by
adding a Manchester calico faction to our Austra-
lian political institutions. If the Watson Govern-
ment goes out suddenly and early it should at least
leave a definite footmark before it goes. It should
make it clear to Australia what Australia will
gain by leaving it in, and what it will lose
by throwing it out. If it should be ejected
before its policy has fairly begun to develop
it will at least leave it as a record, and as a reason
for its speedy return to office. A policy to which
a Government—especially a Government led by a
Scotchman with a valuable reputation for honesty—
deliberately commits itself while it has a fair
prospect of long-continued office, has some weight;
the same policy, advanced by a falling Govern-
ment or by a party out of office, is apt to be
regarded as a mere casual bid for votes. If the
W atson Government’s policy is calculated to bring
it enough friends to keep it in power—and if Aus-
tralia is blessed with even an ordinary proportion
of common sense that will be the case—then it may
as well attract those friends now. As a party which
proposed to support Australian industry it would
get a solid mass of Protectionist votes. Its graduated
land-tax policy'would bring it the support of all
the multitude of small rack-rented tenant farmers
who want to become freeholders, and all the land-
less multitude who want to settle on the soil on
almost any terms. Its definite non-borrowing and
sinking-fund policy would almost certainly fetch
along by cable the heavy approval of the Tings
and other vast and indigestible masses of
literature. The old age pension proposal would
bring many supporters—it might even attract
the vote and countenance of Jawbone Neild if
something kind was said about that stately swash-
buckler s efforts in the c luse. All these matters
are worth considering. There i s also to be con-
s'the objurgation of B :nt, which has its
value.
There is always roon for the Man Who Does
things. Premier Watson’s two rivals both
approve, in a vague and general way, of running
the Commonwealth without borrowing, of reduc-
ing the public debt, of establishing old age pen-
sions, of breaking up land monopoly—but they
both hover round indefinitely, stating that they
don’t see how these things are to be done. They
approve of them because the country approves of
them, and they hover because they haven’t the
courage to do, anything more. The man who
approves of them, and does see how they are to be
done, has always a great opportunity. If Premier
Watson declares his policy courageously, many
politicians who inwardly loathe him will give him
a reluctant support because they dare not, for the
sake of their seats, do otherwise. They will be
consoled by the conviction that, because he has
promised more than other leaders, and been
definite where other leaders only hovered,
and promised to be practical where other leaders
wept because they couldn’t be more than
theoretical, therefore his downfall and his failure
will be all the worse. If there is no failure, then
the support which these individuals gave tem-
porarily because they dared not do otherwise,
they will have to give permanently. For the
man who promises largely and performs, like
Seddon, there is a great opportunity. For the
man who promises largely but doesn’t perform,
like Reid, there is at least a temporary oppor-
tunity. For the man who is too much afraid of
m B ‘ S n VII sc l uas bed or b of his fate to even promise,
like Peacock, there is oblivion, anl the sack from
his leadership, and a public grin when his
dealings with the 1.0. F. come to be overhauled,
therefore the best advice that can be given to mv
new Ministry is to be as completely unlike
Peacock as possible.
A QUIET CRISIS.
It was none the less effective for its quietness, the
crisis which sent Deakin out of power and brought
an Australian Democratic Government into being.
But with memories of “another place” it was
difficult to imagine that the fate of a Government
was being decided. As the division bells rang
there was no sound of splintering and smash, as a
furious Oppositionist, who had been locked up,
broke his way out to record a vote against a too-
enterprising Cabinet. The whips brought in no
men too helplessly drunk to do anything but be
counted as an “aye” or a “nay.” There
was, consequently, no fierce effort to steal
the other party's drunk, no Homeric com-
bat over the helpless body of a legislator,
whose presence on one side or other of the House
might make all the difference between victory and
defeat, but whose free-will was for the time
drowned in liquor. These things have been, may
be again—in a State Parliament. The Australian
Parliament is different. For all the quietness in
the Chamber, however, for all the cold dignity of
the combatants there —no one even calling out
“Liar,”—there was life, palpitating, exciting life,
in the lobbies. There might be seen Deakin
striding along, his nerves strung taut to face
the scaffold with dignity ; John Forrest,
sullen at the thought of office departing
from him who had been in office 21 years
and who had come to look on office as part of the
natural order of things; Bill Lyne, pathetically
bewildered at the obstinacy of his leader in forcing
on such an unnecessary and unpleasant massacre
of Ministers, casting around for some expedient by
which, even at the last moment, a reprieve might
be secured; George Reid, now hopeful, now
downcast, revolving in his mind what device
could best serve his ends, subject to the chagrin of
a steady refusal from the Government side of all
overtures to form a coalition; J. C. Watson,
generally confident, but occasionally a little
uneasy as to the moves of Reid. In the
lobbies the issue seemed a live one. In
the House the debate was lifeless. Forrest
supplied amusement, with querulous complaints
against his opponents for defeating him, and dis-
appointed disclosures of past obsequiousness and
bygone grovel and abjectness on his own part, all
covered up with that affectation of frank good-
humored bluntness which is his strong card. And
Lyne wore his heart on his sleeve and called up
the ghosts of dead N.S.W. politics. Otherwise
the speeches were of the “private members’
night ’ order. The division was a little surprising
because the first amendment and not the second
was carried ; but even that caused no demonstra-
tion. The Democratic members were sorry to cut
down Deakin in his young prime—they all like
him sincerely—and to the Opposition the
fact had come home that there was not
much hope for them out of the crisis,
since Deakin was firm against all the woo-
ing of Reid for an alliance. There was no
cheering at the result. Deakin said something
particularly graceful in a particularly graceful
way, and the House adjourned, leaving Reid to
make a final desperate effort to oust Watson
from the succession to the throne.
* .» * *
The Reid attitude was throughout plain enough.
Deakin, in power, had steadily ignored all
suggestions for a coalition. With the Govern-
ment on the edge of defeat the situation was
surely changed. A Reid-Deakin combination
might allow the vote to go against the Govern-
ment ; then Deakin could advise that Reid be
sent for, and a coalition Ministry would come in,
and with a free use of the party whip and a threat
of dissolution, would probably survive. But
Deakin wouldn’t see it. If the Democratic party
could secure an honest majority on the issue, why
should not it have a chance? Of the two parties
he seemed to have more confidence in that led by
Watson than in that of Reid. Then another
move was attempted. The Freetrade press was
urged to represent to Governor-General North-
cote that the natural sequence to the fall of
Deakin was the summoning of Reid, and the Free-
trade following was manipulated so that members
who did not believe in giving the civil servants the
benefits of the Arbitration Act should, neverthe-
less, vote for the first amendment affirming that
extension. No one expected that amendment to
be carried. Last Parliament it was rejected. The
real issue was as to the inclusion of the railway
men, who are obviously the only State servants
likely to need the benefits of the Act. But with
the carrying of the first amendment by a very
close division Reid hoped that the Labor men
would be at the same time put into an impractic-
able position and shown-as having such a small
majority as to make it impossible for them
to carry on a Government. With those two
considerations urged on the Governor-General, he
might be persuaded into sending for Reid. Then
anything might happen. Yes-No would, at any
rate, have a chance of forming a Ministry, and,
with intrigue, might succeed. But the manoeuvring
was too palpable. Some of the Freetrade mem-
bers who were going to vote for something they
didn’t believe in, in order to create a state of con-
fusion out of which a party advantage might be
gained, were foolish enough to confess this fact in
the House — Lonsdale more clearly than any
other. This steeled the Government party further
against any negotiations with the unspeakable
Reid, and did not improve the temper of the
Labor members. Besides, Reid overdid it. Too
many Freetraders voted “No” whilst believing
“ Yes,” and the advantage (to Reid) of having
the Government defeated by one or two was lost.
The amendment was carried by nine, and the
Labor party was made to appear, by Reid’s blun-
dering, as strong enough to hold its own, even on
an extreme issue, against all other parties put
together. Even then Reid continued to hope, and
on Friday afternoon, when Watson had been
actually, though not formally, sent for, Reid was
still hoping in a room at Parliament House.
* * * *
The Reid manoeuvres on this occasion were of
the same type as on the last crisis over the Arbi-
tration Bill. He might then have won office by
frankly accepting the Labor men’s terms. But,
whilst negotiating with them and pretending to
agree with them, he set up a counter-plot to have
the Electoral Bill destroyed in the Senate. With
that effected, and the Government defeated, the
Labor party would, it was reckoned, have
been at Reid’s mercy, especially in N. S.
Wales, since for the House of Reps., as for
the Senate, each State would have had to
be polled as a single constituency, and the
experience of the Senate vote showed that
under those circumstances the whole Reid ticket
would have been carried by a block vote. The
Labor Senators promptly informed their party of
what was going on, and Reid’s chance was gone.
He hoped to win something out of a state of con-
fusion t len ; he tried the same game on this
occasion. Reid seems to look upon politics as a
sort of pick-pocket game, with office to be won by
p.ck-pocket tactics.
* * * *
When the G ivernment met the House last
week a dismal omen presaged th e. -fall to come.
On the front Ministerial bench sat two doctors, a
parson, and an undertaker. Obsequies were evi-
dently the order of the day.
* * * *
Deakin took his defeat with dignity. He wel-
comed it as a way out of a position which, to a
man of his temperament, had become impossible.
Tiie ex-Premier takes no pleasure in political
manoeuvring. Out of office, he will, it is certain,
use his influence to give the new Government a fair
show. Probably he does not expect that it will
succeed in holding office for any length of time,
but there will be on his part an open opposition,
and no guerilla warfare. Circumstances, at time
of writing, seem to prevent Watson from forming
a representative Radical Ministry. On the
Government side practically all the men the
Labor pai ty would most wish to have will not
deseit Deakin, and Watson is not inclined
to take the others as substitutes. From the Oppo-
sition side it would not be safe to draw anyone in
view of the contemptible character of Reid's
man euvrings and his declaration that his party is
still tied absolutely to him and only split in order
to defeat the Government and give him a show of
office. There was some talk of Speaker Holder
being asked to join forces with the Labor party, but
that development isnot likely. Reid cannot conceal
his mortification at the development of events, and
with his press organs hints at an attempt to take
the business of the House out of the hands of the
Government as soon as it meets Parliament
without giving it a chance of putting forward
a policy. The Bulletin hopes the attempt will
be made, for it will probably split up Reid’s
party irretrievably. He has several followers
who, outside of their adherence to the Freetrade
fallacy, are Radicals. They threatened secession
when he was manoeuvring for a Conservative
coalition : they, almost certainly, would break
away if he attempted any such outrageous move
as the one suggested.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sacrificed for a Jim-Jam.
The debate which preceded the downfall of the
Deakin Ministry did very little credit to the in-
. telligence of the bulk of the Ministry’s supporters.
The 38 men who voted with Watson had a clear
and logical case, while the other 29 professed to be
actuated principally by certain reasons, of which
one was a lie, while the others flatly contradicted
one another and might be ranked as jim-jams.
The reason which was a lie set forth that it was
an outrage to take from a State the management
of its own railways and civil service; as it was
merely proposed that the Federal courts should be
authorised to take cognisance of the exceedingly
rare variety of public service dispute which ex-
tended, to more than one State , the implication
that anybody proposed to seriously deprive any
State of the general control of its public service
was flatly untrue. In this matter the Labor party
was not striving so much for any large or definite
concessions as for the principle that all Austra-
lians should be treated alike, that a public servant
was not necessarily an outcast, and that it was
beneath the dignity of the Australian Parliament
to put any class under special disabilities merely
as a concession to the cold malevolence of Ikvine
and the vulgar fury of Bent. But the comedy
feature of the case was the assurance of
the Deakin party, first that it would be an out-
rage to do this thing, second that the thing
wouldn’t be done in any case because the proposed
proceeding was “ unconstitutional,” and the High
Court would promptly rule it null and void. The
two-headed attitude of the Deakin party was
that, if public servants were included, a
great wrong would be done to the States,
wherefore the inclusion couldn’t be thought
of for a moment; also, that if public
servants were included no wrong at all would be
done to the States, because the High Court would
promptly rule the clause out, wherefore also the
proposed inclusion couldn’t be thought of for even
half a moment. Apart from these incoherent and
amusing ideas, the Deakin Government went
down clutching a fixed and definite delirium with
both hands. It sank with the solid idea tied
round its neck that the thing which is just for the
private employer and employee is unjust for the
State employer and employee; that the State
employee is an inferior creature who shouldn’t get
the same treatment as the private employee ; and
that whatever Bent may be in a private capacity,
Bent in a public capacity is so good and holy
that it would be an outrage to even suppose
anyone could require to appeal against him,
or else that Bent is so bad that it would
be against public policy to stir up the perfume.
T ne W atson party went on the straight and logical
ground that it was both fair and lawful to treat all
Australians alike, therefore the Watson party was
the only coherent thing in a scene of chaos. Deakin
and his colleagues perished politically in the struggle
to prevent the thing which it said wouldn’t happen
in any case, and to stem the disaster which it said
didn’t need to be stemmed because it would stem
itself ; and it died fighting hard to kill the evil
thing which it said was not only dead but had
never been alive. This sort of business might be
heroic but it wasn’t war, nor even coherent jim-
jams. The person with jim-jams thinks his snake
is there, which explains his animosity towards the
reptile. The Deakin party breathed its last
grabbing with both hands at a snake which it
assured the public wasn’t there.
♦
Land Tax and Land Purchase.
We found farmhouse after farmhouse, where once were
thriving- families of eight or a dozen, now standing empty
and deserted, the farms having been acquired by large
land-owners in times of stress as mere adjuncts to their
own holdings and homesteads. We found public schools
closed for want of children, and schools that once had an
average of 50 or 60 children now put on half-time.
The foregoing are some remarks made by the Eev.
Bivett, of Albury (N.S.W.), after a tour of the
north-east of Victoria. And what the Eev.
Rivett saw in Victoria can also be seen on
Monaro and in many other parts of N.S.W.;
likewise in many other parts of Australia. It
furnishes a whole essay on the futility of all
schemes for the settlement of small farmers on the
land by limiting the area which the State will sell
to one purchaser, or by the repurchase by the
State of large properties for re-sale to small
settlers —unless there is a heavy graduated land
tax to prevent the small farms aggregating again
into large holdings. Nothing but a heavy gradu-
ated land tax, honestly administered, will fSI the
bill. The big landholder is like the big empire—
his swallowing capacity is perpetual. Things
gravitate his way. There is a certain pride and
pomp and status about being a great landholder,
the owner of a vas'; wilderness of grass and sheep
—a sort of “monarch of all I survey” —
which tend to keep the big estate together, unless
the tendency is counteracted by a tax system which
makes the holding of big estates unprofitable.
The process of resuming great properties and
cutting them up for closer settlement, while there


is no guarantee that the small settler won t be
bought out, or foreclosed out, by another big land-
orabber, is only pouring a very small quantity of
water into a very large sieve. If the graduated
land-tax imposes such a burden that an area which
is worth (say) £lO an acre in 300 acre lots is only
worth £7 10s. an acre in 3000 acre lots, and £5 an
acre in 30,000 acre lots, and almost nothing an
acre in 100,000 acre estates, then the land will sub-
divide itself and remain subdivided. Then there
will be 100 families where there is now only one,
and people will pour into Australia instead of
staying away. The railway revenue will look up
in the fertile parts of the country, because
there will be vastly more people to use the
railways and supply them with traffic, though the
same result may not follow in the outback regions
where nobody wants to go while habitable land
is obtainable near the coast. The revenue will
increase because there will be more taxpayers.
The public debt per head will diminish because
there will be more people to divide it among.
Manufactures will boom because there will be
more customers. The profits of banks and
insurance companies will look up because there
will be more people to do business with them ; in
short t'.ie wholesale and permanent breaking up of
the big estates in the fertile parts of Australia by
a heavy graduated land-tax, that will make the
holding of big estates utterly unprofitable, provided
the tax is accompanied by a heavy Protective tariff
to promote manufactures and supply the new
settlers with customers, will be a raising of
Australia from the dead. And so far as concerns
the graduated land-tax—as distinguished from any
ordinary land-tax imposed purely - for revenue
purposes —the injury to the present big land-
holder will be almost imperceptible, provided he
consents to sell his superfluous acres. His big estate,
now worth £lO an acre, may be made worth only
To an acre while he holds it, but if he
sells it in farms, each small enough to be under
the taxation limit, it will be worth as much as it
is really worth now. And, meanwhile, his town
properties, his bank and insurance shares, his
manufacturing and shipping and commercial in-
terests, will all go up with a whoop through the
increase of population, and his taxation will be
reduced through the increase in the number of
people among whern the country’s burdens are
divided. The Toryism which hangs on to the
policy of big estates, retarded settlement, small
population, heavy taxes and business stagnation,
should take for its coat of arms a design showing a
fat man cutting his own throat for the imaginary
good of himself and his fellow fat men —also em-
ployed in cutting their own throats.
Private Enterprise and Butter.
Premier Bent, of Victoria, who first decided
that the Butter Commission should deal with all
the swindles, or suspected swindles, of the trade,
and then (under pressure from the agency crowd,
which didn’t want to be inquired into more than
it could avoid) confined the investigation to the
■one question of secret commissions, has now (under
wisely-administered pressure from the A«e)
wobbled helplessly back to his original stand-
point. Consequently, unless Bent (under
pressure from somebody else) wobbles again,
the Butter Commission will begin inquir-
ing, about the end of the month, as to
“secret commissions, rebates, brokerages, alle-
gations of bribery, etc.—and all othei matters
appertaining to the production, transport, export,
sale, or realisation of butter,” and revelations may
shortly be expected. Also, subpoenas have been
served on certain agents who were understood to
be contemplating a trip to Europe, with a view to
remaining there until the butter evaporated.
Meanwhile, the butter-producer is getting much
•gratuitous information, which should, if he has as
much sen.se as the cow or sheep he lives on, cause
him to drop “private enterprise” for good, and
go straight and openly for socialism. Besides
the manipulation of prices already exposed, the
producer is learning a lot he never knew before
about (as one instance) the manipulation of
brands. Some agents have as many as 50 regis-
tered brands of their own, the dairies producing
such butter being situated in their own private
offices. Also, he begins to comprehend that the
“ agent ” mostly sells poor butter under the far-
mer’s brand but good stuff under his own. Fur-
ther, it dawns upon him that when the same
“agent” buys (say) 1001 b. of butter to be tinned
and exported he only pays for 1001 b., but
when that butter emerges from the tinning
factory—run by the agent under a “company”
name—the 1001 b. of cowfat manages to fill about
114 lib. tins, tinned butter running mostly 14oz.
to the lb. As the Maoriland invariably
put IGoz. in their lib. tins they are naturally ruin-
ing the Victorian farmer’s “tinned” trade—
and that antiquated person is just learning-
why. It has also been impressed on these
cow-haunted individuals that in nearly every
butter-factory someone—it may be a director,
the secretary or the manager is in the
secret pay of an agent, and that agent doesn’t pay
good. coin for nothing. At the same time the
farmer pays his butter-factory men so badly that
they are glad to take pay from anybody. Take it
all round, the farmer is just now entertaining a
very poor opinion of “private enterprise,” and
this opinion is likely to get worse before the Com-
mission has finished inquiring. Also, other pro-
ducers are becoming inquisitive. There are those
who think the wheat-buying business would stand
investigation, that the flour-millers’ books are not
as clean as their mills, that the spud-agents’ nands
are almost as dirty as the commodities they
handle, and that inquiry might show how it
arrives that when the producer gets 365. 6d. net for
a ton of chaff the consumer has to pay 3s. 7d. per
1001 b. bag for it.
A Peroration.
The following is published as one of Tom Mann’s
thrilling perorations (the Melbourne paper which
reported it turned “battle” into “bottle,” but
that cheerful incongruity is a side issue): —
On, comrades, on ; get ready for the next battle. “ The
workers have a world to win and nothing to lose but their
chains.”
The Bulletin begs disrespectfully to tell Mr.
Mann, if he really said the above, that this sort of
thing is fluff. The condition of the workers in Aus-
tralia is bad enough, but still they have a lot of
assets as well as their “chains.” They have got
a big hold on the most democratic Parliament in the
world, and they are in a fair way to run the Austra-
lian Government. What they need just now is not
a peroration but a good constructive programme,
and a sane and vigorous financial policy, and' The
Bulletin is not without hope that they have got
both. Also they want above all things to show
themselves capable administrators when their
chance comes, and thereby to draw to their ranks
democrats of all sorts—not merely the manual
laborers and pick-and-shovel class. The indivi-
dual who leaves the constructive side of the case
to talk wildly of “battle” and “chains” is apt to
be a disrupting influence at such a time. When
real power is almost within reach the promiscuous
banging of “ chains ” only lends color to the Tory
lie that the Labor party is a crowd of mere breakers
and wreckers and iconoclasts. This sort of
guage may be good enough in England,
when addressed to the “submerged”; it brings
a gleam of excitement into their hopeless lives
though it leads nowhere in particular. But Aus-
tralia has built the most democratic Federal
Constitution in the world without banging any
chains. Its democrats are reaching out now to
get hold of the handle of the machine thus
created, and propose using it to break up land
monopoly and sweating, to crush the debt octopus
and the importing octopus, and to grind very
small the opposition of the State Houses of. Land-
lords—but the grave, silent men who are doing the
reach-out don’t flap chains about. Just when
they want to gather to themselves the support of
all the democrats outside their own ranks
isn’t a time to whirl long snake-like ironmongery
in the air and hit heads promiscuously, and talk
as if Labor-in-politics was a rush of irresponsibles
who had nothing to lose. The old English variety
of labor-leader is, in most respects, a dead
failure in Australia. He never expected, m
his own country, to come within gunshot
of controlling Parliament and building up a
really Democratic Ministry —a Ministry of the
People. He never had a definite constructive
policy, for he never dreamt of being in power and
needing one. He expected that he and his son
and his grandson would go on all their days
denouncing an immovable House of Lords and an
incurable land monopoly ; and being condemned
to be a mere theorist m general politics, he always
had a tendency to be vague and whirling and
figurative. Circumstances made him a mixture of
the impressionist and the pessimist. Fortunately,
the Australian Labor leaders weren’t brought up
in the Tom Mann school. They have got
beyond the “battle” and “chains” stage of
development. They expect soon that their part y
will have a great deal to lose—power, office, the
chance of regenerating the country, and of con-
solidating its authority by convincing the country
that it is the best, wisest and most progressive
party in the Commonwealth. The average English
Labor-leader, never expecting to get beyond the
trades-union stage, has a purely labor policy.
Australian Labor-in-politics was in the same situa-
tion once, but now it needs a complete fiscal
policy ; a definite land reform policy—something
beyond the mere general denunciation of the
big land-grabber ; it needs definite ideas re
banking, commerce, and defence ; it needs a
public works policy devised from the
standpoint as well as the employee’s, for it is
within measurable distance of being the employer
if it makes good use of its opportunities—in short,
it is close up to the time when it will have to run
the country right instead of merely showing that
the old gang ran it wrong. The English variety
of labor leader, reared among people who had as
much hope of getting the responsibilities of
government thrust upon them as they, had of
getting a constellation, is out of date in these
circumstances.
The Victorian Tenant Farmer.
The following letter comes from a reliable corres-
pondent, who has lived for years in the district
about which he writes :
The first harvest gathered under the tenant system on
the plains south of Ararat (Vic.) did not pan out as J. L.
Dow, the Age boomster, predicted. What it has done is
to sharply emphasise, in the interest of the community,
the urgent necessity of putting down Victoria’s budding-
landlordism. The system is clad in the same hell-fire
which wrapped the old-world systems,' with this differ-
ence_that here the landlord is a coarser shark ; his
system is administered with more brutality, and his
slavery is more complete. In every case the tenant could
not sell a bag of wheat, however urgent nis need, without
the landlord’s Consent; and where the landlord found the
seed there was a lien on the crop that absolutely killed
the tenant’s credit, and made him still more the creature
of the landlord’s whim. In many cases, when the tenant
carted in his wheat, he received no money from the
Wheat-buyer, but a ticket showing the number of bags
carted in, the cheque being paid in to the bank to the
landlord’s account. The landlord’s tools, in the guise of
buyers for the big wheat firms, gave all required informa-
tion to the landlord’s factor. Said factor was to be seen
strutting about openly inquiring if the least crawl-
some of the tenants had sold any wheat without the
great man’s permission. Owing to the sudden
drop in the price of produce, the losses through
caterpillars and wet harvest weather, tenants had
in many cases to part up the whole of the produce of
their year’s toil to pay the over-lord’s rent. The machine,;
manure and business firms who carried the farmers on,
and bj- giving them credit helped to produce this wealth,
are left absolutely out in the cold, and have only the,
satisfaction of knowing- they helped to make the land-
lords’ big dividends. Harvesting operations were carried
on under enormous difficulties, and the loss of grain was
the greatest for any season on record. The ancient Tory
wheeze that the landlord shares the burden of his tenants
is a beautiful myth as far as these regions are concerned.
Two of many instances will suffice to dispel the delusion.
One straggler, after all his available wheat was swallowed
up to pay rent, was still £2 short, and the landlord
insisted he should find it or be forcibly ejected. In
another case, the bailiff came down and seized everything
before the harvest was finished as crop prospects only
promised the bare rent. If McKinnon is sincere in his
Land Resumption policy he will confer a lasting boon upon
Victoria by nipping these bowelless agrarian Shylocks in
the bud.
«,
The ‘‘Evening News” and its “Much-
Travelled ” Slanderer.
The following .slab of remarkably bad verse and
the accompanying explanation appeared in Sydney
Evening News last week. It is easy to under-
stand how Australia’s position is misrepresented
in Engiand when ignorant and venomous publica-
tions like the Noose circulate this kind of ma-
lignant falsehood in our own country :
A much-travelled gentleman, who is touring the world,
while on his Way home from Sydney, expressed his opinion
of Maoriland, and of the Commonwealth, in the following
lir.es:—
The “much-travelled” ass who wrote these very
inferior ' lines evidently missed four points: —
Australia is so far from “ excluding its fellow
men ” that last year, out of perhaps 100,000 persons
who appeared at our ports, only about 150 were
rejected. Australians, instead of being like
mules, a mark for scorn because they “ breed not,”
are increasing, purely through their breeding
capacity (i.e., through excess of births over deaths)
faster than any other nation on earth which
supplies reliable statistics, save one only. When
the “much-travelled” reproached Australia in
general for its debt, and at the same time spoke
so kindly of Maoriland, he plainly wasn’t aware
that, per head, Maoriland is much more heavily
indebted than Australia is, taken as a whole. Also,
he evidently didn’t know that Maoriland also has
immigration restriction laws. But even suppos-
ing the man who rhymed “Australia” with
“peculiar” was so utterly ignorant of his subject,
surely the Evening News isn’t run wholly by
unlettered louts, and somebody there should have
been able to point out that the paper was merely
giving . circulation to a very badly - written
slander. Australia certainly is in rather bad odor
with some classes in England, but that is almost
wholly through the despicable conduct of a certain
variety of Australian Tory who, simply because his
political gang isn’t always in power, pours forth a
never-ceasing stream of falsehood and slanders
about the country which is afflicted with his
presence. There is no falsehood too vile for a
certain class of Australian Tory to circulate about
his own country when he isn’t running the
Government of it, and no slander or treachery too
mean if it offers a ghost of a chance of shifting the
party in power.
♦
A Wail from Kyabram.
Various sections of the Kyabram Deformers are
rushing into print with circulars, appeals, and
alleged programmes for the coming Victorian
elections. The Farmers, Producers and Property -
owners’ Association, which is a sort of pup of the
Kyabram Deform League, has been whining for
funds and assistance for months past. It is still
whining, and the funds are still missing. It takes
a very strong pup anyway to carry the name of
the Farmers, Producers and Property-owners’
Association. Then Ben Goddard and G. H.
Bishop of Kyabram have issued a circular. The
strength of the contents may be fairly estimated
from the first mouthful of a sentence
Gentlemen, —The forthcoming elections, on June 1, are
fraught with such tremendous possibilities that we, the
original Kyabram reformers, remembering the cordial
reception accorded our first circular, are emboldened to
again approach you, to endeavor to bring under your
notice the urgent necessity which exists for taking
immediate action to secure, at the forthcoming elections,
the return of those candidates whose politics accord with
the views and wishes of all true reformers.
Following close upon this came a circular from the
executive of the Citizens’ Reform League together
with a platform for the elections. There are five
planks in this platform. Three of them are noise
and flapdoodle. One relates to restrictions on
borrowing. The only real live thing on the list
is the following
To oppose all measures which tend to interfere un-
necessarily with individual enterprise, and to prevent the
nationalisation of the means of production, distribution,
and exchange.
That is what all the Deformers are after. Only it
has to be covered up some. No doubt all the
burglars and pickpockets in the land will gladly
join the ranks of the Deformers, and fight against
any unnecessary interference with individual
enterprise. Then those persons who want to lease
the railways and hand the post and telegraph
business over to private enterprise, will join and
assist to prevent the nationalisation of “ the means
of distribution.” By the way, the new secretary'
to the Deform League was for years connected
with a'leading firm of undertakers in Melbourne.
Thingk rather seem to indicate that the Deform
League may yet need the good offices of its seere-
' tary’s late employers.
The “S.M. Herald’s” Bright Idea about Life
Assurance.
The S.M. Herald has thrown its usual ineffective
bag of sand at Hume Cook’s motion in the Reps,
in favor of Federal life assurance
When over the signatures of actuaries are the valuation
reports of life offices, and over those of accredited
auditors appear full statements of assets, the public needs
nothing more. The publication of such particulars
would be quite adequate for the protection of the policy-
holders of the companies and the community.
The Herald knows (or if it doesn’t it is lament-
ably ignorant) that auditors don’t value assets,
and that the publication of “full statements of
assets” isn’t therefore any protection whatever.
An insurance concern, intent on propping itself
up, can write up its properties to three time's their
true value, and can continue to include as an
asset the office-stool that was broken last
year and the mortgage which isn’t worth fore-
closing upon, and the “accredited auditors”
will sign the balance-sheet. A society can pull
down an old building and put up a new one, and
forget to write off anything for the building that
has ceased to exist, and the audited balance-sheet
may give no hint of it. Yet the Herald says
that the public want no further protection than
that! The public had just the same protection
with regard to the banks and the building societies
of 12 or 15 years ago ; all those concerns published
“ full statements of assets, over the signatures of
accredited auditors ”; but that fact did not pre-
vent thousands of people being ruined. The
Herald says that the State isn’t to be trusted,
and that it can’t give better security than the
private concerns offer. Just the same thing was
said 12 or 15 years ago ; and the combined rush of
the private concerns to the State Governments
when these private concerns got into trouble
proved the yarn was all flam, and that the State
has security which even the biggest and test-
managed private concern has not.
A Tale from Chow Africa.
A well-placed man in Natal sends The Bulletin
this as a sample of what is happening to the
Australian nowadays in grateful S’Africa :
A railway servant arranged with the police that he
would procure a number of Australians to attempt a
railway robbery. In pursuance of the plot a safe was
filled with scrap iron, and a box (to hold the detectives)
was built into the guard’s van. These Australians,
having been incited to the robbery, fell into the trap,
and were caught. Bryce and Payne, two Queens-
landers, who were not present at the robbery
and, so far as is known, had nothing what-
ever to do with it, happened to be in a hotel
when, previous to the robbery, a railway servant, who was
in the plot, was making wild statements to the effect that
the crime was going to be committed. He either was, or
professed to be, under the influence of drink at the time.
For no more obvious reason than that they were Aus-
tralians these two were arrested ; and Mr. Justice Finnk-
more held that it was their duty to have reported the
matter to the police at once ; and, not having done so, he
directed the jury to find them guilty as accessories before
the fact, and sentenced them to five years’ hard labor (the
same as was allotted to the actual perpetrators of the
crime), and they are now serving their term of imprison-
ment in Durban gaol. One would wonder why the bar-
man and the others enjoying refreshments at the counter
were not similarly charged and sentenced, seeing that
they also heard the statements and failed to report them
to the police. These prisoners were defended by a lawyer
named Eugene Renaud ; but advocate J. R. M'Swaine,
formerly a Queensland solicitor, has now been retained by
a number of Australians to take action on their behalf.
M'Swaine is a man who is not afraid to speak his mind,
and is making a name for himself at the Natal bar, and
he will receive every encouragement and assistance from
his countrymen in South Africa.
As indicating the grateful feelings entertained in
Natal towards Australians, a correspondent men-
tions that Labistour, the Attorney-General of
Natal, usually asks the other side’s witnesses in
cross-examination — ‘ ‘ Are you an Australian ? ”
just as elsewhere the mean little lawyer throws
dirt at a witness by asking him if he has left off
beating his wife yet.
♦
“Alba”: Russia’s grievances against England
are not mythical—if you can bring yourself to
think like a Russian. The Muscovite will tell you
that England has never openly attacked him. In
the Crimean war Britain gathered about her the
helots of Turkey and France. Later, when the
uneatable Moslem started to fry and disembowel
the Christians of Armenia and Bulgaria, Bull
said something about the scarcity of Bibles in the
Balkans. Bull also stated, per medium of his
Sparkling Jew, that it would be grateful if people
would leave our Turk alone, and Christian Europe
held its nose while the smell of fried Bulgarian
came drifting from the East. Hereabouts the
Slav rose and biffed the Unspeakable into the
back yards of Constantinople. England has never
forgiven Russia for biffing her Turk. The Spark-
ling Jew shook primroses from his hair and stated
that England’s honor and loans were in danger,
whereat the British fleet crowded the Dardanelles
crying “hands off ” to the war-weary Slav. Should
Russia prove the victor in the present war, it is
certain that Britain will revert to her “hands off
our Jap” policy. But Europe generally feels
better towards Russia now than it did in the
seventies. Russia is Austria and Germany’s neigh-
bor, and those two countries view with disfavor
the further extension of Chow-Jap empires. In
England there is no Sparkling Jew on hand, no
G. H. Macdermott to wave the music-hall flag.
England’s “honor” is a living menace to Aus-
tralia ; it is impossible to look west or north
without discovering that the alleged honor is
embedded in the stomach of a nigger or a Moslem.
A STORT of our great natural industries :
About two months ago he was discharged from the ship
Commonwealth, and the captain gave him £2 to look for
his friends in Victoria, whom he had not seen for a num-
ber of years. The money was expended in a fruitless
quest, and then Sauvarin decided to tramp the country
for work, as he says he is a capable farm hand and a good
milker. In the course of six weeks he tramped hundreds
of miles, visiting Dandenong, Bairnsdale, Alexandra,
Blacks’ Spur, Yea, Seymour, Kilmore and Broadford, con-
stantly inquiring for employment, but everywhere was
rebuffed by the discouraging answer, “Full up.” That
Sauvarin must have walked a great distance was apparent
by the state of his feet. The soles of his boots were in
fragments, and his feet were raw and bleeding—so bad,
indeed, that a cab had to be got to convey him to the gaol
hospital.
About five days ago Sauvarin returned to Melbourne,
and since then has been sleeping in the parks, and living
on what scraps he could find. He told the police that for
the last two days and a half he had not had a mouthful of
food, and the weak state in which he was found bore out
the assertion. It was not until he was driven almost
desperate by starvation that he could bring himself to
seek aid by appealing to the police.
He was remanded for 14 days to give'his feet a
chance to recover. Victoria is the greatest agri-
cultural State in the Commonwealth, and the
greatest, butter and cheese-making and bacon and
ham-producing State. Yet, if it can give no better
reception than the above to a stray agricultural
worker, what prospect is there, until something is
done to improve the country, for these “ thousands
of agricultural immigrants ” that the Tory press
demands so energetically ?
■ ♦
The Propsting Government (Tas.) apparently
reckons now that nothing matters. Practically
the whole of its proposals have been treated by
the House of Dodery with scorn, and fired out
with contempt; wherefore, instead of sending up
its measures for Dodery to throw out into the
street, the Government has now started to save
the old gentlemen trouble by throwing out its
own measures itself. The other evening Premier
Propsting moved the second reading of the
Lotteries Bill, the only object of which,was to help
the Treasurer square his books, the House of
Dodery having declined to allow him to collect
ordinary taxation. Things were going very well,
Mother’s Apron String!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The jovial Jingoes press the board
And pass the flowing bowl;
They send along the merry jest
That shows the merry soul;
And, when their courage mounteth up,
They lift the songs that ring,
And toast with glee in brimming cups
“ Our Mother’s Apron String !
“ It keeps a little people straight
In childhood’s narrow ways ;
It shows a nation infantile
That clings to infant days ;
It shows how happy little folks
Can be in early spring—
God Mess the cord that keeps us right,
Our Mother’s Apron String !
“ It would be most undutiful
If we should rise and say—
‘ We’re large enough to use our legs
And walk alone a way.’
Remember this—we’re only safe
So long as we can sing—
‘ God save the hope of little men—•
Their Mother’s Apron String ! ’
Let other people grow robust
And fight to hold their own ;
Let other nations take the hook
And reap what they have sown ;
We do not feel us strong enough
To wave our little wing—
We only waddle in the wake
Of Mother’s Apron String!
“ So when some folks would get their guns
And shoot along the shore
To drive away the wicked foe
Who wages wicked war,
O, then we wave no shiny glaive,
N o weapons do we fling ;
We have no gun—but we can run
At Mother’s Apron String ! ! ”
PHILANDER FLAM.
AUSTRALIA.
A central desert, margined from the seas
By grassy downs and gum. Marsupial land,
Wealthy in mines, in flocks and herds, in trees,
Fertile despite the drought; well harbored, grand.
What right have you thereto, Australian born,
That justifies excluding fellow-men,
While you remain, like mules, a mark for scorn,
And breed not ? Begin your growth again.
Are you content, unthrifty, charged with debt,
To watch your sheep and oxen still increase,
And feverish for gold and games, but play and bet,
And waste the sap of life in barren peace ?
Abandon selfish joys, your sin peculiar,
Fill your inheritance with men, Australia !
MaORITjAND.
The fairest land of all the southern seas,
Volcanic, fertile, fern-clad, wild, alone,
Where gallant Maoris dwelt ’mid flowery trees,
The last example of the age of stone.
They fought, and fished, and wove, unlettered, poor,
No quadrupeds, few birds, themselves their game,
Tapu and tribal wisdom all their lore,
Tattoo and carving served to blazon fame.
Then came the British, tireless in their toil,
With cattle, horses, sheep, with axe and fire,
With verdure new rejuvenate the soil,
And speedy lordship o’er the land acquire.
The age of stone, exhausted, sans appliances,
Gives way supplanted by an age of sciences.
R.P.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
HENRY B. HYDE, Pounder.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, 1903.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
ASSETS
SURPLUS
The New Business EXCEEDED that of 1902 by
£289,738,301
£78,341,950
£15,053,725
£8,383,994
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M‘MILL AN, K.0.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR MB MT P
Si, FRANCIS SUITOR, K.C.M.G. A. WATSON MUNRO, E„ °'
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary to, Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
ones.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O,
for this?
N
Free on application. Ask for Catalog B.
Write for our Illustrated Booklet, mailed
explaining what can be done with the Pianola.
All Records supplied from our immense Circulating Libraries.
HEIMRY M. BIRGE & CO., s< sKrtnjSs£* r
323 GeorgJ St., SYDNEY ; 185-7 Collins St., MELBOURNE; &at Finney, isles & Co., BRISBANE.
flie second reading had been agreed to, and the
clauses were passing through committee satisfac-
torily, when the Attorney-General proposed that
other sports besides horse-racing should have the
totalisator, if they wanted it and were willing to
pay the State the percentage which the Bill men-
tioned. The Minister’s action was almost avowedly
with the object of making the tax unpopular, if
not impossible, by pouring ridicule on the Bill;
and he got enough encouragement to next propose
that the totalisator shouldn’t be legal at all—and
Premier Propsting sided and voted with him !
Which puts Premier Propsting in the ridiculous
position of bringing in a Bill to get revenue from
the totalisator, and winding up by making illegal
the thing from which he proposed to get the
revenue.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Eight that Failed.”
Theatre Royal “Great Millionaire.”
Criterion “ Message from Mars.”
P a lace “ Little Red Riding Hood.”
TivoLr Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Pierrot Entertainers (April 30).
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus.
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Marriage of Kitty.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Darling of the Gods.”
Theatre Royal “Her Second Time on Earth.”
Opera House Rickards’Variety Co
Those who like their plays intense, realistic
and pathetic will get full measure and an overflow
in witnessing “ The Light That Failed,” produced
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, Saturday night, for the
first time in Australia. Those who like to feel
swayed emotionally, as the wind shakes a reed,
will be shaken thoroughly by Cuyler Hastings’
study of Dick Heldar’s sudden blindness. A group
of war correspondents of true Kipling manufac-
ture, sprawling as to limbs and loud as to laughter
and vigorously chaffing and damning, mend
their clothes, or sketch, or play chess on
the outskirts of a camp. Behind them stretches
far and faint, and fainter, the Soudanese
landscape, sullen orange, rose and gold, with trees
and rocks etched blackly against the pitiless sap-
phire sky. Within the tent the artist, Dick
Heldar, raves, in partial delirium, about one
Maisie. His eyes are bandaged, for he has been
hit in a brush with the enemy. This, the pro-
logue, lets the audience into the secret of Heldar’s
unrequited love, and explains his after-loss of
sight. In the first act one finds that debatable
quality known as “artistic atmosphere.” The
artist girl, Maisie, and her red-haired girl
friend are . in the studio of the former,
and there is a general sense of picturesque
dishevelment. The nocturnienne, Bessie Broke
is carried in, faint from starvation, by Dick
Heldar, and presently, when Maisie and Dick are
alone, the love-making begins. It is all on his
side. For the girl wants to pursue a Career, and
catch hold on Art, and, above all, to be Captain of
her. Soul, and she wants to do it on very poor
equipment for such large tasks. Each goes his
and her wixy. Artist Heldar gives frequent indi-
cations of his failing sight, and he paints feverishly
to finish his great picture of two dogs pursuing a
giraffe in France, pr something ; and he drinks too
much, and broods over the stubbornness of
Maisie. Some weeks elapse and his sight gives
out suddenly.
* * * *
The serious pourtrayal on the stage of any
great affliction without the portrait being made
repulsive is a rather nice matter ; but in Cuyler
Hastings’ presentation of that facet of the play in
which Heldar realises his blindness, he has the
artful art to make the audience forget the physical
aspect, and watch the workings of the artist’s
mind. Then, and later, when he is told that the
unrepentant Magdalene has destroyed his picture,
there is little said. There are long pauses while
realisation comes upon him. The waters of bitter-
ness rush m over his soul as he recognises that for
him to-morrow’s sun will rise in vain, that
color, brush, and canvas are now no more to
him than memories, and that the long dark path
down to the very valley of death must be trodden
alone, unlighted in a double sense. The eyes of
the woman he loves will not be there. He moves
cautiously to and fro among his chairs and easels,
l 6 I s f°°P the blind man already upon his
shoulders; the pathetic, sidelong progression of
the blind man already assumed with the out-
stretched, swaying hand. The unconscious bru-
tality and selfishness of his friends, the
war correspondents, throw his condition into
higher r ehef as, singing, shouting, and joking, they
dine in his flat on the eve of going to another cam-
paign. Mine eyes have seen the glory of the
C ??v nf, r,° f tl } e I . Lord >” the y sing—the Battle Hymn
of the Republic. The blind man sits apart and
thinks. The play ends to please the distressed
women m the audience, inasmuch as Maisie (Miss
Chevallier) returns to her wooer and professes
greatand lasting love. If she didn’t, the audience
might have assaulted her with its collective opera-
glass. At the same time, Kipling’s other ending
was much the more probable of the two. Hamil-
ton Stewart, as Torpenhow, plays with strength
and tenderness. J. B. Atholwood, in a small
part as a foreign war-correspondent, and Edward
Lrwenn, as a housekeeper, lighten with humor the
sombreness of the piece. Florence Gleeson, as
Bessie Broke, looks the starved part with startling
realism and plays the half-devil and half-child
capitally. Her acting raises the question whether
the devil isn t, after all, only a person of arrested
mental development.
** * *
The “Little Red Riding Hood,” who
danced and told her story at Sydney Palace on
Saturday night, wears wattle trimmings and a
blue-gum atmosphere. Not that the old familiar
story matters, nor even .Red Riding Hood herself
They might call her “Brown Rain-Cloak” or
Small Poke Bonnet, and she would answer the
purpose just as well. All she does is to serve as a
peg from which to mark'out an Australian panto-
mime, dressed in Australia, and played almost
entirely by Australians; and she makes as useful
a peg as any other, and a more picturesque one
than most. From that starting point the panto-
mime wanders where it will, and when it doesn’t
want to wander any further it stops and has a
dance. Here Red Riding Hood’s mother is Dame
Trot, who keeps a “ tea and tote shop ” ; the Dame
herself, who is a widow, pursues matrimony and
commerce impartially. Eventually she marries
Senator Baron Frost, the least villainous of all vil-
lains, who spends his time seeking pretty girls and
the Federal Capital. It is all bright and light, and
lively as it is irrelevant. Mention of the Pyramids
is quite enough to remind anyone of the price of
Gingerbread, if it’s the gingerbread market that
e wants to be reminded of just then in order to
crack a joke about it. Some of these jokes are
new, but there are others. Harry Shine’s lively
fooling as Dame Trot is excellent ; he is at it
almost the whole evening. Miss Isabel Webster,
in the most serious character, might sing oftener
and the house would like it better. Red Riding
Hood is one Miss Perman ; Boy Blue is another.
Some more of the hard-working family is a nigger
who isn’t on the premises with any lawful excuse,
but is just as welcome as if he had 50 feasible
explanations. Fred Rivenhall is the senator, and
there are 20 or 30 others in the bill. The scenery
by Grist and the Ditties adds to the effectiveness
of many of the ballets. The pretty winter ballet
especially deserves the recalls that follow it every
night; while the burlesques are usually well
managed and effective.
* * *
Sydney is still dropping in at the Criterion
in considerable numbers to learn a lesson in
“otherdom” from O. P. Heggie, who arrived
from Mars a fortnight ago under engagement to
W. F. Hawtrey, to preach the beauty of giving
up all that you have to somebody else. And the
mission seems to be doing splendidly ; since it
opened Deakin has handed over the Australian
Premiership to Watson, several cyclists haven’t
tried to win the races they entered for, and a
young woman has left her baby in Hyde Park with
a note that some other kind person can have it.
Also the N.S.W. “Liberal” Ass has passed a
resolution that we ought to let somebody else
have the job of making our locomotives for us.
Occasionally one still finds a few benighted
Earthians trying to make runs off their
own bat; but the Martian philosophy hasn’t
had time to properly soak in yet, so the
brown person need not despair—he may yet be
able to convert this planet and so be allowed back
to his own, where they scorn to take pay even for
writing “Sundry Show” notices. Meantime, Haw-
trey’s tramp remains the excellent character-
study he has been all along, while with qlpre study
Miss Dane and Miss Austin, in the ’ principal
women’s parts, are doing a good deal better than
they did at first; and the incidental music is an
attraction which wasn’t mentioned as soon as it
deserved to be.
** * *
The only thing fresh that The Bulletin
has noticed since last week about the Japanese
wrestlers, whom the Fitzgeralds have borrowed
from the Mikado, is a quantity of new sticking-
plaster, which may be taken to be prima facie
evidence of the willingness of the bouts. When
one of the Mikado’s wrestlers is thrown - which,
as previously mentioned, occurs usually within
two minutes, at the most, after the first spring and
grip—the proper thing for him to do is to
waddle across to a table close by, grab a hand-
ful of salt from a plate, and sprinkle ft
between himself and the victor. This is sup-
posed to bury any ill-feeling that the bump
may have caused. And being all very fleshy men (the
Jap. trains for fat, and for a short, sharp struggle,
and not for a protracted pull), the bump is some-
times very considerable. The rest of the Fitz-
gerald performance is the very good performance
that it was a week ago. It will be added to on
Saturday by the Gascoigns, about whose “busi-
ness ” there is a deep mystery.
** * *
Nothing remains to be said of “ The Great
Millionaire,” at Sydney Royal, than that it is
still millionairing to good houses, and seems likely
to go on until the Last Trump summons Rocke-
feller and the other great millionaires from their
graves. Bland Holt has got a good play and he
does it well, so the success is deserved
** * *
Miss Flora F. Donaldson, assisted by Mr.
Gavin Spence and the benediction of the High-
land Society in its kilts, gave the first of two short
series of concerts in Sydney Queen’s Hall last
week. This is the first Australian appearance of
these entertainers, who have come by way of
America, where they have been wandering in a
Scotch accent for some time past. The pro-
grammes were entirely Scotch. In “ Scotland,”
Miss Flora’s first number, as well as in subsequent
items, she exhibited a voice of extensive range, not
quite as fresh as it was, but still pleasant and
well-managed ; her enunciation was so perfect that
not a word of the favorite Scotch melodies was
lost. One number each evening was in Gaelic.
With no voice to speak of Mr. Spence gets through
successfully on an appeal to the patriotism of the
Scotsmen present; and in their duets—especially
“ The Crookit Bawbee ’’—the two have stirred up
the clans to enthusiasm. Between the songs Mr.
Spence fills up with Scotch stories, or, for variety,
pulls his weird clothes to pieces and explains what
they were made for. Two more concerts will be
held on Thursday and Friday evenings.
** * *
Miss May Moore Duprez, the little woman
who tells the stories in the Dutch-American
dialect, and laughs over them, and has everybody
else laughing with her infeide two minutes, is the
bright star in the Tivoli heaven at present. There
is a simple something about the lively little come-
dienne that fascinates anaudience, and evokes a
lot more enthusiasm than even the cold beauty of
Vulcana’s classic back—though the back was
doubtless a most expensive item. Fred Russell
continues ventriloquising, and the Six Empire
Girls, the Bells, and “Darwin,” Graham’s midget
monkey, who rides a bike, and is shortly to be
promoted to a motor-car, are still on the bill.
** * *
_ The Pierrot entertainers re-open next
Saturday in Sydney, and if they get what they
deserve they ll have full houses and satisfied
audiences. Pierrots—three young men and a girl
' Sln g> recite, do monologues and choruses, give
lecturettes, and play banjos and pianos. They
dress in white with the sugarloaf hat, like that
lomo wears in “Pagliacei.”
** * *
Something a little more substantial and
graceful than “Mama’s New Husband” will
happen on Saturday at Melbourne Princess’s.
Ihis is stated without prejudice or regret. The
Yankee farce is “a well-deserved success,” but a
Soul craves for a joke more subtle than the gambol
of a full-grown girl in a frock of tender years.
Ihe legs and general vivacity of Mamie having
pervaded the scene for four whole weeks, the
American Comedy Co. is under contract to rush
elsewhere, and to-morrow (Friday) is its last night
at the Princess’s. Then will come the Williamson
Comedy Co., with “The Marriage of Kitty,”
which was introduced to Bulletin notice in
Adelaide last week. Half-a-ton of Kitty’s wed-
ding cake has been distributed in festive little
boxes through the Melbourne post, and a few
hundred spinsters have put a piece of the cake
under their pillows and dreamed of a remote
possibility. The town already talks of Kitty as
though it knew her. When she brings her
Marriage along to the Princess’s the interesting
yoimg person will be received with acclamation.
*■ * * *
For the public that loves plain, outspoken
melodrama, and prefers it more lurid than grue-
some, ‘‘Her Second Time on Earth” (at Mel-
bourne Royal) is an improvement on “ The Face at
the Window.” The corpse in this case is not put
through a performance by a medical electrician
prior to burial. It is planted by the sad sea waves,
and the gentle action of the tide discloses
its face as a warning to careless mur-
derers who don’t take proper precautions
m beach interments. With the exception
ot this one Horror there is nothing unpleasant
about Anderson’s latest production. The title
promises a female spook or a lady vampire, but
the heroine in the name part is a mere ordinary
adventuress, of the wickedest type, who had
earned a reputation for being dead before the cur-
tain rose. When a depraved Dora in an Ander-
soman drama starts with this advantage she can
usually do pretty much as she pleases until the
4th act and Miss Duggan is no exception to the
rule, ohe has Inman at her mercy, because he
thinks he married her before he married
the other girl, whereas the lurid “second-
timer was a wholesale bigamist ere Inman
met her. She also has the other girl’s brother at
her mercy. The rich _ sea captain whom she
shoved into the ocean is not sufficiently sane to
recognise her, and the people who know her evil
past are hampered by evil pasts of their own, so
she has nothing to fear from them. When her un-
sober mother threatens unpleasantness she
smilingly snaps her jewelled fingers at the old
brandy mammy, and reminds her of the babies
that lie farmed” under the floor of her wash-
house. When Willard throws out nasty remarks
the irresistible Dora answers him back and reduces
him to subjection once again. Some of the
dialogues in “ Her Second Time ” are worthy of a
more reasonable story, and some of the acting is
more or less artistic and persuasive. Miss Duggan
plays her long part with a certain forcefulness tnat
almost excuses her vocal mannerisms and faults of
Ia i•' v?!? 1 ’-B'® 8 '® 9 are y i s good as the sea captain,
(Stirling White shines in a character sketch; Miss
Deighford is an amusing old sinner, and Willard
makes an effective “parasite.”
** * *
The Darling of the Gods ” flourishes as
usual at Her Majesty’s, and the ten dauntless Jap
Dabor members continue to be blotted out by order
of an unbenevolent despot who squats upon the
cushion of his illustrious ancestors. Public sym-
pathy with the outlawed ten is going stronger
than ever. As they file up the mountain pass
to meet their doom an approving audience
them on their way. Any deed of
bloodshed done on behalf of Julius Knight
popular, although the merits of
the Rebel Cause are not at all obvious. In the
second act the dumb custodian of Julius slaughters
m cold blood a vigilant myrmidon of the law who
A*!? dodging around the hero’s hiding place.
All things considered it is not a murder for any-
one to be proud of, yet the dumb butcher scores a
tug burst of applause every time. Duchesses in
the d.c. have been heard to remark that the gory
incident is “delightfully sudden.” Enthusiasm
m the gallery seems to .be intensified by the fact
that the dumb bloke’s victim is nothing better
than a policeman. For a pagan policeman, who
plots the downfall of Julius Knight there is no
pity.
** * *
Another series of Marshal-Hall orchestral
concerts will be started at Melbourne Town Hall
next Saturday (30th). The programme for the
first concert ranges from a rousing overture by
Hamish M'Cunn (Land of Mountain and Flood)
to a Schumann symphony, and Miss Elsie Davies
will give an aria from “ Der Freisehutz.”
#* * *
At the Opera House the smaller Uessem
boy still balances himself head downwards, under
conditions which are equally creditable to him and
to his nuggetty brother. Also Nat Clifford is
variously humorous, and Maud Beatty presents an
alluring figure of pantomime boyhood, and the
new first part introduces Fanny Powers with her
clever imitations. And there are other turns that
help to explain why business at Rickards’ is just
now tremendous.
** * *
The Williamson Comedy Co. ended its
Adelaide season with a big triumph, both artistic
and popular. Rose Musgrove made “Madame
Butterfly ” a quaint Jappy heartbreak, and left
Florence Hamer to do the big scoring in “ Cousin
Kate.” This new play is a return to Robertsonian
lines, cups and saucers and a boiling kettle figuring
prominently. Everybody means well, and all
ends well. Wilfred Draycott can depict an
agreeable, irresponsible, not - too - young lover
admirably ; and so far he has had nothing else
to depict. (His fair moustache and thin-place-on-
top appear in all his parts, and are therefore pre-
sumably natural.) Sheridan has done heavy busi-
ness at the Tivoli with a scrappy piece, “Naughty
Nancy,” which shows him as an improbable gover-
ness in a girl’s school. His demonstration that an
excellent costume can, on emergency, be made out
of art-muslin tablecloths struck home to the great
heart of his largely feminine audiences. Heba
Barlow and Sydney Carden are good in this kind
of thing. Sheridan finished up with the “Widow
O’Brien,” and departed westward, on the way to
South Africa. Rickards is at present running a
short season with an all-round co. headed by
Dewar of the intelligent cat and the low-comedy
dog.
The Wild Cat Column.
1 here is an element of pathos about the struggle
between the State Treasurers and the Treasurer of Aus-
tralia to decide how the Commonwealth is to pay the
States for resumed properties. Complicated schemes are
devised to arrive at the exact value of the properties in
the first place, so that the Australian people in their
Federal capacity won’t pay themselves a copper too much
in their State capacity. Then there are about a dozen
schemes for the swapping of bonds and loans, and so on,
in order to pay for the properties when the value is
arrived at without making the grievous mistake of paying
off any of the debt. The Bulletin’s revolutionary idea is
that much wear and tear of cerebellum could be saved by a
resolution to pay cash. Therefore it suggests this :
(1) That the States should value the lands and buildings
transferred to the Commonwealth, and that the Com-
monwealth should accept their valuations and say no more
about it, except where its auditor reckons that one State
isn’t overcharging as outrageously as the rest, in which
case that State’s valuation should be increased to
make it, if possible, just the same swindle as the
others. It doesn’t matter 2d. if the valuations are
excessive—even grossly excessive. If the Australian
people, in their Federal capacity, pay themselves, in their
State capacity, £18,750 for a post office that is only worth
£2OOO, they will pay £16,750 too much, and receive
£16,750 too much, and no one will be injured. This
method will save time and worry and the salaries of
valuers and arbitrators. Also it will enable the valuers
and arbitrators to go on the land and grow potatoes, which
will add to the general wealth and “ develop the great
natural resources of the country.”
(2) That the Commonwealth doesn’t hand over bonds
nor assume any part of the State debts by way of pay-
ment, but agrees to pay to each State, from the date
when the agreement is arrived at, 4 per cent, interest on
the amount due to it, and to continue doing so till the
debt is paid off.
(3) That the Commonwealth, as the money is available,
buys up in the open market securities of each State, and
hands them over to the States cancelled (so that they can’t
be re-issued) in payment till the debt is liquidated. If the
amount due to a State is (say) £2,000,000 the transaction
to be closed when £2,000,000 (face value) of its bonds are
bought up, cancelled and handed over. The Common-
wealth always to buy up the cheapest bonds it can get
and to pay instalments at such dates as suits it best.
Also all States to be treated equally—when the Common-
wealth pays Is. in the £ off its debt to one State Is. in the
£ to be paid simultaneously to all.
(4) The Commonwealth to find the money for this trans-
action by any form of taxation that seems most advisable,
but the tax to be ear-marked for this purpose only, and
the properties to be paid for out of taxation only.
It must be admitted that this scheme embodies the
unusual and hair-raising proposition that part of the Aus-
tralian debt should actually be paid off out of revenue.
Still, if Australia could stand that shock, the idea would
save an immensity of argument, delay and book-keeping.
* * * *
The Melbourne Permanent Building Society,
which has been making steadily increasing profits on its
business since 18S6, and for the past few years has shown
a substantial net profit after deducting losses on property
realised, evidently intends to go into regular business
again shortly. It is at present, and has been since 1895,
paying 2J per cent, on debentures (£181,369), but the rate
will shortly have to be put up to 5 under the arrange-
ment of 1895 ; and the shareholders, under the same
arrangement, are not to draw divs. till the reserves reach


The new Wilfley Slime Table that is now
attracting the attention of mining men, consists of a
number of small shallow troughs having the bottom of
each covered with duck or heavy canvas. These troughs
are arranged side by side and attached to chain belts,
forming in the whole a large belt which moves across the
table very slowly, taking about 30 minutes to make one
complete revolution. While this belt or series of trays is
slowly moving lengthwise of the table an oscillating
motion is given to deck crosswise. This motion is pro-
duced by a simple movement, similar to that of the
Wilfley Concentrator. The osoillating motion carries off
the particles of silica and gangue, while the smaller
particles of ore, concentrates and slimes remain in the
main belt and pass slowly over the end of the table, where
they gradually reach the under side of the table, and, as
they pass over a concentrates box, the values are sprayed
by a small stream of water and washed into the concen-
trates box. The compartments on the main table top or
belt come upon the other side of the table cleaned and
ready for feed again. The tailings, silica, &c., pass off the
end of the table into launders, which dispose of them on
the dump as worthless matter. A sample of this excellent
table can be seen at the works of the Austral Otis
Engineering Company, South Melbourne, who are the sole
agents in Australasia, and from whom all particulars may
be obtained.*
» * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903 :
“ When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.WC
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Bennett, Manager.
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited)
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,.,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Rivited Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.*
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
To prospectors and owners of partly developed
mines. Wanted good gold, tin or copper show. Must be
really big—only principals need apply. Send full par-
ticulars to Carbonate, Bulletin office.*
To Prospectus And Others.—The Curtin-
Davis Proprietary Co. N.L. is prepared to purchase
approved mining properties. Particulars to, John Potts,
Legal Manager, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* .a * *
Victoria Broken Hill, a neighbor of the North’s,
and formerly known as the Victoria Cross, under which
name it was unsuccessfully prospected for some years in
the hope of finding oxidised ore, has had a flutter on the
strength of meeting what may be the sulphide ore, which
was worked at a good profit by the North during the lead
boom. The Victoria holds something of the same position
at the north end of the line as the South Blocks hold at
the south end. It is extremely probable that it will get
ore ; but whether the ore will pay expenses when it is got
is another matter. The South Blocks have had ore all
along, but have not been able to do anything with it. As
a gamble, the Victoria is well enough ; but at present it
can’t be regarded as anything else.
sdf
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.—Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &o.
INDENTS.—Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e.', EVERYTHING.
SW Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenbtein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174
William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide
Brisbane; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin
; 94 Eagle-st.,
at Auckland,
N.Z.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINGER ALE
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 183 .
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
£3O 000. As with most of the arrangements made in the
blizzard period the shareholders offered too niuch —
Ihe boom-directors weren’t prepared to admit that
there had been such an unholy smash as there
reallv was. It is therefore now proposed by the
.Melbourne Permanent board to compromise, paying
4 per cent, on the debentures and stopping at that, and
reducing the £30,000 previously mentioned to £20,000.
The reserves were actually £20,006 on July 31st last j so
this arrangement would allow of divs. being paid at once.
On past profits, though, the rise in debenture interest
from 2£ to 4 per cent, would not leave enough to pay a
dividend with ; last year, if the 4 per cent, had been paid
to debenture-holders, there would not have been enough
left to pay | per cent, to shareholders. The capital is
£177,164; and it looks as though some pretty considerable
writing down ought to be done.
* * * *
The National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne)
Dividends. Added
Profits. Ord. Pref. to Re- Re-
-3 p.c. 5 p.c. serves. serves.
Sept., 1897 .. 18/275 76M4 10,631 34JL97
Mar., 1898 .. 15,471 7644 7,827 42,024
Forfeited capital added to Reserves 45,456 87,480
Sept., 1898 .. 17,602 7644 9,958 97,438
Mar., 1899 .. 12,323 7644 4,679 102,117
Sept., 1899 .. 19,245 7644 11,601 113,718
Mar., 1900 .. 22,152 7644 14,508 128,226
Forfeited capital added to Reserves 4,977 133,203
£68,000 written off Reserves 65,203
Sept., 1900.. 27,065 17,887 7644 1,534 66,737
Mar., 1901 .. 28,448 17,887 7644 2,917 69,654
3J p.c.
Sept., 1901 .. 32,050 20,868 7644 3,538 73,192
Mar., 1902 .. 34,394 20,868 7644 5,882 79,074
Sept., 1902.. 35,038 20,868 7644 6,526 85,600
Mar., 1903 .. 34,660 20,868 7644 6,148 91,748
Sept., 1903.. 34,874 20,868 7644 6,362 98,110
Mar., 1904 .. 36,233 20,868 7644 7,721 105,831
The half-year’s profit is the best since the financial
blizzard blew over Melbourne 10 years ago, and made so
many people close their doors in a hurry. The capital is
£1,498,220; on that and the reserves together the earn-
ings were at the rate of £4 10s. lOd. per cent, per annum.
This compares with recent results in this way :
Mar., 1900 ..£2 17 0 p.c. I Sept., 1902 ..£4 8 10 p.c.
Sept., 1900 .. 3 9 8 „ Mar., 1903 .. 4 7 7 „
Mar., 1901 .. 312 8 „ I Sept., 1903 .. 4 7 9 „
Sept., 1901 .. 4 1 9 „ I Mar., 1904 .. 4 10 10 „
Mar., 1902 .. 4 7 7 „ |
There was nothing so good even as £2 17s. between 1894
and 1900; so that a very fine improvement has been
shown recently. The present position further compares
with that of 12 months ago :
March, March, In-
-1903. 1904. creases.
Deposits .. . .. £7,790,398 £8,014,735 £224,337
Advances, &c 5,765,649 6,045,243 279,594
All liquid securities .. 2,855,566 2,874,030 18,464
Bills in circulation .. 1,183,897 1,459,355 275,458
Bank premises (cost) .. 449,826 450,104 278
Notes in circulation .. 313,281 304,563 8,718
Real estate (except pre-
mises) 337,837 277,921 59,916
Public securities .. .. 723,897 586,417 137,480
Coin and bullion.. .. 1,203,396 1,048,186 155,210
The considerable decrease in coin and public securities is
more than counterbalanced by an increase in bills and
remittances in transitu , which are included in the liquid
assets shown above ; this probably accounts for a good
deal of the larger earnings. Eighteen months ago the
National held nearly £600,000 more coin than it does
now. It holds liquid assets amounting to a solid 35J per
cent, of total liabilities to the public ; still, a very solid
holding is necessary, as the bank has about £2,450,000 of
deposits not bearing interest, and presumably at call.
» * * *
The Colonial Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne)
Dividends on Added to Re-
Profits. Pref. Shares. Reserves, serves
Mar., 1899 £5601 3 p.c. = £4561 £lO4O £lO4O
Sept., 1899 7078 3 „ „ 4561 2517 3557
£3060 Forfeited Capital added to Reserves 6617
Mar., 1900 11,472 4 „ „ 6081 5391 12,008
Sept., 1900 12,019 4 „ „ 6081 5938 17,946
Mar., 1901 13,718 5 „ „ 7601 6117 24,063
Sept., 1901 15,069 5 „ „ 7601 7468 31,531
Dividends on
All Shares.
Mar., 1902 17,173 5 „ „ 10,942 6231 37,762
Sept., 1902 16,264 5 „ „ 10,961 5303 43,065
Mar., 1903 16,223 5 „ „ 10,961 5262 48,327
Sept., 1903 17,251 5 „ „ 10,965 6286 54,613
Mar., 1904 19,117 5 „ „ 10,967 8150 62,763
Like most of the banks, the Colonial has been having a
good time lately ; when they had to put up their deposit
rates £ per cent, the banks put up their rates on advances
1 per cent., and thus scored heavily out of “ the scarcity
of money ” and the alleged bad times generally. The
Colonial’s capital at the commencement of the half-year
was £438,603 ; on this and reserves at the same date the
profits at the rate of £7 15s. per cent, per annum.
Recent figures on the same basis :
Sept., 1900 .. £5 11 7 p.c. Sept., 1902 .. £6 16 10 p.c.
Mar., 1901 .. 6 5 0 „ Mar., 1903 .. 614 9 „
Sept., 1901.. 612 7 „ Sept., 1903.. 7 1 S „
Mar., 1902 .. 7 6 6 „ Mar., 1904 .. 715 0 „
Compared with the position 12 months ago almost every
line shows higher figures. Deposits have increased,
though not largely, and advances have increased very
substantially
Mar., 1903. Mar., 1904. Increases.
Deposits £2,299,969 £2,334,093 £34,124
Advances .. .. 2,066,828 2,157,844 91,016
Public Securities' . 35,094 41,012 5,918
All Liquid Assets .. 638,584 653,856 15,272
Notes in circulation . 122,455 126,698 4,243
Bills in circulation .. 54,577 98,171 43,594
All liquid assets as above (including £169,147 bills and re-
mittances in transitu) represent 25£ per cent, of total
liabilities to the public, which is not a particularly strong
position; though this trading close up to the available
resources is no doubt responsible for the comparatively
high earnings; among the smaller banks (whose expense
rate is almost necessarily higher than in the very big con-
cern) the earnings are, in fact, among the very highest in
Australia. From the depositors’ point of view the position
is, however, much improved by the fact that as much as
40 per cent, of these earnings are being added to the
reserves.
* * * *
With the first hint of an improving money-
market in London it is stated that at least one Australian
State Agent-General was sent out to learn what the
chances were of raising another trifle —presumably on the
strength of the good harvest; last time it was on the
strength of a bad harvest. The Bank of England dis-
count rate has fallen from 4 to 3 per cent, within a fort-
night ; and, though 3 per cent, doesn’t mean cheap
money, it is as cheap as it has been any time the last 2t
years. Apart from the Victorian transaction already
carried through, Australia has not got much debt falling
due this year to provide for ; but next year N.S. Wales
alone will have just upon £1,000,000 of funded debt, and
£2,000,000 of Treasury bills to take up, and S. Australia
this year, and next will have just over £1,000,000 of bills
falling due. But 1906 will be the year when Australia
will have to hustle; for early in 1907 no less than
£9,743,000 will have to be provided for somehow, and the
year after that will be almost as bad. Cohen will take
all the nursing that Australia knows how to give him to
make him equal to carrying that much.
After paying nothing on ordinary shares for 12
years, the London Bank of Australia will declare a 2£ per
cent, dividend at the meeting to be held in London within
the next few days. This leaves only three Australian banks
(A.J.S., Q.N., and Land Mortgage of Victoria) paying no
div. at all, and two others (Commercial of Australia and
Australian Deposit and Mortgage) paying only on pre-
ference shares.
* * • *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Sent 1897 .. £3625 3 p.c. =£2250 £1375 £2,523
Mar.', 1898 .. 3865 3 „ „ 2250 1615 4,138
Sept., 1898 .. 4088 3 „ „ 2250 1838 5,976
Mar., 1899 .. 4315 3 „ „ 2250 2065 8,041
Sept., 1899 .. 4624 3 „ „ 2250 2374 10,415
Mar., 1900 - • 5843 4 ~ ~ 3000 2843 13,258
Sept., 1900 - 5863 4 „ „ 3000 2863 16,121
Mar., 1901 .. 6488 5 „ „ 3750 2738 18,859
Sept., 1901 .. 6700 5 ~ ~ 3750 2950 21,809
Mar., 1902 .. 7061 5 „ „ 3750 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902 .. 7095 5 ~ ~ 3750 3345 28,465
Mar., 1903 .. 7380 5 ~ ~ 3750 3630 32,095
Sept., 1903 .. 6819 6 ~ ~ 4500 2319 34,414
Mar., 1904 .. 7556 6 „ „ 4500 3056 37,470
This looks better than it did six months ago, when, in the
face of a considerable slump in profits, the dividend was
increased. Still, gross profits have not improved ; the
improvement in net profit is the result of reduced
expenses, the bank having gone into its own premises in
Melbourne and so escaping a rent-charge. Through
this change the results rank with the best the bank has
had since the unhealthy boom days. Capital is £150,000,
and the earnings on that, combined with reserves, have
been at the following rates per annum :
Sept., 1900 ..£7 6 7 p.c. Sept., 1902 ..£8 2 1 p.c.
Mar., 1901 .. 7 16 8 „ Mar., 1903 .. 8 5 5 „
Sept., 1901 .. 7 18 9 „ Sept., 1903 .. 7 9 9 „
Mar., 1902 .. 8 4 5 „ Mar., 1904 .. 8 3 11 „
Comparing the position further with that of 12 months
back, the following results show up
Mar., 1903. Mar., 1904. Increases.
Notes in Circulation .. £7,746 £8,940 £1,194
Bills in Circulation .. 50,264 57,317 7,05?
Deposits 690,303 740,857 50,5 4
Public Securities held .. 70,150 74,900 4,750
All Liquid Assets .. 253,061 335,431 82,370
Decrease.
Advances .. .. •- 607,428 586,785 20,643
The bank is increasing its deposits at a very rapid rate,
considering its size ; in the past 18 months no less th; n
£128,076 have been added, or more than 25 per cent. <f
total as it stood in Sept., 1902. Advances, however, have
not increased at the same rate so far, though the positio"
i 3 really better than is shown above, £53,328 having be n
added to the advances during the past six months. Wii.n
over 4l£ per cent, of its liabilities to the public repre-
sented by liquid assets, the Royal is in a strong position,
and ought to be able to show larger profits in Hie future.
The Bulletin’s old friend, the American Com-
missions Syndicate, which was lately advertising safe
investments at 80 per cent, or so, got an advt. in the
Bankruptcy Court the other day. A bankrupt civil ser-
vant was under examination : —“A. Hooper is a money-
lender in this (Citizens’ Life) building. I borrowed £5
from a man named Gain, paid £ll2s. back, and then gave
Hooper a p.n. for £lO for Gain not to go on with a sum-
mons against me. Hooper is a partner of Gain’s. Together
with a man named Goodman they trade as the American
Commissions Syndicate.” The civil servant thus gave his
p.n. for £lO for a debt' apparently of £3 Bs. Now, was
that p.n. one of the “ safe investments ” which the Com-
missions Syndicate was offering ? *
The past year’s record of Australian trustee
co.’s, from their last published balance-sheets
Profit Dividends Reserves
Victoria.
National.. ..£2,408 8 per cent. =£2400 £23,912
Equity .. .. 3,093 8 ~ ~ 2000 9,876
Trustees, E.,&A. 6,925 5J ~ ~ 5400 12,020
Union .. .. 3,255 4 ~ ~ 2953 1,378
Perpetual .. 1,940 2} ~ „ 825 8,777
Ballarat.. .. 2,777 10 ~ ~ 1500 5,147
Sandhurst .. 2,386 7 ~ „ 1400 5,010
New South Wales.
Perpetual .. 10,519 10 ~ ~ 2500 34,676
Permanent .. 3,939 8 ~ ~ 2000 7,573
Queensland.
Queensland .. 2,546 8 ~ ~ 2121 4,797
SOUTU AUSTRALIA.
Executors, T., &
A 2,836 6 ~ „ 921 5,102
WESTRALIA.
West Australian 2,028 10 ~ ~ 946 7,346
TASMANIA.
Perpetual,
Hobart .. 1,472 8 „ ~ 840 5,678
P ermanent,
Launceston .. 980 6 „ „ 630 2,631
MAORILAKD.
Perpetual,
Dunedin .. 1,359 12J ~ ~ 1016 3,768
Wellington .. 10,073 8 ~ ~ 8100 29,165
With scarcely an exception, the trustee co.’s did better
business than in the preceding year. The increases in
dividends were, however, comparatively few ; on the
other hand, no co. reduced its dividend. The Trustees,
Executors, and Agency (Melbourne) paid at the rate of 6
per cent, in the first half, but brought it back to the old
5 per cent, in the second half. The Sandhurst’s increased
from 6 to 7—the fourth increase in four years. The Syd-
ney Permanent’s went from 6 to 8, which was the largest
jump made by any co. for the year ; and the South Aus-
tralian’s rose from 5 to 6 per cent.
Among Australian trustee co.’s the Sydney
Perpetual still shows the largest earning capacity ; it re-
turns £2O 6s. per cent, on capital and reserves combined ;
it paid a dividend of 10 per cent., and added to reserves
more than 30 per cent, of its capital. The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Go., the most profitable of the
Melbourne co.’s, showed at the rate of £6 7s. Bd. per cent,
per annum for its last half-year. The Ballarat co. earned
at the rate of £l5 15s. lOd. per cent, per annum for the
same period. The Westralian Go., which has made rapid
progress, earned £l2 15s. 3d. These stand at the head of
the Australian list in the matter of earnings. The Wel-
lington (M.L.) Co., whose profit was second only to the
Sydney Perpetual’s, carries on a more extensive general
agency business than the Australian offices as a rule cater
for.
Comparing the dividends now with those of
lOyrs. ago, the N.S.W. and Queensland co.’s show as
having made the most improvement. The Sydney
Perpetual, which can now earn over 20 per cent, on total
funds, paid no dividend for several years prior to 1893.
The Sydney Permanent has doubled its dividend since
1896. For co.’s which hang out in a country ruined by
socialistic legislation this isn’t so bad ; 1893 was the year
when the socialistic legislation began. The Queensland
co. has also doubled its dividend. The Dunedin office
pays the largest dividend in Australasia—more proof of
the blighting influences of Protection and State Enter-
prise. Victorian co.’s, on the other hand, show as a rule
little improvement. It is true that the Melbourne Perpetual
paid nothing for 1897 and several years before, but it only
pays 2J per cent, now, and is still writing down securities.
The National, paying 8 per cent, now, and barely earning
it, paid 15 per cent, in 1893, and then 10 per cent, for a
few years. The T., E., and A. (Melbourne) paid 7£ per cent.
10 years ago. as against 5 now. The Equity stands now
just where it did then. The Union paid 6 per cent, in
1893, and only 4 per cent, in 1903. These are the results
in the State which is still more or less content with Irvine
and Bent and the House of 48 Rich Landlords. The men
who, for the most part, run the trustee co.’s, say that
these are the sort of rulers the country wants ;1 but their
balance-sheets don’t give their contentions much support.
*
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers (Sydney):—
Net Added to Re-
Profits Dividends Reserves serves
Mar., 1898 £40,278 7 per cent. =£31,500 £8778 £88,793
Sept., 1898 33,625 7 „ „ 31,500 2125 90,918
Mar., 1899 40,741 7 „ „ 31,500 9241 100,159
Sept., 1899 35,706 7 „ „ 31,500 4206 104,365
Mar., 1900 37,979 7 „ „ 31,500 6479 110,844
Sept., 1900 36,451 7 „ „ 31,500 4951 115,795
Mar., 1901 39,898 7 „ „ 31,500 8398 124,193
Sept., 1901 37,269 7 „ ~ 31,500 5769 129,962
Mar., 1902 41,536 8 „ ~ 36,000 5536 135,498
Sept., 1902 40,768 8 ~ „ 36,000 4768 140,266
Mar., 1903 41,209 8 ~ ~ 36,000 5209 145,475
Sept., 1903 39,053 8 „ ~ 36,000 3053 148,528
Mar., 1904 43,414 8 „ ~ 36,000 7414 155,942
The figures certainly don’t show any evil results of the
severe competition in the beer business which was lately
talked about. The reserves consist of £lOO,OOO reserve
fund, £40,000 for equalisation of dividends, and £15,942
undivided profit. The capital is £900,000, and on all
shareholders’ funds the return was at the rate of £8 ss.
7d. per cent, per annum. Figures for recent September-
March half-years and for the same half-year five years ago
compare in this way :
1899. 1902. 1903. 1974.
Brewery profit and all £ £ £ £
other income .. 125,767 158,834 160,289 154,191
Expenses .. .. 82,526 112,297 114,080 105,776
Properties and plant 641,066 672,110 650,269 638,149
Debentures, deposits,
&c., 157,216 170,456 164,079 148,922
Stock on hand .. 48,352 65,305 77,590 83,680
Debtors .. .. 196,978 195,684 225,608 253,662
The undivided profits, and other things besides, are thus
going into “stocks on hand” and “sundry debtors.”
* * * *
An announcement has at last been made with
regard to the long-delayed clearing-up of the A. J.S. Bank,
an lit doesn’t look as satisfactory as it might be. The
proposal is that £1,017,302 shall be written off capital,
1 aving the paid capital at £157,443 and the reserves at
£ >26,112, of which latter £242,590 has been derived from
tle purchase of “B” deposits at a discount. Share-
h dders’ funds will thus stand at £483,555. The profit
m vie by the bank during 1903 was £7356 ; in 1902 £5506.
Even taking the larger amount, the earnings would only
represent £llos. sd. per cent, on the amount of these
f uids. It is obvious, therefore, that the proposed
writing-off is insufficient, and that it does not represent
Fie full amount of the bank’s losses. If, in addition to
writing-off £1,017,302 of capital, the whole of the reserves
w :re wiped out, last year’s earnings would still only show
a return of £4 13s. 6d. per cent., which is much under the
average of Australian banks. If, then, the balance-
sheet is to show the true position, there seems
nothing for it but to write off the whole of the
reserves as well as the amount of capital
mentioned in the board’s proposal. There is no earthly
reason for prolonging the agony. In fact, what the bank
is doing now ought to have been done certainly no later
than 1896, when the position had been fairly well ascer-
tained.
* * * *
It was mentioned last week that an Australian
life office in the very front rank would shortly make an
announcement to the effect that it is about to take indus-
trial business. The A.M.P., the office referred to, has had
the matter under consideration for some time, and its
arrangements are, it is understood, already well advanced.
Mr. Appleby, the society’s secretary in Brisbane, and for-
merly of the actuarial staff, will probably be placed in
charge of the new department, with Mr. Teece, of course,
in general command ; and it is also most likely that these
two officers will visit Europe to make personal inquiries
into the conduct and management of this class of business
there, and for other purposes.
* * *' • * *
Subs. : The investment is sound, but the return
amounts to only 5 per cent... .0. Pearson : Quicksilver
shares not quoted, and apparently no market for them.
C. Reader : The return would be at the rate of 7f per
cent., but the security is not over-good.
’ * * « •
Permewan, Wright, and Co., Ltd., carriers,
&c., of Melbourne and other places :
Profits . Added
less Depre- Written to Re- Re-
Jan., ciation. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1894 .. £5,395 10 p.c. = £3750 £1,645 £20,190
1895 .. 4,549 10 „ „ 3750 799 20,989
1896 .. 2,051 10 „ „ 3750 19,290
1897.. 4,844 10 „ „ 3750 -- 1,094 1 . 20,384
1898.. 4,514 10 ~ ~ 3750 764 21,148
1899 .. 3,769 10 „ „ 3750 19 21,167
1900.. 4,036 9 „ „ 4062 21,141
1901 .. 4,552 8 „ „ 4479 £7500 13,714
1902 .. 5,150 8 „ „ 5000 7500 6,364
1903.. 6,630 8 „ „ 5000 1,630 7,994
Loss.
1904 .. 594 3 „ „ 1875 5000 525
This is an unexpected streak of disaster. And there has
been another streak not mentioned above ; on the recent
re-valuation of assets a deficiency of £2662 on book values
was disclosed, so there still remains £9662 to be written
off ; and at present most of it could only be written off
capital. The profit and loss account throws little light
upon the situation; it appears to be simply a case of
gross earnings declining, while expenses have not fallen
correspondingly
1900. 1903. 1904.
Earnings ; . £45,534 £59,450 £42,225
Wages and horsefeed, &c. .. 26,208 33,308 29,260
Working expenses and repairs 10,858 11,205 10,624
Interest, rent, &c. .. .. 3,932 3,308 2,936
The dividend shown above was paid in October last, pre-
sumably before it was known how badly things were
panning out. * * *
Victoria has just discovered one of those “ per-
manent and reproductive works” that Bull-Cohen is
invited to admire when a new loan is wanted. It seems
that as long ago as ’7O a flood in the Hopkins River washed
away a perfectly new bridge just put up at Allansford, and
for 34 years Allansford has dwelt amazed at its fearful loss
and speculated as to the whereabouts of the departed
implement. After pondering the circumstance thoroughly,
Allansford decided lately to look for the lost machine, and
naturally discovered it where any sane and energetic
person would have looked at once—at the bottom of the
river, 300 yards down. Of course the weapon is much
damaged, and Allansford is speculating whether it will be
worth the £lOO it will cost to raise it.
* * * %
An Auckland man writes: “ Auckland (M.L.)
is just bumping up against its ‘ private enterprise ’ tram-
ways and finding that they are loaded. Tram company is
already demanding an extension of lease, though its
present lease doesn’t expire for many years, and a poll of
ratepayers is to be taken. And now it is discovered that
no provision exists in the Act for recording any but nega-
tive votes, which, to carry refusal, must be one-third the
number on the roll (5580). Consequently, unless 1860 of
the ratepayers of Auckland can be aroused from their Rip
Van Winkle slumber, the tram co. gets its extension, even
if not one single person is in favor of granting it. Judging
from the general somnolence of the city, Gabriel himself
wouldn’t bet on rousing up 1860 ratepayers sufficiently
for them to vote. This is a peculiar position for
an alleged thinking municipality to get into, but some
municipalities only think they think.”
* * * •
Broken Hill Junction, which can’t make up its
mind to start its mill again, has lately had a find or two
which something to its value. There have been
times when the Junction has been reckoned among the
top-notchers of the field ; but frightful management has
given it a bad time, and few of the shareholders have had
a fair run for their money. It is one of the most difficult
mines on the field to manage, and it has had the bad luck
to get the most incompetent and inexperienced manage-
ment. It is situated on a bend of the lode, and the ore
is patchy; but the good ore has usually been
merely pig-rooted out. Even now, after thousands
have been spent in trying to make it secure, parts
of it are none too safe, and a good deal of
filling still remains to be done. Practically all that has
been done during the past four years has been to attempt
to retrieve the blunders of the past, both by filling in and
by opening up the mine so that the ore" bodies may be
handled more economically. The plant has also been
remodelled with the same end in view. What the mine is
capable of doing now only a practical test could say. It
is a property of very considerable possibilities—far larger
possibilities than the Junction North has, and very
probably larger than the North has—and would be much
more highly esteemed if it were not for the past shocking
mismanagement.
* * * #
The “settlement” at the south end of the
Broken Hill Prop, has been followed by a movement at
the north end, not far from Block 14 boundary, where
there have been similar troubles before. The first fall was
pooh-poohed as being hardly worth mentioning, but the
trouble is that when things start to move there is no
telling when they will stop. Movements are, however,
less likely to be dangerous than they were before the co.
got to work so largely on the more solid sulphides. The
chief interest now is centred in the zinc processes ; the
acid plant for the Delprat process is completed, and the
results should be soon forthcoming. The co.’s half-year
ends in May ; if nothing goes wrong meantime the report
to be issued shortly after that will be the best the co. has
sent out for three or four years.
Continued on page SO).


Argus matrimonial advt. :
jsjCOT, tall, fair, £2OOO, easy-going-, like hear
winsome lassie willing- drift “doon the burn”
as life's partner. Till Wednesday. “ Cushie Doo,”
G.P.O.
This opens up a braw prospect for somebody.
sdf
THE “ORIENT”
ONE GUINEA BOOT
Black Calf.
Special.
Price =
21/-
Delivered, Carriage Paid, to Any Address in the States.
PAVIP JONES ANP CO
GEORGE aod BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
i
ytfESr
Beware
of [mitations-
f*AOe
sdf
sd
Society
Canadian
Club
Whisky
4n unbiassed MAlLo,,™,. • i
vetera Tl !!t wi Melbourne commercial
churia LndVweaKmHs c d fl ?“ travels ln , Man ‘
strength ?’ that -?? one f who has
ofl. J.-J.ua s military force m
“unfortunate Tan?”' 5 a® sorry for the
and he S a th v w£ onty-
ornwdrff “ authority'compared with the great
t A? war critics the Jap army is being lured
a , i f u # saster > which may not happen till
lot of ZJ a ne ” ; ! tlve tactician, with a
numerouTk'u patience, the slow and
numerous Russian is a person to be respected.
SOLVED.
“How is it that widows generally manage to marry again?”
“ Well, the only men who know much about them arc dead. You never see a widow marrying
while her husband’s alive.”
He lured Napoleon Buonaparte into a darned cold
place and left him there, and he’s preparing a
similar cool retreat for his tawny little swelled-
head foe of a century later. In the meantime it
is the Jap who lures the other fellow to naval
disaster.
A coi’respondenfc describes how Seddon
and others helped to look for Wellington solicitor
Andrew, who was lost in a fog while out deer-
stalking :
The police said nothing- and apparently did nothing for
three days after Andrew was reported missing. During
that time the man wandered aimlessly, firing shots to
attract attention, and then fell from exhaustion and
died. He was found, with a pile of empty cartridge-
cases beside him, by a deerstalker guide who had heard
the shots, but attached no interest to them until he heard
the news of Andrew’s disappearance. When the police
seemed to be doing nothing Andrew's relations organised
a band of deadbeats 160 strong—wages, 10s. per day—and
offered a reward of .£4OO. Then Seddon came with a
rush. He called out a detachment of artillery, and sent
them along in full fighting order under a colonel. Also,
for their greater security, he armed them with a pom-pom
captured from the Boers. Before the men detrained for
the country, Seddon gave them a dinner and a long
speech, wherein he exhorted them to remember their
king and country. He seemed to have the idea that thev
were going to attack Port Arthur. Andrew had then
been missing a week and was dead. The artillerymen
marched boldly to the wilds and mostly slept in their
tents in a clearing till Andrew’s body was found, when
they came back to town again.
* * * *
The Horton murder-conviction in Adelaide
shows once more what a difficult place to escape
from that city is. In this case the police have
nothing to pride themselves on. A man shot his
young wife in the crowded promenade of Rundle-
street on Saturday evening, but got clear away.
He made no use of his start, but turned up next
evening at the suburban home of a relation,
who gave him no encouragement beyond
an earnest invitation to walk across to
the police-station. Horton went with him,
but backed away almost from the station-
door, and was again lost to sight. On the Monday
morning an ostler at a hotel in the Hills saw a
stranger walking along the Melbourne railway
line. He telephoned for a trooper, got out a
buggy, and shepherded the unknown till the
policeman overtook and arrested him. A steady
tramp during the Sunday might have brought
Horton to the Murray and comparative safety ;
but when once a description has got into the
papers, Adelaide —standing on a cultivated plain,
the flat sea beach on the one side and the closely-
settled Hills on the other—gives a badly “wanted”
person no chance at all.
* * * *
A one-eyed Melbourne hawker gave P. M.
Panton a glimpse of a sordid romance lately.
Being charged with speaking to his lady love in
language not according to Webster, he pleaded in
extenuation, “ I’ll tell you, Mister, I loved this
’ere woman, I did. I lost me eye for her. She
poked it out, she did. I’ve been to the ’ospital
three times for her. That’s what I got; and
that’s the truth.” The lady admitted that love’s
course had run in the direction stated, chiefly
through her hasty temper ; but Panton fined the
talkative gentleman just the same. He paid up,
and the two left court together, and, of course,
he’ll go and dally with her some more, and pre-
sently Dulcinea will get annoyed again and maybe
poke out his other eye or drag off his ear. Women
have strange ways of showing their affection at
times. And, anyway, love is a fool of a thing,
and never knows when to begin or leave off, or let
things be as they are ; vide Solomon, Brigham
Young, and other authorities.
An insubordinate private writes thus :
Field-Marshal Neild has called for an inquest, or inquire
of some sort, into the conduct of several of his own war-
riors, whose behavior, according to Jawbone, “bordered
on mutiny. To place a “sojer” of Neild’s rank and
moustache in an undignified position calls for nothing-
short of a firing party at early dawn. Imagine J. march-
ing at the head of his army while those of the front rank
make chalk marks on the back of his red tunic, or surrep-
titiously pluck the feathers from his pretty ’at to use as
pipe-cleaners. “Sojering” is coming to a serious pass
when one’s subordinates arm themselves with hat pins
and popguns and bombard one's feathered ’elmet with
boiling peas.
SUNDAY MORNING, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
CUSTOMER: “ It’s all right, let me in, I—I got
drunk here last night."
VOICE FROM WITHIN : “ Breathe through the key-
hole till I smell whether it’s me own beer.”
Can’t something be done to stop the
“loyalist” press from publishing disillusioning
paragraphs about Edward VII —such, for instance,
as this, from Melbourne Argus of April 9 ?
King Edward is not so tall as many people imagine, and
whenever His Majesty is photographed in a group he is
invariably (Cassell’s Saturday Journal says) put to stand
on some small eminence, such as a step, iii order that he
may compare as well as possible with those about him.
Tn his stockings, he is just sft. 7in. His Majesty wears
boots with high heels, and his total height as he walks is
sft. B£in.
The facts, apart from the height being overstated,
are probably as printed, but the picture of a mighty
monarch who wears larrikin-heeled boots and
stands on a stool when he gets his portrait taken
isn’t calculated to inspire the fitting degree of
loyal reverence.
» * » *
“G.H.” : Bazaar people are unaccountable.
I wandered into that Melbourne fancy-hospital-
bazaar one night. Previously I had walked past
a certain amount of red liquor, and some of it had
stuck to me inwardly. So when a bogus geisha-
female seized me by the projecting thirst and
implored me to take a ticket in a raffle for a blue
chimpanzee I reproved her. As far as I can
remember, I smote an attitude like Dowie on
Mount Gilboa, and in a voice of thunder inquired
why she didn’t discard that alien husk, and be a
naturally - published young Australian female.
Then the sham geisha complained to something
dark and reverend in a hat, and presently 17
infuriated citizens pushed me with violence into
Tine Nicholson. Then I met some more scarlet
liquor, and clung to it till morning.
* * * *
The amazing Victorian amateur beak has
to be put straight nowadays even by the prisoner
in the dock. One such lately told a South Mel-
bourne “honorarium” that he had no power to
give him six months for larceny—three being the
maximum. The beak offered to give him 12
months and chance it, but finally had to back
down and admit the prisoner was right.
* * * *
This letter recently brightened up the
heavy pages of Adelaide Advertiser :
I have suffered a lot from living among smokers, and I
don’t wonder at Mr. Dowie calling them “stinkpots.” I
have been married twice. My first husband was a smoker,
and I was nearly always ill. I suffered from most awful
headaches and unendurable pain. The house was never
sweet, but there was always a nasty musty smell, even
when he was out all day. My second husband does not
smoke, and I never have the awful headaches that I had
with my first husband. Our house is always sweet and
healthy. lam sure it is what God meant it to be. After
my first experience, I have a perfect dread of smokers and
drinkers, and I do thank God for my dear, clean husband,
whose mouth is so sweet it is a pleasure to kiss him.
There is a streak of unconscious humor about the
lady who writes to the papers about her “dear,
clean husband.”
The dreadful habit some people have of
writing names and dates in conspicuous places is
one that should be violently suppressed. Large
tropical leaves and tree-trunks around gem-
spots in Sydney Botanical Gardens stand
ear-marked witnesses to the fact that
Bill-Jim Smith lounged there some-
time in 1891; while the Post Office
tower and bells are similarly dis-
figured. The disease seems deep-
seated in the bo under mind. After
a couple of hours hard climbing
to the pinnacle of Mt. Wellington
(Hobart) for instance, one finds
Eaint-pots lying around which
ave been carted from town to
furnish staring announcement on
the eternal rocks that A. Hogg
and Liza Perkins with six others,
whose names are all conscien-
tiously recorded, at one time in-
fested the spot. A reasonably ade-
quate sentence would be that Liza
should be chained to the topmost
pinnacle and left there all night,
after seeing A. Hogg and the rest of
the male iniquities thrown down the
mountain side with a crowbar attached
to each vandal.
Sydney Central Police Court caught a
glimpse of a cherished old Asiatic custom the
other day. The police had raided the Chinese
pak-a-pu shops and had served 24 summonses,
laying charges under a George IV. Act, which
does not allow of fines, but only serves out gaol.
When the cases were called on, only 13 of the
real defendants were present, the other 11 being
represented by dummies, who answered to their
names and who, presumably, -were prepared to “ do
time.” Most of the bogus malefactors were poor
and dried-up wrecks, while those who were wanted
were men of some tonnage in Chinatown. If Ah
Sin hadn’t tried the trick on so large a scale, or if
there hadn’t been so wide a discrepancy between
the fleshy, well-nourished defendants and their
fleshless agents, the scheme might have crowded
through. As it was, somebody noticed that
the real Wong Yick was almost as large as the
whole of the duplicates, and there were inquiries,
and closer inspections, and warrants all round.
* * * *
A giddy little Melbourne Flossie who had
just taken the early steps on the road that leads
to Little Bourke-street, was snatched from the
Law’s detaining arms the other day by a smart-
looking young tradesman, who told P.M. Pan ton
he proposed to make her his “ housekeeper ” and
regenerate her, and marry her when she obtained
grace. The wise old beak smiled pleasantly on
the pair, and bade them go away and be good.
It seems somewhat irregular for the Law to
encourage what looks so very like immorality in
this off-hand fashion and without any inquiry,
but the goody-goodies who pride themselves on
their efforts to raise the fallen were apparently
busy elsewhere just then.
* * * *
Canon Tucker, of Christ Church, South
Yarra, Victoria, is off to London town, and,
t’other day, gave out in an interval of the service
that the railway fares to Port Melbourne, on the
occasion of his departure, would be reduced to
one-half, in order that all his parishioners might
have the chance of seeing him off. The ordinary
fare is fourpence!
WHAT GOVERNORS ARE FOR.
“Lord Ranfurly, who was entertained at a farewell
banquet at Christchurch, predicted a wonderful future
for Maoriland. ” —Daily paper.
S.M. HERALD recently gave millionaire
T y rs .i , -ft ° _ .
Dan Cooper the present Dan great cred t
“ a generous gift. lor half a century a school
liall situated in Woollahra has been used by the
Congregational Church for religious services. At
+h e annual meeting on Tuesday “Mr. Janies”
announced that Can had converted the leasehold
, “ ~, A , , > • , „ .
(P ar t of the Cooper estate) into a freehoi ,
generously presented it to the church condition-
ally on its being used for religious purposes. The
little spot would not make a flyspeck on the map
of the Cooper estates, but for 50 years the Coopers
have collected ground rent. The generosity isnt
nearly so large as the advertisement.
COMPARISONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was walking round the city and my blood was full of
bile,
For the folk I met looked fatuously glad—
I suppose they were contented for each wore a silly smile ;
But I was mad,
Fair mad.
There were some I noted specially whose style was fresh
and flash,
They appeared to think that life was quite a joke ;
They were not so smart as I am, but were loaded down
with cash —
While I was broke,
Dead broke.
They strode into the big hotels like lords of all the earth,
Who have also got a lien upon the sky ;
And they drank champagne (I know it), and they made
exceeding mirth.
And I was dry,
Dust dry.
Now the thing that most annoys me and that stabs me
like a knife
Is the thought that so my finest years have fled,
And that other fools with better luck will drain the Cud
of Life
When I am dead,
Stone dead.
Later on I saw the ruin of an ancient M.L.A,
And a wreck M ho makes his living writing verse,
And I said, “ My case is bad enough, but still I have to say
It might be worse,
Much worse.”
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.


H
AIR DESTROYED.
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Destioy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or Injury
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits, but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DRUG CO., 8 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS.
At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all days on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from Georere-street to TCing-st."
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
fsd
fsd
qOSNESS
«$► an d A * '<
.1
A strangely casual, upside-down, contra-
dictory case was overhauled a few days ago in a
Sydney court. A young man named Ross was
charged with having, eight months ago (which
seems very gradual), snatched £l4 of George
MacNamara’s money from George’s daughter,
Louise. It was alleged that Ross was the father
of the girl’s child, born four years ago, and that he
had agreed to make things right by marrying the
girl provided her father lent him £l4. The four
years’ delay looks like a very weary lingering over
a very obvious matter, and the alleged bargain re
so small a sum as £l4 at the end of the time seems
grotesque. At all events, the two are said to have
got into a cab (doubtless a very slow cab) and
drifted round to various matrimonial agencies, but
at every one something (not specified) happened
to prevent the marriage. In the end they
remained unmarried, and the girl declared that
Ross snatched the £l4 from her (which was the
only reasonably swift thing mentioned in the case
up to then), while Ross declared that she gave it to
him voluntarily at the office of that wildly success-
ful publication, the Australian Woman, in the
presence of witnesses. The accused also declared
that he wasn’t the father of the child born four
years ago, and was only drifting round unsuccess-
fully in a cab, making half-hearted attempts to
marry the girl, out of the respect he had for her
father. His Honor declared this to be “rubbish” ;
still it was a mere side issue. The main point
was that the alleged snatching of the money was
based on the evidence of the girl and her sister,
while the accused’s statement that the money was
given voluntarily was emphatically backed up by
the editress of that affluent and widely-circulated
organ, the Australian Woman, and by two other
persons; yet, despite this mass of evidence, Ross
was found guilty. It was a curiously dilatory affair
all through—the child that was born four years ago;
the alleged steal that was done eight months ago ;
the lingering round in a cab to matrimonial agencies
where “something always happened” to prevent
a marriage ; the alleged patching up of the family
honor for £l4 ; the alleged casualness of the man
who was prepared to marry a girl with a past
because of his regard for her old man, and all the
rest. The most definite point about the case is
that unfortunate happenings like this aren’t likely
to help the rush of the remunerative lost dog
advertisement to the office of the Australian
Woman.
* > * - * *
Advt. from the Sydney Telegraph :
"D EV. Doctor (28) seeks wife with capital, start Zion
■ u ' city. P.O. Manly.
Evidently capital cannot be got by faith ; it has
to be advertised for in the “Stinkpot” pressman’s
paper run by the editor whom Dowie says is
utterly damned.
CROWDED.
"Australia was going to damnation all through its
newspapers, which were the servants of the devil. Editors
and reporters would have a special place in hell.”
HIS MAJESTY : “ Dowie? O yes, I know you
well, but I'm afraid you will have to sleep in
one of the coal-bunkers. All the best places
are full of newspaper men."
As an example of the gratitude of St. Jingo
the case of Corporal Macauley, of W angaratta (Vic.)
is worth instancing. He returned blind from the
S’African shambles, as the result of injuries re-
ceived on duty, but, though his return is ancient
history now, nothing whatever has been done to
provide for his necessities. Jingo sympathy and
admiration don’t pan out for a copper. Irvine is
said to have intended doing something, but he did
nothing. There is no authentic report that Bent
intends to do anything—except yell.
Testy old Justice Boucaut distinguished
himself more than usual at the recent criminal
sittings in Adelaide. To one of our meek,
brown fellow-subjects, who had knifed a ship s
officer when the latter had attempted
to stop the Lascar crew from illegally
leaving the vessel, he gave six
months. But to an 18-year-old
lad, who knew his unmarried
mother 's weakness, and who,
after attempting to get a
man to leave her alone,
slightly wounded him
with a revolver (he swore
he had only intended to
scare the man off), Justice
Boucaut gave 12 months.
The man, who was
slightly injured, picked
the unfortunate woman
up in the street —she
was under the influ-
ence of drink —went
home with her, and
the son found him
lying on her bed.
She had no husband
to protect her; and
the lad (whose em- i
ployers gave him 1
an excellent char-
acter, and offered
to re-employ him
at once) tried to
clear the house.
And Justice
Boucaut, who
gave the kmf-
ing Lascar
six months,
could only
say that the
use of the
revolver
must be put
down. The
necessity
for putting
down the
use of the
knife didn’t
apparently
occur to
Boucaut.
N.S.W.
Public
Service
Board is
now more
aggrava-
tingly slow
in its methods
than any other
public department.
On Dec. 21 some 100
candidates were examined under Regulation
E 5704 or something. The results have now ap-
peared, it having taken four months to get tne
thing through. This exam, is a semi-annu; 1
function. Some 80 per cent, of the candidates
find themselves plucked, and have barely two
months left to prepare for the next test.
* * * *y
Some two or three years ago, when
Governor-General Hopetoun visited Queensland,
he was introduced to a wealthy and intellectu; 1
Chow cane-grower near Cairns, and was so mut h
pleased with him that he presented him with Ins
signed photo. Things have not gone well with
that Chinaman since—in fact, his introduction io
Hopetoun seemed to be the beginning of ill-luck—
and the other day he became deranged with
worry, and fled across country with nothing ui
but a singlet, and nothing in his hand but Hope-
toun’s photograph. He was captured, sat upor,
clothed and formally arrested after a long struggle,
but by the time the conflict was over his late Ex. s
photograph had been so trodden on by policemen,
Chinese, “first aid” people, philanthropists, and
medical assistance that it was no longer worth
having.
* * * *
A miserable bottle-ho squabble is raging
between the Governor-General, the Bendigo City
Council and John Quick, member for Bendigo in
the House of Reps. Lately Governor North cote
and Mrs. Northcote had a fly round Bendigo, and
enjoyed a back view of the mayor and corporation
as they lay in the dust before them. On returning to
town Northcote wrote a letter of thanks to the
council and people of Bendigo, and sent it through
John Quick. Quick passed it over to the City
Council, and then the rumpus began. The Mayor
of Bendigo wrote to Northcote objecting to the
procedure. Northcote replied) that he guessed he
knew more about that kind of cattle than the
Mayor. Whereupon the Mayor, at a meeting of
the council, moved that the Governor’s letter be
returned to Quick with instructions to hand it
back to his Excellency in disgust. This motion
was not carried in all its awfulness. It was eventu-
ally decided to return the letter to Quick and let
him light his pipe with it if he chose. Now
Quick has written to the press deploring the action
of the Council, and a fear has arisen that it may
interfere with the next loan or something of the
sort. Mannerless hogs who do this sort of thing
are invariably Tories, and don’t think the Labor
party is respectable.
* * * *
Brisbane is beginning to feel the want of
the old borrowed money stimulant very seriously,
and is painfully suggestive of an opium fiend who
has run out of opium, or a dipsomaniac who is due
for his debauch and finds himself in a Prohibition
country. One sign that there is a great recovery
to go through is the presence of 20 empty shops in
Queen-street. A still more ominous symptom is
that, within the past three months, two leading
Presbyterian clergymen have felt themselves
impelled to “accept a call” to labor in the
vineyard of prosperous Maoriland. When the
Presbyterian feels it is time to get out, then
there is a long and bitter recovery ahead.
* * * *
A moneyed woman committed suicide at
Guildford (W.A.) police court, the other day,
rather than face a charge of bigamy. Civilisation
and Mrs. Grundy have millions of sins to account
for, but this was, perhaps, the first time they had
driven a respectable female bigamist to suicide.
What real harm had she done that she should be
treated as a felon, anyhow '! The incident raises
the question whether the Law ought not to draw
a charitable distinction between the man who de-
ceives a woman into a false marriage and the
woman who confers the joys of unlawful wedlock
upon a man.
When the Boer wouldn’t come out from
behind his rock to face fearful odds and be shot,
the J ingo papers yelled at him and said he was no
man. But when their friend the Monkey, with
the odds in his favor, drops
a torpedo or a mine, and
waits behind an island
to see something
happen, the same
Jingo pape:s
call it fine
strategy.
DRAMATIC REALISM.
“How did Brownson get on the other night in
that grand explosion act? ”
“Splendid! Brought the house down. The build-
ing caught fire, and the people just had time
to get out as the roof fell in.”
A Mr. Isaac Mayne returned to Brisbane
from abroad, t’other day, and told a Courier in-
terviewer this about Edward Yll.’s recent recep-
tion at Paris : “ I paid a few shillings for a seat
o.i a baker’s cart, and was thus able to see ever) -
thing. King Edward’s reception, as far as the
people were concerned, seemed to be rather tair.e
and cold. I tried to raise three cheers for His
Majesty, but the Parisians were inclined to laugh
at my enthusiasm, although, of course, they saw
that I was a Britisher.” Surely a belated Queens-
lander cheering on top of a French bread-cart
wasn’t the enthusiasm that all that violent cable-
gramming was about.
* * * *
A Sydney lady emerged last week from a
tussle with the law a worsted and angry woman.
She recently purchased cei*
tain goods at an auction
sale of furniture, and ten-
dered two cheques to the
auctioneer in payment. At
the conclusion of the sale,
when taking delivery of her
purchases, she found they
were not at all up to the
flowery and eloquent de-
scription given by the auc-
tioneer when selling them.
Thereupon she demanded
her cheques back again.
The auctioneer’s clerk re-
turned them, and the pur-
chaser, with needless pride
and frill, tore them up and
tossed the pieces at his feet,
like Mary of Scotland defy-
ing her persecutors, or Cleo-
patra throwing Sphinxes
about promiscuously in
Egypt. The trouble arose
when the cheques, neatly
gummed together, were pre-
sented at the bank and
paid, whereupon the thun-
derstruck plaintiff sued her bank for the money,
and had her case dismissed with costs. This shows
that the habit of proudly casting torn documents
at your enemy’s feet, though good enough in a
drama, doesn’t always succeed in real life.
* * * *
The Bulgandramine (N.S.W.) tragedy
ended in Chief Justice Darley pronouncing the
death sentence on Chinaman Ah Chick for the
murder of William Tregaskis
The prisoner received the sentence quietly, and when
his Honor pronounced the concluding words, “ and may
the Lord have mercy on your soul,” the prisoner laughed
softly to himself, and followed the police from the court.
There was greater wealth of significance in the
soft laugh of the Asiatic than in the European’s
howl of perfunctory sympathy.
Another old Sydney landmark is doomed
—the quaint cottage in Castlereagh-street, num-
bered 12, and built in the year 1834. It is,
although perhaps the oldest house in the neigh-
borhood, still in good condition, but it occupies
valuable land and does not return a sufficient per-
centage on the ground value. The house was
built by the late James Norton, one of the best-
known of Sydney’s old-time family lawyers, and
father of Dr. Norton, M.L.C. In the vacant
ground attached to the old cottage are two ancient
wells. The water cannot be used for household
purposes, because it is impregnated with alum,
while across the road the well attached to the
cordial factory is quite pure. For some years the
Norton family lived in the cottage. In the fifties
one Dr. Joseph Burgon occupied it; in the sixties
it was the Volunteer Club ; m late years a firm of
solicitors had possession.
* * * ♦
During the past ten weeks Martin-
borough, a very small M.L. back settlement, has
been full of sensations. First, a God-fearing resi-
dent broke his neck whilst steeplechasing. Then
thqre was the bush murder of Collinson, and the
wild hunt for his alleged slayer. While the in-
quest was being concluded on Collinson, a flax-
cutter blew his head off in a fit of the blues, leaving
to charity a widow and five small children. Then
a station hand met with a fatal accident while
drunk. After this there was peace, barring three
non-fatal accidents, for a week, and then two men
were drowned while trying to swim the Ruama-
hanga river, which was in flood.- At the same
time, Andrew, a Wellington solicitor, lost himself
in a fog while deer-stalking, and died from expo-
sure. The search for him lasted a week, and a
reward of £4OO was offered for his body, and the
whole population took to the mountain in its
thirst for gold. Now Martinborough, in fear and
trembling, looks upon itself as a sort of Sodom.
• » * *
Christians are not loving each other any
more than usual in Adelaide despite its reputation
for holiness. When Judge Gordon’s son—a
victim, long after the event, of the Boer war —was
buried on April 17, Archbishop O’Reily (R.C.)
attended the funeral, but refrained from going
into either the church or the cemetery, as he could
not join in Protestant prayers. Also, as the youth
was buried in an Anglican graveyard, the Presby-
terian parson who officiated in the church (Judge
Gordon is a Presbyterian) was not permitted to
assist in the service over the tomb, and an Angli-
can had to be engaged. Yet when the Boiler-
makers’ Union has a disagreement with the Amal-
gamated Rivetters because of one lot trespassing
on the other’s job, clerics are often much aston-
ished that such trifles should create dissension,
and hold that no Christian boiler-maker would
disagree with a rivetter who had experienced a
“ change of heart” over such a trifle.
IN PUSH SOCIETY.
GINGER: “I say, Slinker, it's no good the two of
us dorggin ’ her up. I'll head 'em with yer
ter see who tries to do a mash."
Advertising on the corpse. In Leichhardt
(Sydney), last Saturday, an alderman was shot by
an enemy of long standing. A Sydney daily is
careful to mention that he fell dead with a copy of
its weekly Snips publication in his hand.
AN INTERLUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What was said on the stair last night ?
What was whispered over the wine ?
Why did your face grow strangely white ?
Why did your hand grow cold in mine ?
Just a whisper—l scarce know where
I beard it first, hut it grew and grew ;
Somebody spoke it on the stair,
And I laughed and answered “ That isn’t new ! ’•
I had never known, but I saved my pride
From the insolent pity of her stare ;
I had never known, and I only 7 lied
And laughed with the glee which is despair.
And I danced—to me life seemed that night
A shifting, goblin-haunted scene
Of broken worlds and broken trusts
With gay waltz tunes between.
Q.
K. SMYTH.
THE BARRIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For I have been so near —so near
That I could hear your heart’s sweet rhyme
Singing its song of Love and Fear
And joy of Youth and scorn of Time !
So near ! The fragrance of your breast
Beset me, bidding me forget
Name, fame and birthright and the rest—
All things that bound me e’er we met!
So close I needs must hold my breath
Lest it should shatter in a trice
The web ’twixt you and me and Death,
Brittle as Love and cold as ice !
And I must school my eager hand
To meet your hand and tell it nought!
Ah ! Resolutions writ in sand !
Ah ! Selfish honor, dearly bought!
I know the soft sound of your tread,
The sweetness of your loving lip,
And every curve from heel to head,
From finger-tip to finger-tip !
And yet . . .
. . . The little space between
(Scarce a hand’s breath, a tiny span !)
Might all the world as well have been,
To part a woman and a man.
S.A
NIL


DRY GIN
I GORDON’S
OLD TOM ...
\4. ————————
k ,» Australasian Agents:
32 O’Con]^^
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“Great tidings anent the Northcotes trickle
through one or two secret channels. First and
foremost, there is to be an end to the old-time
cult of Toorak ; the Aides are given to understand
that their attention is not to be confined to a
small, fashionable clique. Guests are not to be
divided in pens as of old, and the lines of severe
social distinctions are to disappear in so far as
the Government House hosts can effect such a
reform. Furthermore, dress restrictions are to be
relaxed ; the ‘boxer’ and the sac coat are to be
recognised as proper garments for the bidden
fuest if he chooses to wear them. In a sentence,
iemocracv is t'o be given a recognition. And
this decision was come to before the Watson
Government came into power.
“Invitations from General Hutton to social
affairs have been scattered around Radical circles
rather freely of late—a mere coincidence probably.
One member, whose public criticism of the
General’s administration had been met with a
personal rudeness,- got an invitation—as a sign of
relenting probably on the General’s part. But the
M.P. wasn’t doing any relenting just then, and
the personal difference was only aggravated. By
the way, x hear that there is no prospect of the
new Democratic Government pulling any of
General Hutton’s tail-feathers. It is thought that
,suc “ ac tion would look like spite ; so, unless
differences of policy necessitate controversy, the
General is likely to have a more, rather than a less,
C mfortable tun •
BEAUTY IS POWER.
“VALAZE,” Dr. Lykuski’s RUSSIAN SKIN FOOD,
will make you beautiful. It is absolutely the best skin
cleanser, guaranteed to remove freckles, tan sunburn,
wrinkles, acne, blackheads, all skin impurities ; restores
flabby muscles and starved tissues. Valaze will improve
the worst skin in one month. Just try one jar, and see
for yourself.
NELLIE STEWART SAYS : “ Have used skin prepara-
tions from America, London, Paris ; paid fabulous prices
for some, but nothing has proved half as beneficial as the
Russian Skin Food, Valaze. It is absolutely the very best
skin preparation I ever used. Can never praise it
enough.”
Price 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Guide to
Beauty, 3d. Leading Chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 293 Collins St., Melbourne.*
sdf
THE LADIES’
MASSAGE
SOAP
H
vb
MS
85
s
PURE
fragrant
refreshing
1 FACILE PRINCEPS. )
BUCHANAN
WHIsdfSKY.
sdf
Dress fvvßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers
T7a™'kTHE VARNISHED BOARtf
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydnev, April 26, 1904.
Mr Dear Arini,—
I have hitherto been under the impression that
ho man first-named Reginald could .say anything
but “ Haw ! ” Rev. Reginald Blair Reynolds, who
was married to Sydney Mayor Lees’ daughter last
week, wipes out the impression. His bridal-
breakfast speech was the best thing of its kind that
the majority of the 600 guests present had ever
heard. And it must have been extempore because
it played chiefly around the quite commonplace
remarks of previous speakers. Bridegroom
Reynolds is the sixth son of a well-known Sydney
man, and his cure of souls (Congregational) lies in
the cow-infested district of Wollongong. Lima
Carine, the bride, is the second daughter of the
Lees, who have now three daughters (all taking
more or less after a pretty mother) married.
This is, of course, the first marriage
in a Lorded Mayoral household in Sydney.
Bridal gown was of “ ivory Duchesse satin ”
(when wasn’t a bridal gown of that material?)
covered with the usual transparent, expensive
veiling of silk muslin and lace. Her fair hair was
puffed and draped over the ears, and from under
her orange-blossom coronet a row of tight, tiny,
corkscrew curls lay on her forehead. Possibly the
bridegroom apostrophised it later with “Shine out,
little head sunning over with'curls.” Most parsons
know Tennyson.
Bridesmaids are the only persons at a wedding
ceremony who really seem to get some fun out of
the festivity. _ They are not just yet looking
forward, as is the bride, to the worries of
housekeeping and “ Tweenys ” (see “ Admirable
Crichton ” for the meaning thereof), and they are not
tired out, as is the bridegroom, with preparations
for the feast. (In a play just “off” the boards, a
prospective bride was exhausted with trying on
engagement rings all the morning.) Anyway,
Mrs. Reggie’s bridesmaids looked a radiant group
in their very slopy-shouldered white frocks and
black lace hats with plumes. Her sister Olive
was one, and Miss Ruby Reynolds another
of the four, and there was a page—a lovely
infant of five or six in a cream satin suit and a
Romeo cap and feather. Mayoress Lees’ bengaline
gown was of a beautiful shade of mignonette green,
worn over silk of the same shade, and trimmed
with cream embroidery and black velvet.
Three ex-Mayoresses, Mrs. W. P. Manning,
Mrs. Matthew Harris and Mrs. Hughes, wandered
through the reception at the Town Hall. Prob-
ably every Mayoress goes out of the civic collar
more gladly than she went into it. For one thing,
it means presiding at so many charity committee
meetings. Town Clerk Nesbitt’s daughters rather
took my eye, good-looking youngsters with com-
plexions that do the Fog credit. Still we have
some of our own. Mrs. “Jack” Toohey—who
always manages to avoid knocking her conning-
tower against the candelabra suspended from the
Town Hall ceiling—has one, and she wore with it
a gown of the not-much-worn-here panne cloth, of
a heliotrope shade, with feathers of guipure on the
collar and skirt.
One of the guests held a brief for the new cur-
tain veil. Before she raised it to consume trifle
and coffee it hung half-way to her waist in front;
at the back it hung the whole way, but it was the
shading of the embroidered chiffon curtain that
made it conspicuous. The part that covered the
face was white, blending on either side into cream,
then to deeper tints brown, palest orange,
deepest orange, then cream and pale brown down
to the ends at the back.
How “sold” a lot of us feel over that “engage-
ment ” of a (Melbourne) Fitzgerald man to Lady
Constance Mackenzie. I saw the announcement
in a reputable English paper. Perhaps the fact
that a son of Mr. Nicholas Fitzgerald is married
to a daughter of Lord North lent a streak of proba-
bility to the statement that another son was going
to marry into the peerage. Gables of last week
tell of the marriage of Lady C. M. to a Baronet.
Richardson, who was formerly with Lord Laming-
ton. By the way, how the Melbourne Fitzg’s laid
low and said nuffin, especially whilst one paper
was laboriously explaining that the Pope had
granted the necessary dispensation.
Somewhat about £2OOO was garnered by the
horticultural three-days fete in aid of the Con-
sumptive Home fund. Sydney never before
got such a shilling’s worth. The chrysanthemum
display alone was worth more. If you wish to be
real Jappy you must call the Mikado flower as he
does —niku. Stalls were mostly under the name
of a flower. That labelled “Autumn Leaves,”
rustled over by Miss Ada Nicholls, was a memor-
able kiosk in cinnamon and tobacco tints, inhabi-
ted by a bevy (I believe that is the correct word)
of long, slender girls in beautifully-made frocks of
the same shade. They were brave girls and
proudly confident of their youth, or they
wouldn’t have stood forth as autumn leaves.
Their frocks and hats were trimmed with
sprays of bright berries and fading foliage.
The “Violets,” under the management of Mrs.
Sheridan and Mrs. Moriarty, did such trade in
the tea and. scone industry that by the time the
fete closed the human flowers looked quite
withered. No less than nine capital concerts were
given, under the direction of Mr. H. N. South-
well. And there were motor parades, battles of
flowers, _ bagpipes, bands, military and naval
antics, giant beet-roots, and some choice specimens
of wood-carving from Miss Rutherford’s studio.
About some remarks in my last re the Hereford
cow of Anne of Cleves type. I’ve just come
across something by a distinguished American
writer concerning fashionable New York woman.
The latter, right up and deep into middle age, is
a miracle of slenderness. _ There is hardly a hip or
a bust amongst N. Y. society women. They stnv°
for a figure that resembles m its outline that of_ a
graceful boy. That is their ideal form, and by
exercise and rigorous self-denial in food and drink
they achieve and keep it. And it does not matter
how handsome a face is if it be a large one. A
large face is fatal.” The Howard Chandler
Christy girl in pastels, who has been holding a
reception for weeks at Angus and Robertson’s, is
the ideal of the N.Y. woman. By the way, N.Y.
society went to see Nance O’Neil, but her build
gave it the shudders. Nance’s type is an admired
one all the same in other parts of the Union.
The discharging—by intervention of the King’s
Proctor—of the rule nisi in the Pollard divorce
case, England (announced by cable), ends a sensa-
tional suit which followed closely on the lines of
the Butler case, over which solicitor Rofe was
convicted, in Sydney. Pollard and his wife were
separated. She wished to get a divorce and con-
sulted a firm of solicitors and private inquiry
agents. Then Pollard, in his distant town, found
himself suddenly a most popular man. Bland
strangers came and hailed him as a friend and a
brother. One of them finally insisted on taking
him on a long trip and paying all expenses.
While they were away Pollard’s waistcoat was
fallen upon, while Pollard was inside it, by a Vision
of Beauty, and the rule nisi followed. Then the
King's Proctor intervened, it being alleged that
the Vision fell on Pollard by arrangement, and
now the solicitor and the private detectives are
out on a heap of bail.
Mr. Bertie Kelly, who married Miss Ethel
Mollison, is going to run for Parliament. His
brother got in last election. Perhaps the oarsman
brother m London will run for the Commons, and
so complete the Kelly eruption.
Miss Constance Brandon-Usher’s piano recital
occurs at St. James’ Hall, Phillip-street, next
Wednesday —her second appearance ‘‘ on her own
since the first concert she gave on her return from
Leipzig. Amongst her supporters will be Mr.
F. McQuade and a new soprano, Florence Whyte.
Mrs. Hugh Hixson, who recently departed for
Europe, left her beautiful Persian cats to be sold
for the benefit of the Medical Mission, a. charity
that operates in the Wexford-st. district, and
which is short of cats just now.
Fresh Air League ball comes off on 4th May.
This is the first of the big charity dances of the
year. The State Governor and his family will be
present.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Coffee left on a visit to
America last Monday by the Sierra. By the
Himalaya, which left yesterday for London, went
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Wesche, Mrs. Adrian
Knox, and Colonel Fitzroy.
N.S.W. Shakspeare Society “kept up” its
hero’s birthday (April 23) a few days after that
date with.a conversazione at the University. A
number of .girls born on the 23rd of this month
are named Elaine, I notice. One exception I met
whilst stopping at a Victorian watering place.
She was a'little Hebress of 11 or 12, and her break-
fast order was always : “Bacon, waiter, and plenty
of fat.” The 23rd of April fell, and she mentioned
that “this was her birthday.” I made a feeble
attempt at congratulation on her sharing the date
with a great man. “ Who was he ?” she asked
eagerly. “Shakspeare.” She looked at me dis-
gustedly. “Ugh! Who’s Shakspeare ? He only
wrote poitry.” The conversazione included a per-
fect gem of a little address from Prof. MacCallum.
It was spoken round the man and the date, and by
the side of the bust of the man (Shakspeare). By
the way, the figure looked like a nigger’s bust.
Mrs. Edward Hordern, widow of the late
Edward Hordern, died suddenly last Sunday
night at her house at Wahroongah.
Ada, sole daughter of late Speaker John Bray’s
house and heart, was married recently to a son of
Langdon Bonython, of Adelaide ’TrsER. Bride, a
rather fine-looking damsel, received on her wed-
ding day, under her father’s will, Adelaide’s fore-
most hostel—the South Australian Hotel. Bride’s
present income is said to be about £l5 a week. So
she can afford a new hat every year.
The daughter and only child of Mr. Peter
Faucett, formerly a Judge of N.S.W. Supreme
Court, has wedded one Surgeon-Major Moran,
and settled in Dublin, her father’s native city.
Do not forget that St. Vincent’s ball occurs on
May 10. Gov.-General opens it. Hon. secs.,
Mrs. Tom Dalton and Miss Fanny Doyle.
According to an English paper a Cape liner
brought on her last trip a happy eloping-pair to
our shores. Dr. Du Cane and Mrs. Taylor are the
alleged friskers. She was the wife of “a well-known
and highly-respected ” cotton manufacturer; the
doctor was her medical attendant. He leaves a
wife and three children. She leaves a seven-year-
old son. Lady’s husband, according to the report,
was sending out the divorce citation by swift
steamer so that it might be ready for service in
Sydney on the arrival of the honeymooners.
“The wedding of Rev. Evelyn Hughes and
Mrs. D. Thompson at St. Peter’s the other day
astonished many who regarded this exceedingly
‘high ’‘churchman as a confirmed celibate. It was
that notion which made the feminine congregation
of St. Peter’s so confessful and fond. Nothing is
more attractive to many women than a cleric who
turns a handsome Greek profile rigidly on the sex
and refuses to babble of domestic bliss. The lady
who wins is a fair and comely widow with the
steadfast eyes of long thought and a refreshingly-
healthy complexion. The widows win every time
in these exceedingly difficult cases. How St.
Peter’s church is going to fare with a Mrs. Hughes
on the premises is a matter for cogitation.
“ The marriage was first announced by a para-
graph in a daily’s personal column which
told that the stalwart cleric was off to Europe,
‘accompanied by Mrs. Hughes.’ Readers had
not stopped gasping, when next day’s marriage-
notices confirmed the news by announcing the two-
days-old union. Rev. Hughes in a nephew of the
Cliveden widow.
“ The bride of the Rev. E. Hughes has exten-
sive station property in the Ararat district—in
fact, a large slice of Chillicum is hers. This
realises something like £5OOO a year. No wonder
the pair are booke 1 for a long and leisured globe-
trot.
“ Two other more or less confirmed bachelors
have, like the Rev. Hughes, lowered their crests'
to widow's, within comparatively recent times.
One was the elegant Jack Fisken ; t’other, journal-
ist Carlyle Smvthe.
“Word comes from London that when Alice
Crawford lay, with closed eyes, in the shadow of
death, and heard the doctors and nurses discussing
her condition as hopeless, she whispered a request
to be buried near Miss Latimer, her late Austra-
lian colleague in the Wilson Barrett co. Happily,
it was decreed that the bonny Bendigo girl should
not follow her luckless friend to Highgate
cemetery. Strychnine was injected into her arms
to maintain the heart’s action, a ‘ wonderful con-
stitution’ enabled Alice Crawford to fight through
the crisis, and now she is regaining health. But
her heart is so weak, after ten weeks of fever-cwm-
pneumonia, that she has been medically advised
to leave the stage for a year or two at least -ad-
vice which she is not likely to follow.
“Artist McCubbin’s picture-show (in the Upper
Athenaium Hall) began on Friday with invitation-
tea, thirstily quaffed by those present, parched as
they were after 20 minutes or so of Parson Bevan’s
oratory. What does the average pulpit-person
know about Art ? The new McCubbin picture,
‘ The Pioneers,’ shows Australian life in three
panels. First panel has the bride, confronted by
the loneliness of the bush and the social deficien-
cies of giant gums. Number two depicts the same
heroine in the character of ‘ Mamma,’ plus a baby
to play with, and a pleased look in her eye as she
regards ‘Papa,’ axe in hand, transforming the
trees into firewood to keep ‘ Ikkle Precious ’ warm
in winter. Last scene shows Baby, grown
up and kneeling by a cross, presumably
erected in memory of the mourner’s pioneering
parents, whose works live after them in the
shape of a great City, seen dimly in the distance.
The work is admirable for its pensive coloring.
Nowadays, McCubbin lives out back in the
Macedon ranges and his recent pictures treat
wooded, hilly scenes. He is a most industrioi s
worker and is regarded by admirers as the mo it
.Australian of Victorian artists. Longstaff, some
picture-lovers say, has imbibed something of t e
French spirit, and is now less purely Australian.
“ Mayoress McEacharn took on herself, for once
in a way, a municipal spree last week, whilst
Malcolm nursed his feelings at Goathlands. All
the aggregate dreary alderman and his wife and
family of Melbourne were bidden to an early and
familiar shivoo.
. “ Excitement the night of the crisis ran highest
m the feminine quarters. Important dames were
consigned to a back seat of the Press Gallery,
whence they viewed the languid House over the
shoulders of the high-pressured scribes who trod
on their corns as they rushed out with ‘ takes ’ to
the telegraph office. In a referee box behind the
Speaker sat Dames Forrest and Janet Clarke.
The former wore, crowning her wonderful garb, a
heap of carnations, but as members of the Kelly
type paid their respects she broke the pile down
by serving out buttonholes. The Dowager allowed
just a peep of floral gaiety to interrupt her fresh
supply of complimentary mourning. Mesdames
Landale, Deakin, and Dunbar-Hooper, in recep-
tion frills and a highly attentive spirit, hearkened
to the swan-notes of the Deakin Government.
“ The younger she-spectators chewed chocolates
and delved into boxes of nougat, while the wife of
one earnest Rep. kept busy with a homely bag of
raisins to sustain her through the sitting.
Miss Deakin'handed round assorted creams. The
most enlightened feminine intelligence in the
galleries seemed to be that of Senator Dawson’s
wife. The Bananaland matron keeps, through all
her keen love of the game political, a soft eye and
a voice at a gentle pianissimo key. If only Mr.
Bulky-Johnson, who sat beside her, could have
drawn on the lady’s vast knowledge of men and
points political, what a fund of information he’d
have accumulated for the anxious ear of the G.G. !
“Lady Northcote was very daintily dressed at
that ‘ Eilyer ’ charity-fair. Her gown of palest
grey had pelerine and pointed shoulder capes of
its own material over sleeves and blouse of creamy
lace, flecked .here and there with a flower of
mauve chiffon. A tiny ’kerchief of the mauve
chiffon was tucked into the belt, and the mauve
tendency was further carried out by the
wearing of splendid amethysts. Long,‘white
ostrich plumes in a black hat gave decision to
the color scheme. The sight of those plumes
reminded observers of a story going the rounds.
Ex-governors, the tale runs, always assemble to
coach their successors bound for these shores. One
point all their quondam Excellencies and their
ladies are strong upon—the importance of gorgeous
dressing as a means of catching the Australian
eye. To support their theory, they quote a pro.
minent official dame, not far from here, who
advised one of the personages : ‘ Whatever you
do, Lord Z , don’t be backward ! Orsetralians
like guv’nors to be cocky ! And you, Lady Z—- t
you be frocky. Orsetralians like a good horsetrieh
feather! ’ •
“Most of the Smartest were at ‘Eilyer,’ the
Albert Austens’ Toorak mansion. The Austen
clan is a sound pastoral connection, related to the
Millars, the Macks, and other old Australian
families. The girls in that lovely Toorak garden
looked pretty. K.C. Purves’ fresh-faced daughter,
piquant Miss Brodribb, and others sported
Russian bodices and short skirts of rough cloth
and revers of Russian embroidery. Old Mr. and
Mrs. Murray Smith shepherded the vice-regal
party all the afternoon.
“ Toorak has been farewelling Miss Beatrice
Smith for the past two weeks. The piquant
brunette voyages to England to marry Surgeon Skey
—the best-looking-of all the Royal Arthur Home*
—a dark, youngish person. She will be married
from the London residence of a married sister.
“ They have been scattering tea and macaroons
in the path of Mrs. Robert Chirnside as a signal
of gladness after that gentle lady’s lengthy ab-
sence from the State. While resident in London
the widow' showed extensive kindness to rambling
friends.
“The Argus Mackinnons are rejoicing that
their son and heir, the plump Lachlan, has
found a rich and suitable Scotch lassie to share
his life, a daughter of a newspaper proprietor in
Edinboro’ toon—one James Law, who engineers
the Scotsman’.
“ Aide Gaslcell, of liobart, whom the M elbourne
girls touring Tassy in the midsummer eyed so
softly, has moved to Maoriland for a sight of the
hot springs. The youth and the unworldliness of
this attache found vent in waltzing-lessons and
fanciful dog-carts. Government House may want
him again, so he’s going to keep adjacent for a
call.
“How the smart women rolled up to that
Kennel Club meeting the other day ! And w hen
a mere male rose and suggested hints for the
‘ breeding of high-class dogs.and cats,’ their faces
glowed. Not a conscience qualm stirred ! ho
o it-of-work Sairey Gamp rose like Banquo’s ghost
to suggest a reproach. One speaker dilated on the
progress of the domestic pet movement in the
Cold Country, and excited his fail' hearers to
greater efforts in connection with the terrier
breed. The human birth-rate wasn’t mentioned.
“Surgeon Fitzgerald’s daughter, Mrs. Lums-
den, goes on this week’s Orient ocean-liner to join
her husband abroad. Dapper little Captain
Lumsden had to sail off on the Royal Arthur
some time ago, and leave his bride lamenting.
“Mrs. Arthur Tuckett is the leading amateur
gardener in the States. You’d guess as much at
first sight. The smart, determined-looking dame
invariably sports a prize bloom, and your imagi-
nation pictures the perfect plot, the pruning-knife
and the gardening gloves triumphant in the little
Tuckett domain. She took some vears’ instruction
at the Burnley College, where Air. Luffman talks
ornate English and sound horticulture at big,
variegated classes.
“‘Mary Gaunt’ is moving round the globe
leisurely. At latest she tells of Sicily.
“The quaint and picturesque nook of tne
M widen family on Flemington Hill is to resound
to the echoes of a large tea party next Saturday.
Since the death of veteran John Maddi n, aid
the influx of Henry Madden’s family (on the death
of its maternal head), a wonderful quiet has
reigned at ‘ Travancore,' so that the thrushes have
harbored in the forest-like trees that gird the resi-
dence, and the sparrows sported undisturbed on
the gravelled paths. The cards of invitation
mention Miss Madden, Mr. Walter Madden, and
Mr. Henry Madden as the responsible trio to
entertain at ‘ Travancore.’
“ It seems Lady Le Hunte, of Adelaide, actually
quitted retirement and the Hills to preside at a
meeting of the Young Women’s Christian Associa-
tion, and requested to be made a member of that
select body. This looks like a declaration of
individuality—individuality that wears woollen
under-garb, and is addicted to ‘ upward gazing.’
“ The remarks of Lady Northcote in an investi-
gation tour of the chrysanthemum and other
vegetable exhibits at the Town Hall last Thursday
are said to have been worth gramophoning as a
record of voluminous and racy comment for the
guidance and help of future Vice-Regals. Even
o n the cereal and the parsnip her variety of remark
charmed the hoary fathers of the show. This
bears out a Senator’s tale that to his knowledge
15 home-spun guests were approached at a recent
Government House lunch by Lady IJ. with a
different bright remark for each.
“Marshall-Hall’s passion for golf has had a
practical result. A symphony, idealising and em-
bodying the emotions of a golf maniac, is to lie
tried on the public one of these days. It is said to
have some fortissimo swearing passages.
“Young, M.P., appropriately enough ‘the
baby’ of the S.A. Assembly, is engag(/l to be
married to a daughter of John Darling, the leader
of the Opposition. The young lady has the
distinguished honor of being a niece of Mrs.
Overseer Jane Dowie, and second cousin to the
great Elijah, for Mrs. Darling is the sister of the
one and the cousin of the other.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENHI.
The Federal Arbitration Bill, when it is
re-introduced by the Watson Government, "ill
probably include railway servants but not all civil
servants, following in that the lead of the X.S.W
Act. The great bulk of the civil service, as a
matter of fact, could not come within the range of
an Industrial Arbitration Bill. But no class of
workers who can legitimately come within the
benefits of the Act will be excluded.


NO CRUTCHES NOW.
* • • r; I . \ ' •
1 r\NE day at work, six years ago, I had my first taste of Sciatica,” said Mr. George Simpson, St. John-street, Newtown, Sydney.
® W “I was stooping down, ladling out some hot metal, when a sharp, burning pain shot like a flash through my back and hip. It
gripped me so tightly that I couldn’t straighten up to save my life. I was helped home, and for nine months I was in
constant torture from the hot, needle-like pains. You can’t imagine how I suffered every time I moved in bed. I couldn’t help
moaning, and I felt that I would go mad if the pain kept up much longer. At last the doctor had to inject morphia into my side and
back—but I suffered ten times more afterwards. At my best, I could only hobble about with a crutch. Liniments were not a bit of
good to me ; and the doctor could not make my case out. Strange to say, my daughter was suffering pretty badly with rheumatism, at
this time, and the only relief she could get was from Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. By degrees they drove all the
poisonous acid from her-system and cured her completely. She said that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually made new blood, and she
persuaded me to give them a trial. I took them just to please her, but soon I noticed that the pain was not nearly so bad, and I felt
better in fifty ways. I could hardly believe that these little blood-making pills were actually doing what doctors and liniments
had failed to do. But after the third box there was no more room for doubt. After five boxes I was able to walk about as well as
ever, without a parin or an ache. I threw my crutch aside, and have had grand health ever since.. Even in the worst Winter weather
I never have so much as a twinge of Sciatica now. There are no two ways about it—nothing can cure Rheumatism, Neuralgia and
Sciatica like Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
Write for Free Medical Advice. Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box.— Refuse all substitutes.
a
$ for pale people.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Maoriland Premier Seddon now weighs
20J stone. Early in the eighties he tipped the
beam at 16 stone.
“Petramos ” : At Glenelg (S.A.) struck a
store bearing the name “ Jesnowski.” Sounds like
Geo. Reid disguised as a Russian.
Journalists call him the Rev. Filcher, or
Filch It, and pray that somebody, may dull the
edge of his scissors, and givei them a chance of
Life.
If General Hutton and Gladsome Goat
Neild are wise they will go out and settle their
squabble with bladders of lard at 300 yards.
Facing a Senate commission of inquiry with
Dawson and McGregor on the find-out is an ordeal
that will probably make both the millinery men
look ridiculous.
Obit., at Castlemaine (Vic.) Benevolent
Asylum, Sarah Honey, aged 95. Arriving in
Australia with her husband in 1836, she claimed
to have received the Government reward for pre-
senting the State with the first white child born
in Victoria. Her husband, who survives her, is
close to his hundredth year.
The front-rank Adelaide architect, who was
bitten by Dowieism (that was before Dowie blew
this way) and left for Zion City, is back again.
On arrival they offered him a job as assistant-
architect, or hod-carrier, or something at the new
Zion candy factory. Then he reflected on the
rigors of the Zion winter, and decided to leave.
Bert Levy, whose black and white studies
of Chosen People are familiar to Bulletin
readers, is off to the St. Louis Exhibition on a
mission for a Melbourne firm. After putting in
three or four weeks at St.. Louis the hitherto
untravelled Levy will take some observations of
America and Europe before returning to Australia.
The new Farmers’ Defence League at
Crankbourne (Vic.), formed to stem the rising
tide of Socialism, has a secretary named
McPherson, who proudly boasts that he is not
paid for his services. Even at Crankbourne they
ought to know that what a gentleman named
McPherson gives for nothing is worth just that
much.
Mention of that ancient female at Tumber-
umba (B. 7/4/’O4) recalls to a correspondent another
with a pretty good record. ■ She belongs to the
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) district, is 85 years of age,
does her 10 or 12 miles per day ; if she strikes an
hospitable home at night well and good ; if not,
she spreads “ bluey ” under a bush. One of the
feats of her early days was a ride from the
Manning River to Brisbane !
Andrew Tennent, of S.A., another of those
early and lucky arrivals from England who made
fortunes out of sheep in the old days,
reaches his 70th year very shortly. For
63 out of these 70 years he has been a
Crow-eater. He settled in the Port Lin-
coln district at a time when blacks were
as numerous as J.’sP. are now, and gave
the settlers a good deal of trouble. He
has amassed a nice little pile out of his stations.
He was attacked by politics once, and represented
the Northern district in the Legislative Council,
from a strictly sheep point of view.
There are three men who have sat by the
side of J. C. Watson all through his ten years of
political life (to be precise, it is still three months
short of a full ten years). Those three —W. M.
Hughes, D. Watkins, and Josiah Thomas—entered
the State Parliament with him, went up to the
Federal House at the same time, and have
remained throughout Labor members. It was
one of these —Thomas—who, when the Federal
party was formed, proposed Watson as leader.
Writes “ Taeger ” :
All your writers seem to aim at going one better in
slating Bent. I don’t hold with that. I think we ought
to be proud of Bent. He’s something uncommonly un-
common. He’s a rarity, an oddity, a wild joke in human
form that no other country on earth possesses, and he de-
serves to be referred to in language fitting his unique con-
struction. To call him a monstrosity is brutal. Some
day, when his bones are set up in opposition to the
Diprotodon in the museum of the city which now shakes
under his mighty tread, justice will be done to him.
Meantime, let us worship him in silence as something
beyond human ken.
Spruce Myth is quite an authority on the
cut and hang of underskirts, and can discourse
fluently and entertainingly on what is really
artistic in open-work hose. It is his proud boast
that he buys all his own ties, and he puts more
brain-fag into the choosing of Mrs. Myth’s dress
materials than into anything else on earth. Hear
him discoursing to ladies on hair-dressing and
form-contours and you understand why he scores
in an electorate where women predominate.
“ Panem ” : Know an Anglican clergyman
in a Vic. bush township. He has a wife and
six children, has to keep a horse and buggy,
Perform six services a week, travel 30 miles each
unday, and live on a maximum income of £l2O
ger annum. _ Saw him at the church-door last
unday evening, counting a few stragglers coming
up the road, and wondering if the collection would
be good enough to pay for his supper. There are
many such poor devils in the Church who would
have been better off if they had adopted stone-
breaking as an occupation.
A Generak Hutton yarn :
The commandant was fretting round the lines in camp
examining the men’s boot-laces, food, &c., when he en-
countered the cook who came smartly to attention.
“Tell me,” said Hutton, “ what did you have here for
breakfast ? ”
“Sorsages,” said the cook.
“ And for dinner ?”
“ Sorsages ! ”
“ What for tea ? ”
“ Sorsages ! ”
“ Show me what’s left,” growled the great leader.
“ There ain’t never nuthm’ left in this ’ere blanky regi-
ment,” said cookie, “but if you’d like to see the sorsages
we was short of you’ll find ’em hangin’ on the nail that’s
druv inter the wall of the atmosphere.”
And the glittering staff moved on.
Methodist parson Haslam, who has just
been removed from Launceston to Clifton Hill
(Melbourne), was induced in 1866 to come to Aus-
tralia by Rev. D. J. Draper, who met him in
England. Draper wanted Haslam to come with
him in the London, but the yOung fellow couldn’t
manage it in time, and Draper went without him
and was lost. Archbishop Murphy, now of
Hobart, also wanted to come to Australia in the
London, but he was delayed in Paris and lost the
boat —otherwise the boat would have lost him.
Mr. Haslam and Archbishop Murphy left some
weeks later in the Great Britain, whose captain
(Gray) was, years afterwards, lost from his own
ship. _ Exactly how he was lost is a mystery. He
went into his cabin; it was sworn he didn’t come
out; it Was also sworn that the port-hole wasn’t
large enough for him to get through ; yet he wasn’t
there, nor has he ever been there, or been known
to be anywhere else since.
Interesting to note how steadily the Aus-
tralian born is getting
into the places which,
a few years ago, the
imported owned. Ex-
cept Yankee book-
drummer Jenkins, there
isn’t an Australian State
Premiernow who isn’tnat. ve«
born —See, Bent, Morgan,
James, and Propsting. Of
the High Court Judges on y
Griffith is not Australian bon .
President Baker and Chairman
Higgs in the Senate, and Speaker /
Holder* and Chairman Carty Sal-
mon in the Reps, are all Australians.
So is Kingston, the biggest man who
is not in Federal office. On the other
hand, of the alleged Freetraders, Reid,
Dugald Thomson, Josiah Symon, M‘Mih
lan, and Glynn—all the men who pretend
to the leadership of the foreign-trade
crowd—came from a country which hap-
pened to have a more-or-less Freetrade
policy when they were born there. It probab’y
doesn’t matter much whether a man is born m
Great Britain or Australia ; yet it does seem the t
there is more hope for Australian nationalism
from the Australian born than from the others.
The first Australian Laborite to use a
motor for electioneering is J. B. Holman, of
Westralia—he has to get over some thousands
of miles in the Cue country. But it isn’t a
comfortable lounge affair, with a “buttons” on
one seat, as W. H. Kelly’s was when he motored
into M‘Millan’s place for Wentworth ; it is just a
plain two-wheeler, built for business in the bush.
Its best flight so far is 200 miles in 11 hour .
Holman, who is a Workers’ Association officer,
is being opposed by ex-warden Hicks, who won
the libel case the other day.
Old George Fisher, the extinct M.L.
political volcano, is now in fairly good health
in an inebriates’ hbme in Otago. Seddon visits
him every time he goes south, and the wreck
welcomes his. former chief with a dramatic wave
of the hand, and says: “ Ah, the only link
between me and the outer world.” He then tells
Seddon how, next session, he intends to smash
up Cold-tea Tommy Taylor, and roll forward the
democratic chariot. The one-time white-headed
boy of windy Wellington may put in an appeal -
ance at next session, but probably only as an
interesting political relic.
CHAMPION WELTER GEORGE JOHNS,
Vanquisher of Williams, the Victorian Crack.
A front-rank Federal politician emerged
from a company-owned newspaper office one day
lately and said to a friend, “That’s the third
paper I’ve secured.” He explained that he had
canvassed the shareholders and had had himself
appointed proxy at next annual meeting by
between a third and a half of them, with general
power to raise Cain, and had notified the fact to
the management. “I only want fair play,” he
added, “ and I know my way to get it.”
LAST WEEK'S POLITICAL SITUATION
CONDENSED.
B ironet Rupert Clarke, who is finally
leaving the Vic. House of Landlords, has it to his
credit that when he was in his seat, which was just
about two or three times a session, he always made
a point of voting as radically as it was possible to
do “up there.” This attitude was not the result
of democrat.c leanings, but of sheer “ don’t-care-a-
dimness.” When the Iceberg Govt, announced
CJmpulsory purchase as part of its programme,
and scared Cornelius Job Ham and his associates
out of their remaining wits, Clarke increased their
horror by affirming that he would vote for the Bill
if it ever came along. “What do I want to hang
on to my land for ?” he asked them. “ It’s trouble
enough now, and-1 reckon it’s a jolly sight easier
to sell it to the Government at a good price than
to try and sell it off in bits the way I have to now.
Oh, I’m for compulsory purchase all right.”
Compared with one or two in Queens-
land, the ancients of N.S. Wales nominee
House are mere youngsters in a legislative
way of speaking. No N.S.W. man goes
back further than 1879 —the year when Dr.
Norton was sent up to legislate for life;
just a quarter-century ago. Philip Gidley
King followed in 1880. Queensland, how-
ever, owns Johann Christian Heussler, who
had his first look-in in 1866. He had then
only been in the State about 11 years, and
had done nothing in particular except run a
store and act as some sort of foreign consul;
but it was enough to give him a place
where, for close upon 40 years, he has been
able to cast a reliable Tory vote whenever
one was wanted. It is never safe, by the
way, to send a man to a nominee House in
the expectation that he won’t live long;
Mr. Heussler was reckoned a broken-down
invalid when he went first to Queensland.
Next oldest to Heussler is W. D. Box
(1874), who even now is only just over 60, and
iooks good for many more years.
The marriage of Miss F. Green, of
Manly, with Mr. Longden Scott last week
brought from his retirement a very old
Sydney commercial and banking identity,
Mr. T. O’Sullivan Green, who has resided
in the State for nearly 80 years, and re-
members King and George-streets when
Crown Solicitor W. H. Moore lived in an
old-fashioned villa surrounded by a brick
wall on the N.E. corner, and when Mrs.
Reibey’s cottage stood on the Tank Stream
where John Sands’ workshops now are at
the rear of the G.P.O. Mr. O’Sullivan
Green was for many years inspector of the
Bank of New South Wales.
An old identity died at Miller’s
Point, Sydney, last week. Mrs. E. M.
Quinn was 84 years of age, and had resided
in the State 63 years. , Her father was a lieu-
tenant in the navy, and was present at
Trafalgar. He subsequently met his death
by falling out of a balloon. Mrs. Quinn
was sister to Thomas Gale, the balloonist,
who made an ascent from the University
(Sydney) grounds in 1871. She leaves
eight children, 50 grandchildren and 60
great-grandchildren, so things might be
worse with the birth-rate.
How Australian history is garbled.
In Burke’s “ Colonial Gentry ” it is stated,
re the Camden Macarthurs, that John,
second son of John Macarthur, of Camden
Park, was a barrister-at-law, “born in 1874,
educated at King’s College, Cambridge, was
nominated to be Chief Justice of New South
Wales when death overtook him in 1831.”
Francis Forbes came as C.J. in 1824, and
held office till 1837. How, in 1831, John
Macarthur could be nominated for the position
is somewhat mysterious.
“Stormy Petrel” Lesina, who announced
l a while back that he"was going out of politics and
f I the Queensland Parliament, has changed his mind,
/ and intends to run again for Clermont. It was
the oher of a fairly well-paid billet that led to
the premature announcement. The little red-hot
fighter owns up to being miserable, though, as a
Government supporter, with no chances of heaving
bricks or being thrown out by order of a hostile
Speaker and putting up a vigorous fight as he is
carried to the door.
The Australian has an ever-present fear of
a hoax, or what he terms a “have.” Lady North-
cote, the other day, went down a mine at
Bendigo. : The lower 1 levels are connected with
the engine-house by speaking-tubes. At the
manager’s request Lady N. spoke to the engine-
driver through one. To the perspiring one in
dungarees came, in tones of high-pitched culchaw,
“ Are you thah ? Lady Northcote’s speaking.”
“Garn,” he replied, “what are you getting at?”
The lady dropped the tube, the manager explained
for 4min. 30 3-ssec., and the perspiring one over-
head seized again his cotton waste and, uncon-
scious as a god of the tumult below, smiled as he
polished his shining bars.
The Descent of one man. Twelve years
ago W. J. Ferguson, strike-leader, was sent to
gaol. He became, perhaps, the best-known Labor-
leader in Australia. From one end to the other
he was regarded variously as a hero and a martyr.
In 1894, fiesh from prison, he was sent to Parlia-
ment. H e was a clever talker, of good ability as
well, and was flattered. He wanted office ; wanted
it all the more because people told him he was
more than fit to hold it—and he couldn’t get it
through the N.S. W. Labor party, which had no
ambition to be anything except a third party.
Then he wobbled ; finally, a while ago, he quar-
relled with I he party, and left it. And now,
quitting his-old Broken Hill district, lie has
accepted nomination as the Deform candidate for
Wyalong. It is pitiful; but what the Labor party
ought to seriously consider is whether it aidn t
contribute to one of its cleverest member’s descert
by presenting nothing but a dead wall to his
natural ambitions.
HE ESCAPED.
The Grand Duke Cyril was almost the only man-
who escaped when the battleship Petropavlovsk went
down. The Russian Imperial family has had long ex-
perience at dodging bombs, and is the first to jump
overboard when an unusual fizzing noise is heard.
“ W.8.T.” : It was a fine Roman virtue for
a father to sacrifice his sou for the sake of the
State. But Australia has gone one better, for a
N.S. W. official not long ago gave his father—a tem-
porary inferior in the same service—the prompt
sack for insubordinate conduct. [Which indirectly
reminds The Bulletin of a Sydney “financial:
agent” in a small way who employs his father as-
office boy.]


The Leading House for. .
CAMERAS, PHONOGRAPHS,
' ' GRAMAPHONES, MAGIC LANTERNS
UP-to-date Selections
of
Phonograph Records
and
Gramaphone Discs*
Send for . . .
Illustrated Catalogue.
375 George St.,
SYDNEY.
260 Collins St., Melbourne.
w
WL d
<
r
V'f
*M%
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
90 & 92 Queen St., Bsisbani#
m
Marjoy B^oTmcrs.
Vice-Regal Jewellers.
SPIRIT
FRAMES
Suitable for Presentation
in Oak, Silver-Plate,
and Silver-Mounted,
From 70s. to £2O.
Large Illustrated
Catalogue Post Free
on Application.
Goods forwarded at
Sydney prices, without
delay, or trouble with
the Customs, to all parts
of the Commonwealth.
sdf
13HUNTER STREET.SYDNEY,B»ATBRISBANEALONDON
Aboriginalities.
“Mahoe”: “KuKlux” (Bulletin 25/2/’O4)
says, “have seen one drawing in an English
magazine where a milking shed was portrayed and
every milker sat on the wrong side of the cow.”
On the Waimate Plains (M.L.) it is a common
practice to milk on the wrong side. In a shed
forty feet long, ten bails on eaoh side, there is no
fmrtition between cows; one cow is leg-roped
by the right leg) to one of the studs), and the cow
on her left is leg-roped (by the left leg) to the
same stud, and so on right through the shed. A
stool, built on the principle of the piano stool, is
fixed between the cows, and all the milker has to
do when he has milked the cow on the “ right’J
side, is to revolve on his stool and milk the cow on
the “wrong” side.
* * • •
“ A.P.R.” : Knew aman once who became
insane through eating; Darling pea. Boundary-
riding on a remote station, for diversion’s sake he
one day chewed a piece of the plant to discover
what was in its taste to fascinate animals so.
Feeling no bad effects he tasted it again, and
gradually a craving for it grew upon him ; some-
times, while riding in company, he would canter
away from his mates and begin searching for pea-
pods. It is often thought that man is proof
against the Darling pea insanity, but the only
person rash enough to test this belief is now in
Oallan Park.
LIGHTENING HER BURDEN.
VISITOR : “What a lot of children you have,
Mrs. Smith; they must give you great trouble."
MRS. SMITH : “ They do, mum; but the Lord took
one lars' year, and that was a great help."
Up in the Northern Territory alligators as
well as half-castes follow the march of civilisation.
Around Port Darwin the blacks who used to hunt
for alligator eggs find it easier work to hang round
the townships and camps; and so the alligator
crop grows. One party of whites who, the other
day, went up the Finnis found five “nests,”
with an average of 40 eggs—4o possible new alli-
gators—in each.
“ W.S.T.” : There seem to be
more fairy tales accumulating round
the laughing jackass than the
fabled phoenix. An English
paper, usually well-informed
upon Australian matters, re-
cently stated that the jack-
ass’s laugh “tells of snakes in
the vicinity. ” “ Travellers, ”
it is added, “ have seen one
dart down, pick up a snake
near the head, fly nearly
out of sight, and drop it,
following the writhing
thing, and pouncing upon
it again as soon as it
reached the ground. This
is repeated till the reptile is
lifeless. Then the bird laughs
again, and flies off in search
of another victim.” Now Jack
is an eminently practical bird.
He is very rarely seen above
the tree-tops, and never carries
a snake so nigh. If he has not
killed the snake on the ground,
he carries it to the handiest
branch, and whacks it to a
proper condition of deadness
against the wood. Sometimes
the snake winds itself round its
captor’s legs and wings (I have
seen this occur), and then Jack
promptly lets it fall; but, unless very
hungry, does not renew the attack. This yam about
the jackass deliberately carrying a snake high in
air in order to drop and kill it is about as true as
the classic legend of the eagle dropping the
tortoise on the philosopher’s bald pate in order to
break the reptile’s “shell.”
* * # *
“ Nym” : Is there no use —ornamental or
gastronomic—to which the fresh water turtles of
our inland rivers, billabongs, lagoons, etc., etc.,
can be put ? What the rabbit, as a pest, is on
land the snake-headed amphibian with the heavy
dirty-brown shell is below water, and without
Bunny’s commercial value! Here the fish-spawn
forms his counter-lunch, and many an al fresco
meal he has had off the anglers’ offerings at the
shrine of King Cod. _ Was thinking an enter-
prising firm might lay in a supply of turtle-shells
to throw at Tory orators of all creeds and planks—
those folks who steer the occult craft of Bunkum
on the backwash of human intelligence.
• • • •
In Carnarvon (W.A.) a Malay is married
to a half-caste gin—bom of an aboriginal mother
and a .Tap father. There are 13 chudren, six of
whom are girls. One is married to a Chow,
and another to a Cingalese, and both
have families. Even black Queens-
land would find it difficult to
beat this. The three pubs,
have Malay cooks, and there
is a Cingalese baker, while
Japs, Chows, and unde-
finable mongrels are
met at every step.
“ Yugilbar ” :
Jimmy the Post-
man, who ran
the mail be-
tween Moree
and St. George
via Mungindi
in the early
70’s, was pro-
bably one of
the earliest of
our bush poets,
and was the
author of two
notable sets of
verses, “ The
Mungindi
Cup” and
“The Death,
of Peter
Clark.” (Clark
was shot on
W a 1 d r o n’s
Range by a
b u s h r a n ger
named Wil-
son, and in his
memory a
monument is
erected on the
range.) A lot
of Jim’s poems
were published
in pamphlet
form by one of
the Tamworth papers,
under the title, “TheMusings
of Jimmy the Postman (otherwise James Glaze-
brook, a native of the Loddon, Vic.).”. Can any
old reader bring this to light, with a view of
getting some of the poems reprinted ?
AN IMAGINARY
DRINK.
George: “ D'yer
think that's good beer, Bill!”
BILL THE SOAK: “Good beerl Good beer!" (In
broken accents.) “ George, George, you don't
mean to tell me you ever tasted bad beer? ”
The Age digs up some border incidents to
show how inconvenient, cumbersome and expen-
sive the present arrangements are with regard to
stock crossings. S. Australia will not admit stock
without inspection, and the nearest inspector is
25 miles from some crossings, and stock are some-
times hung up for days in consequence. The
whole business ought to go over to the Australian
Government. The Stock Department is almost
wholly a health department; and it is quite as
absurd to keep it under State control as it
is to keep the human quarantine business there.
And with the Stock Department the Mines
Department might very well go, too—they are
usually, for some reason or other, under the one
control. Then the troubles with regard to the
interstate exchange of mining engine-drivers’
certificates, and things like that, would settle
themselves. _ Also the geological survey could be
carried out in a scientific and complete manner,
and not in patches ; and some better use might be
made of the artesian water-supply than has been
done so far. The miner is a nomad; he is
essentially an Australian, and not a State’s man,
and the law should be as good in that respect as be
is himself.
* * * *
Chemist Nilmann, of Victoria, contributes
to the Australian Chemist and Druggist an in-
teresting article on the Northern Territory abori-
gines :
Their medicines are confined to the use of a bitter root,
used as a fever remedy, and shark fat as a purgative.
Their medical treatment, apart from this, consists of
diet, faith healing, and personal magnetism. The Daly
natives proper are of a distinctly Jewish type, and have
many Jewish customs ; like the Jews, also, most of their
rules and regulations and ceremonies have a sanitary
basis. The natives bury their dead in the usual Austra-
lian fashion—up a tree. Most of the deaths in their wild
state are due to pleurisy or inflammation of the bowels,
and they are far more liable to colds of all kinds than
whites are. For a chronic cold the medicine man pre-
scribes a diet of fat fish (which includes sharks and alli-
gators), and this or the climate appears successful in pre-
venting consumption, though it develops fish leprosy.
Certainly the climate cannot be favorable to the develop-
ment of disease germs, for wounds heal rapidly and with-
out treatment, even very serious ones. When I say
“ without treatment,” I should except the application of
blue mud, which the medicine men use at times.
* "v * * *
“ Werri ” : A correspondent (B. 17/3/’O4)
says he has often commented on the aborigine’s
persistent dread of big camp fires. It isn’t dread
at all. A blackfellow once told me that I was
a “plurryfool” for lighting a big fire on a cold
evening. After doing a lot of travelling about the
bush I began to think likewise. Murri makes a
small fire so that he can lie down close to it and
stop there all night, enjoying an even tempera-
ture—for a little fire is easily fed, and it costs no
laborious wood-carrying. The white man who
makes a big fire has to spread his nap two or
three yards away, and in an hour or so tbe fire
has burnt down and he begins to freeze. He has
then either to shift closer or build the fire up
again. Also the white man usually half roasts
himself while cooking his chop ; Murri likes his
fire near his blanket, where he can turn his
’possum leisurely without'having to get up. He
is patient in this respect, and, unless very hungry,
likes to give his game plenty of time to grill.
Thus the little fire has become a custom.
“ Elmore ” writes :
“ Ed.” (Bulletin 10/3/’O4) on fires. In these days of rab-
bit extermination by phosphorus, the men who start fires
waste no time on candles or broken bottles, with the risk
of the light being seen, not to mention the chance of a
slight breeze putting the candle out. He places an inch
or so of phosphorus in a wet rag, puts it in a nice dry lot
of grass, and strolls leisurely away. Next day’s sun does
the rest. He generally strolls back again in a few days to
secure a job at fencing. Of course, “Ed.’s” candle-light
would not be seen by day, but, at best, it is too clumsy
and risky for fire-raisers to use at any time.
*.* * *
“E.W.D.”: Be origin of the word
“ Matilda ” as applied to a swag, there is a
reference under heading “Waltzing Matilda,”
“Red Page” for July 17th, 1897. “Matilda” is
a typical name for the fair sex in comic songs (and
one might add, farces and stage-plays), and was
applied to the swag through some lonely bushman’s
association of the same with the female partner he
longs for. (Compare the bolster called a “ Dutch
wife.”) Some bushies rig up their swags to look
like dummy females, with tied-in neck and waist.
“Waltzing” became an easy addition from the
idea of continued going round a circle of stations—
and so on.
* * * *
“Thurla”: Be the fresh-water mussel
(B. 25/2/’O4). Have often, during droughty times,
got plentiful supplies of them for bait from dried-
up lagoons and watercourses of the Namoi.
\Vherever a hole (a sort of blow-hole in the caked
mud) is, there will be found a healthy bivalve,
sometimes a foot below the surface. Of course,
when the lagoons fill, the apparently depleted
places are soon full of the fish again.
* * * *
“ F.H.R.” : I saw the champion hard-case
swaggie this Easter. He carried blankets in roll
under his arm, three billy cans, carrier over his
pack, two odd boots, “ mudnarker ” (chesterfield),
wideawake hat, four-inch washable white collar,
and a long-handled tomahawk. I believe he was
looking for a contract ringbarking beer. He gave
the general impression of being the younger son of
an impecunious duke who had the horrors.
• • • *
“Mirumbeck”: Firmly believe that in
the very near future Cockydom will be down to
the primitive aborigine stage through climatic
conditions and a general disregard for comfort.
Paid a visit a fortnight ago to the haunts of my
youth in N.-W. Vic., after an absence of 20 years.
The same old humpies, fewer trees around the
homesteads, leaky roofs, creaky floors, paper-
plastered windows, and—what struck me most—
never less than five dogs on each farm, and a gun
or pea-rifle in each corner of the house. When the
cocky comes down to the superfluous dog stage,
even though his balance at the bankers is healthy
and his mortgages are in his wife’s name, there’s a
microbe in his head that means no good, for every
dog tax has to be paid in this dust-laden spot.
The cocky’s sons have kicked over the traces in
vain, and now their steps are directed westward
in the hopes of independence and a “higher life!”
Where the cocky’s wives were content with one
pet apiece in years agone, now I find, in some in-
stances, no less than seven cockatoos, none of
which can do more than screech ; and three
parrots, all of which get doubtful attention daily.
(I didn’t count the cats, ferrets, fowls, &c.) There
is something pathetic in the fact that the cocky’s
slave makes the farm pests her pets when she
catches ’em young and has a cage handy.
MR. PETER AIREY (“P. Luftig"),
Queensland Minister for Mines and Works.
Photo, by Poul C. Poulsen, Brisbane.
“War E.” : In the days of drought,
struck a shanty in the far west. It bore the high-
sounding name of Pharaoh’s Palace, or something
like that. Around it, in various stages of intoxi-
cation and undress, were about sixty scrub-cutters
—a howling, yelling, fighting crowd of semi-
savages. Asked the proprietor if there was any
chance of a bit of tucker. None ; the missus and
kids had cleared into the bush with the whole
available supply. He had beer, however. Asked
him who his brewer was ? Told me to go to
Sheol —said I was too dashed particular. After a
bit the proprietor approached me to kill a bit of
meat for tea. Had the choice of 23 very lean
goats. Killed an ancient and evil-smelling
William. Dressing him was enough for me. I
also fled into the bush.
BACK TO THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back to the old Bush agen ; hooray, I’m back to the old
hush agen !
For I*ve ’ad enuf o’ the city an’ the ways of the city men,
The tinsel, the sin an’ the squalor, the bustle, the smoke
an’ the roar,
An’ I’m sniffin’ the smell of the eucalypt, and I’m goin’ to
leave it no more
Lord 1 ’Ow I ’ave ’lingered for it 1 I’ve dreamt of it night
and noon—
The wattles, the gums and the bracken, like ghosts ’neath
the old white moon ;
The sight o’ the sun on the river, the soft, soothin’ sound
of the sheep,
The laugh of the jackass, the drone o’ the flies —oh, it puts
all my trouble to sleep !
Then the “ siz-siz-siz ” o’ the billy as over the camp-fire it
boils,
And the “clank-clank-clank” o’ the plough-team as at
nightfall it homeward toils,
And the grey hush that steals from the shadows,
mysterious, awful and vast,
All tell me (if telling is needed) I’m back in the Bush at
last.
via
HIPHEN.


Dr. Thomas, of 57 and 59 Swanston-St.,
Melbourne, is the most progressive of dentists.
He combines all the latest American methods and
discoveries in skilful and painless dentistry with
amazingly moderate charges.*
OLFE’«S
AS GOOD
FOR
WOMEN
AS
FOR MEN.
sdf
Mr. EDWARD W. PARKINSON, Jefferson,
Pa., May 13, 1899, writes :
“ Five years ago I had a severe attack of ASTHMA. I
tried various remedies, without relief. THREE BOTTLES
OF JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT COMPLETELY |CURED
ME.”*
RING
BARGAINS
of a Very Special Character
we are just now offering.
Half-Hoop Rings,
All Diamonds,
78/-.
Euby and Diamond,
or Sapphire and Dia-
mond, 18ct., 42/-.
Diamond and
Sapphire Cluster
Bing, £6 15s.
ANOTHER of England’s large manufacturers was closing down in Sydney, and offered us his stock at
33$ per cent, discount off usual prices. We bought them.
WE now are offering them at the same surprising discount, and unhesitatingly assert that no rings of equal
value have ever been offered in Australia before. There are a variety of designs, but Diamond
Half-Hoops predominate.
Plain Figures
Strictly Casb.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
“Nym.” : For the
last six years have lost my
treasured potato patch,
which I plant every season,
more to tempt Fate than
anything else. This year
my fond hopes of a home-
grown crop appeared to be
realised, for a wonder,
when lo ! my old enemies,
the locusts, appeared, as of
yore, only a few weeks
later, the warm Easter
spell having sent along a
late crop of the winged
vandals. But our three
cats served us. The way
they guarded that potato
patch, gobbling up the
locusts or disabling them
with a tap of the paw, was
a sight to see. Ceaselessly
they fought and ate locusts,
while daylight lasted, for
four days. Now they are
mere shades of their former
selves, whether from the
unusual exertion, or the
anti-fat tendencies of grass-
hopper juice, or both, I
cannot say. The spuds are
coming along tip-top ; but
I am very sorry for the
felines. There is only one
locust left in the garden,
and this morning I saw
it distinctly through three
transparent cats.
* * * *
Already under the
heading “Gloomy Pros-
pects'* :
The continued dry weather is causing much uneasiness
to farmers and graziers in the Deniliquin district. A good
downfall is wanted for ploughing operations, and to bring
on the new grasses. Should there be no rain within the
next two or three weeks, the prospects will be very
gloomy in regard to agriculture. Thirteen points of rain
were registered for last month, this being the lowest for
March since the year 1889.
If this country owns anything less reliable than its
“ great natural resources” and its “ great primary
industries,” it has so far escaped The Bulletin’s
notice.
• • * *
‘ ‘ The Prooshan ” : Being a supersensitive
man, I was visibly affeoted on reading “Sox’s”
rr (8., 10/3/’O4) re the bullant-breath question. -
felt grieved to think that my reputation for
veracity as a bush-loreist might, on the unsup-
ported evidence of one man, be doubted. But
the enterprise of “Sox” and the self-sacrificing
spirit which impelled him to seek to beard the
bullant in his den are worthy of all credit. That
is, provided he is speaking truthfully, and did
really make the experiment. There are, doubt-
less, scores of other bushmen who have essayed
the feat successfully since the publication of my
article, but who are not literary like “Sox,” and I
stand sorely in need of someone to corroborate me.
I deeply regret to have forgotten to mention that
the bully cam. sting, just under the finger nail,
during the inflation test, and I fear that is where
“Sox” sustained the puncture. However, I
intend ere long to take a “bully” down to town
in a match-box. I shall fast him for three dayau
and then get the editor on the job with him, and
I shall soon be reinstated in public confidence.
Inflation closes the pores and leaves no opening
for insertion of. stings—save under the nail.
“F.W.C.”: Have often noticed the peculiar
habit the average cocky has of gathering all man-
ner of odds and ends together, under the idea that
they; will “ come in handy some day.” Knew one
outside Roma (Q.) who had a scrap-heap, the con-
tents of which he had picked up on his trips to
and from town. It consisted of lolly-tins, hoops,
cog-wheels, shovel-heads, axe-handles, tin candle-
sticks, bits and stirrups, old bolts of every kind,
oil drums, cracked kitchen utensils, etc. Another’
on the Downs, makes a specialty of hoop-iron and
jam and fish tins; while another collects old nhgfns
and links, broken hames, and ditto furniture,
including an obsolete tip-dray, the hood of an old
buggy, and about five miles of mixed fencing wire
of assorted lengths. This man shifts his treasure-
trove, once a week or so, from one side of the pre-
mises to the other, and back again, and yet it is
always in his road. He is still collecting.
A CRUSHER.
JOSEPH FATMAHN: “ Hi, you! I did not give you that money to
spend in beer.”
THE BEAT (loftily): “Sir, do you presume to think you can pur-
chase the liberty of the subject with a paltry thrummer? ”
Presdmier Watson; A Personal Sketch.
“Ohrifsds” hia friends call him, and as all the
Labor mefnd Kirs and u good many others are his
friends, sdfone hoars “ Chris ” much more often than
“Mr. Watson.sdf" His method of address, in return,
ia the Christian name for the individual, and
“boys" for the group. “Well, hoys, in strict
confidence fur the present," he prefaced the nows
that he had been “sent for” to a. small group of
Labor members and to Tint Rw.I.KTTN representa-
tive. Ilc wont on to speak sympathetically of C.
0. Kingston, then on a sick bed unable to take part
in a triumph which he had done much to
bring about. That was characteristic of “Chris."
He always gives an impression of personal unsel-
fishness, of considering the cause lirsl, and himself
afterwards. Possibly without that quality ho
might not have climbed so quickly. I remember
him first as president of the N.S. W. Trades and
Labor Council. After an apprenticeship to
the printing trade in Maori land, then an
experience os out-of-work in Sydney which
firmed without embittering lu’s character,
Watson had gained a permanent position oil the
Star composing (Staff, and had begun to win the
confidence of his mates. There was some sort of
a tradition that the president of the Trades and
Lai Kir Council should hold olfico for a year only ;
he was, at any rate, seldom re-elected. Rut Wat-
son showed so much tact and firmness as a presi-
dent that the tradition was sot aside in his favor.
It was during Watson’s term in that office that,
the Australian Labor Federation was in process of
formation—a Federation which was partly
prompted by and partly suggested the puli l ieu.!
Federation, but which never came to full accom-
plishment.
J. C. WATSON, AUSTRALIAN PREMIER.
When he went into politics Watson chose not a
strong labor constituency (with a little intrigue he
might easily have secured a nomination for a
“sure” seat, but, with all his tact, he can’t in-
trigue) but a much more difficult up-country
agricultural district. That he won and held for
the N.S.W. State Parliament even against the
efforts of so notable a rival as R. E. O’Connor (now
Judge), and in the Federal Parliament Watson
represents the district which embraces his old
State seat. In the N.S.W. State Parliament he
was not leader; he followed McGowen loyally,
whilst constantly showing his own capacity to lead.
When the Federal Labor party required a head it
turned naturally to Watson, and from that day
to this there has been never a whisper of discon-
tent in the party. Reid’s leadership of the Oppo-
sition has been at times bitterly attacked by his
followers in public and in private. When Barton
gave up the headship of his party an audible sigh
of relief went up from many. Deakin has won
the esteem, almost the affection, of his followers,
but there have been intrigues against him. But
Watson has had an unwavering loyalty from his
party.. It is a great testimonial to his character
and capacity.
If the word “ astute ” had not fallen into rather
bad company and suffered from bad associations,
it would be the adjective to apply to Premier
Watson. In the original sense, as the attribute
of the man who, like Odysseus, had “seen many
cities and known the lives of many men,” astute-
ness would fit him—a quality of quiet cleverness,
in which the wisdom is not crooked, in which
there is much urbanity but no suavity, certainly
no “smoodge.” His ease of manner under all
circumstances shows the man of self-reliance but of
no vanity. I’ve heard of the frank confession of
a woman of high social position and rank, and of
great haughtiness, who sought an introduction to
Watson with the idea either of patronising his
obsequiousness or being amused by his gaucherie,
and who could find afterwards in her impressions
nothing but admiration, together with a little
doubt as to her own superiority.
Perhaps the severest test which Watson ever
passed was during the life of the first Federal
Parliament, when the Melbourne Conservative
Eress and Melbourne “society,” discovering that
e was not a bear, sought to clip his claws and
show him as a tame lion. Watson went through
the ordeal without either a rudeness or a concession.
It is easy to be a good Radical in a cave; a harder
matter m the great world. Watson has supped
with Circe and not perished. Life now presents
to him the final test, that of great power. If his
character survives that ordeal, and as Premier
Watson he is as good and honest a man as Chris.
Watson was, Australia can enrol him as one of her
great sons. His friends hope, even believe, that
that will be so.
Watson’s education, in the conventional sense,
has been sound, but not very extensive. Among
the Labor leaders (who in Australia read very
much) his book-learning is not above the average,
though it probably a good deal exceeds that of the
average. Conservative politician. Where Watson
shines is. in his knowledge of human nature,
his capacity for reading men’s minds, his robust
common-sense. As a speaker he is eminently clear
and practical without being showy. If he has a
table or a bench near, he will press his hands on it
galms outwards and lean forward, his back a little
unched up—not exactly a gainly attitude, very
closely resembling that favored by the late Lord
Salisbury. Left without a support, Watson stands
up straightly and is more effective. His speeches
always go to the marrow of the matter, and are
never very long. Rarely does he show any heat:
when he does (as in an attack on Reid this session)
his indignation is so transparently sincere that it
is scorching.
Watson is of Scotch parents; was born in Chili,
educated in Maoriland, and has made New South
Wales his permanent home. He is a fairly big
fellow physically, and keeps in good form with
rowing and walking. He is married to a lady of
quiet home-loving tastes, who has been a true help-
mate to him through life.
F.R.
THE BUSH BIRDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No bird of yours," the critic says, “greets dawn or
dying day,
No feathered songster sings at noon a soul-inspiring lay.
Our English-welcomed warblers have no rivals reigning
here :
Your birds are birds of plumage gay, their notes are harsh
or drear.”
Ah, me ! I think of gullies where the creeks of crystal
run ;
Grey gorges where the birds burst forth ere day has quite
begun ;
I think I catch the coachman’s crack, the bell-bird's
tinkling song,
And from a bending blackbutt bough pert maggie joins
the throng.
Ah, too, I think of far-flown days upon the Great Divide,
The bark-strewn, brown-stained bridle-tracks where I
was wont to ride.
I think I see the pebbled creek, ridge, fern, and waterfall,
And from the undergrowth I hear the long-tailed lyre
bird calk
Maybe the thrush’s note is sweet to loitering lovers’ ears ;
Maybe the lark and linnet thrill when English May
appears ;
But not for me such songsters sing by green glades o’er
the sea,
For gorge and gully, ridge and range are rich with
melody.
X.S.W.
HUGH STONE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
IVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Patfcie T. : Not bad, for your age Petramos :
Tootrifling John Carew : Has some merit, but isn’t
quite in our line Brummy: Not unless you could get
it into about a quarter the space W.F.W.: Dialect too
difficult to deal with... .C.8.H.: Cash sent to Pt. Moresby
as desired M'Ell (Adelaide) and others :No use sending
claim to accountant for half-an-inch of print. Let ’em
grow a bit.... St. L.O. : Doesn’t fall far short of the
mark Colin Isst: Sorry none of them quite up to
standard Splash : Tired treatment of a sorry subject.
.... A.F. : Quite unusable in present form Lost: You
write to ask if the iguana is a cannibal, and mention
that you saw him with his brother’s tail sticking out of
his mouth T. : We have received your rather illegible
scrawl, stating that you are the only man who is fit to
run The Bulletin, and that you are the real founder of
Australian Federation. Are you also the Almighty,
or any other small thing like that? Palmer
Sutton: Dervish wars, dirt and smallpox were the
principal causes of the depopulation alluded t 0....
J 5 : The trouble about the Australian bard who writes
Bygone Days” is that he always looks back to horses
and bullocks. There is too much bullock. Why not look
back to a long-departed grocery for a change ? Long
Jack: Another case of looking back upon bullocks....
L.C.R. : Not much good, and bristling with the noble
sentiments of T. Bent and Cos L.A. : “ Pool” contains
some fine lines, but on the whole not good enough....
Outcast: “Riley” rather a tame yarn of robbery Mar-
garet M. : “ Baby” rather trivial Paul: You should be
able to do good work if you could strike a less hackneyed
theme....A.B.E. : “Time May Come” just the old and
well-worn gagging about “ Women’s Rights.” H.J.K. ;
“ White Sails” evidently composed in a heavy sea ; metrt
heaves terribly.... Curlew : Many thanks ; will print.. .
A.E.Y.: Mining yarn far too long Taxpayer: Don’t
agree at all with your cry against “ the overpaid, in-
dulged and extravagant civil servant.” In our opinion
the civil servant is generally underpaid. The civil service
waste is in the number of men kept at unprofitable work.
A Slave: You don’t explain how the new syllabus
would prevent your getting the lordly order of the sack
for going on those lines R.N.W.: Five sheets about two
country aldermen persons who wish to get into Parlia-
ment 1 Boil down G.A.: You’ve got ideas but ex-
pression rather crude as yet St. Arthur: Not up
James G.: Good to get a letter like yours; but cash
doesn’t stand in the way of doing anything.. His friends
have stood by him well in that respect... Mulgoa: Shoo !..
Agnes L. Storrie: Not quite good enough, but many good
points about it Inkling: You ink in rather broken
metre Cadette : “Story without an end” doesn’t rise
to the dignity of an unfinished story. It is the decimal
of a scrap....Baralgah: “Nostalgia” reads like a faint
echo of a yarn published in Bulletin last November....
H.A. : “The Wish” is gracefully written, but savors of
anticlimax Gerald B. : Great improvement, but not
yet quite up to the mark.... Bronze wing: Not well
enough related Tippoo :He probably belonged to the
type which, being itself incapable of kindness or courtesy,
mistakes the one for weakness and the other for
cowardice AAV.F. : Returned accordingly....R.H.S. :
Hopelessly illegible Smilax: Lacks point and com-
pactness, and the dream-device is hackneyed....Bogan
Gate: Too troublesome to fix up... .E.V.R.: Not enough
interest for its length.... Peter N. : Some of them may
do....Cyril V. : Treatment hardly powerful enough....
Aurelia: Not enough body in it....Scalliwag: Rather
feeble of interest and slow of style Viti: No new facts
about the sea in your sonnet F.L.N.: “Time Slips
By” is a well-intentioned hymn. This paper doesn’t
hymn —Sniggerer: Your philosophy, in short, is that
no one should try to do any good because he’ll soon be
dead. H.W.B. (Maoriland): Scrap of verse about hose
declined... . E.C.N.: Mild little dewdrop poem. Dropped
into basket as was due... .Jacques: “Autumn” same
old thing—“bowers” and “showers,” “breeze” and
“trees,” and the usual insane struggle to make “ lawn"
or “dawn” rhyme with “morn.” B. Dripping: Verse
isn’t your line. Don’t think art is your line either Te
Aute : Your complaint is singularly fatuous. You, being
presumably a Maorilander, might know that the team in
question is only a college team, but the information
given was for the benefit of people who didn’t know. The
rest is a matter of opinion. The par. was written by a
Maorilander and ex-footballer, who may perhaps know
something... .O.E. : The “stately old castle” spoilt it
for The Bulletin. .. .Nota Bene : Hardly vivid or drama-
tic enough — G.H. : Too much straining after effect by
mechanical perversion of expression Hock W. : We
should require further particulars Mots: Bent poem
too wild... .Veldt: The Bulletin’s opinion is that when
Neild explodes in Parliament as Hutton’s superior and
there claims the right to speak disrespectfully of his com-
mander and urge that he be sacked, while the same Neild
explodes humbly on the field of war as Hutton’s inferior,
and can be put under arrest if he is disrespectful to
Hutton, things are too much mixed. A man can’t
be a Cardinal and a Dill Macky at the same time N.
Grace: “One Day” very shaky verse.... Curlew : Don’t
care very much for “In the Bush” C.W.H. : There is
just this small hole in your argument—that, after you
have credited your baths with the value of the dirty
water, you forget to charge them anything for interest
and sinking fund. Bulletin didn’t say that public baths
should pay ; but that’s no reason for saying that they do
when they don’t O.E.G. : Not up, but not hopeless
Anxious: When The Bulletin wrote of the Victorian
Saosition policy, M'Kinnon had not spoken, and the
ished platform gave no particulars regarding the
-tax....F.H.F. : (1) Last year Victorian railways
failed to pay interest by £305,000 ; no expenditure figures
for this year are available. (2) Yes, on duty. (3) It says
it is considering some offers ; no purchases have actually
been made lately I.B. : “Sunny Disposition" and
“ Lady’s Ankle ” both ordinary.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.H.S.: Drawing hardly good enough, and the joke
about Mr. Stickers (or Mr. Posters) has occurred to so
many hundred people O.A.W.: Of no great interest...
A. A.: Regret none any use except as curiosities in
perspective P. Smith: Always glad to hear from you,
but haven’t quite struck it this time... .Hum : Npt at all
new N.C.C.: Weird picture and meaning very obscure.
....T. Lehmann: Picture of Bulletin editor rejecting
poems in a large bare room, with his wife in a truckle bed
and his two naked children blowing the fire, not quite
correct. His family musters four R.A.V.: No imme-
diate demand for photo of very ordinary-looking nigger
from Papua Mac.: NO J.A.: Poor joke.. ..P.S. :
Last two suggestions hardly suitable E.M.C.: Jokes
only moderate, and pictures quite hopeless.. ..Nomad.:
No possible good whatever Donald : Some humor, hut
style too rough.. ..J.D.: One will do as a suggestion
T. Shield: Drawing weak N.E.Q.: Picture not up to
much, and very tame jest Gebo : Neither up to mark.
....E.Mc.: Rather crude. You should do better work
with more care J. Nib : Picture pretty good, but joke
indecent. And it is difficult to find a decent joke of any
value that will fit that picture.
In its 23rd year of issue the main section
of “ The Year Book of Australia” runs to over 800
pages. The “special article” for 1904 is on
“Forestry in New South Wales”; the ordin-
ary sections, reviewing Australian progress during
1903 in practically every department of human
activity, are as ample and accurate as usual; and
the gazetteer, the commercial, legal, official and
other directories and summaries, make the Year
Book of great value in the counting-house and the
shop.
MISS GEORGINA SWEET, D.Sc.,
First Woman Doctor of Science in Australia.
Photo, by J. C. Garrood, Melbourne.
“Wussleean” : Was “ almost persuaded ”
to join an Orange lodge once, till I found it wasn’t
a “ lodge ” at all as most people understand it —
that is, a benefit society—and the only advantage
it could offer was an opportunity to refer at its
meetings to the Pope and others not present as
“idolators, superstitious savages,” etc.


A HIGH- (AND DRY-) LAND WELCOME.
G. H. REID (to shipwrecked Government): “ I’M GLAD TO SEE YOU. I’VE BEEN HERE THREE YEARS, AND ITS VERA LONELA.
YOU’VE NO IDEA HOW LITTLE THERE IS TO EAT IN THIS PLACE.”


THE LEGACY OF IRVINE.
“The Federal crisis is, in a general sense, the after effect of last year’s Victorian railway strike.” —Age.
BILL LYNE & CO. : “MIND WHAT YOU’RE DOING! CAN’T YOU SEE YOU’RE KNOCKING US OYER?”
ADULT VOTE: “CAN’T WORRY ABOUT YOU; I WANT TO GET THIS MAN OUT OF THE MULLOCK!”


A. SAUNDERS, for WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELLERY.
sdf
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Baby’s BRUSH, Handsomely
bossed. Fine Soft Bristles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
Em-
MILK, with Cover.
i
4-bottle BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, 30s.
Similar Style, 17s 6d, 20s, 25a.
Pure Silver-plated Coloured
Venetian Glass SALT CELLAR
and SPOONS, 10s 6d;
With Handles, 12s 6(L
TEA POT.
WiNCriELO Row DOTH AM « C ? §!
mm
ma
A. SAUNDERS.
Set of CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel,
Finished, Securely Riveted Handles, 27s 6d,
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, to £2.
Hand
sd
HOT WATER KETTLE.
FULL SET, £2O
Comprising 5 pieces—COFFEE POT, TEA POT HOT
WATER KETTLE, SUGAR, and MILK, with Cover.
Hand finished, handsome y embossed, it is fluted in a
artistic manner. It is made of two plates of
5™ Hard Nickel Silver between, and
calculated to last a lifetime. Manufactured by Jas
Dixon and Sons, famous English Silversmiths.
SUGAR, with Cover.
fsd
Special Royal RAZOR, Bast Sheffield Si’. Steel,"
Xylonite Handle, in Leather Case, 10 s 6d;
2, ditto, in Case, 21s.
Pure Silver-plated Venetian Glass
JAM DISH, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
GLOVE and HANDKERCHIEF BOX, Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Embossed, Silk-lined,
Size Bin by 7in, £3.
With Glove Box to Match. £5 10a pair.
Ladies’ Solid Silver
SEWING COMPANION, 7s Od.
Large Styles, 15s 6d. 18s Cd.
[
:
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation INKSTAND and CALL BELL,
Pure Silver-plated, Beautifully Chased and
Ornamented, £3.
Morocco Leather PURSE, Sterling Silver Mounts,
Invisible Snap, 10s;
Crocodile, Tan, or Green, 12s 6d.
Oak BUTTER DISH, China-
lined, Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8a 6d, 10s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
KNIFE RESTS, Out Glass,
Solid Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
lss 6d, 20s.
Presentation CUTLERY SET, comprising Set of Carvers,
i Doz. each Dessert and Dinner Knives, in Silk-
lined Case, £2 2s 6d.
Extra Mounted, £2 12s 6d.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
with Si!. Shield, 4s Gd.
Other styles, 5s 6J, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s Gd.
Bushman’s and Miner’s COMPASS, Special Steel
Dial, 3s 6d.
Other Styles, with Spring Case, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s od,
10s 6d, 20s.
J-.,.
A. SAUNDERS.
20th Century Rapid Focussing FIELD GLASSES,
Very Sharp and Effective, £2 10b.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, to £lO 10s.
h
Lady’s or Gent.’s TRAVELLING BAG, Silk-lined, fitted
with Every Convenience, Nickel Fittings, Lady’s £4,
Gent.’s £4 6s; Silver Fittings, Lady’s £4 10s,
Gent.’s £5 10s to £l6.
YOU CANNOT COME
TO SEE US!
Our Full Catalogue tells you
all about it. Write for it.
It is worlh while.
GET OUR FULL
CATALOGUE.
Special Value 4 O’CLOCK TEA SET, comprising 3 pieces—Tea, Sugar, and Cream—Gilt-lined,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Cha;ed, £2 15s.
Jas. Dixon’s A 1 Quality. Other Styles £3. £4, £5.
fsd
Pure Silver-mounted Hobnail Out Glass
PUFF BOXES, Price According to Size,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHAVING RR IT SH,
7s 6d, 12s (id, 15s 61, 18s, 20s.
i' :
Gent.’s TRAVELLING COMPANION,
comprising Hairbrush, Mirror, and
Comb, 12s 6d.
■uSMBS
HAIRPIN BOX, Pure Silver-mounted, White
Hobnail Cut Glass, size 6 x I£, 10s Sd.
Oval Shaped, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-pla'ed, Handsomely Chased
and Embossed, Silk-lined, size 12 x 5, £3;
With Handkerchief Box to Match, £5 10s. v
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated CANDLE
STICK. 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s.
Handsome Presentation Double English Oak INKSTAND,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts, fitted with Drawers, &c.,
£4 10a.
Handsome Oak LIQUOR FRAME, S Half-cut Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts, £2, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 10s, £7 10s.
f
A. SAUNDERS.
U4t» SEWING COMPANION, fitted with
Every Convenience, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s fid, 16s, 17s fid, 20s, 265.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-cup EGG FRAME, Pure Silver-plated
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, £2 10s.
Cheaper Styles, 18s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT EPERGNE, Pure Silver-plated,
with Handsomely Embossed Cherub Vase,
30s.
Without Cherubs, 27s 6d.
sd
Pure Silver-plated SERVIETTE RTNG,
Embossed, A 1 Quality, 5s 6d.
Other Styles. 3s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
Nicely
8s 6d.
m
vxt
4-bottle LUNCH or DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White
Metal, 30s.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 21s, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813. 815. 817
GEORGE-ST. ue80,,. SYDNEY.


mstress: Never use any Soap
for the children except
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR
SOAP.
urse: Of course not, ma’am.
the nursery soap.
AN UNCERTAIN
APPETITE
When the appetite is uncertain and fitful, it
is a pretty safe conclusion to come to that ill-
ness is present or approaching. The system
is in that condition when the health is going
down instead of keeping up, and it is the
exact moment at which to strengthen the
bodily structure. This you do by taking
Scott’s Emulsion. For, when disease is taking
the life out of you, Scott’s Emulsion checks
the disease, and then puts the life back by
building up Nature to its proper strength.
Then, uncertain appetite gives place to regular
appetite, and we pass on in the path of life,
active and enthusiastic because in complete
health. Scott’s Emulsion does this for the
young, middle-aged and the old. It cures a
condition of disease, no matter the age of the
patient. Here is a vivid illustration of just
how Scott’s Emulsion acts.
Bandon Grove, via Dungog, N.S.W.
August 20th, 1903.
Dear Sirs, —My son, William John, years
of age, was very delicate, and nothing we tried
sdf
for him. His
appetite was
most uncertain,
and he was con-
tinually com-
plaining of
acute body-
pains, which
made him very
fretful and
peevish. I then
tried Scott’s
Emulsion, hav-
ing heard such
good reports
from others who
had benefited by taking it. From the com-
mencement of the treatment the effects have
been most markedly beneficial and satisfactory.
My boy now sleeps well, his appetite is always
good, and he never has any pain or ache in his
body, and he is bright and healthy again.
Faithfully yours, (Mrs.) Eliza J. Hazlett.
Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.
If you want perfect Health yourself
or desire it for your children, write
to Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
send 4d. (for postage), name this
paper, and you will receive a free
sample bottle. Note this Trade
Mark when buying. Of all chemists.
sd
The Sectarian Leprosy in Politics.
When the next Amending Electoral Bill comes
before the Australian Parliament it should em-
body a whole string of clauses devised with a view
to shutting the Yellow Pup and Green Pup and
every other holy and unholy pup out of Federal
politics. A candidate is supposed to get into
Parliament on the strength of what he has done
in politics or what he promises to do in politics.
When he goes outside politics and promises money
or money’s worth to individual electors he is
barred out, and justly so, under the bribery clauses
of the Act. When he tries to attract votes by
promising the blessing of Heaven, or the special
favor of the Almighty, or the benediction of
any parson, priest, church, chapel, conventicle,
big-drum assemblage, pope, archbishop, curate,
Joss, Mumbo-Jumbo, or any kindred person or
substance, he should also be barred out under the
bribery clauses. And when he appeals to the
lowest passions of an ugly mob by assuring its
members that, if they support him, they will have
the satisfaction of “narking” some sect or other,
he should again come under the bribery clauses.
The offer of money, jobs, billets, revenge on a
rival sect, or any other outside consideration
whatever should be all equally classed as bribery.
All appeals to the people to vote for or aga'nst
any candidate because he is a Protestant or a
R. 0., and all allusions to the flames of Smith-
field or the walls of Derry or the siege of
Limerick, and all statements, direct or in-
direct, that this particular faith will be
wrecked if Smith gets in, or that that Joss
will be all broken up if Wilks is left out,
should be anathema. If the candidate makes
them, either personally or by deputy or in
writing, he should be fined £lOO, with imprison-
ment as an alternative, and disqualified for life ;
and if anyone makes them on his behalf, but with-
out his authority, that person should be fined
£lOO, and imprisoned if he can’t pay, and also be
disqualified as a possible member. A similar fate,
or a worse one, should fall on every paper which
labels a candidate or a party as Catholic or Pro-
testant, or which urges anybody to vote this way
or that on any grounds connected with the
religious views of any sect whatsoever. The liberty
of the subject and the purity of elections will never
be assured till this is done. The law has already
got so far that it prohibits the gaining of votes
by threats of assault and battery in this world ; and
that section of the Act won’t be complete till it also
prohibits the terrorising of voters by threats,
direct or indirect, of frizzling in the next world,
or by wild suggestions or implications that if
they don’t support Wilks they may even be fried
by a Cardinal before the next world is reached.
In fact, the whole process of influencing or co-
ercing electors by sectarian lies, and religious
false pretences, and clerical perjuries, should be
made illegal. The spectacle of little sectarian
worms using the alleged wrath of God as a means
to terrify people into voting for pitiable little
Wilkses and such-like atoms may be ridiculous
enough, but even its absurdity shouldn’t protect
the users of these methods from the fine or the six
months’ hard labor they so richly deserve.
The Bush J.P.
“Riverina” writes on the interesting subject
above specified:—
Verily the ways of the bush J.P. (the more woolly and
uncouth brand of him, that is) are passing- strange and
weird. I know nothing so likely to induce wonderment
and awe as some of his hair-lifting sentences. There is a
standing danger of a man being executed by some raw,
new-chum “ trap ” (over-zealous in the performance of his
“jooty”) owing to sentence of death having been passed
(by an excited .J.P.) on him for getting hopelessly drunk.
I know of a ease wherein a sorrowful-looking inebriate
was sentenced to 1% years for drunkenness. A very red-
faced policeman pointed out that 12 years was a lengthy
period for an ordinary J.P. to deal out, and the latter
agreed to make it 12 months, with the remark that this
drink curse must be stifled with a strong hand. Pulled
up once more, he finally apportioned one week to the
offender, and signified his intention of retiring from the
bench, since it was evident there was no desire to give the
arm of justice room to swing in that polluted district.
Again : A station-hand appeared in a Riverina court
one morning to answer a charge of indulging in a rather
stirring Saturday night spree. His boss happened to be
on the bench, and, after hearing the police evidence,
said : “ The sentence of this court is that you be fined
£l, coupled with a damn big chance of losing your billet! ”
The most startling case of which I have heard was wit-
nessed in a far-back N.S.W. township. A Swede, boastful
in beer, had alleged within hearing distance of the local
policeman that four months previously he had deserted a
ship after 15 solid years of sea life. The ambitious
Robert saw promotion looming large ahead, and promptly
ran the garrulous foreigner in. In court the Swede gave
a voluble exhibition of English as she is broken in
endeavoring to clear himself, and pointed out that 12
months before he had worked for the very J.P. now
before him—then residing near Hay. The latter leaned
forward, and a look of recognition shot across his face—
followed by a glow of triumph at remembrance of a
severe blow on the nose received from the Swede in the
course of their final disagreement.
Then he delivered this in a deep voice : “It’s plain to
me that you’re no deserter ; but it’s also plain to me that
you should not ’a’ professed t’ be wan and so caused Con-
stable Johnson to go to a lot o’ bother with you. You are
therefore sentenced to four months’ imprisonment, with
hard labor, for getting run in under false pretences 1 ”
Constable Johnson was carried out a nerve-shattered
wreck.
Concerning “Godless Education.”
“0.0.” discourses from an inside point of view:
Whenever I come across the term “ Godless education *
in my morning paper I think of all the choir boys
and parsons’ sons who were my chums in youth, and I
smile, for the wickedness of the world was large print to
them. I have been a choir-boy, and I have sailed in
Monet Wigram’s ships where four out of six midshipmen
were parsons’ sons, and I know. Good fellows all, staunch
friends, and free from lying, treachery, and most of the
petty sins of society, but godly, in the parsonical mean-
ing of the word—well, not much.
Between trips, I once went with a shipmate to hear his
father preach. I thought it was a most impressive sermon
—calculated to touch even a choir-boy—and said as much.
Said my friend : “ Yes, no doubt the guv’nor can spin a
good ‘ cuffer ’ when he gets a fair wind ; but X had to
laugh when he started on the necessity-for-Christians-
showing-patienee-under-afflietion tack. Great Scot! you
ought to have heard him howling for his shaving-water
this morning 1 It was like listening to the skipper of a
tug-boat who has just missed a good tow after a long
chase.” Yet my chum was fond of his “guv’nor,” or, as
he expressed it, “I get on well with the old boy when he
doesn’t talk shop.” The “ shop ” expressed to a nicety
the attitude of the average parson’s son towards what is
called “religious instruction.”
And choir boys 1 How often I have stood before that
well-known picture, “ The Choristers,” and admired, from
a professional point of view, the seraphic expression of
the three boys in their spotless surplices. It takes me
back to the days when I cultivated that same expression
in the choir of a church in Piccadilly, where a gentleman
who was out here a few years ago on a lecturing tour
used to preach to the most fashionable congregation in
sinful London, whilst half a mile of carriages waited out-
side for our old nobility. A three thousand pounds col-
lection was a possible occurrence—and our singing was
worth the money. The choir-master, whose salary would
make a backbloeks parson gasp with envy, saw to that
part of the business. A fair number of the choir sang at
concerts and theatres during the week, and some
were in the burnt cork line with the Moore and
Burgess crowd (who “ never performed out of
London”,), at St. James’s Hall. “Pony” Moore
himself may have been a choir-boy in his youth,
though I nevdt heard him accused of being any-
thing worse than a “pug.” In the choir, when we
were doing cur preliminary “ dip,” the burnt cork men
in the back row would be making audible remarks
concerning the congregation : “ Good house to-night,
Billy.” The youngsters with the seraphic expressions
would often quarrel violently during the service, and,
in that case, the congregation remained blissfully
ignorant of the fact that one small boy with upturned
gaze was informing his neighbor in a sweet, soprano
voice, perfect in time and tune, that he would “ punch
his fat head when he got him outside.” Long conver-
sations were carried on under cover of the hymns—
the tunes being- easier to manipulate than the chanting
of the responses. Sometimes the choir-master detected
by the movement of the boy’s lips that he was not singing
the words in the book, and, in that case, the boy got
a hiding. Remember one youngster w-as locked
in the vestry before the service commenced for some
misdemeanor, but he kicked so lustily at the door during
the service, and made such ungodly remarks that he had
to be released.
The authorities never seemed to expect the choristers
to be as pious as they looked. They were paid to sing,
and so long as they didn’t actually bash each other during
the service, or cuss audibly during the sermon, they were,
like the proverbial reporter, not supposed to be “saved.”
They were “ behind the scenes,” and, as in the case of
parson’s sons, familiarity with the outward forms and
paraphernalia of the church is apt to breed indifference—
if not contempt. And the moral ? Well, it’s something
like this : The youngster who is forced to go scowling to
church to please others, will probably please himself
later on by staying away. On the Sabbath you will find
him on the road to Coogee, or “ hanging out to wind-
ward ” down the harbor what time the youth who received
a “godless education” is escorting his grandmother to
church with 141 b. of “The Word” under his wing.
A Queensland Hotch-Potch.
Queensland electorates need re-casting a good
deal worse even than those of N. S. Wales did.
Taking the rolls used at the last general election,
there were such inequalities as these :
Charters Towers (2) 4764 Bowen 854
Toombul .. .. 2395 Bulloo 651
Toowong .. .. 2463 Burke 455
Woollongabba .. 2194 Carpentaria .. .. 665
Fitzroy .. .. 2368 Gregory .. .. 831
Murilla.. .. .. 821
Six Members .. 14,184 Six Members .. .. 4277
Mackay, with 2136 electors, has two members;
Fitzroy, with 2368, has one. One man who votes
for “Janny” Leahy in Bulloo is the equal of
about four Charters Towers miners who vote the
Labor ticket. It takes three bushmen in Flinders
to exercise the power of one Burke bushman.
Queensland is said to have the idea that, though
one-man-one-vote is the proper thing, a man’s
vote ought to be worth a lot more if he lives in the
country than if he lives in the city, or at Charters
Towers, or in some other place where he can read
papers, and hear speakers, and generally keep
abreast of things. Why a man who lives out at
the back of Thargomindah, and mostly votes for
somebody who has kept a pub. and isn’t a bad old
party, should have eight times more say in return-
ing a member to Parliament, and in making
laws, than the man who works in a
factory or a mine, isn’t clear; yet Queens-
land is said to believe that it is the right
system. If a man comes in from the back of
Thargomindah, where he saw nobody and read
nothing, he becomes just an ordinary mortal; he
is only given the extra voting power so long as he
stays out where he would have great difficulty in
wisely exercising even ordinary voting power. He
isn’t given the extra power because he is a better
man; apparently he is given one vote for himself
and six more votes for his selection, or his lone-
liness, or because he works on somebody’s cattle-
station ; and The Bulletin doesn’t know why
anybody should have extra votes for working
on a mortgaged station any more than for
working in a factory that isn’t mortgaged.
But Queensland isn’t consistent, even allowing for
this remarkable anti-democratic notion with
regard to country votes; for even some country
votes, as shown above, are three times as valuable
as others. And, in any case, there are too many
members. The people of N.S. Wales (who are
probably much the same as the people of Queens-
land), when they had the chance, said, the other
day, that one Assembly member for every 15,500
inhabitants was enough ; if they had been allowed
to they would probably have said that one for
20,000 was plenty. Queensland, however, has one
for every 7100 —72 for the State, which is about 30
more than enough. Forty-two members could
borrow all the money that Bull has to lend these
lean days.
«
A Quaker writes this:—
While agreeing in the main with your programme I
strongly protest against compulsory military training.
On conscientious grounds, I and some others, can-
not in any way take part in preparations for what
we believe to be breaking the commands of God. It is
no mere fad which has caused Quakers (and others)
to submit to imprisonment and outrageous treat-
ment rather than aid or abet the killing of our
fellows. Democratic principles were championed and
suffered for by Quakers years before the people
awakened, and to-day such principles are espoused by all
true Quakers. Ido not plead for exemption for any of
the cowards who desire to benefit by the warlike measures
which they extol but decline to participate in ; but to
attempt to compel a man to outrage his conscience is not
democratic, neither is it good policy. A man compelled
to act in violation of his conscience is a citizen whose
worth to the State is discounted.
Quakers are worthy folk, and about the only real
Christians existing nowadays. No community
that was all Quaker would last long, but, while
they are only a few, there is no reason why they
shouldn’t be excused from military service. But
the question of military training isn’t quite the
same thing. They might possibly have the train-
ing without the service. Probably at the very
last extremity, when the defence of their own
wives and families was concerned, the majority of
Quakers would find the old broad-brimmed
opinions and the old “thee” and “thou” fall
away from them, and the primitive rampant man
assert himself. Then the untrained Quaker would
rush voluntarily into battle with a chair-leg and
do no good, while the trained Quaker would gather
up a dead enemy’s magazine rifle and sin usefully
and efficiently. Provided General Huiton
wouldn’t swear so fearfully at drills and parades,
some compromise might be possible—not that
there is any urgent reason for the military training
of the Society of Friends.
♦
What a colossal front the Victorian agricultural
producers must have to go on forming themselves
into leagues to oppose socialism ! They have lived
on practical socialism ever since the day they
went on the land given them, to all intents and
purposes, by the State. Here is another instance
of the way they have battened on socialism. A
return published by the Agricultural Department
shows that the State has paid away £233,488 in
bonuses to date. The items are as follows:
Cultivation of vines .. .. .. . £19,868
Cultivation of fruit trees .. .. .. 21,256
Cultivation of general vegetable products (fibre
and oil plants) .. .. .. .. 8,523
Cultivation of forest trees .. .. 18
Export of butter and cheese .. .. .. 113,078
Export of fruit (green) .. .. .. 12,395
Export of fruit pulp .. .. .. .. 3,262
Export of tobacco .. .. .. .. 4,117
Export of honey .. .. .. .. 507
Factories—
Fruit preserving .. .. .. .. 591
Butter and creameries .. .. .. 30,389
Raisin and currant.. .. .. .. 6,866
Tobacco .. .. .. .. .. 739
Vegetable oil .. .. .. .. 531
Fibre .. .. .. .. .. 742
Insecticide .. .. .. .. 35
Advances to wineries .. .. 10,571
Total .. .. .. £233,488
“Burglar Bill” writes: —
Please let me use your red blunderbuss to fire a charge
of assorted language at the head of the Comptroller-
General of Prisons. The man “ inside ” cannot jeer, and
when he gets out he is so busy dodging the police or try-
ing to look respectable, so that the Prisoners’ Aid Society
will get him a job at a starvation wage, that he doesn’t
like to talk back when Captain Neitenstein holds forth
pompously about reforming prisoners with music and
such soft pap. He has music on tap already, and it
makes the prisoners swear so forcibly that they have to
flap the sulphur out of their cells with the card
of regulations, lest the bedding take fire. From
9 p.m. till 6 a.m. four leather-lunged warders scream
the hours and half-hours at one another, from different
parts of the gaol, each trying to shout louder than
the other, so that the chief warder will think he is one
who is especially alert. I had a one-sided feud with
Warder Hooligan, and a few minutes before call-time he
would manage to manoeuvre under my cell window, and
would then scatter a mighty yell that shook the bars in
the window frame—“ Number Tray, noine of the clock,
and all’s well,” and he hung on to the last word as
if it had a stripe wrapped up in it, the front
of the call being 2j miles away before he let the end
go. When Hooligan was on night-duty all the
prisoners in my wing slept in 10-minute sections only.
Five years ago the Comptroller-General had devilish
spy-holes bored in each door, and at 11 p.m. and 3.30
a.m. the electric light is turned on in each cell, and
the chief warder looks through the spy-hole to see
that the prisoner has not got out by the ventilator.
These violent and dazzled awakenings, and the disturb-
ances caused by the half-hourly shout of warder Hooligan
make sleep almost impossible. Captain Neitenstein’s
pompous talk in the know-nothing press about classifica-
tion of prisoners according to their crimes, about music,
and about other etceteras would make an outsider think
that the prisoners bunk on feather beds and put their
boots outside the cell doors for the screws to clean.
♦
King Seddon’s idea of the proper thing to super-
sede Maoriland Legislative Council, which he says
must go, is “something on the Scandinavian
system ” :
There should be a revising committee, consisting of a
number, say, of the most experienced members ; take, for
instance, retired Judges of the Supreme Court. There may
be retired Solicitors-General.
Certainly the Norwegian system has its points—
the Swedish is much inferior. There is only one
Norwegian House, all elective ; but it divides it-
self into two—one a fourth of the whole; the other,
three-fourths. All proposed new laws go first to
the three-fourths, then to the one-fourth to be
either accepted or rejected. If the two sections
don’t agree, they sit together, and a two-thirds
majority is then necessary to pass a disputed pro-
posal. (It would certainly be much simpler to
run the whole affair as one House all along, but
for some unexplained reason that is not done.)
There is, in addition to this division, a com-
mittee of five to revise the public accounts.
One feature of the Norwegian system bumps
hard against an Australian notion. In
Australia it takes fewer country than city
▼oters to elect a member. In Norway, upending
this, the deputies who elect the Parliament are
ohosen on the basis of one for 50 voters in the cities,
and one for 100 in the country. Apart from
that, which is as questionable a plan as the Aus-
tralian, there are two good things about the
Norwegian way of doing business: (1) The Parlia-
ment meets in its own right, and not because the
Sovereign calls it together ; and (2) the Sovereign
has a veto, but that veto can be itself vetoed by
two successive Parliaments passing the law which
the Sovereign doesn’t like.
♦
A letter of well-founded complaint:—
Chief Justice Darley complains that Prince Alfred
Hospital, Sydney, although the centre of an area from
which many patients come, derives little or no revenue
from the residents of the area, as they are mostly poor,
and suggests that the municipalities should be made pay
out of the rates for their respective patients. The
complaint and suggestion may he sound or not, but
before any levy of this kind is made on rates many
important features in the conduct of hospitals will
want attention. The State is at present a large
contributor. What is the State contribution but a tax
largely subscribed by the poorer classes ? Hospital Saturday
contributes liberally. Here again the poorer classes
do their share. A certain number of persons— Julian
Salomons sets it at 400—contribute over their names, in
Sydney and suburbs, to hospitals and charities year after
year—the same persons all the time. But these are the
advertised donors. Put what they give in one sum. Then
put in another sum what the unadvertised donors of small
amounts give; what they give on Hospital Saturdays ;
what patients and their friends give ; and what the State
gives ; and compare. It will be at once seen that the
advertised donors are a mere drop in the bucket.
Then the question arises: How does it come that
this small batch of advertised people do almost all
the management, all the ruling, and carry away all the
glory of maintaining these institutions? The policy
which gives them the right to rule because they are
advertised donors is unspeakably bad. It begets evils on
every side—among them Chief Justice Darley’s notion
that he and the persons around him are bowed down
under the burden of the poor. The present subscription
dodge will be abolished some time—the sooner the better
—and the State or municipality will support its hospitals
entirely and directly, and take the glory of doing so.
♦
The January number of the Nineteenth Century
has an article, “Behind the Fiscal Veil ; ” giving
these harrowing statements as to Britain under
Freetrade, gathered from official sources:—
The gross annual revenue from agriculture is computed
to have dropped since 1874 by ninety millions, an amount
equal to the whole of the freight derived from shipping
and to 40 per cent, of exported manufactures.
London paupers at Christmas numbered 115,000, the
highest figure since 1871.
A million and a quarter people in London have a weekly
wage for the entire family of 21s. or less.
In 1891 there were in London 174,500 tenements of only
a single room.
People living under insanitary conditions range from 59
per cent, of the people of Glasgow.
Nine hundred and twenty-nine out of every thousand
in the Kingdom die in poverty. One of every four in
London dies supported by public charity. Eight millions
in the United Kingdom on the edge of starvation. Twenty
millions “not comfortable.”
The people of England have come to look on starvation
and suffering which they call “distress” as part of the
social order. Chronic starvation is looked upon as a
matter of course.
Yet every day our M'Millans and Bruce and
Pumpkin Smiths are appealing to the people of this
country “ to adopt the policy that has made Eng-
land prosperous,” and the other day, while the
rest of Australia was busy electing live democrats,
the fool electors of N.S. Wales, in their anxiety to
obtain the policy that in Britain has made chronic
starvation to be looked on as a matter of course,
sent into the Australian Senate the onljr solid
foreign-trade, black-labor bunch to be found in that
democratic Chamber.


f
GrO TO 3g£T .3L,.
HiOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageiy,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 890 Fauby, St. Martin Paris, France.
JONES’
RHEUM ATI CURO
never, fails to cure
Gout. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
and Neuralgia, of an chemists, 2j9
AGENTS—FELTON, CK IN WADE & CO., MELBOURNE.
SPECTACLES
sdf
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send.
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by .Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There will not be a K.C.M.G., or the
remotest fear of one, in the Watson Cabinet.
As the result of the last Parliamentary
Federal capital sites tour of inspection the chances
of Tumut dwindled considerably, whilst those of
Dalgety (near Bombala) went up with a rush.
In spite of lavish advertising, the South
Australian Jenkins hasn’t yet heard of any syndi-
cate that will take up his land-steal railway to the
Northern Territory. The time expires on" May 2.
Australia is now getting its third Govern-
ment into working order, and doesn’t feel so
new as it did when it had no buried Ministry in
its graveyard. The Barton Government lasted 32
months, 23 days; the Deakin Government G
months, 28 days. .
It is estimated that the postponement of
N.S.W. State general elections till July or
August will lead to an unprecedented run on the
Treasury for blankets. Thirty-five members must
go overboard, and the one who gets fewest
Blankets for his local poor goes over for certain.
One result of the visit of Austin Chapman’s
party to the Monaro Federal capital sites was to
explode Bill Lyne’s “freezing chamber” canard,
at least so far as that party was concerned. After
walking half-a-mile to view the site of a proposed
reservoir, the party unanimously took off its coat.
There was something pathetic all through
the crisis week in the constant announcement of
the Sydney Freetrade press that either Mr. Joe
Cook or Mr. Pumpkin Smith would surely be
taken into the Watson Ministry. This constant
waving of the Pumpkin to attract Watson’s atten-
tion was painfully undignified.
Victorian Premier Bent has just brought
“Mr. Dobbinson, of Kyabram,” all the way from
the backblocks township and appointed him
Government Arbitrator to fix compensation for
the 37 closed hotels at North Melbourne (!). No
one knows anything about Dobbinson, except that
he is “ of Kyabram ’’—but that explains a lot.
The velocity with which the Maoriland
Railway Department settles its affairs is causing
consternation. The annual conference of railway
employees, just held, has reported that, in March,
1902, the employees tabulated their grievances
and sent m a list of 102 requests. After two years
rush and bustle the Department has replied to
one of the requests, and has decided that it will
agree to the demand for one shovel per annum for
each surfaceman.
THE ILL-MATCHED PAIR.
"The stubborn mule that is harnessed with a spirited horse need only to lie down to ensure a stoppage.” -Age.
When The Bulletin went to press the mule was still down, but a good deal of it had
dropped a hint that it would get up if there was sufficient inducement in the shape of a distri-
bution of Federal portfolios.
Geoffrey Eager calls for ‘‘ a national
awakening” of N.S.W. on Parliamentary matters.
At late elections he called for the same thing, and
got it. Geoffrey Eagar’s best chance of getting
into Parliament will be some day when N.S.W. is
asleep, and if lie still has Parliamentary ambi-
tions he shouldn’t holler recklessly in the ear of
Ins native land.
Bigjohn Forrest supplied the brightest
contribution of all to the censure debate in the
Australian Parliament. Bigjohn is a bitter Tory,
who for years has been looking like a very inferior
Democrat in order to keep office. With office
aing away he dropped everything except his
es, and cursed at large in a way that was
refreshing to listen to.
The grease of compliment and the butter
of adulation, which Reid poured on the heads of
ex-Premier Deakin and ex-Trhasurer Turner after
the downfall of the late Australian Ministry, were
plainly an invitation to them to come over and
coalesce. He wasted no compliments on those
members of the late Ministry who could be of
little use to him, but he almost wept over the good
qualities of the two big men.
The N.S.W. “ Reformers” are giving away
their own tricks. One of them writes to the
papers with regard to Waverley. In the old State
electorate there was a Waverley Deform League.
Jessep, the old member in the Deform interest,
rounded up this league, and was “selected as the
Reform Candidate for the Waverley Electorate,”
without giving Vaucluse, Rose Bay, Double Bay,
Point Piper, and half-a-dozen other districts
now included in the electorate a chance to say
whether they wanted Jessep or not. Still the
Deform crowd says that it is the one purely
patriotic gathering, which scorns self-seeking.
On the very day of the Federal crisis that
Pope-haunted publication, the Watchman, dis-
covered, as usual, that the Cardinal was somehow
responsible for the trouble, and was pulling strings
behind the scenes. One of these days the Watch-
man will go quite mad and rush through the
streets with straws in its hair, and a crucifix in
one hand and a rosary in the other, and make
trouble.
Is Australia going to have another chance ?
Said Milner early in March : “ Should I have to
call seriously on the loyal population of South
Africa to rally to my support ” (re the importation
of Chinese, &e.), “I know I shall not plead in
vain.” And if the loyal population of S’Africa
can’t pull the thing through, of course Australia
will lend a hand ! It can’t decently refuse to help
carry through the policy it helped to set going.
“War E.” complains :
Re electoral nomenclature. There seems a wild desire
on the part of bush aldermen to saddle the new State
electorates with true British—haw ! —names, the native
names being too —haw !—vulgah. F’rinstance, the elec-
torate embracing Tumut and Gundagai is to be known as
VVyn yard—what’s wrong with Tumut or Gundagai, or the
old native district name, Gadara? “ Oootamundra ” is
not high-sounding enough for the Junee aldermen, who
are fighting to alter the name to Clarendon. Who the
devil was Clarendon that Australia should perpetuate his
name?
The new Customs tax of 3d. per lb. on
advertisements in foreign magazines when they
exceed 15 per cent, of the contents was badly
needed. M’Clure’s for March last had 100 pages
reading and 184 pages advts.; Harper’s Monthly,
same date, had 160 pages reading and 156 pages
advts. Others are worse, and many in England
nearly as bad. A time seems to be apprc a -hing
when a magazine will consist of one little story,
a faint pictorial blob, and 875 pages advts. about
nut foods.
George Reid’s struggles to be on both
sides of the fence left him in a remarkable
situation when the numbers went up and the
Deakin Ministry went down. He voted for the
Government himself, but didn’t urge his adherents
to do likewise. Only two of his N.S.W. followers
—the men from his own State—voted with him.
Only eleven of his whole party (including in the
party its most dubious followers and remotest
hangers-on) voted with him, while 13 voted against
him. So Reid wasn’t sent for to form a new
Ministry. It would have bfeeh absurd to send for
him to form a Ministry when he was on the side
which had just been decisively Hcked, and it would
be absurd in any case to ask a man with only
eleven followers to form a Ministry.
If Kingston were at the Customs he would
by this time have had a few short, sharp words to
say to British ships concerning the stores they lay-
in in-Australia. It seems that some of them now
send out practically the whole of their stores —
tinned meats, paints, sails, chandlery, &c. —put
them in bond here, and load them into vessels as
required. Thus they not Only dodge paying Aus-
tralian duty, but they load up at Australian ports
with foreign goods. They are not foreign, but
British owners who do this, and some of them are
owners who have talked a great deal about the
debt of gratitude that Australia owes them. In
the United States mean little tricks of this sort
are impossible, no transhipment of goods in bond
being allowed. But, then, the U.S. shipping laws
are ahead of Australia’s all through.
From the Times of Natal :
They (the Australians) were volunteers in a quarrel not
their own, many of them being mere mercenaries, actuated
by motives other than pure patriotism, men who; upon
occasions when they were engaged in burning down Boer
farm-houses, acted more like freebooters than disciplined
and machine-like soldiers, and it is natural that they
could not help to command from the Boers a hatred
which was not accorded to “Tommy,” because such
actions were part of the regular soldier’s unsoug’ht duty.
In a quarrel not their own,” “ mere mercenaries ”
—and this comes from Natal, alleged to be the
most British of all the S’African States ! So we
get our reward.
The pensions which Victoria has con-
tracted to pay those of its public servants who
joined the service before ’Bl seem to have got so
much on Bent’s nerves that lie is apparently lost
to all sense of common honesty. He still talks of
his proposal to “abolish all offices and dismiss
those holding them ; then to immediately re-
engage officers on condition that the break thus
created would stop pensions accruing.” “ Another
idea Bent had was that a company—and he
heard one was willing—should take over pensions
and compensations.” This latter notion is a
piece of high finance that only a Bent could
evolve.
Extract from a speech delivered by a
member of a Chow-African pro-Chinese deputa-
tion, which waited recently on Milner to howl on
behalf of Ah Sin :
They acknowledged the right of the Imperial Govern-
ment to interfere in their concerns, but they did not
acknowledge the right of every pettifogging little State
or every little arm of the Empire to interfere. They had
Maoriland poking its long, mischievous nose into matters
here about which it absolutely knew nothing.
When Maoriland poked its bayonet into South
African affairs it was applauded. Now it pokes
its nose and gets this kind of reception.
Premier Jimmy and his Ministers are
going up and down Westralia snorting with regard
to their principal opponents.:. “Labor party!
They’re not a Labor party; they’re a mere trades-
union party !” “The unvarying result of every
ballot,” said Mr. Jimmy in a recent speech, “is
that a prominent trades-unionist is selected.”
Well? It only means that the Laborites don’t ask
the State to trust its affairs to anybody to whom
they haven’t been willing to trust their own
affairs ; and it would be a fine thing for the Mr.
Jimmy crowd if it could say the same.
Launceston (Tas.) Board of Agriculture
is so disgusted at the indifference with which
it is regarded by the Government and the
farmer, that, the other day, it was proposed
and seconded and carried, that when it rose 6
should meet no more, and that the balance at the
hank should be handed to the General Hospital.
The secretary was a veterinary surgeon, but he
couldn’t save the Board’s life. When it was
dead he went to the bank, and found there was a
credit balance of 45., which he took to the hospital
soon after the Board had been laid, as it were, in
the dead-house.
Characteristic opening of a recent S.M.
Herald leading article :
It has been growing upon the mind of Australia for
some years past that one of its best, and also one of its
most neglected, fields for an export tradedies among the
islands of the Pacific and in the Ear East. • •*.:•; 7
Not much !' What is really growing on Australia
is that, while there are £6,000.000 worth of iron-
work (now imported) to he made every year at
Lithgow and elsewhere, and exported thence to
Sydney, Melbourne, &e., this anxious peddling
of a casual bundle of sheepskins to an immoral
brown kingdom in Asia is a foolish clawing after
a halfpenny on the shore while a stream of gold
drifts by unheeded.
Sydney Telegraph, when the prospect of
a Watson Ministry rose before the country, went
round collecting the views of some carefully-
selected citizens. It headed the remarks of State
Premier Morgan of Queensland :
VIEWS OF QUEENSLAND POLITICIANS.
“A NATIONAL CALAMITY.”
A study of the remarks which followed proved
that Morgan didn’t say a word against the Watson
Ministry ; he only remarked that the departure of
Turner was a national calamity. But the Tele-
graph’s great art of misrepresentation came in
as usual.
F. E. McLean, who was one of the Dry
Dog young men, first in the State and then in
the Federal Parliament, and was put up against
Bill Lyne at the last elections, wants the loco-
motive contract let in New South Wales, and
writes to the papers :
Reasonable Freetraders will never object to their
Government’s paying such extra price for work performed
as may be demanded in the payment of fair wages to those
actually engaged in the work.
In other words, reasonable Freetraders recognise
that Freetrade is a fraud, and are ready to aban-
don it as soon as anybody suggests that it shall
be put into practice.
Victorian Tory Minister and renegade
Murray spoke very severely the other day to an
unemployed deputation about the wickedness and
cruelty of men who take work in deep mines,
where the conditions kill off the miner at 35 or 40,
leaving his family, as a rule, destitute. Murray
wasn’t seriously angry at the mine-owners who'
won’t provide decent ventilation because it costs
money ; nor at the Bent Government, which won’t
force them to do so ; hut he was really enraged at
the wicked miners who thoughtlessly die in the
rich man’s mines. How would it he to get the
Church, which always agrees with the rich man,
to refuse decent burial to every man who dies of
“ miner’s disease ” ?
It was Great Britain which, a few years
ago, first invented the phrase “ bloated arma-
ments,” and it is now itself the boss bloater of the
globe. Its army estimates for the present year,
m a time of profound peace, are the largest in the
world. This is saying nothing of the great Indian
army expenditure, which is more than the whole
military expenditure of Austria and Spain put
together. Its naval expenditure is about equal to
that of the next three biggest naval States on
earth. Its annual peace expenditure has increased
nearly £35,000,000 since 1809. It had a deficit of
£5,415,000 last year, and it has had to raise the
income-tax to Is. in the £, the tea duty to Bd. per
lb., and put on an extra tobacco duty of 3s. 3d.
per lb. The war madness has got the dear old ma
country down and is chewing it badly.
That alleged white person, Creed, M.L.C.
(N.S.W.), published some remarkable correspond-
ence last week. It appears .that lie wrote to Premier
Deakin, urging that the immigration, restriction
law should not be applied against Japan, because
we are supposed to be terrified lest the Asiatic
person should be angry, and Premier Deakin’s
secretary replied, speaking specially of the
Japanese, in these terms :
By arrangement, the names of tourists and others are
supplied to us in advance, whenever possible, and they
are met at their first port of call with papers of exemp-
tion, which are in effect the equivalent of the passports
you propose. This practice has existed for some time ;it
has been found to work well, and therefore does not
require to be supplemented in accordance with your sug-
gestion.
This wholesale admission of Japanese tourists and
others explains how the laws intended to restrict
the inrush of colored aliens failed so badly to
restrict. Apparently the subservient Deakin
Government didn’t fall any too soon.
“FIGHTING LARRY ” RENTOUL,
MELBOURNE.
From a series of interviews in a Sydney
daily about the horrors of having a Wat3on Gov-
ernment :
“ Stop class legislation in Australia,” remarked a bank:
manager, “and millions and millions of money will be-
poured into the country to develop it, which is now being
reserved for Canada and South Africa.”
But England isn’t likely to pour in “millions and
millions” unless it has some guarantee that,
incompetent bank-managers and directors won’t
reconstruct as they did last time, and lock up the
money for 10 or 20 years, or go broke altogether,
or offer 15s. in the £ payable next generation. A
bank manager, of all people, shouldn’t talk about
“class legislation,” seeing that his class got special
legislation not many years ago, authorising it to
br'-ak faith with the English depositor, who is
still wait ng, in m°ny cases, for the return of his-
last lot of “ millions.”
The three parties in the Victorian State
Parliament have issued their programmes, and
this is how they compare from the financial point
of view :
Government Programme : “Local borrowing for works
of a character likely to pay interest and sinking fund.”
Opposition Programme : “ Limitation of borrowing and
establishment of sinking fund in connection with
loans.”
Labor Programme : Dead silence.
The Bent party and the MacKinnon party are
vague enough on the borrowing question, and
look like unadulterated sham ; but the State Labor
party doesn’t seem to realise that it is
necessary to have any policy at all, not even
a pretence or a sham, as regards the borrow-
ing question—it doesn’t promise to limit or
abolish borrowing, or to start a sinking fund, or to
do anything in particular. It doesn’t seem to
realise that the debt question is worth having an
opinion, or pretending to have an opinion, about.
It .is'difficult to'have patience _with a body which
fools'chances away in this fashion.
“T.D.” prophesies on his own responsi-
bility :
Most pleasing prospect the Vic. elections afford is that
there is very little likelihood of many of the politicians of
Deform League manufacture getting back again. After
watching the Parliaments of several States for years past,
I am convinced that the creations of Deform were the
worst group of numbskulls available anywhere in Aus-
tralia. Most of them used to sit huddled together just
behind Irvine, like sheep in a snowstorm. There were the
tuft-hunting Shoppee, the forlorn Lancaster, speechless
Martin from sleepy Geelong, musty old Kirkwood of
Eaglehawk, Livingston, Menzies, and Fletcher, and those
two dead failures, Hirsch and Trashworth. Of this lot,
Bent has already' thrown over the first, and told the
second that, he’il hake to fight 'it out with Webb, an old
political campaigner recently' sent back to the Assembly.
Hirsch is already 7 out of it, and Trashworth has been
shunted to a constituency where he hasn’t a dog’s show.
Martin, Livingston, and Menzies are almost bound to get
shot out, and as they all crept into Parliament on the
pretence that they' only wanted to get there to effect the
Deform the old crowd wouldn’t give, they have nothing
to grumble at.
Excerpt from Angus Hamilton’s “Norea,”
in reference to the Japs as colonisers '
It is, perhaps, surprising that the animus of th«
Koreans against the Japanese has not died out with time ;
hut the fault lies entirely with the Japanese themselves.
Within recent years so much has occurred to alter the
position of Japan and to flatter the vanity of these island
people that they have lost their sense of perspective.
Puffed up with conceit, they now permit themselves to
commit social and administrative excesses of the most
detestable character. Their extravagant arrogance blinds
them to the absurdities and follies of their actions, making
manifest the fact that their gloss of civilisation is the
merest veneer. Their conduct in Korea shows them to be
destitute of moral and intellectual fibre. They are de-
bauched in business, and the prevalence of dishonorable
practices in public life makes them indifferent to private
virtue. Their interpretation of the laws of their settle-
ments, as of their own country, is corrupt. Might is
right; the sense of power is tempered neither by reason,
justice, nor generosity. Their existence from day to day 7 ,
their habits and their manners, their commercial and
social degradation, complete an abominable travesty of
the civilisation which they profess to have studied. It is
intolerable that a Government aspiring to the dignity of
a first-class Power should allow its settlements in a
friendly and foreign country to be a blot upon its own
prestige, and a disgrace to the land that harbors them.


THE
SpEciiL Bon
In Black Calfskin
Full of Wear.
Post Free
Duty Free
FOR
■ A-
■■ ■
K
? r.
16 6
Or Delivered POST and
DUTY FREE for
17/6
a p iir, to any address in
tlie Common weal tt f
except W.^ #
Or in Tan, 18 6,
POBT and
DUTY FREE.
HOW IT IS MADE?
SOLES —Solid oak-tanned stout walking soles, stitched on a Goodyear machine, with
best Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UPPERS -Uppers and Vamp are cut from plump skins and are not skimped in any
way.
LIN TNG—A soft, smooth leather. The inner sole is milled perfectly smooth on the
surface and free from nails, creases or thread.
HEELS —Square trimmed, size, 1 inch, properly nailed.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY.
_ A solemnly-conscientious parson fruitlessly
spent a half-hour lately trying to convince an
M. that he (the M.L.A.) is bound in honesty
to pay the Railway Commissioners the regular
f |re every time he uses his free pass for private
. <
vioine secessionists who talk of States se-
ceding from the Commonwealth are under the
impression that the Federal Constitution Act, like
the old Federal Council Act, provides for
such divorce. The fact that Ireland has tried
many times, and has been trying for several cen-
turies, to secede from the British Empire should
give those people a better understanding of the
situation. And Ireland, as a place which was
united to the Empire against its will, whereas
N. joined the Commonwealth voluntarily,
has a moral right of secession that N.S.W. doesn’t
possess. So have the Boer States. So has Canada
—and yet Louis Riel was executed.
READ WHAT
VITADATIO
IS DOING.
Liver Complaint, Indiges=
tion and General Weakness
all Succumb to
VITADATIO
Dear Sir, —I vvisli to add my testimony to the value of
VITADATIO. For over five years I was a great sufferer
from Liver Complaint, Indigestion, and General Weakness.
I was unable to follow my usual occupation, and for three
years had been under several medical men : 1 have also
taken courses of almost all the well-known patent
medicines without any beneficial results. Whilst living'at
Maryborough about two years ago, I heard of the wonders
being performed through the agency of VITADATIO. and,
after making inquiries, I decided to give it a trial, which
I did, with the result that at the present time 1 am fully
restored to health and feel it my duty to let others know
w.iat \ ITADATIO has done for me.
I will be glad to answer any inquiries about my case
personally or by letter, which must have stamped
addressed envelope enclosed.
I remain vours gratefully,
„ > William stkwart Drummond.
II Earl-street, Carlton, late of Maryborough.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALM Eli,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N, t
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
. The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3 6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
i A batch of cheap young curates from
England will shortly invade N.S.W. As they
are coming to a Bishop’s order they are, in a sense,
indentured, and may he taken notice of under
Federal law. The Bishop has repeatedly said
that curates in England and Ireland are satisfied
with much less remuneration than young men
brought up in Australia, and that even if Austra-
lians were available he would be forced to import.
The marooning of six curates would make a most
desirable companion picture for the Six Hatters
lie.
All over Australia, wherever the man on the
land dons his rarest raiment for the edification of his best
girl, or the city man pushes his way with the assistance of
a smart appearance, the name of Lincoln and Stuart, of
Flinders-st., Melb., is held in respect, not to say rever-
ence. The clothes turned out by this well-known firm are
aids to fortune, mainstays of respectability, and marvels
of reasonableness as regards price.*
Sydney city was roused up last week by
the booming of guns, and went round to its friends
asking whose birthday it was now. It transpired
that it was only one of the warships returning
from Jervis Bay. It had a new captain. aboard,
and it required 15 guns before the admiral on the
flagship took the fact in. That potentate, after
carefully counting lest the incoming skipper should
let off 14 or 16, replied by giving him seven.
Surely grown-up men like war-ship captains can
move in and out of port without a series of violent
explosions passing between them. If they can’t,
they should be content with letting off crackers in
each others’ cabins.
This Elastic Truss—
sd
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
28L GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
Ami at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
Election Notice.
T. R. SMITH, h. 1..
Is a Certain Candidate for the
HAWKESBURY-NEPEAN ELECTORATE.
Missing Friends.
4 LFRED GOODES or ELLINGHAM,
formerly of Gumeraelia.(S.A.), last heard
of at Thargonnndah (Q. J, will hear of something
to his advantage on communicating with the
undersigned. Any information of his where-
abouts will be suitably rewarded. Dated 21st
day of April, 1904.
J. T. MELLOR,
Solicitor, Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
TYPEWRITERS
fsd
3 of the
r'A'VTT'u?
7*
'& Best
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— IJedIey Button.
fsd
WATERPROOF
HORSESCOW RUGS
Bvg ycur Animals with AB RDEEN (Reg.) RUGS.
You will make Money
and save Feed by using
Our Rugs.
Universally Used.
The ‘ABERDEEN’ Brand.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER, OR WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLETS ON “RUGGING STOCK,” TO
SMITH, COPELAND and CO.,
210 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
83~ Waterproof Tarpailins and Tents a Speciality.
f
sdf
*
There’s Just this Difference !
P&B MALTHOID ROOFING
is made by a combination of wool felt and the purest natural mineral
known.
A riineral that has been in use for over 20 years I
A flineral that will be in use for 200 years to come 1
A flneral that has made a marvellous record!
A flineral that has excited the envy of others!
To-day there are scores of roofing’s, alike in general appearance
but all lacking that “one only” original mineral that gives
Long Life to P & B Malthoid Roofing.
P & B Paper, P&B Paint and other lines made by us from this same
mineral, has been used by you for “lo ! these many years ! ” But
P&B Malthoid Roofing was never on the Australian m irket until
1904 —.
WE WISH IT DISTINCTLY UNDERSTOOD
That the Paraffine Paint Company of San Francisco, California,
U.S.A., are the original manufacturers of Genuine P&B
Materials.
That P&B Malthoid Roofing and Dampcourse are the latest and best
of our products.
That you will find the word Malthoid and our Trade Mark P & B on
every roll of the Genuine.
That our former Sydney Agency is discontinued. We now have our
own office at 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Agents of the Paraffine Paint Co. are: —
W. S. FRIEND & CO
JAMES W. JACK
JOHN BURNS & 00., LTD.
EDWARD REECE & SONS
G. L. DENNISTON
THOMSON. BRIDGED & CO., LTD.
E. T. HARRIS
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE
Svdnev .. .. N.S.YV
Wellington .. N.Z.
. Auckland .. N.Z.
. Christchurch .. N.Z.
. Dunedin .. N.Z.
Invercargill .. N.Z.
Townsville .. N. Queensland.
AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
FOR SALE by ironmongers E 7E&YWI2SRE !
sd
Wi luamßaldwi n-
A U ST R AiA r STAN RFPRFSENTAT
fsd
Sample criticism of Sandford’s iron and
steel proposal by the N.S.W. importing crowd,
which has an instinctive dread of a local factory:—
It is obvious that in Mr. Sandford’s eyes the acceptance
of his offer would be an excellent thing- for his company,
as unless he holds the opinion that there would be a
large margin of profit in the business, he would hardly,
in consideration of obtaining it, undertake to expend
£300,000 on new machinery, etc., considering that the
contract itself is only expected to come to a similar
amount.
Which means that they don’t see how Sandford
is going to make anything out of it; wherefore he
must be going to make it in some way they don’t
know of, for which reason he ought to be Blocked.
If it was obvious that he was going to make some
profit he ought to be blocked on that account;
and as it isn’t obvious he can make anything he
ought to be blocked on that account also. In fact,
he ought to be blocked anyhow and the job given to
a Belgian or other foreigner as hitherto, though
Sandford offers to do it at the same price that we
have been paying to the foreigner. Yet these
same people, when a balance-sheet is published
showing that a foreign bank is making about
£250,000 a year profit out of Australia, haven't a
word of reproach to utter. The only person who
shouldn't make any money in Australia is the
Australian.
In S. Australia one Carter, sentenced to
death in 1892 for murder committed while in
liquor, and subsequently let off with a sentence of
perpetual imprisonment, has been released on the
condition .that he drinks no intoxicants for the
rest of his days If he drinksj the pardon, of
course, is null and void. Carter occupies a
unique position. He is probably the only man on
earth who is liable to be imprisoned for life if he
is seen consuming a threepenny beer.
"V ictorian Premier Bent already begins to
realise the folly of monkeying with the un-
principled crowd which runs the Scripture-in-
S bools movement. Those people agreed to leave
the matter to the electors and not to bring pressure
to bear on Parliamentary candidates ; yet, after
Bent had chosen Gardiner as his candidate for
North Melbourne, the shufflesome Biblicals de-
manded “ that he should, in the event of their
defeat at the referendum, support a private Bill to
provide such Scripture education.” In other
words, the Bible-in-Schools party demands that if
the country decides against it, candidates shall
nledge themselves to do their best to force the
B ble-in-Schools fad on the country against its
will. Gardiner refused, and the Bible crowd is
now running Barrett against the Bent candidate.


T. P. O’Connor gives some points on the
“impermanence” of Japan, culled from
“ Kokoro,” by Lafcadio Hearn : —
“The straw sandals worn out and replaced at each stage
of a journey ; the robe consisting of a few simple widths
loosely stitched together for wearing, and unstitched again
for washing ; the fresh chop-sticks served to each new
guest at a hotel ; the light shoji frames serving at once for
windows and walls, and repapered twice a year ; the
mattings renewed every autumn —all these are but
random examples of countless small things in daily life
that illustrate the national contentment with imperman-
ence.” An account is given of the building and occupa-
tion of a two-storeyed house within five days. The fre-
quency of earthquakes, to which Japan, more than almost
any other country, is subject, is responsible for such
lightness of construction. “Rivers shift their courses;
coasts their outlines ; plains their level; volcanic peaks
heighten or crumble ; valleys are blocked by lava, floods or
landslides; lakes appear and disappear. Why then
demand permanence in the habitations of men ? The
Japanese do not even understand the feeling. The com-
mon people have no ancestral homes. The dearest spot to
all is not the place of birth, but the place of burial; and
there is little that is permanent save the resting-places of
the dead and the sites of the ancient shrines. ’
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANGHCR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
WILCANNIA
WAKOOL ..
NAKRUNG ..
Tons
500(
5013
Commander. 1 Sails.
VV. G. Lingham . . Apr. 29
8. A. Pidgeon, R.N.R. [May 27
A. W. Bond, R.N.R. J’ne24
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
HE” TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Col!ins-st., Meibom ne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
£l,OOO fori/- £l,OOO
A Fortune for Is. A Fortune for 1s
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO forts.
rFIRST
]GREAT
[PRIZE
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO for Is
Or 12 months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all
Expenses paid, and £6OO in Cash tor one person, or
eight mouths for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging: in value from
£1 to £l5O.
Eight Hoi rs 48th Annual Great Art
Union.
48th—The Oldest and Most Popular—4Bth.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia-
Prizes will he delivered to winners Free of all Charges.
A list of winning numbers will be posted to any person
sending an addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from ,\our Local Agent on or before 23rd April, or
send direct to the Representative, 312 Flinders-street,
Melbourne, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
Tickets—ls. each, or 11 for 10s.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the
date of drawing, 11th Mag, 100 U.
BE SURE AND TRY YOUR LUCK.
CHAS. HARRIS, Secretary.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Building, 312 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Do You Want a New Suit ?
For £2 we will forward Post Free to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Ready-Made
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Price List of other goods on application.
Address: —
T. C. BEIRNE & CO.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Da. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
‘BRIGHT’S DISEASE AND DIABETES.’
FULTON’S COMPOUND —OnIy Known Cure.
Agents—Benjamin Bros. &Co., Ash-street : ON SALE.
A. E. Durno, Pitt-street, Sydney.
WEAK, NERVOUS
And DESPONDENT SUFFERERS-our concentrated
extracts of HERBS, ROOTS. BARKS and BLOSSOMS
will restore you to sound HEALTH. STRENGTH and
vigorous MANHOOD when all else has FAILED. Valuable
advice explaining NATURE’S SIMPLE TREATMENT
sent post free to the afflicted. Address—
BOTANICAL INSTITUTE
VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DHUTSCIIER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To EUROPE via SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. (RINZ SICISMUNP, 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tens, 6th JULY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
FARES TO LONDON .. 1st. £77; 2nd. £50.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about 13th MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l7 17 0 to £25 4 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 ToioontfieiJ Parade
ST. KILDA.
Ml HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing- Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 1-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
f~y C E -A.3XT X C STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
A. AND AT LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including: St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and AU Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., rianaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS,
$
&
&
f
BILT.S
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S/W.
gftantdePiete !.Go-»C td -
(Opposite Tivoli.Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNVEW, General Manager.
Colonial Mntual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endown.erns and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices ' - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; lion. C. J. Itoßlßrs
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Duuoic Smith, Ksi|., .il.it.
Resident Secretary : A. ltoss Mili.hr.
Accumulated Funds, £'2,706,880.
Policies issued 91.305 assuring £27,614,218
Amount s paid to Policy holders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction aa to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.l’., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares issued to His Majesty in
terms of Board of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £8,000,000
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Es<|.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £.700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250/100 ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direstars—Sydney : lion. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Brfght & Co.), Sir JotfN See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Plgßp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, U. Ci.yne ; Adelaide, VV. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, Iv. Wilson ; Berth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, tieneralManager for Australia
Write fbr Prospectus. 131 Bitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, Che Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
sdf
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~m
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Steamer,
The New Twin Screw
MANUKA,
SAILS ON MAY 16.
Salt and Fresh Water Ba.tt 8 of All Kindc.
ROOMS LARGER, LOFTI R, BETTER FITTED
THAN ON OTHER STEAMERS.
A Tourist of many years and by all Routes says the
MANUKA
Is the Best Stean.er upon which he has ever
Traie'.led.
NEXT SAILINGS—
June 13, July 11, August 8.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTJ.
Managing' Agefits, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMJTKJJ. u
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62.00 C
£695,46?
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Enwn. D. Dav. Asst. Miner., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ASCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents ami Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROHOHfTU
DIAKRHCEA, teara ■"»
the Government Stamp the name
oi the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS jl
Sept. 26 18D5, says:
“If I were asked wliieli single medieme t slioul l
prefer lo take abroad with me, as lnteiy to b)
most generally useiui, to tlie tacluaiuu of ail
others, 1 should say ChIoKUDVMC. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple aliments found
its heat recommendation.'
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(I,| M I'l’IOK).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
p OI T I’IIUE
And '.IJLF I’:HIT'S
ESI’ERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Traimhippinsrat FremuiMo
to all North \V< Bfcern i’ortj
S.S. Warrego, Friday, Ap il
29, at 5 p.m. (Tranship-
ping at Melbourne.)
.S.S. Grantala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, May 7,
at 11 a.m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAV
T()VVNSVI r,LE
And Ports North to
S.S. Cintra, Apr. 30, atNoon.
S.S. YVarrego, Saturday,
• May 7, at Noon.
S.S. Konoowarra, Friday,
May 13, at 5 p.m.
Best, ami Cheapest Route to tloltl/lelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at t he Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
——nvriTlMilibiiii im Hillfc—llWnllMlWFil "I
IVlessageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNK, AIJIS-
LAID)'. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, an 1
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, lnaia. On,in
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, J 827 to tg7,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. KNULUtI
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters nee l )
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Ollioest
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
It. BRAJSER DE THUY, Principal Agent,
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. BY TUB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERV.CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, < r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Lincoln, Stuart’s
IS
KNOWN
TM
All over
Australia
AS THE CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
SS* Clothing
Write for Patterns and Self fleasure
Forms
Lincoln, Stuart &.Co.,
Flinders Street, flelbiurne.
CHOICE TIPS.^>
From the famous
farms of houth Africa
Black, White, or
Cream.
5/
The Bunch.
Post Free.
Worth 15/-
We make this special offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips
Write Now c end Pnc'ql
sdf
or ss. Money Order payable to John Miller,
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swai.ston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
’8
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches <k all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEU’S
N Eli VINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
•As a specific for loowh ache it has no equal. I have
need it successfully for :Pyof. W. Wilson. M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’Sworsd-iw PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac
OF ALL b.OKK.S.


“ Brehon’s” little contribution :—
Now that the Labor party has come to stay, it is time
that it was treated by the public as a party whose every
tiethod and action is, in the interests of the public, open
to criticism. Attention might particularly be directed
by democratic press-critics to the personnel of its mem-
bership, to its methods of choosing- candidates, and to the
purging from its lists of a host of “ pensioners,” whose
only claim to office is the fact of their having been, in the
remote past, routine officials of trades-unions, but who
by their “ claims .to consideration ” block the way of the
capable tyro, and reduce the average of the intelligence
of the party to a pernicious extent. The Labor party is
too great a party to afford any longer to tolerate hole-
and-corner methods of selection, or to have any duty to
political dead-beat “ pensioners.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Outlaw” : Struck a brass-hided swaggie
in a way-back Vie. township t’other day. He
lurched up the main street and, meeting the local
bobby, a raw young man, informed him in a casual,
indifferent way that he had observed an aban-
doned swag half a mile out, near the railway line.
Then he lounged over to the verandah of the
nearest pub. and yawned luxuriously. The
zealous young constable, scenting a possible
tragedy, went in search of the swag, and eventu-
ally, after a careful search, found it. As he came
back past the pub. he was accosted by the non-.
ehalant individual in the verandah, who called
out, “ Hey, matey, that’s my swag.” The un-
happy policeman was too full for words, and in
his surprise and disgust he let the swaggie take
his property, while the group of loafers about the
pub. door, who had been put up to the joke,
roared at his discomfiture.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY is a
cure for severe colds, persistent coughs, and a
preventative of pneumonia. It is the mother’s
favorite for whooping cough.*
“ Hiphen” : Be “Old Bill’s ” story about
a practical joker (B., 31/3/'04). I once had a pain-
ful experience with one of that ilk—or rather, he
had a painful experience with me and others.
Eight of us were spending a holiday down Wes-
tern Port (Vic.), and used to bathe in the open.
The local fishermen were wont to gather round
and predict sharks. We scoffed loud scoffs, till
one day we had swum out from shore further than
usual. The practical-joke idiot was swimming
about twenty yards ahead when, all of a sudden,
he let out a blood-curdling shriek and made shore-
ward all he knew, while a few yards behind him
dodged the dorsal fin of what must have been a
huge shark. With one yell, we all back pedalled,
and started full steam astern for the shore. We
reached it somehow and lay on the sand more than
half dead, and looked round to see if there were
any remnants of the victim left. There were quite
a lot of them. He came wading slowly out, with a
fat_ grin on his fool face, holding in his hand a
string, to the end of which was suspended an old
black felt hat. We sat and gasped. He told us
what he thought of our courage and other things.
At last we rose up in our might —seven of us—and
smote him jaw and nose, and left him in the nude
on the sand, wondering whether he was an earth-
quake or only a shipwreck. Then we threw his
clothes into the water, and held an indignation
meeting, at which a severe vote of censure was
passed.
On April 30, 1837, the first marriage was
celebrated at Port Phillip, and the first christening
on the same day. The child was named “ Mel-
bourne.” Two other persons born in the samd
year are understood to be still living—John Wooe
Fleming, born June 2, and Redmond Henty, Aug.
3, the former in Melbourne, the latter at Portland
(Vic.).
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.-“What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
h uman spirit. ” Thus, writes a well-known medipal
writer. *
Fitzgibbon has so far managed the
sewering of Melbourne beyond cavill. The whole
job will spread over 10 years of steady work—no
rush, no stoppage. And the size of the oontract
may be gauged : C12 miles of street sewers have
been laid, and 306 remain to be done ; 804 miles of
house connection drains have been laid, 536 still
remaining; 61,520 houses have been served, and
about 40,000 are yet to be connected. The Board
will sewer the property, or a house owner can get
it done by private contract; either way he can
pay cash, or the Board will accept time-payment
spread over 20 years. There have been hardly
any disputes or cases of obstreperous owners being
forced to sewer on police magistrate’s order. The
Board borrowed most of its money at 4 per cent.,
audits debentures are at par., and Melbourne is
so far meeting its interest bills and sinking-fund
payments honorably.
France and Britain have settled all their
difference 3 by treaty. France gives up its claim
o.i the French Shore of Newfoundland for a cash
compensation and 4000 square miles of Central
Africa, with the inhabitants—who don’t know
they are being thus jobbed away. France formally
gives Egypt to Britain (Egypt not being its to
give), and Britain gives Morocco (which doesn’t
belong to it) to France. An awful amount is said
about the nigger’s “ right ” to enter Australia, but
the nigger’s right to possess his own country
doesn’t seem to amount to a row of pins.
PROTECT YOUR CHILD’S HEARING.
A plea on behalf of deaf children is an interest-
ing item of the last issue of the “Review of Ear,
Nose and Throat Diseases.” Anyone who has a
child afflicted by defective hearing should send
for a free copy of this Medical Journal, for though
published in England, copies can be obtained by
sending name and address to:—“Review” c/o
Box 241, G.P.O., Sydney. With the “Review”
is also a patient’s report form by means of which
free advice by post can be obtained.*
The report of the speech day of J. L.
Young’s school, Adelaide, m 1867, shows that ex-
Customs Minister Kingston, who left that year,
carried off the first prize in nearly every subject.
His strong points were mental and moral philo-
sophy, Scripture history, and literature.
, CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM is the best
liniment for cuts, sprains, and bruises. It will
heal the parts in one-third the time any other
treatment would require.*
the Best Year yet
New Premiums ...
(Including 1 Annuity Business)
Renewal Premiums
Total Revenue ...
Invested Funds ...
INCREASE OVER 1802
£19,177
£10,873
£34,930
£129,660
£65.486
£182,702
£322,329
£1,768,600
Favorable Mortality Experience, and Reduced Expenses,
sd
Just Published
“THE JAPAN OF TO-DAY”
Illustrate J
By HELEN JEROME.
CONTENTS Kobe and Its People. The Litter of Babies. Some Editors. The Geisha.
The Mikado. Streets and Slums. The Woman of Japan. An Osaka Festival, &c., &c.
BRIGHT AND WELL WRITTEN. EVERYONE SHOULD READ IT. PRICE Is. ; Post Fre* Is. 2d.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.) 661 George Street) Sydney.
All Branches and Principal Booksellers.
Missing Friends.
Kopje, of Birmingham, is earnestly
requested to COMMUNICATE WITH
HIS FRIENDS.
INFORMATION WANTED relative to ALEXANDER
■ GORDON, a native of Deeside, Aberdeenshire, Scot-
land, who was at Hokitika, South Island, New Zealand,
about 14 years ago, and, if alive, would now be about 71
years of are. Please address to JOHN CRAIGEN,
Solicitor, 193 Union-street, Aberdeen, Scotland.
WILL the LAWYER who has charge of
the affairs of the Late Mrs. PROSSER,
who died recently in Australia, kindly communi-
cate with
A. VV. WICKS,
Meend, Cinderford,
Gloucestershi re,
England..
D2NTWT
F2R THIS
fsd
CapiSla
Hair
Tonic
is a medicinal—curative—refresh-
ing scalp treatment, and possesses
all the elements that go to produce
a good head of hair. Its powerful
stimulating qualities go straight
to the hair roots, giving them a
life and vigor they never knew
before—and life and vigor to the
hair roots mean more hair —
stronger hair—better hair. Re-
member, there is no “ fragrant
aroma” in Capilla: Perfumes
don’t make the hair grow—they
don’t even help.
Capilla Hair Tonic
will do for you what a perfumed
preparation will not do, it will
GIVE YOU BACK YOUR HAIR,
Sold by all Chemists and Stores—
2/6 a Bottle; full course,
posted direct, 17/3.
W. O. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
fsd
•••
FULL STOCK 0F....
GRAMOPHONES
OF EVERY TYPE.
JUST
- LANDEDI
Special
THE IMPROVED VICTOR,
WITH NEW TAPERING ARM.
The Finest Gramophones
IN THREE SIZES. hiatSe.
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE"
GRAMOPHONES
PHONOGRAPHS
m
f
■
Gramophone Horns, Needles,
AND ALL ACCESSORIES.
m
EDISON Phonographs.
ALL THE NEWEST MODELS
IN ST O :K.
The “ New Gem ”
The Improved “ Standard ”
The Latest “Home”
The Concert “ Grand ”
&0 , &0.
New Shipment of Records just to liand. Both Victor (7-inch) &nd
Monarch (10-inch) sizes. An Especially Choice Lot. LISTS POST FREE.
New Gold Moulded Records
Phonographs
from 12/6,
SEND FOR LISTS.-®®
Have No
Equal
Thousannis always carried in Stock, The New
February and March Selections have just been
landed, and are very choice.
2s. each; 21s. dozen.
Lists
Post Free.
©
D
■
OSBORN & JERDAN
Opticians, Electricians,
Phonograph Experts,
393 George St, Sydney ; 99 Queen St., Brisbane


sdf
The
Woman
Who is discouraged and run down after having
tried doctor after doctor without getting any
permanent relief, may regain health and happiness.
Thousands of these sick and discouraged women
have been benefited by the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. As a simple unit of one of the
many thousands who have been restored to health
and happiness through Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, we publish the letter of Mrs. E. Bousfield,
138 Crown-street, Surry Hills. She writes :
“I am very glad of the opportunity of being
able to give my testimony as to the benefit I have
derived from Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I
suffered for years with kidney complaint, bilious-
ness, and headaches that nearly drove me mad. I
tried all sorts of remedies and consulted doctors,
but with no avail, and I began to feel that I should
never be right again. I could hardly stand, and the
pains across my back were so bad that they made
me a perfect invalid. I was at last induced and
advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills by a
friend who had derived great benefit from them.
I did so, and I can now say with every truthfulness
that I am now in better health than ever I was.
I have no trouble now in getting about and doing
my work, in fact I can hardly realise that it was
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills that put me right
and cured me; but of that lam perfectly certain,
and I would not on any account be without them.
I take them with me wherever I go. I can
certainly advise and recommend them to any
women similarly troubled, to give them a trial,
and I am sure they will quickly feel the benefit.”
For all female complaints and disorders arising
from a diseased stomach these pills are invaluable.
They cleanse the stomach, put life in the liver, aid
the kidneys, and purify the blood. Packed in
amber bottles and sold throughout Australasia.*
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Land Acts than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL.
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
RESCH’S SELE
STOCK
R
AND
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives,
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST.,
REDEERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The insufferable habit of crawling to the
Government for lucre has just g'ot a nasty knock in
Maoriland, and from a quarter least expected. Maoriland
Rugby Union, in framing its budget estimates for the
trip to England next year, mentioned that, in case the
£5OOO wasn’t forthcoming, an appeal could be made to the
State. Canterbury Rugby Union rose as one man in
opposition to the begging proposal, and voted £250
towards the exes., only on condition that the Treasury
isn’t asked for a single penny. As other Unions will proba-
bly do likewise, the idea may be regarded as effec-
tually squelched. Premier Seddon, in an exuberant state
of mind, did hint at a possible grant when welcoming the
victorious team back from Australia last year, but that
was when the wine was flowing. The Bisley team of
bullet wasters are going at the State’s expense, however.
* * * *
Considering the brief time available for
practice, an almost miraculous improvement will have
to, take place in the form of its footballers if N.S.W.
is to make a decent showing against the Englishmen—
that is, assuming that the trial match form is any
criterion. At present the prospect looks hopeless. Not
one team played a combined game right through, and the
kicking generally was deplorable. Even last year’s
premier crowd, Eastern Suburbs, displayed a woeful lack
of everything that goes to make a successful football
team. In the match against Glebe (won owing
to the shockingly bad play of Glebe), the passing
was spasmodic and erratic, while Glebe never dreamed of
trying to pass. When players did pass there was often
no one to take, and the struggling passer cheerfully
jerked the ball into the arms of an opponent; and when
there was someone howling for a chance the player
hugged the ball as though his life depended on its
possession. Still, the fact that E.S. did pass sometimes,
and that occasionally there was an extended line
of forwards to pass along - , enabled the men
from the suburbs where the birthrate is low
to crush the stronger, heavier crowd from Glebe.
Eastern Suburbs showed some slight combination, while
the Glebe team consisted of 15 men playing on their own
and making individual attacks. One of the most deplor-
able features of the play was the inability to kick. Over
and over again play was within the 25 yards, sometimes
right on the goal line, for minutes at a time, but no one
tried to take a field goal, and one couldn’t help w'ondering
what in thunder the half-backs were for, seeing that no one
gave them a chance to pot. The fact that the teams in-
clude a number of new men is no excuse for their undisci-
plined state. They are not all new men, and, presumably,
even the new men were juniors last year. Their physical
form seems rather good, the forwards were fast, the backs
tackled well, and there were occasionally good dribbling
rushes. The truth of the matter seems to be that the
footballers read the morning papers and are individualists.
As a public attraction in Sydney, football is not
in it with cricket. On Saturday, Sydney Cricket Ground
held only about 2000, while about 3000 looked on at the
matches at University Oval, and the vast array of empty
stands and the green expanse of naked hill were depressing.
Eastern Suburbs beat Glebe Point by 12 to 3 ; Newtown
downed Newcastle by 12 to 8, North Sydney trod on South
Sydney by six to nil, and University suppressed Western
Suburbs by 11 to nil.
* * # *
The promoters of the Australian football game
see that the only hope of making it general in
Sydney is to get it played first where the footballers
grow, so they have flooded the schools with litera-
ture explaining the game, ando ffering inducements
to play it—among the latter a challenge shield. Their
motto is—“ One Flag, one Destiny, one Football Game :
the Australian. And then they add that they are getting
the challenge shield made—in Europe !
* * * *
A feature of the Australian football game is
the enormous scores. West Sydney met a team from
Ashfield at Wentworth Park on Saturday, and the victors
staggered home under the gigantic load of 12 goals and 18
behinds, or 90 points, which meant five points for each
man in the team. Even the defeated, the team that was
said to have been simply run over, scored 29 points, or
nearly two per man. In that one match there were scored
nearly twice as many points as were made by all the first-
class Rugby teams playing in the metropolitan area on
Saturday. Which suggests to the Rugbyite that in the
Australian game scoring is too easy by far.
* * * *
“War E.” : Coming of an English team of
footballers to Australia recalls an incident in connection
with last crowd, of which Parson Molyneux was guide,
philosopher, and friend. Among these kickers were a
couple of boyish persons who affected kilts. Once, escaping
the watchful eye of Molyneux, one of the kilted gents was
enjoying the pastime of “ picking the lydy ” from three
cards on an upturned gingham. Before he had lost all his
substance, however, the parson pounced on him and
preached him a sermon on the enormity of his offence.
As the reverend footballer paused for breath a street-arab
chipped in, “ Don’t roust on ’im, mister ! ’E’ll go quiet
for yer to finish dressin’ ’im ! ”
» * * *
“Petramos” : Re remarkable names of Charters
Towers (Q.) football clubs. Used to play in front of my
house, near Adelaide Zoological Gardens, a team called
“ The Zoo Stragglers.” Its manners were a mixture of
bear and hyaena.
* * * *
Little Sammy Cracknell, the popular light-
weight jockey of long ago, is nowadays a prosperous
farmer down at Yarra Glen, taking little or no interest in
racing matters, and rarely showing himself in town.
Sammy with the sandy beard was quite a veteran-looking
mannikin in the late ’7o’s, what time he figured as the
hero of many sporting anecdotes. It was in ’79, or earlier,
that the quaint little chap rode the winner of the New-
market Handicap, and celebrated the occasion by enjoy-
ing a “wet” evening. In the course of his damp
festivities, Sam sidled up to Bonnor, the 6ft. 6in. cricketer,
and nudging the giant’s leg with his elbow, said : “ Look
here, Mr. Bonnor, I reckon you and me are the two
biggest blanky men in Australia to-night.”
* * * *
Canterbury .T.C. (M.L.) has found the “double”
tote and the ss. ditto so profitable that it intends running
both at its Grand National meet. And now nearly every
club in both islands is rushing to adopt the small silver
idea. A few years ago clubs would scorn to sell a tote-
ticket under £l, but the competition of the unlawful
person with the watch-chain has altered all that.
* * * *
The measly-looking prad with a wasted barrel,
weary eye, and shock mane often possesses hidden
qualities of appreciable value. Regulation (Regel—May),
who walked off with big Auckland R.O. Easter Handicap,
originally cost £9.
* * * *
Unusual spectacle of the top-weight starter in a
big event carrying only 7.2 was witnessed at Canterbury
Park, Saturday, when, after the final scratchings,
Felicita appeared in that position for Canterbury Hep.
She started a hot favorite at “ evens,” but made a
miserable showing compared with her display at Rand-
wick a week or two since, and finished a bad fifth. Aged
gelding Sasin, whom, as far as could be ascertained, only
his owner backed, and then to the extent of taking £5O
to £3 “ for fear the altogether unexpected might happen,”
won from end to end in one of the fastest 1J mile races
ever decided on that particular course. Previously Sasin
did best at 6 furlongs, and was never suspected of owning
the stamina evidenced in his latest triumph.
* » • #
One occurrence at Canterbury Park (Sydney)
races, Saturday, smacked of sensation. Kensington,
brother to whilom remarkable performer Kinglock, and
from whom much has been expected for a long time, was
the cause. Starting favorite in the Flying Handicap he
ran unplaced. Later, Stewards’ Mile saw odds at 6 to 4
wagered on him with long prices offered against the
others, but Kensington could do no better than finish
third, while ancient (9yr. old) La Hogue (starting at 7 to
1) fought out a bitter battle to the end, and landed the
coin by no more than a head from La Valetta. Excepting
a small event at Wollongong last August, La Hogue hadn’t
previously scored since A.J.G. Place Handicap fell to him
three years ago. Prior to Saturday, owner of Kensington
would probably have refused £4OO for his nag, as he has
been expected to reach Kinglock’s form. Perhaps the
price named wouldn’t lead to a deal now, but Saturday’s
display certainly rates Kensington little better than a
moderate—albeit he may yet realise expectations.
“Gun”: Was amused at a statement in a
Sydney daily the other day. Commenting- on recent
farcical police raids, it was said that owners and trainers
of horses would be glad to see betting shops wiped out
completely. Bunkum ! Why, some owners and trainers
F®. mainsta y of the shops ; they leave their horses
in till the last moment, and even take them to the course
and scratch them there, so that the shop Ikey may get
all possible through the robbery—for it is nothing else.
Heard a pony owner boast the other day that he didn’t
want to “ try ” yet awhile, as he was getting a “ fair bit ”
from the shops every week. To prevent this cold-blooded,
deliberate swindling the police should go to any extent to
close the shops. Imprisonment without the option of a
fine is the remedy that shut up every shop in Melbourne,
and it would do so in Sydney were it adopted. Instead of
decreasing, Sydney shops have multiplied considerably
during past few years, and look like continuing that way.
On the verge of collapsing, through old age,
famous racehorse The Rake had to be shot at Logan
Downs (N.Q.) recently. Queensland never owned a better
sire. The Rake first saw light in N.S.W. 30 years ago,
and was by Maribyrnong from Rosebud, by New Warrior.
During his racing career he won several big things over
all distances, and as a sire figured remarkably. Only
three thoroughbred mares were put to him, and yet his
gets were so successful that ’twas asserted anything bv
The Rake could gallop.
* * + *
A Singapore paper records “ One of the most
naive admissions recorded for some time was that of the
two stranded colonials who called upon the Chief Police
Officer on the 17th instant, and besought the pecuniary
aid which they claimed as the just due of alleged book-
makers in distress. They explained that they came up
here from Australia for the express purpose of making a
book at the race meeting that opened yesterday ; but as
they found book-malting was against the spirit of the
local ordinances they were deprived of means of making a
livelihood, and were accordingly ‘ stony broke.’ In other
words, these gentlemen proclaimed that they were going
to open a book oil the races without a penny to lay with.
Mr. Gardiner gave them an order for a couple of days’
board and lodging at the Sailors’ Home.”
“ G.M.” : Have just witnessed a unique back-
yard fight between two tom cats, ours and the Thomas
next-door. Our belligerent is a truculent-looking, big-
jowled heavy-weight—the other a sleek black and grey-
striped “middle.” No mere claw-scratching, fur-flying
tussle this, but a hind-leg stand-up affair, with right and
left front paws viciously swinging for the jaw, and as
pretty bits of head-ducking as you could wish to see,
accompanied, too, throughout with an unpublishable
torrent of cursing. Our representative fought his man
right across the yard, and finally knocked him sideways
against an upright sheet of galvanised iron with a force
that rattled it as if struck with a brick. The invader was
on his back, our Thomas stood over him, with paw up-
raised, and fire in his eye, when a yell of angry protest
came from the under cat. He was evidently pointing out
that you shouldn’t hit a cat when he is down. Reluctantly
our man withdrew a pace, and in a second, the other, with
a jeering howl, was over the fence. Some members of our
household have used the yard for boxing exercise, and
these cats used to sit on the wall and study the pro-
ceedings. Evidently they picked up the rules of the game.
Close of S.A. electorate cricket season finds
North Adelaide, the club of Claxton, Reedman, Reid, and
Pellew, ahead by 1 point from East Torrens—Newland,
Evans, and the five Hills (but Clem, was hardly ever
available). Claxton easily heads the bowling averages
with 29 for 11, and his 71 in batting is second only to
Arthur Evans’ 80. The latter is sixth in bowling, but
does not seem to rise to big cricket as Claxton can.
Travers took most wickets, as he has done six times in
the last seven seasons, but this time they cost over 21
runs each. Giffen’s dozen cost 33 ! Gehrs’ batting average
of 36 puts him only 17th on the list, while Reedman and
Giffen, who were dropped from the final match with Eng-
land as back numbers, show 47 and 37 respectively. The
only innings of over 200 during the season were played by
Claxton and one Dickenson, who has not got into inter-
state games. Clem. Hill only batted twice, and made 175
for once out.
Victor Trumper is recuperating on a*Gundagai
(N.S.W.) run. May the run usher in a long innings.
* * * *
In Victoria Cyril Basbford, a junior, playing in
a match between two church teams, t’other day, took the
20 wickets in a match ; 10 for 9 runs first innings, and 10
for 20 runs in the second. During the season he took 72
wickets at a cost of 160 runs !
* * * *
Warner’s just returned English team will try its
prowess against a team to be called the Rest of England on
May 9. The result should help to settle a great controversy.
Some Cold Country critics, when Warner started after the
ashes, said his team was one of the worst that ever left
England, and when it captured the long-lost ashes they
hailed it as the best. The proposed match should show
us what kind of team it really was which tore those ashes
from us.
♦ * * *
The first Australian inter-State cricket match
was played in 1851, between an eleven from Melbourne
and a Tasmanian eleven, at Launceston. Tasmania won
by three wickets.
* * ♦ *
Dear Bulletin, —Re Warner’s nervousness con-
cerning the Australian crowds. Could it not be arranged
that future English captains should be allowed to take a
Maxim gun into the field with them and that they should
be accorded the right of turning it on any spectators who
“guyed” the visitors or applauded the local team? Our
players who have visited England can tell little stories of
crowds in that model country, but the Britishers’ harmless
eccentricities are, of course, mere exuberance of spirits
and their invasions of the playing area only so much
natural joviality.—Yours, etc., C. R. Wilton.
* * * *
Australasian lightweight champion bruiser, Bob
Turner, and erstwhile world’s top-notch “fedder,” “ Tor-
pedo” Billy Murphy, will meet in Sydney shortly.
Murphy announces this his second time on earth, for ’tis
15 or 16 years since he won the New York Police Gazette
gold belt, through defeating then world’s premier
9-stoner, Ike O’Neill Weir. Though 42 to-day, Maoriland
Billy should make a good showing, as the present Aus-
tralian forefront boxer is considerably short of the cham-
pion of the eighties’ class, and Murphy demonstrated
three months ago in ’Frisco that there was a heap of the
old fire and skill in him yet.
* * * *
Despite bis temporary lunacy, frost bites, and
other close calls, Sydney Rocks “Griffo” is still bruising
in ’Murka, and showing flashes of old form. Within past
couple of months he won one battle, drew another, but, in
a third with Tommy White, an old opponent, he “chucked
it ” badly in the first round. Same with all the old ’uns ;
there comes a time when they don’t relish punishment
and won’t take any more of it than can be helped.
♦ * * *
Sydney Gaiety Athletic Olub saw the fourth
meeting of welter weights D. Mai oney and M. Mitchie on
Saturday night. At the start Mitchie showed a disposi-
tion to rush things and hit wildly. A collision with a
rope post and a heavy bash on the “ lamp ” had a steady-
ing effect, and Mathew left the man from the Ould Sod to
do the rushing, and contented himself with plugging in
a good steady left. For effective work, the reliable
plugging aw'ay with the left is hard to beat, and after 10
rounds of it Maloney was such a wreck that his seconds
cast the drapery towards the clouds. This is Mitchie’s
third victory over Maloney.
* * * *
The man who “ tries out ” a new' bruiser never
knows what he is going to strike, and occasionally he
strikes something between a blizzard and an earthquake.
Bruiser (Jibson was deputed to perform the trying-out
< perdition on one Miller, said to have come from England
h ok ng for scalps, at the Gaiety Club, Sydney, last week.
Miller knew nothing about boxing, but he could fight
something awful. He swung a left like a sledge-hammer,
and rammed his way through everything, and then rush-
ing in he would get to holts, and w r hen he didn’t swing
Gibson off his feet and bang him down on the floor, he
would grip him round the neck with the left and pound
him with the right. The referee was aghast, and the
louder the gong went the harder Miller hit. Gibson was
eventually rescued before he quite looked as if he had
been eaten by a lion. There is no news, so far, of any
other bruiser inquiring for Miller.
» * * *
Fight at Sydney National S.C. last week be-
tween welter premier Geoge Johns, who has been peace-
fully running a pub nearly two years, and a boyish-looking
Victorian pug, Williams (10.10), was more exciting than
expected. Each stripped at his best ; Williams was
particularly well and Johns as much so as the time avail-
able and circumstances generally would allow. The
struggle was a determined thing. During several rounds
neither backed ground more than he could help and each
gave and took with a zest that sent the house mad.
Betting fell to 2 to 1 on Johns after the first round and,
a round or two later, 6 to 4 needed looking for, so well did
the giraffe-necked Melbourne boy shape. Sensation was
provided as early as the first round when Johns —half
forced, half tripping—went down on his hams with a
heavy flop. Williams had the second round by a
point or two and it looked as if the erstwhile brilliant
Johns was going to get a near call. The fight
belonged to either at the close of the third
3mins. The fifth was the star round. Fierce exchanges
had the crowd on its feet for seconds at a stretch.
Williams drove a heavy left on the throat, sending his man
back on to the rope from which he rebounded into the
thick of it. Williams, backing away, sunk or tripped to the
floor and stayed 6 seconds. They fought like tigers after-
wards. Williams’ legs suggested a dancing spider and his
arms worked like flails in the next two rounds, while Johns
kept boring in and punching short arm blows home. In
the eighth they were hitting vigorously till a right jolted
Williams’ chin and as he sagged and oscillated a left
to the other side dropped him. Half through the count
Williams rose on one knee and stayed there till “ out ! ”
evidently bewildered and ignorant of exactly what was
going on. The unthinking crowd hooted Williams when
they should have applauded him for a remarkably gritty
fight against an older hand at the business whom no one
else his weight would tackle till the Victorian came along.
Johns’ display wasn’t up to his showing opposed to black
Tom Mitchell and others who could be named—he had
been too long on the shelf.
* * * *
This year’s Dunlop Road Race from Goulburn to
Sydney will probably be run on the 6th August. The
prize list, etc., of this event will be out next
month. The Dunlop Inter-club Premiership contest,
under the auspices of N.S.W. Cyclists Union, will
probably be commenced about the 11th June, and races
will take place fortnightly from that date. As previously,
the winning club will hold the Dunlop shield for the year,
besides securing team championship medals. At the con-
clusion of the contest a race will take place for the
Amateur Road Championship of N.S.W., for which the
Dunlop Co. presents a £5 ss. gold medal. Full particulars
will be available in a few days.*
» * * *
The South Australian cycling authorities got
themselves cordially disliked during the “Farewell
meeting.” First of all Scheps and Pye cursed them, and
announced that they would never race again in the Holy
City till the executive changed its personnel ; and now
Major Taylor has arisen and poured oil on the troubled
flames by declaring that there was a conspiracy among
the members of the executive to disqualify him at the
slightest opportunity, and that in order to dish this in-
famous project the Lord blew out his tyre before the first
lap of the first race was complete.
» * * •
Melbourne Eight Hours Day saw some cycling
at the Exhibition track on Saturday. Major Taylor won
the Ten Miles International Scratch, a £2O fixture, with
Farley and Scheps second and third. Up to the final lap
the affair seems to have been a sort of donkey race, but
in the final sprint Taylor, as usual, “jumped” and won.
Don Walker got away with the first money (£2O) of the
Autumn Handicap, a two-mile event, off the 20 yards
mark in 4min. 12sec. This meeting will probably be the
last at which the crack riders will appear in track races
till next season.
* * * *
There was an unusual happening at Temuka
(M.L.) bike sports. Four competitors in the Spectators
Race dead-heated in the final, and divided first and
second ifioney, such as it was.
* * # •
N.S.W. coursing season proper began with
Kensington (Sydney) Club’s meet last week. Form of
dogs was mostly high-class, but hares, though strong
enough, shaped “strange,” with the result that many
trials were cruelly protracted, and ended quite differently
from what would have been the case had the hares known
anything about the escapes. Several courses were con-
fined absolutely to the neighborhood of the slips. Erst-
while champion Braddon’s Blot, who has been racing five
seasons now, showed signs of wear, and, after a close call
with Fusilier the first day, went under in second ties
of Kensington Stakes to ultimate winner—Victorian crack,
Goldbar. Winner (Firewood) of Maiden Stakes was 15
to 1 against at card-call night before meeting began, but
well-backed Kildinan would have won had the hare been
trained at all. If some of the dogs were not dosed appear-
ances lied violently, especially in the final of one stake ;
and yet the Association has a new rule providing for
punishment of this practice, and “ experts ” were on the
alert.
* • * *
Although Saturday’s was, on the whole, a sun-
less afternoon, Parramatta River was crowded with
launches and craft of every sort and size to watch the
Great Public Schools Regatta, and the glowing heart of
all the splendor was T. Dibbs’s steam yacht Ena. Sydney
Grammar School had a day out, winning the Schools
Championship, Maiden Fours and Junior Fours. The
Junior Eights went to the Mercantile Club, which downed
Sydney Rowing Club. The success of the Grammar
School boys showed long and careful preparation. Also,
the regatta was about the noisiest function ever held on
the river, the screeching of the small boys, when their
particular crowd got ahead, being something awful, and
calculated to make the bulls of Bashan blush in their
graves.
* * * *
Coming amateur sculling supremacy of the con-
tinent will be contested by the same old champions, who
seem to have been with us a lifetime. Only on rare
occasions does a new name appear among the competi-
tors, and then it drops out never to be heard of again.
Tasmanian Bourke should win handily from Victorian
Ivens and Queenslander Slack. Since successful little
Daley’s retirement N.S.W. hasn’t been able to raise anyone
within degrees of requirements, and, judging by the
material in evidence, isn’t likely to do so for some time.
* » * *
Much-talked match between world’s champion
sculler Towns and Tresidder is assuming definite shape.
Towns hopes to have his £5OO stake in sight this Satur-
day, when articles will be signed. Tresidder’s money is
ready now. They will probably row in July and on the
Parramatta river. That the holder of the big title has
found it difficult to raise the stake shows how very flat
the once popular sport has gone. In the times of
Trickett, Beach, Searle and co. hundreds more than
money required were always offered.
* * * *
Inter-State eight-oar struggle, to take place next
Saturday, in Brisbane, will be contested by five crews—
N.S.W., Victoria, S.A., W.A., and Queensland, yictorians
look to own the thing, for they’ve done great work and
are undoubtedly fast, but this time they won’t have the
aid of veteran Chamley, who has been with them 17 years.
S. Australian eight is said to be the best that section
has ever put on the water—time is close to perfection
and work is very effective. Little is known of the Wes-
tralians, but they’ll be weightily handicapped through
not reaching Brisbane till late this or early next week.
Bananalanders arc a heavy lot, who’ll strip in prime fix,
and have a new boat, built by the Melbourne master
hands, Edwards and Son. In this eight is ex-Ba!!arat
oarsman Watson (stroke), who has rowed for Victoria
twice or thrice. N.S.W. combination is ahead of any
turned out during past three years, and that’s the best
that can be said of them, though they might be better
and still not reach the Victorian standard. Everything
reasoned out, Victoria should, as monotonously as usual,
finish first, with S.A. or N.S.W second, though Q. might
prove dangerous.
Various Sydney sporting bodies are combining
forces against the presence of Mo., excepting when and
where he is wanted. This action has been prompted by
evidence adduced during the N.S.W.A.A.A.’s recent
inquiry into the devious doings of certain of its members.
A conference is being convened with the object of
talking ways and means towards moving the Government
to bringing in a Bill similar to one recently passed in
Victoria, which gives the promoters of any meeting power
to “proclaim” it, and vigorous provisions do the rest.
Necessity for such an enactment has been very evident
lately, particularly at bike meetings.
* * » *
The committee of the N.S.W. Amateur Ath-
letic Association has finished its investigation into the
doings at St. Patrick’s Day sports, and sent another ath-
lete up for 12 months. The committee found that there
were plenty of others implicated, but there was too much
honor among the thieves, and where the committee got
any evidence it found it had no jurisdiction, and where it
had jurisdiction it couldn’t get evidence.
* • * *
Australasian Amateur Athleticism is concerned
much at the exodus from the pot-hunting to professional
ranks. Present professional boom—particularly in
Queensland—is responsible. Generally the amateur gains
nothing by it and “ goes over” at the wrong time—as a
rule immediately after about the best performance of
his life, like Queensland crack O. C. Sanderson, Victorians
A. A. Nicholls and G. Blake, pole vaulter Harrington and
high jumper Francis. Result is that all get on marks
whence ’tis impossible to win, the promoter of pro-
fessional competitions usually rating the amateur standard
higher than it really is.
* * * *
Merit of Miss Annette Kellermann’s 2\ miles
swim down the Yarra (from Church-st. to Princes Bridge),
Saturday last, in 46min. 30 2-5 sec., is difficult to get at on
account of the current. With still water neither world’s
record mile holder Reran nor Dick Cavill could get inside
the same figures. It isn’t known that a lady swimmer
ever used the double over-arm (or “trudgeon”) method
of propulsion over the distance Miss Kellermann covered.
Her best mile in still water was 33min. 49sec., two years
ago.
* # * #
New Australasian swimming championship
agreement, drawn up by M.L., N.S.W. and Q. reps, in
meeting assembled, doesn’t quite go down with Victorian
swimming people. Victorians won’t have the three-mile
event, which they urge will serve no useful end as an exhibi-
tion of swimming, and will always prove depressingly mono-
tonous, also, perhaps, a one-man race most of the way, if
not over the whole journey. They are right. There’s
heaps of room between the 880 yards and the mile for
another premiership—or why not a breast-stroke race, for
that method is the most enduring, serviceable and
physique developing of all—especially is it useful in saving-
life from drowning. Victorians kick, too, against the
shortening of standard times, which is little to be won-
dered at in face of the fact that their fastest “ hundred ”
last season was 1.10 against N.S.W.’s 58sec. and even
W.A.’s 1.7.


The Pen Carbon Letter Book
V
m
*s2
m
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK/
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CIITT.D can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
Bole Agents for
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria—ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elizabeth Bt.,
Melbourne.
DIABETIC
Patients will hear of
something- to their ad-
vantage by writing to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY.
A SURE CURE for RHEUMATISM
X
OUR KUFER Anti-Rheumatic Rings & Armlets
OUR KUFER is better than Medicine
OUR KUFER has gained hundreds of unsolicited testimonials
OUR KUFER will never wear out
OUR KUFER sales amount to 10,000 in three years.
CAUTION.
None Genuine unless
Stamped—
"KUFEß.”
BBop
PRICES—
Plain .. .. 3s 6d
Silver Cased 10s
Gold Cased 15s
Post Free.
REGISTERED
COPYRIGHT.
RV»
wm
sa i
SEND FOB
CATALOGUE
and
Ring Size Card,
BEWARE OF USELESS IMITATIONS.—Owing to the undeniable success
which has attended the sale of our Registered Kufer Rings for Rheumatism, many
•colorable imitations of the same are now being put upon the market.
For size send a piece of wire or a hole cut in a piece of thick cardboard.
The Very
Latest . .
KUFER ARMLETS, 7/6 ea.
These are worn up
the arm out of sight.
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Immediately next door to the Fresh
Food & Ice Company’s Tea Rooms.
Telephone 3642.
Vz-
DON WALKER
. . ON A . .
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Won all Important Events at Adelaide, April 16th, 1904.
Sherrin and Gilbert Footballs,
Nicholl’s Special Golf Goods,
Striking Bags, Boxing Gloves,
Tennis, Gymnastic Apparatus.,
QOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
357 George St., SYDNEY
“ Curlew” takes up> the 1 parable which
Mr. Bumble left unfinished!:—
One of the queer irregularities o£ the law was illus-
trated in Melbourne, the other day, in a case of insulting
language. I gather that if; I take a fancy to call Bill
Smith a liar in the vicinity of a public: road, Bill may sool
the entire majesty of the law on to me, and I pay for the
fun. _ The law is careful to distinguish that it is Smith
that is injured and not anyone passing along the road,
and so it doesn’t help me at all bo prdrve that nobody was
near to hear my, opinion of Smith, and that the road was
quite deserted. But if I lead Smith into, the centre of a
decent-sized paddock, I may throw hyperbole at him in-
definitely, and if he doesn’t catch ®*e with a half brick
no other action will lie. In other words, it’s no insult to
call Smith a decorated Ananias except when the expres-
sion is likely to fall and cause an ttxplosfion on or near a
macadamised road. And as j*. is alfl the same whether the
road is deserted or not, and an the law doesn’t care two-
pence for Smith’s feelings when there istno'road near, I
can only assume that it is the road’* feeliings that the law
is really troubled about.
If you like a Book: that is ipure tun
from cover to comer, hay
“ TWELVE EX-TANK TALES "
(First published in the New- York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable, ' l > r s e ~ £iH POST
American. r,ce Oa, OU. PAID.
AMERICAN BOOK CO., Box 45? % 0.P.0., SYDNEY
If by adequate Protection a b
industry were built up in Australia,
be no further talk of the rabbit ‘
instead, there would be devices to
alive for an annual shearing.
>ig felt hat
there would
1 nuisance ” ;
keep bunny
Em
mn
m
mi
cm
i\
m
cm
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is "Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “»(8
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
01 iioe. Proprietor—GEO. IT. ELLIS.
CH AS GILBERT’S
Q
lu
E
E
N
S
T
HURRY UP
If you want to win a prize in our mail orde? competition.
The present one closes Saturday, April 3(Jth. We are
offering three prizes to the three customers sending the three
biggest orders (accompanied with remittance).
Ist Prize—Half the cash received.
2nd Prize—One third cash received.
3rd Prize —One fourth cash received.
Any number may club together in se>.iding orders, but
the prize will be awarded to the customer signing the letter.
Write for patterns of new winter suitings
From 35- to 85 j m to measure.
Best value in the Commonwealth.
Remember —We Guarantee Satisfaction.
sd
a
R
>l]
S
B
A
N
E
fsd
WILLIAMS’
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
fsd
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
fs*'' Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
Enqlish Ounces , divided into C Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
SHRRPSHOOTINg
fd
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK/
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nitt. '
Posted, 1/2.
The beat 1/- worth ewer Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
yon should purchase W. W. CREENER’B
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
The proceedings at Port Melbourne court
one day last week called attention to the fact that
the Law, in providing State care for neglected
children, also provides intermittent support for
the father. When his offspring are removed to
the Industrial Schools by order of the court the
bereaved parent becomes liable to the State for a
weekly payment. When he doesn’t meet his
liability he is summoned, and when he doesn’t
care a curse he is imprisoned. One of the drunk
and irresponsible parents who figured in the
Port Melbourne illustration is a State debtor
to the tune of £80. He has not yet contributed a
shilling towards his young family’s support since
the order was made, though he earns money
enough to keep himself unsober whilst at liberty.
Although not a criminal, he is fairly entitled to
be put back into gaol within one week of every
time he is released therefrom. Thus the State’s
custody of the children is visited upon the father
unto the thirtieth and fortieth incarceration, so to
speak.
The Sweetapple case dragged its trivial
length to an end at Adelaide Supreme Court on
the 18th, judgment being given for the respondent.
Chief-Justice Way diversified the proceedings by
side-lights on his own domestic arrangements,
such as his inability to call his wife by her Chris-
tian name, and his desire that his establishment at
Montefiore might be kept up on £100 a year. At
times the little Chief was quite pathetic and in-
dulged in touching reminiscences of the allegedly
smacked and pinched petitioner’s forbears, “the
gallant Major O’Halloran,” and “the model
family physician, Dr. Woodforde.” Also, Sammy
became slightly illogical and tried to commend the
truthfulness of both parties. He inferred that in
the press of his professional engagements Dr.
Sweetapple could not be expected to remember
when he last threw soap at his wife (which his
Honor considered a most ungentlemanly proceed-
ing, by the way !! !), or how many handles he
broke off the hair-brushes. Way concluded with a
homily on the duties of husband and wife, and the
proceedings ended in nothing very definite except
oosts
N
li
H : j . v/, >? •}/
L-lSali\iw
DUIW.OP
RUBBER HEEL 5
FYevcnt jarring. 6 make
walking a pleasure.
Obtainable all Boot Shops
all Sizes.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CP OF AUS. LTD.
MELB. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. BRISBANE
PERTH. CHRISTCHURCH N. 2. ')
Sydney
House:
ISO Clarence Si.


MEDIUM'STRENGTH
TRADE MflBK miffiffl
Bristol
» SJsgf O
& Lo
11^
r
\ \'
i\\w
friend.”
MILD-
MEDIUM
& FULL-
The first sermon preached in Australia by
parson Johnson, the second Sunday after landing
at Sydney Cove, was on the text—“ As cold waters
to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far
country.” What a capacity for the inopportune
that old-time cleric had ! His congregation had
all got long sentences and didn’t expect good
news for years.
“H.P.” visits Horsham, the metropolis
of the (until recently) drought-stricken Wimmera
district of Victoria :—
Reached Horsham after the usual struggle experienced
by travellers in Bent’s trains to reach anywhere. The
station was" crowded with people assembled to see a
Salvarmy brass band off. Wimmera and Mallee towns
are strong on religion. They are always either wel-
coming a new parson or Salvarmy officer, or giving an old
one a send-off. The town seemed full of wheat, horses
and dust—especially wheat. Horsham appears to be
prosperous—beastly prosperous. The people have passed
through a tough trouble the last year or two. They
blamed the Labor party, the Federal Parliament—any-
body or anything for their misfortunes. For their pros-
perity they thank themselves. The shops are large
showy, and busy. Everybody is making the most of the
good time while it lasts. Next year may be another
“ 'ean ” one. But no matter. The Government will send
wheat, fodder, etc., and the socialistic farmer will pull
through again. So hang economy. Those are Horsham’s
sentiments. Pubs, and jewellers’ shops are plentiful. The
men drink while the women buy jewellery. Horsham is
proud of its hoary antiquity. People talk about the ’50’s
there in quite a matter of fact way. The weather has
always been an interesting subject to them. The “ oldest
resident ” has the rainfall records since ’49. And he says
this season has upset all previous records for pure
cussedness and general misbehavior. The people talk
nothing but wheat. They look like wheat. The only
trouble these Wimmera farmers have now is that they
cannot get their wheat threshed. It is expected that the
steam thresher will be heard through the land until next
harvest time. And if two or three good seasons follow
harvesting will last all the year round.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lockyer’s
the real English Hair Restorer. Large bottles Is.
everywhere.*
The “Sanitas” Company, Limited.— The
annual general meeting of the “Sanitas ” Company,
Limited, was held on Wednesday, February 24th,
at their Limehouse Works, under the presidency
of Mr. C. T. Kingzett, F.I.C., F.C.S. The chair-
man congratulated the shareholders upon the con-
tinued prosperity of the business, notwithstanding
the generally depressed state of trade throughout
the country and the bad weather which had been
very adverse to their interests. In particular, he
directed attention to the “ Pine-Oxygen ” treat-
ment of consumption and lung and throat affec-
tions which had been elaborated by the company,
and he anticipated a growing trade in the sale of
“Sanitas” oil and “Sanitas” fumigators and
inhalers, which appliances are associated with that
treatment. It was pointed out that this treatment
of consumption is inexpensive and is within the
reach of the very poor as well as the rich, while it
does not necessitate residence abroad and obviates
the rigours of the so-called open-air cure. Refer-
ence was also made to a new Antiseptic Dentifrice
the company had recently placed on the market
known as “Zanol.” Turning to the accounts of
the company, after making provision for bad and
doubtful debts, repairs to plant and machinery,
and advertising, a final dividend and bonus of 5
per cent, was declared (making a total distribution
of per cent, for the year), the sum of £500 was
carried to depreciation, £1,500 to reserve, and a
balance of £2,227 forward to 1904.*
“ Dux ” writes :—
South Island (M.L.) also boasts a few strangely-named
places : White Umbrella, Black Umbrella, Five Fingers,
Nightcaps, Staircase Peak, Obelisk, Five Mile, Wet Jacket
Sound, Steeple, Looking Glass Bay, Corner Lob, Notown,
Toetoes Bay, Scrubby Hill, Pyramids, Leaning Rock!
Bhxeskm, Okl Man, Mullooky Gully, Big Head, Hoho,
Saddle Hdl, Whale, Dog Hill, Styx, The Hump Nigo-er
Head, Redman’s, Bald Peak, Pudding Hill, Sherry,
House Roof Hill, Flat Mountain, Wednesday Peak, Chim-
ney Hook, Poison Bay, Lawyer’s Head, Birdling's Flat,
Centrebush, Five Rivers, etc.
Mothers of children affected with croup or a
severe cold need not hesitate to give CHAM-
BliiRLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY, for it contains
no poison in any form.*
About two Maoriland politicians :—
The Prohibitionists of Maoriland are still upset
over some revelations regarding certain actions of
two of their leaders, Parson Isitt and politician T. E.
Taylor. Isitt announced that he had in his possession,
i le taking of the poll, a ballot paper for use in
the Wellington Licensing Committee election. There is a
severe penalty provided for the theft of ballot papers, and
Isitt was asked by the Department of Justice to say where
he got the paper. He refused, and added insult to injury
by saying that, in mentioning the stolen paper, his object
was to prove that the department was criminally careless
in not looking better after the ballot box. For some time
now the newspapers have been chronicling the severe
remarks of the Minister of Justice about Isitt’s instigation
to crnne on the one hand, and on the other hand Isitt’s
wild and whirling denunciation of the department as a
careless and sleepy concern that will be stolen itself one
day and sold to a marine store. Isitt further alleged that
the crime of the thief was a circumstance compared with
the crime of the department in keeping the ballot papers
in a place where a burglar could get at them. Public
opinion seems to favor the department, because Isitt’s
remarks appear to indicate a belief that if Bill
-1 ' r ®aks into a bank and steals the safe,
v. 1 es ' 18 doing a public service in drawing
attention to the fact that the safe is breakable. With
regard to Taylor, that enteiprising chap, who was a
struggling temperance demagogue eight years ago,
bought some land for tenpence or more, and sold it later
on at something like £900 an acre. His land speculations
have made him wealthy in a remarkable degree. Just now
he is engaged in a land-nationalisation campaign. A few
weeks back the Christchurch Trades and Labor Council
passed a resolution condemning Taylor for his inconsist-
ency , and urging- the other land-nationalisers to throw
him overboard into the arms of the Fatman, where he
properly belonged. The council repented later on, how-
ever, and Taylor is in the thick of his campaign. When
asked to explain why he was a land-grabber in private
hfe, and why, at the same time, he was calling out on
public platforms for the blood of the land-shark, he said
he saw no reason why he should not take advantage of the
state of civilisation in which he found himself. Which
means, apparently, that if he happened to live in the
Solomon Islands he would become a cannibal, and take
advantage of human flesh.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES
MORRIS^^
IMPERIAL."
chemists & stores.
Imperial
*
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
-restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 21-
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melbi
After a year or two of waiting, Hume
Cook M.H.R., managed to get his motion for the
establishment of a Federal Life and Accident
Assurance Department before the House of Repre-
sentatives, and, after two or three speeches, the
matter was postponed for a month, when it will
probably be crowded out for another six weeks,
and then shunted indefinitely. The curse of un-
limited jaw weighs heavily on our Parliaments,
and prevents anything definite being done. It
should be possible for a man with an idea to
get a definite vote of the House on it in one even-
ing when once he gets started. After he has
stated his case the party leaders should speak, if
they feel so inclined, and, if there is any section
of the House which wants to oppose, it should be
allowed to select one man from among its number
to state its case. Then the division should be
taken m a full House ; it should be kept full by
docking the salary of the man who isn’t present.
There would be some finality about that sort of
thing.
m,
m
Melbourne
Branch—
W. WOOLLEY
AM) HON,
Equitable
Building-.
Queensland
Branch—
H. J. DIDDAMS
AND CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do you believe in NEW IDEAS
and NEW METHODS? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
They Out down TIME and LABOR
mean money to you ?
The PRINCIPAL has “ grip ” and control
affairs hitherto unknown.
-does that
of
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent.
f
Enginemans Master Key
Second Edition.
AH Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, a/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
FITS CORED
From the first dose of Ozerirte fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsv when even-
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and It-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast; Ireland.
SSH 9
: I
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models <
£2.10*o£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port in Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , Accessories, Sporting Goods &
pewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
»Write tor Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, C.S.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
Ktfirences throughout Great Britain and ColonUt.
ASTHMA
taken from the
i Nothing remain*
* produce an attack.
System.
which cal
You caa
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination' and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hav Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explaratory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address; Dr. P. Harold Hayes’ Asthmatic Institute.
Buffalo. N. Y.. U. S. A.
ds
jk n:oissa'icß.Er>.>
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
A (2 I 74 VICTORIA ROAD.
n. hi LUIYIdUcav, auburn, Melbourne
f m QTtm *\
ZEMATONE POWDER AnCABETTHS
iFwn ii’iz-t
The marvellous remedy for ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS and
Complaints of the Respiratory Organs. Instant relief and ,
cure. Recommended by the entire medical profession. Price!
2/6 pe* box. Trial box free from Cornford & CO.,
6 Coronation House, jLloyds' Avenue, London. J
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET o'f Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out'to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
>f Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin afid card
ricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
le linition of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
ainments), the Wonderful Finger Through the Hat Trick,
.he Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
(bdchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
l iick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
,'hangeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hat market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.


A recent judgment of the Chief Justice of
f'ipe Colony in favor of the Government, in the
i; p of a Jewish alien excluded from the colony as
■i prohibited person under the Cape Immigration
\ct followed the Privy Council decision of a note-
worthy Victorian case. In April, 1888, the vessel
A Chin arrived at Melbourne, having on board
2i)8 > Chinese immigrants for that port, while by the
immigration laws she was entitled to bring only 14.
Collector of Customs Musgrove refused to allow
one Ah Toy (among others) to land, or to accept
the tax of £10 in respect of him. The Government
ratified the act of the Collector as an act of State
policy. All Toy applied to the Courts. The
matter came before the Full Court, consisting of
six judges in 1888. Four of the judges decided
that the Government had exceeded its powers in
the instructions given to the Collector of Customs
by virtue of which that official had refused
admission to the Chinese. Chief-Justice Higin-
botham and Justice Kerferd, however, held that
the authorities had acted quite within their con-
stitutional powers, on the broad ground that so
much of the State prerogative appertained to them
as was necessary for the safety of the country and
the maintenance of peace. On appeal the Privy
Council also took this view and reversed the
majority decision of the Court.
“Buzz” sends some notes from the Cold
Country : —
One of the most noticeable thing's to an Australian com-
ing to England is the great difference between the English
village boy and the Australian boy. In Wiltshire the lad of
17 or 18 is about equal to the Australian of 13 or 14. Every
English village lias, not one but quite an assortment, of
idiots, monstrosities, etc. —harmless creatures, with loose
mouths, and lack-lustre eyes, who hardly move out of the
way as you drive past. They are invariably to be seen in
the church on Sunday, where they gape about vacantly
and make strange noises when the organ plays.
The average earnings of the Wiltshire farm laborer are
15s. per week, and he manages to rear a family on them. His
usual wage is 10s., but overtime at harvest and a tip now
and then runs the average up to 15s. He always has a
bit of garden, and now and then he manages to keep a
pig. If he has a vote he gives it where he is told, and he,
his family and his dog, his cat and all that is his, bow
down to the lord of the manor and all that lord’s servants,
agents, sons, daughters, cousins, and aunts.
When the English village girl first goes to service she
gets from £4 to £5 per year as kitchen maid, and she is
expected to be always neat and clean on it. House and
parlor maids only ask from £8 to £10 ; plain cooks or
cook-generals—as they call themselves—from £12 to
A first-rate cook in a middle-class London house only gets
from £20 to £'25 a year. In one swell London house
present scribe knows, the wages of the four indoor ser-
vants only amount to £54 per year.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
( ncorporated by Royal Charter, i 835.)
PAID-UP CAPITAL £1,600,000
RESERVE FUND (of which £500,000 is . invested in 2£ per cent. Consols
at 85, the remainder being- used in the business of the bank) £1,130,000
RE SERVE LIABILITY of PROPRIETORS UNDER the CHARTER .. £1,600,000
■ £4,330,000
SEVENTIETH ANNUAL REPORT of the Directors of THE BANK of AUSTRALASIA,
With the ACCOUNTS for the HALF-YEAR to 12th OCTOBER, 1903, presented to the Proprietors at the Annual
General Meeting, held on Thursday, 24th March, 1904, at One o’clock.
IRIS IPOZE&T.
rpHE directors submit to the proprietors the balance-sheet as at 12th October last, with the profit account for the
•*- half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes, and
for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £151,598 6s. lid.
To this sum must be added £16,353 11s. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
£167,951 17s. lid., out of which the directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent, per
annum, or £2 Bs. per share, free of income-tax.
The dividend will absorb £96,000, and the directors have further appropriated £30,000 to the reserve fund, and
£25,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain £16,951 17s. lid. to be carried forward to
next account.
The dividend will be payable in London and in the colonies on the 25th inst.
Mr. Leslie Sanderson, of Messrs. Sanderson, Murray and Co., is a candidate for the vacancy on the board of
directors, caused by the death of the late Mr. John Sanderson, and the directors have much pleasure in recommending
him to the proprietors for election.
Since the date of the last report new branches of the bank have been opened at Murwillumbab in New South
Wales, Duketon in Western Australia, and at Levin and Taihape in New Zealand.
C. G. HAMILTON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 14th March, 1904.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 13, 1903, to OCTOBER 12, 1903.
Undivided profit, April 13, 1903 £112,353 11 0
Less —Dividend, October, 1903 96,000 0 0
£16,353 11 0
Profit for the half-year to October 12, 1903, after deducting rebate on bills current
at balance date (£7,438 13s. Id.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful
debts £296,479 1 8 0
Less.
I. Charges of Management-
Colonial—
Salaries ~d JZc', ;""ces to the colonial staff, including the
superintendent’s department, ana 162 branches and
agencies .. .. .. .. .. .... .. .
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travel-
ling, &c. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
London—
Salaries .. .. ..
General expenses
£121,959 10 3
£13,721 7 5
9,200 13 5
22,922 0 10
144,881 11 1
Total amount of unappropriated profit £167,951 17 11
From which deduct—
For transfer to reserve fund £30,000 0 0
For reduction in cost of bank premises 25,000 0 0
55,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend £ll2 951 1-7 11
11. Rates and Taxes —
Colonial
London ..
£87,931 15 4
22,436 5"l
8,760 3 4
2,831 6 6
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 12, 1903.
Dr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits .. .. .. . r
Bills payable, and other liabilities
£503,249 0 0
14,662,649 19 11
2,073,777 5 0
£17,239,676 4 11
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund.. .. 1,130,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000
is invested in 2£
per cent. Consols
at 85, the remain-
der being used in
the business of
the bank.)
Profit account; undi-
vided balance .. 112,951 17 11
2,842,951 17 11
£20,082,628 2 10
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
AS,S lily Ur.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances .. £3,465,089 19 11
Loans at call and at short notice.. .. 295,000 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 967,140 12 2
India and Colonial Governments securi-
ties 269,056 17 6
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets 14,750,263 6 8
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand
and London 336,077 6 7
£20,082,628 2 10
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London hooks, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg- to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fail-
balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by
the books.
London, March 9, 1904. WELTON, JONES, and Co., Auditors.
■slryJS
A Gold or Silver Watch Free!
SEND NO MONEY,
■UTE hereby undertake to
” give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
D**T M**S T**S c****E
and addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have
won the Watch. We are malting
this offer solely with the object of introducing and advertising our
goods. Forward j our letter to our address : [or Box 865 G.P.O.]
GOLD SMITHS COLONIAL CO., PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
THE
PL(j
THE
‘PLUM’
j^rshifs
their merits. Te GUARANTEE EACH TWO YeTrL" "" f ° r “ nUmber ° f ““ teStify °
THE “ PLUM ’ RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
śdf
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
I Single Razor, in Ivor}' Handle, 158. ] Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case. 30s
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add. Gd. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
“A White Australia Impossible.”
From The Argus, Melbourne, April 13, 1904.
“ Mr. E. W. Cole is forwarding to 880 news-
papers and xo.ooo citizens, of all professions
and positions in the Commonwealth, a minia-
ture paper and a postcard, in which are epito-
mized the main arguments against a * White
Australia,' which he is convinced ‘ would be
unpayable, morally wrong, and altogether im-
possible of continuance.’ Tue little paper his
been produced in a form likely to attract notice,
and those who receive postcards are asked to
vote for the five which they consider strongest
of the thirty reasons enumerated. When the
return cards are received, Mr. Cole will publish
the re’ative votes for the whole of the thirty
reasons for the information of the public. The
reasons are as follows: —1. Because every
seventh person in the Commonwealth is already
more or less coloured, and gradually many will
blend. 2. Because the sun is the came of skin-
colour. 3. Because all Australians'will in time
become coloured. 4. Because the white man
cannot work in the tropics. 5. Because white
women become wrecks in the tropics. , (■. Be-
cause white children cannot be reared in the
tropics. 7. Because the coloured man must
develop the tropics. 8. Because Jesu'g-Christ
was a coloured man. 9. Because Jesus taught
the universal brotherhood of man. 10. Because
humanity exists in every human heart. ir.
Because the feeling of human kinship is univer-
sal. 12. .Because all mankind are capable of
inter-blending. 13. Because all mankind ‘are'
inter-blending everywhere. 14. Because the
British people are for universal freedom. 15.
Because the British Empire has seven coloured
to one white. 16. Because the Act is an insult
to all coloured nations. 17. Because Australia
will tire of being a laughing-stock. 18. Because
Australia’s own humanity is against the Act,
and all Christian teaching is, must, and will be
against it. 19. Because the Act is against the
interests of commerce. 20. Because the Act
prevents the development of Australia. 21.
Because our white birth-rate is diminishing.
22. Because enough white emigrants will not
come so far. 23. Because we are surrounded
by coloured people. 24. Because Australia has
a hundred times the area of Scotland, and a few
millions of white people have no right to mono-
polize it. 25. Because Japan, China. India, and
Java are awakening. 26. Because China has
400 millions, and is overflowing. 27. Because
India has 300 millions, and is overflowing. 28.
Because Java’s 30 millions are very near to
Australia. 29. Because the whole world belongs
to those who need it. 30. Because God has
triads mankind of one flesh and blood.”
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
1 tlephone No. 10US.
Mr Skinner lias a verv extensive an'l carefully
selected PLANT OF TARLE FURNISHINGS, by
far tbe largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted Lo him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets ani
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DATM 31 .M
of various sizes suppiie
a kj
ROTherhaivis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
ONO
V 0"/)
%/t
a i'”
/
S'
t=l
t=sf
5 OLD BY ALL
WHO -CAN- SHOW-
sdf
Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
sd
The Acetylene Gas Con
of Australasia, Limited
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calc.uni
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS'
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Ilarhor
Trust .; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage hoard ; Common wealth
Post Office; Churches; Convents; Schools; mid nearly
all the leading; Squatters, Storeki epers and Hotelkeepers,
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw Ihe Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
fsd
f
Beware of In'fingrers of our Patents
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
52 ROYAL BAiM-OF AUSTRALIA ffi
HEAD OFFICE - - - MELBOURNE7^£ TORIA -
THIRTY-SECOND REPORT i
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 28th April, 1904.
THE Directors hJive pleasure in submitting- to Shareholders the annexed Balance-Sheet and Statement of Accounts
for the Half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £4414 Os. lid. brought from last half-year) amount to £11,969 16 1
out of which the directors propose :
To pay a dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum £4,500 0 0
To transfer to the reserve fund (making it £35,000) 5,000 0 0
■ 9,500 0 0
And to carry forward the balance £2,409 10 i
It will be observed that the gross profits are somewhat less than six months ago, although the net profits are
greater, owing to a reduction in the working expenses caused by the fact that the bank no longer pays rent, but
occupies its own freehold premises. The reduction in gross profits, therefore, is purely nominal.
The frequent placing of loans on the market by the various State Governments and public bodies lias led to keener
competition for deposits, but the Directors are pleased to state that they have been able not only to retain but to
increase the deposits, while the general business of the Bank continues to steadily progress. In achieving this result
the assistance of the Shareholders has in the past been of the greatest service, and the Directors trust to lereive the
same valuable support in the future.
By Order of the Board.
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
For the Half-year ending 31st MARCH, 1904.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LI \BILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 shares of £4
each .. .. £2,400,000 0 0
To Notes in circulation
To Bills in circulation
To Government deposits
To Other deposits—Rebate and interest
accrued Not
bearing interest £129,123 18 10
Bearing interest.. 611,732 15 3
To Contingent liabilities as per contra.
£191,969 16 1
8,940 0 0
57,316 16 8
Nil.
740,856 14 1
174,455 0 0
£1,173,538 6 10
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion and
cash at Bankers.
By Government,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds.
By Notes and bills of
other banks
By Balance due from
other Banks ..
By Stamps
£242,853 14 0
74,900 0 0
687 13 3
16,432 15 1
556 9 8
By Real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises
Other real estate at cost to bank ..
By Bills discountedjand other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts
By Bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
&c., at cost, less written off for
depreciation..
By Liabilities and securities of cus.
torners and others, in respect of
contingent liabilities, as per contra
Or.
£335,430 12 H
54,776 0 7
21,216 15 11
580,784 18 4
875 0 0
174,455 0 0
£1,173,538 6 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent,
To balance
and other charges .. £3,422 10 10
11,969 16 1
£15,392 6 11
By balance at 30th S ,'ptem-
ber, 1903 .. .. £8,914 011
Less dividend declared
28th October, 1903 .. 4,500 0 0
By balance carried down .. .. .. £4,414
By profits for the half-year after deducting
interest accrued on deposits and
rebate on bills current, less reserves
for bad and doubtful debts .. .. 10,978
0 11
6 0
£15,392 0 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
... .£1:0,000 0 0
£30,000 0 0
By balance at 30th September, 1903 .. £30,000 0 0
£30,000 0 0


iToftUB PAIN OUT
Whc n you hurt yourself youi
hand naturally flies to the place to
rub it. That is instinct Nature
showing the way. The “way”
itself is to ruS> with Zam-Buk, be-
cause this is a pure healing balm,
free from the rancid animal, fats,
mineral poi ons, and turpentine
found in common ointments and
embrocations—also because being
composed of the refined balsams
from certain rare herbs it is easily-
absorbed. It is soothing, healing,
and antiseptic. It heals bruises,
cuts, burns, scalds, sprains, cold-
sores, eczema, &c., and is valued
equally by the housewife and the
athlete for expelling pain.
sdf
sdf
sd
Of all c\ mists and it ores at 1/8 per lo*; family iU3,
8/6 (nearly four ttm<s the quantity); *r direct for tame
price from t':e Zam-Bux Co., Pitt St,, Sydney.
A Way They Had in Egypt.
Until comparatively recent times, in Egypt
when a man refused to work, or failed to work as
fast as his overseer thought proper, they lashed
him with whips until he either mended his pace or
died. If he died, they cast him aside and put
another laborer in his place. And so the game
went on. It was a simple and effective plan, but
the spread of intelligence has made it unpopular
There are times, the liver being sluggish, when
even the most industrious of us cannot' work. Then
it is one should resort to Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
That feeling of oppression at the chesty and pam
between the sh( ulders after eating; that drowsi-
ness and headache ; all proclaim you are unable to
digest your food. And until you alter that by
taking Mother Seigel s Syrup, it is as useless to
SXpect relief as to try to grow figs on gooseberry
bushes. “I had frequent severe attacks of
indigestion and biliousness,” says Mr. Maloney, of
Cowper-street, Waver ley, N.S.W., “ and was
cured by Mother Seigel’s SVrup, after numerous
other medicines had failed.”*
The Federal capital question will be
promptly settled by the Watson Government if it
is given a fair chance; on that point members of
the party are practically unanimous.
Ex-Premier Deakin ‘ ‘ emphatically an-
nounced ” to an Argus interviewer that he and
his party were going into direct Opposition, and
that consequently he would claim the leadership
of the Opposition. There is a frosty time in store
for Reid, who seems to have yes-noed all his
chances away.
It is likely that the Navigation Bill will
be re-drafted by the Watson Government before
it is presented to the House, and very considerable
changes are forecasted. The foolish exemption
clause which allows cheap labor competition in
the shipping trade between Perth and Adelaide
but not elsewhere on the Australian coast, is
likely to go by the board.
Dear Bulletin.— Your recent “ Plain
English” re the unfruitfulness of the American-
born matron in Australia reminds me of a remark
I heard from an American in New York some 20
years ago. “This country,” said he, “is the
par-a-dise of women-doctors, I guess.”—E.
Ex-Premier Deakin might easily have
avoided his untimely effort to stem the rising tide
of Democracy in the Commonwealth by seeking
inspiration, in moderate supplies, from D.C.L.
Whisky. For the politician who, having gained
the top of the tree, strengthens his nerve and
illuminates his brain with an occasional draught
of the world’s wisest whisky—for him there is no
such word as fail. The Parliaments of the future
will be governed by an all-round spirit of D.C.L.,
and their wisdoms will endure for ever.*
Amusements.
pALACE THE A T RE, BYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE PERMANS’
SUCCESSFUL PANTOMIME,
Little Red Riding Hood.
ssw~ PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING, TO-NIGHT,
BLAND HOLT
and his
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATION OF DRAMATIC
FAVORITES,
in the Mastodan Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Popular Prices— 3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.'s.
STEYNE COURT,
MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES- TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
military band. novelty rifle range, up-to-date refreshment pavilion.
New Attractions—BlJOU THEATRE, “BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO.
Amusements.
piTZCERALD BROTHER S’
CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
LOCATION—
BEL M ORB PARK;.
A VERITABLE TRIUMPH !
The Team of Wrestlers,
DIRECT FROM OSAKA, JAPAN.
THE NEW CHANGE OF PROGRAMME A HUGE
SUCCESS.
DOCTOR GORDON,
THE HUMAN ANVIL.
The Splendid Band led by HERR VON DER MEIIDEN.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Paling & Co.'s.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS-, and ALL
HOLIDAYS.
Children SIXPENCE to Day Shows Only.
First Appearance on SATURDAY NEXT of the
“ GASCOIGNS,”
from London. The Most Unique and Inexplicable Per-
formances Ever Seen in Australia.
FRANK JONES.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
HAWTREY’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
the World-Famed Comedy Drama,'
A HESSAGE FROn HARS
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. ~m (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8, Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
THE LIGHT THAT FAILED,
Dramatised by -‘George Fleming” from Rnd.vaid
Kipling’s Famous Novel of the same name, presented
by arrangement with Miss Olga Nethersole.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
'tW PRICES AS USUAL
Lessee
HALL, SYDNEY.
.. Mr. Herbert Flemming.
THE
PIERROT ENTERTAINERS
OPEN at the
QUEEN’S HALL
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 30.
THE MIRTH-MAKERS OF THE AGE!
PRICES—3s.. 25., Is.
H. N. SOUTHWELL, Manager.
ST. JAMES’ HALL, PHILLIP STREET SYDNEY
WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAY 4,
Constance Brandon-Usher
PIANO RECITAL.
Reserved, 3s. ; Unreserved, 2s. Plan at Paling’s.
~the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
and OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manairer — Mr. Haiirv Rick vans.
Magnificent Reception of the Very Latest,
MISS MAY MAUDE DUPREZ.
Great Success of Mr. FRED. RUSSELL & COSTER JOE.
A Success of Enthusiasm, THE TWO BELLS.
Also, THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS.
Mr TOM DAWSON, Miss CECILE STEPHANO,
Miss FREDA MAHER, Mr. HARRY LEGGETT,
Miss RAY JONES, Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Mr. SAM WILSON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE MARVELLOUS UESSEMS
and
NAT CLIFFORD.
ERNEST SULLIVAN, MAGGIE FRASER, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Miss MAUD BEATTIE.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS; introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD FANING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY,
including
M;sB MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNICHT,
in the Famous Japanese Play,
The Darling of the. Gods.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal. Melbourne.
Sub-Lessee William Anderson.
Business Manager .. Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIO CO., in the
Great Melodramatic Success,
Her Second Time on Earth.
Miss EUGENIE DU. QAM as DORA CRAY.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee . .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee & Manager .. Mr. George Stephenson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS in Melbourne of
Mr. CEORCE STEPHENSON’S
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY
in
Mama’s New Husband
PRICES USUAL. Day Sales Palmer’s. Box
Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
pRINC ESS’3 THEATRE, MELCOURNfr
Sole Lessee Mr. Geo. Musgrove,
Sub-Lessee .. .. . . Mr. J. O. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL SO, First Time in Melbourne
of Mr. Williamson's New Comedy Company
THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY.
iar PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Metz cyanide works, treating the West Sunlight
(Hillgrove, N.S.W.) tailings, are getting good returns,
extracting up to 75 per cent. The plant is now being
extended, two new vats being added.
* * * *
Chillagoe (W.A.) shareholders have taken “the
proposal ” submitted by Chairman Reid at general meet-
ing much as a man takes a fit. F. O. Keats has
been requested to proceed to London, ostensibly to
get debenture-holders to agree to a reduction of
interest rate. But reduction of interest rate won’t
bring Chillagoe in out of the .wet. Chillagoe wants ore of
decent grade, and it may possibly be found that it exists
on its own properties—some of them, not many. In any
ease, more money is wanted by the co., either to get at
its own ores, or to buy others. Keats in his mission will
not hide that fact. Until more capital is introduced,
Chillagoe, with good luck thrown in, will be periodically
washed up on the beach. Unless the copper market 's
maintained at a figure well over £6O (and best advices
indicate there is little hope of such a happening), the cost
of converting low grade copper ores into bars, with
administration costs tacked on, will leave Chillagoe no
margin for profit. The production of copper matte is out
of the question. Generally speaking, the working of ore
into matte, even under very favorable circumstances,
will not pay in Australia, unless the ores contain gold and
silver.
• * * »
From Frank Reed, who was a Westralian Gov-
ernment mining inspector and afterwards general manager
of the Peak Hill Mines (W.A.): —“ Bulletin, April 7, says :
‘ Except the Great Fingall there is not a mine worthy the
name on the great Murchison goldfield. Ten years ago
great things were predicted of it. The Emerald at Yalgoo
was a 4oz. show, and right up to Peak Hill, 400 miles
further on, the country was being prospected with good
results.’ I hope this doesn’t give the idea that Peak Hill
is also a surface show. It is now producing between 2000
and 3000 oz. of smelted gold per month, which is about
the average since the mine started. The ore is
obtained at a depth of over 1000 feet from the out-
crop, although the depth from the surface is not
nearly so great, owing to the flatness of the lode.
The shares stand at slightly above par in London,
although 50,000 more shares have been issued since the
flotation in 1898. There are now 30,000 shares (issued at
£1 originally). The mine has paid £160,000 in divs., which
represents about. 7 per cent, per annum since the mill
started. There is no comparison between the surface
shows of Westralia, such as the Londonderry, Wealth i f
Nations, and Emerald Reward, and the Peak Hill, whr e
ore bodies have lived down to over 1000 feet, and ha e
been productive the whole way, and now yield as much
gold as ever. The grade of the ore, however, has falli n off
greatly; during the first 2£ years 3oz. to the ton was
the average mill return, while it is now barelv ioz. ”
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie (W.A'.), has had a
second crushing treated at the Boulder No. 1 mill, not being
satisfied with the result at the Adeline mill. The return
was 13oz. from 90 tons, or an average of barely 3dwt. per
ton. In the face of this second farcical crushing it will
be interesting to see what the gulled shareholders in
Adelaide will do with the management. Inhis half-yearly
report manager Johnson suggested erecting a 10-head mill
to treat 2000 tons monthly at a cost of 16s. for mining and
milling. Where the profit is to come from in treating 2J
to 3dwt. ore is a question which will take some answering.
* * * *
W. A- official gold returns for the first quarter
of 1904 show a very marked decline compared with 1903.
In reality there is no falling off, but all the principal
mines, whose returns tot up about 110,000 oz. monthly,
now publish their figures in fine gold, while the Gover: *
ment official goes on in the same old groove, and knocks
off about 20 per cent, to convert this alleged bullion into
fine gold. This means that between 20,000 and 25,0000 z.
are knocked off monthly without rhyme or reason. In
fact, the returns are in a state of chaos, as some mines
publish them in fine ounces and short tons, while others
publish bullion and long tons, with the result that the
unfortunate investor doesn’t know where he is
* * ‘ * *
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has purchased
the Croesus Prop, lease, immediately adjoining its Eclipse
block on the north. On this property prospecting was
done by an Adelaide co. down to 400 ft. ; but, although
continual glowing reports were issued, as is the case with
nearly all Adelaide-bossed mines, nothing eventuated,
and, when shareholders were dry, the co. collapsed.
Returns from the Eclipse have been growing smaller, but
Manager Haig still has hopes of the property. He alleges
the decline in returns is due to his unexpectedly ~ ' ■''
on a barren zone. Whether this is a loc^pov erishment
or a total petermg out of the gold-. t t P O be d
but, as no permanent • f J disco y ered
the vicinity, the co-<W , ' uuS so iar Deen discovered in
me my . u looks a very lame duck,
p n o' * * *
• / ; olc .y Horseshoe, Kalgoorlie (W.A.),'sincecom-
ito the Bewick, Moreing stable, has seen a big change
in staff. On Yankee Loring taking charge, all the bosses
of departments were fired, and replaced Dy cheaper men.
‘ This is hardly to be wondered at, as some of the old hands
had ridiculously high screws. Development work has
been started at the 1100 ft. and 1200 ft. levels, but it will
probably be difficult in future to get any information
except through spies, who are available on pretty nearly
every mine. The new 50-head mill is expected to
be going inside of three months, when the ’Shoe will have
the biggest treatment plant in Australia. It is said that
the output will be greatly increased by picking the eyes
out of the mine instead of doing as Sutherland did,
merely taking enough of the rich ore to maintain his
monthly average. In fact there may be a fireworks dis-
play, as happened in 1899 with the Lake View Consols,
Associated, and Perseverance, which did so much to dis-
credit W.A. mining. Speculators had better beware of
this. Working costs will be very greatly reduced by
quoting short tons, neglecting development and possibly
upkeep, employing cheaper staff, and, perhaps, by intro-
ducing the Dago,
* * * *
Among rumors which are floating about, and
which are probably true, is the statement that Bewick,
Moreing &nd Co. will take charge of the Perseverance
whenever Ralph Nichols returns, and is in a position to
hand over the property. This will be about the middle of
May. It is also more or less authoritatively stated that
the Great Boulder will be collared by the great Octopus
in June. At Kanowna, 8., M. and Co. have already got
control of the White Feather Main Reef and White Feather
Reward, and are now after the North White Feather Con-
sof* of these shows can be considered a great
catch, but, apparently, anything is fish that gets into
8., M. and Co.’s net.
* * * *
April diva, of W.A. mines already announced
tot up £298,290, against £288,660 last year. The mines
responsible are—Horseshoe, £90,000 ; Great Fingall,
£87,500 ; Ivanhoe, £75,000 ; Cosmopolitan, £20,000 ;
Kalgurh, £15,000; Ida H., £5400 ; Brown Hill Ex-
tended, £5OOO ; and Golden Ridge, £390. Several mines
which paid last April have dropped out of the div.
list, such as Peak Hill, Queensland Menzies, White
reather Main Reef, Lancefield and Perseverance. The
last-named is now a month behind, and will probably de-
clare in May instead of April, as it declared in February
instead of January.
» ' * * *
Paddington Consols (W.A.) has been closed
down, its accumulation of tailings and slimes having
all been treated. The 500 ft. level was practically barren,
and the 700 ft. has proved equally so. This about tolls
the death-knell of the Standard Exploration, one of the
late Whitaker Wright’s many wild cats, though an
attempt may be made to raise more capital.
♦ * * *
After all the eulogy that has been wasted on
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.), shareholders
learn that the 10-head mill, during March, ran only 6J
days for a miserable 48oz. from 105 tons. The reef is
admitted to be from 25ft. to 30ft. wide, and is pretty well
opened up, yet a wretched return such as the above is
the best the management can offer ! London Economist’s
special commissioner reckoned that the mine had possi-
bilities, but stated that shareholders might be misled
by the treatment of picked ore in the mill. If the
picked ore doesn’t average 10dwt., nobody is likely to be
misled, and it looks very much as if the mine is the wild
eat it has always been considered, and that the large
amount of money now being spent on the property is
being wasted.
» * . *
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), whose
main shaft is down 1700 ft., had a bit of a flutter on the
announcement that ounce ore had been encountered in
driving north on the Consols lode at 1600 ft. The lode was
said to be the width of the drive, but only Ift. in the cen-
tre was carrying values. The result of recent develop-
ments can’t be called at all hopeful, but a great deal of
ore that was worthless under former extravagant manage-
ment can now be worked at a profit, or, at any rate,
without loss, and this has materially increased reserves.
The new 50-head mill will shortly be running in conjunc-
tion with the most recently erected 25-head, after which
the old original 50 will be scrapped. The ore now being
treated averages only 9dwt., and, according to official
figures, this grade leaves a profit of £2OOO monthly. Of
course, London exes, and depreciation will about swallow
the lot.
* * # *
Associated, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has had some good
developments of late, but, unfortunately, the Oroya chute
still proves elusive, chiefly because it has been looked for
too far west. The inclined winze from the Oroya’s 10 level
has followed the chute practically to the boundary, so
that, unless a miraculous break or impoverishment inter-
venes, the Associated must get rich ore. An eastern
crosscut is now being driven to meet this winze from the
Associated 10 level, and should reach the point early in
May. In the southern workings at 10 level ore averaging
soz. per ton has been met in Tetley’s lode by a crosscut.
The output of the mine is still on the up grade, and
should be further increased shortly when the new 20-head
mill makes a start on low-grade ore. This should help to
cheapen costs, as this low-grade ore has to be handled
whether it yields any return or not, and so long as it pays
cost of its own handling and treatment, there will be a
general saving to the co.
• * • *
North Western Associated, Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
situated about 30 chains north of Hannan’s Brown Hill, is
geing to have a future if the glowing reports of the manago
ment can be relied on. The Boomerang lease was long under
tribute, and the tributors did very well. The co. was re-
constructed in October last, with an assessment of Is. 6d r
per share, which was said to have realised—jggg-JSiT. the
capital is in 400,000 scrip of ss. each w^ch 375,006 are
issued. The manager’s latest r"', lol q ; s that good ore is being
exposed by the drive at , and also in the winze below
fnt-iw’ „ of this the manager predicts
that the shortly become a div.-payer. This pre-
AWn is a bit premature, as the co. has practically no
equipment, and a lot more capital will have to be raised
before any returns can be obtained. The leases in the
vicinity have been very meagrely exploited hitherto, al-
though a lot of money has been wasted on’them ; and,
should this mine turn out trumps, a fillip will be given to
serious prospecting. This portion of the field h: s long
been practically abandoned.
* * * *
The British 8.H., which has lately been treating
about 2000 tons of ore a week, breaks the silence of three
years with a sixpenny div. It isn’t much to break the
silence with (the total is only £7500); but while there is
even a whisper there is hope
“Melb.” : And Nimmo has departed from
this planet, in Scotland, aged 85. Once the most
celebrated man in Melbourne —he even had a
dredge named after him. I first heard him at the
South Melbourne City Council, with a speech
which was all Nimmo in a nutshell. They had
elected him to the committee of public works.
Said he : “ Mister Mayor, sor-r, when Councillore
Nimmaw was first elected to this council, Coun-
cillore Nimmawthocht that, asapiractical engineer,
he ocht to be appyinted to the Public Wurrux
Commyetee. But, sor-r, Councillore Nimmaw
was not appyinted to the Public Wurrux Coin-
my fcce, and therefore Councillore Nimmaw now
declines to sit upon the Public Wurrux Com-
myetee ! ”
William M‘Millan dealt it out in S.M.
Herald to his late pals of the Reid party who
voted “Yes” while they thought “ No” :
I forget what are the exact terms of the oath which a
member of Parliament is obliged to take ; but surely it
not only implies allegiance to the Sovereign, but also
allegiance to conscience in every vote that a member gives
as a representative of the people. If so, how can a man,
even as a matter of form, conscientiously vote for a prin-
ciple to which he is utterly opposed, and how can he,
without absolute surrender of self-respect, explain to his
constituents on the public platform that although he
voted solemnly in his place in Parliament for the inclusion
of public servants, he did it purely for party purposes,
and as a matter of political strategy ? In other words, he
commits an act as a politician which he w'ould not commit
as an honorable man in his private capacity.
Those are noble sentiments. But didn't M‘Millan,
in his political capacity, say that Protection was
ruinous, that it made things dear, that the duty
was passed on to the buyer with additions,
and so on ? And isn’t he still saying it ?
And didn't M'Millan, in his drapery capa-
city, issue circulars showing that people, by
buying his new goods, locally manufactured under
Protection, would “save the duty ” —not pay it
twice over ? Also, didn’t he enthusiastically point
out, when he started manufacturing under the
new Protection, that his goods were cheaper than
ever? M‘Millan shouldn’t put on such airs of
righteous moral shock when other people get their
private and public capacities mixed up. Nobody’s
capacities were ever worse mixed than his own.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A cable says that Fred Maccabe is dead. For years he
coined money all over the world with his “Begone Dull
Care ” entertainment; but he spent it as freely as he
made it—he lived up to his motto ; and the last mention
the papers had of him was that the wreck of the old
comedian was knocking at an English workhouse door.
Mentioned in a recent Munsey’s that the best acting
performance in ‘ 1 Sweet Kitty Bellair ” (David Belasco’s
latest hit in New York) was made by an Australian —
Charles Hammond.
Wilson Barrett lately revived “Claudian” in London
for the first time since long ago, and the local critics
voted the play “ unconvincing,” “ dull,” and “ very much
out of date.” It was in “Claudian” that Barrett made
his first Australian appearance, at Melbourne Princess's,
not more than seven years back, but any Australian critic
who then called it dull, unconvincing and out of date was
promptly denounced as a blasphemer.
The famous London Lyceum, so long' identified with the
name of Henry Irving, was sold by auction the other
week, together with the fixtures and fittings, and every-
thing lying loose on the premises. Among the fixtures
were 100 tons of hot water piping, whilst the oddments
included 50 fans, 9 umbrellas, 32 walking sticks, and two
bonnets.
Writes a man from Chow Africa: “ Robert Brough,
with a rattling re-organised company, played a month in
miserable, broken-up Durban to business that hardly
paid for gas and cigarettes. The half-dozen who paid for
admission and the score who filed in on paper cheered
vociferously and genuinely and deservedly, but Robert
muttered ‘ damn ’ every time. The slump theatrical is
not so severe at Jo’burg, but the plague threatens to
compete with the enraged mummers.”
“ Wurrym ” : Some very ill-informed person has sup-
plied you with the par. about theatres in Perth (8.,
31/3/’O4). The town hall was over an archway and some
rooms which constituted the fire brigade station. There
were no stables and no smell of horse at the time alluded
to, as the brigade had no horses till four years ago. It
used to rush out and take a couple from a cab or ring up
a livery stable, if the telephone wasn’t out of order.
Molloy opened his first theatre nearly' seven years ago, and
Phil Gpatcher is not decorating the new one. He does the
act drop only, but he is making his mark in Perth for all
that. He has taught people what interior decoration of
their homes really should be, and gets commissions from
owners of many new buildings going up in Perth.
“ Hiphen ” : The prosecution of the Mutoscope 00. has
taken all the bite out of the show. A horrible suspicion
of propriety has fallen on the place and the tinny' piano
tinkles to unsympathetic houses. One battle-scarred
warrior with an honest “ stiver ” clutched tightly in each
hand intercepted me as I withdrew my “Face from the
Window ” of the mutoscope which was displaying a
spiritualistic seance, with the anxious query, “ Any good,
mate ? ” I told him it was splendid. He put in his penny
with an unholy light in his faded eye, after spitting on the
coin for luck. The language he used when he found that
the picture wasn’t calculated to raise a blush would have
shocked a circus hyena. When last I saw him he was
banging on the change-box with his stick, demanding his
money back, and threatening to summon the co. for
obtaining his brown under false pretences.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
eases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy' sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, shoe-
lane, London, England.*
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
fsd
fsd
11-191 N
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.’*
From the leading Drapers.
m
f
I 11
i.
' • *.« *
Wmmm wm Wm
■ . Sx\ . rn^-T,. * ■
libJ§®te. - <i
'vMy':-
$m
: ' H
.
V 1
.
•:.-•• E g'
Hi
m
m
m
wm%
mm
sdf
MEN we hav
Mr. PETE HUGHES.
. Known far and wide in theatrical
circles, Mr. Pefe Hughes, who for
? e^" s as advance agent for Mr.
J. O. Williamson, the famous entre-
preneur, suffered from Weak Kidneys
and Lame Back. He consulted- the
Specialists of The Freeman & Wallace
institute, became cured, and de-
clares :
1 our Electro-Medical Treatment
has removed the severe Kidney pains
w hich I suffered for many
War*. Your Medical Treatment
has done me more physical good than
I ever anticipated."
Mr. 0. H. BERNARD.
Mr. C. H. BERNARD was a sufferer,
and —to quote his words—“ a physical
wreck”—in 1902. Yet here is an
extract from his letters sent after a
few weeks’ treatment:
“ Ganmain Station, via Wagga.
“ 1 am getting on steadily and surely.
My nerves are in a much better state
now. 1 am not now subject to those
severe frontal headaches. My brain is
quite capable of executing any reason-
able amount of labor offered it."
s
Mr. 0. D. HAILEY.
From Toorak, Victoria, Mr. C. D.
HAILEY chronicles his improvement
from chronic dyspepsia, from which he
W'as a great sufferer. In his reply to our
queries concerning his health, he
states:
“1 am getting en first-class. 1 have
net had better health for many years.
The medicine you sent me was the very
thing in every respect. I feel certain
that 1 will continue to improve, , and
ultimately regain my usual health."
SIGNOR CARLO DANI.
SICNOR CARLO DANI, the dis-
[ tinguished operatic tenor of the Royal
Italian Opera Company, Sydney, says
In reference to the treatment he
received:
“ I desire to inform you that, owing
to the great lassitude / have experienced
here, due no doubt to sudden climatic
changes, I tried your treatment. from
which I have obtained great benejit to
my muscular and nerve systems."
Mr. CHAS. KENNINGHAM.
Mr. CHAS. KENNINGHAM, prin-
cipal tenor Royal English Opera
Company, Savoy Theatre, London,
and Royal Comic Opera Company,
Sydney, declares that he has in a
few weeks been completely cured
of Insomnia :
“ For years past I have suffered
from Insomnia. Your treatment
ivas brought to my notice, uith
the result that I am now sleeping
reasonably, and my general health
is much improved."
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute, Sydney & Melbourne.
The above portraits are of attestants well-known in commercial and
ne art circles. They were each benefited by the treatment received
from the Specialists associated with the Medical Staff of The Freeman
lnstitute. These are but a few of many thousands
of testimonies received from all sorts and conditions of men throughout
the Commonwealth. Men who have been tortured for years from Con-
stipation, Insomnia, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indigestion,
Dyspepsia, Locomotor Ataxia, Loss of Nerve Power, Swollen Joints,
Piles Anaemia, Bladder Irritation, Vital Weakness, have found relief
™ CkS by *°i loWhlBr accurately the Specialists’ Advice and
Dlseases that medical men have considered “incurable” have
Cat6d and men have a^ain enjoyed the benefits of
h and ha »P luess - T *e Specialists may be consulted Pres
Of Charge upon any matter of serious import to a man.
A GOOD BOOK
The best friend to suffering men is a good Medical Work.
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’’ on General Diseases is that book.
*Tt is a genuine medical treatise of 570 PACES, 150 MEDICAL
PLATES, 31 CHAPTERS. It treats upon all Diseases of both
sexes. It is honestly worth a pound a page.
The 31 Chapters within this work treat upon Diseases of the
Lungs, Heart, Throat, Kidneys, Bowels, Bird ler Brain, etc. It
contains articles upon the treatment of Invalids, the Sick Room,
Snakebite, Sunstroke, Gunshot Wounds, Poisons and Anti-
dotes, Insomnia, Rescue of Apparently Drowned, Fevers,
Epilepsy, Care for Children. It is invaluable to country
residents. It possesses a vocabulary of 1000 medical terms and
fifty valuable prescriptions for Home use. It will be posted to
any address on receipt of ONE SKILLIN& IN STAMPS from
either our Sydney or Melbourne Offices. There is no further
charge. It is a whole library of useful facts.
m
Gene
Dis
KMAM
Medics.!*
romo*.
NOTE.
Any man may, if he desires, through
.... . private reasons consult the Specialists by
addressing privately “ THE SECRETARY.” The Free-
man and Wallace Medical Institute, 227 Elizabeth-
n. v.i Sydney. In some instances, a man may not
be able to call personally, and may prefer to write upon
masters seriously concerning himself. All such letters are
W?lKce % t?' th u Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Richard
t W . hO 18 Q ualified and Registered by
Medical Boards of Australia, England & America.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN. Director of Institute.
The Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
AND AT MELBOURNE.
RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., Physician-in-Chief.
NOTE.
In order to meet the great growth of
, . public patronage accorded the Institute
by suffering men from all parts of the Commonwealth, a
branch of the Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute,
has been opened at Bourke & Elizabeth-sts., Melbourne,
opp. G.P.0., under efficient professional and correspond-
ence staffs, where patients in the Southern and Western
States of Australia may consult the most eminent of
Specialists and save the long journey to Sydney. All cor-
respondence to this,Branch will be effectively replied to.
The girl tvlo runs to inordinate inches is
always striking difficulties. Now the Hospital
matrons disqualify the long ones. Pillow-patting, it
seems, weakens the spinal cord in the lengthy. The
short and stumpy blossom, with scarcely any per-
pendicular back line to speak of, is the desidera-
tum of the wards. So the long, graceful candidate
is banished from the nurse’s calling. There seems
no balm for her in any of the romantic walks of
life. A long reach in a tennis tournament is one
of her little consolations. And even at that a
springy midget answers as well.
A strenuous woman-golfer of a Surrey Hills
(Melb.) course has made the record drive—it killed a
cow. Up to this, only the caddie has suffered from
the impact of the whizzing ball, and no caddie has
been killed outright, or if he has po one thought
the death of a mere unsaleable minion worth men-
tioning. But the cow dropped dead all right—
unless later information shows that it perished of
lingering consumption. War news is often un-
reliable. I notice the cow is usually a joke to the
golfer. In a tournament recently, when one was
suspected of having swallowed a ball, she was
driven home to the last putting-green and the
driver claimed the credit of the distance that the
cow had carried his bit of india-rubber.
A day’s work ;
The other day, Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, after a
severe paralytic seizure, visited a Maoriland Liberal
gathering' in Kurupum (Waiarapa), announced a big sur-
plus, carved a bullock which had been roasted whole, and
then drovt to the foot of the Rimufakas where he gathered
mushrooms by lamplight. Later he stayed with an old
West Coast chum with whom he played at euchre till
early morning, when he sent a cable to Joe Chamberlain
telling him not to flag in the fiscal fight.
Thus the chief of the U.S. Immigration
Department at ’Frisco: —“No people give us so
much trouble as Britishers, and no Britishers give
us so much trouble as Australians.” Which is the
natural result of Australians believing the daily-
paper lie that the Australian immigration law is
the most restrictive in the world —that, in fact,
there practically isn’t any restriction anywhere
else. Pretty well every other sort of countryman,
knowing that his own country blocks the entrance
of paupers, idiots, criminals, diseased persons,
contract laborers, and so on, takes it as a matter of
course; only the Britisher, who hasn’t any such
protection (and has the refuse of the world dumped
upon him in consequence), and the Australian (who
is hoaxed into believing nobody else has any),
make a fuss and get themselves disliked for their
pains.
Probably most theatrical managers would
be astonished to learn that what passes for
“modern” realism in stage effects, and is now
regarded as essential to the illusion of the scene,
was ridiculed for its inartistic foolishness two
hundred years ago. In 1710 Addison wrote of
the “extravagantly lavish” decorations of the
Italian opera show in London :
Common sense requires that there should be nothing
in the scenes and machines which may appear childish
and absurd. How would the wits of King Charles’s time
have laughed to have seen Nicolini sailing in an open
boat upon a sea of pasteboard ! What a field of raillery
would they have been led into had they been entertained
with painted dragons spitting wildfire, enchanted
chariots drawn by Flanders mares, and real cascades in
artificial landscapes. A little skill in criticism would
inform us that shadows and realities ought not to be
mixed together in the same piece, and that the scenes
which are designed as representations of nature should be
filled with resemblances, and not with the things them-
selves. If one would represent a wide campagne
country filled with herds and flocks, it would be
ridiculous to draw the country only upon the scenes, and
to crowd several parts of the stage with sheep and oxen.
Addison’s satirical conception of a mixed picture,
wherein livestock would be introduced against a
background of painted landscape, is commonly
realised in the most advanced tneatrical produc-
tions of these times. Real cascades plashing
between pasteboard rocks seemed preposterously
incongruous to the thoughtful back-number of 1710,
who never dreamed that the dark ages of the
future would bring tank scenes into fashion and
witness a downpour of “real rain ” upon a brollied
Bland Holt co. But, then, Addison was eloquent
on “ The Pleasures of the Imagination,” whereas
a modern melodrama audience asks to be spared
the trouble of imagining reality for any stage
effect which can be actualised by its faithful Holt.
The artistic illusion of a stage street merely puts
the public into a proper frame of mind for appre-
ciating an incidental donkey-cart or a bona-fide
coach and four. An ordinary stage fire-place,
where the yule log is a blaze of gas jets, may win
a little popular approval for the verisimilitude of
the firing, but in order to be heartily appreciated
it must serve to boil a pot of undeniable ’taters,
and the low-comedy lady must triumphantly im-
pale a steaming ’tater on a real fork.


A BAD LE
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre.»s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death release*
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, ot
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I LAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but l WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not Aow being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Store',
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lJd. per b x. Prepared bv
A 1 BERT, 73, Farringdou-street, London, F.i gland
Agents •. MI.LIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers shou.d
look for th * registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
giceu label ou each box. (Regd copyright).
An interesting experiment has just wound
up its existence. During the Q. strike in ’9l over
100 men, mostly nomads, determined to form a
settlement on communistic lines by way of an
object lesson. Land was taken up on the Alice
River (outside Barcaldine) ; the Government gave
some assistance ; several squatters presented stock
and other requisites, and big expectations weie
the order of the day. Bit by bit, however, the
men tired of the quiet and monotony of the life,
and drifted away until only seven were left. The
other day the concern was formed into a limited
liability company and communism definitely
abandoned. The settlement was, in many re-
spects, a great success—produced splendid vege-
tables with the aid of bore-water, and was the
principal source of Rockhampton’s supply of
green stuff during the drought. But it gives no
testimonial to the communism which it tried to
put into practice.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY rot
only cures coughs, * colds, and influenza, bi t
counteracts any tendency toward pneumonia. It
always cures and cures quickly.*
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will sooth and
heal the irritation of the mucous membrane lining
of your throat, that is caused by continual cough-
ing.*
The cold clasp of Death will inevitably enfold each and all of us at last, but Science has given many
of us the means of postponing the dread embrace until our tale of years is spent, and it would be the
height of folly to refrain from availing ourselves of the aid which knowledge affords. Death is
hastened by ignorance. Nature has endowed us with the sense of pain, solely in order that, by seek-
ing relief, we may avoid playing into the hands of death. When we feel pain we are out of health.
Pain long endured is a strain upon the system which nature cannot withstand. Many of us, however,
go on suffering certain kinds of pain, just as if Science could not come to the help of her sister Nature.
There is, for instance, no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
The pains caused by this long list of disorders are but Nature’s means of letting us know that the
kidneys or liver are for some reason unable to perform their work efficiently, for all of these dis-
orders are produced by the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons, which would be
thrown off naturally if the kidneys and liver were doing their duty. Few people realise how-important
in the scheme of life is the healthy action of the kidneys and the liver, therefore the following
description of the functions of those vital organs will be of the deepest interest to many.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight, of-uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly', a proportion of
the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel.
Stone, Bladder Ti*oubles. and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to I lie blood
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their
life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion,
Biliousness, Anaemia, Sick Headache and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many disappointments, the medicine
which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’? frfa
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, thefee vital
organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary poisons, .
the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia. Lumbago; Back-
ache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply
by removing the cause of the disorder. This ia the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure
are permanent cures. [lB.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Price, 6cL. ; Posted, Sd.
E BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
sdf
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■MBRACnf
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 30 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust.MiNEßs’GuiDE(sitnpletestsforminerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers; illustrations and portraits. Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 8s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. AM these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I* - Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to Make upj Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Codrt of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is, Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Ciievasse’s Adviceto a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, :s. 6d. The Wlfe’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, ITOtrpages,
1600 illus., leather hound, my price, 15s. postpaid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth hound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, hy Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Emu Bay Railway Co. looks with anguish on
its balance-sheet, and is trying to reduce losses by
sparing the axle-grease. At'one station on the line a
woman is employed as station mistress. She has to
receive and deliver all parcels, and to be within tele-
phone call throughout the 24 hours. For this she gets 6s.
a week !
* * * *
An enormous quantity of sawn jarrah is being
Sent away by the VVestralian timber combine, but the
quantity exported is hardly greater than the amount
ruthlessly destroyed in the forests. There appears to be
little or no. supervision over the wood hewers, who simply
pick and choose wherever they please. They burn and
destroy huge quantities for apparently no earthly reason,
and at the present rate of denudation Westralia will soon
possess one great national asset the less. Asserted that
the real object of so much wucre is to keep the prices up,
and as Maoriland and Oregon timber is sold at cheaper
rates than Westralian in Fremantle itself there maybe
something in this.
* * * *
The luck of Cyrus Lennox Hewitt. Employed
in the Broken Hill Prop, office, Hewitt became assistant
secretary of the pup—The British B.H. Prop.—during
Knox’s regime. The British had to write off over a million
of its capital ere it could breathe freely. Hewitt then
became secretary of the Emu Bay (Tas.) Railway, a con-
cern which soon showed that it had something chronic
the matter with its finances. He soon left it for that
alluring N.Q. bump, the Chillagoe Railway and Mines.
Hewitt is a discreet young man, and probably when all
his directors are dead will write a book—“ How Not to Do
Things.” But the book would sell better if published now.
* * * *
The secret commissions paid in connection with
the butter-export business in Victoria would look mighty
small if they could be set beside the total of those which
have dropped into the hands of many legal managers.
Right and left temptation comes. Now it is some
drummer with gunpowder or dynamite, next it is an
insurance agent, then a storekeeper, and then a news-
paper canvasser who wants advertisements. So it goes
on. As if that is not sufficient, only let it be known that
the mine manager does his own buying, and he i«
bombarded in the same way. Thus a whole craft of
commercial blood-suckers batten on the industry. The
tiling is utterly wrong, but who is going to take the
whip out of the socket and apply it ?
* * * #
So far the Australian backblocks (White Cliffs
and another place or two) and Hungary have given the
world most of its opal ; now it is alleged that a £lOO,OOO
co. lias been formed in Idaho (U.S.) to work opal deposits.
It does not sound promising for Australian opal-getters,
who can make a bare living as it is ; the best consolation
offering is that Idaho is a place wb°re the wild-cat
is more numerous even than usua 1 ,
* * * *
“More Australian management!” Several people
have been snorting thus in the London Financial Times
and other papers over the Chillagoe fiasco ; and there is a
movement to get the head office shifted to the Cold Coun-
try. The Chillagoe fiasco certainly isn’t anything for
Australia to be proud of; but, anyhow, Alexander
Stewart, who as general manager had as much to do as
anyone with the boom and loss of money, came out to
Australia as the trusted representative of Bull mining
investors.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the low value of the discredited
white metal, the world’s production of silver is still in-
creasing ; last year it amounted to 165,700,0000 z. (troy),
as against 1G3,950,0000z. the year before. Most countries
showed a decline, but the increase in the U.S. and Mexico
went on. This is the result chiefly of the U.S. lead-
tariff. There has been no decline in lead output as there
has been with us ; and the silver output, though not
directly affected by the tariff, has been maintained at the
same time, the two metals being mostly worked together.
* * * *
This is the text of the False Statements (Com-
panies) Bill which the Attorney-General asks the British
Parliament to pass, as a result of the enormous difficulty
found in obtaining a conviction in the Whitaker Wright
case without it: “If any person, being a Director,
Manager, or Secretary, or other officer of any company,
or being the auditor of any company, whether an officer
or not, wilfully circulates, publishes, or makes or prepares
for circulation or publication, or concurs in so circulating,
publishing, making, or preparing any written statement
or account relating to the financial affairs or property of
the company which he knows to be false in any material
particular, he shall he guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be liable on conviction on indictment to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding two years, or, in the dis-
cretion of the Court, to a fine not exceeding five hundred
pounds.” If that had been the law in Australia during
the last few years several banks might have left off issuing
obviously absurd statements regarding their assets.
* * * *
A characteristic screed from North Q,: “Bar-
ring an honest snort and question or two from the oft-
shifted little Chillagoe Miner, no signs of an ‘ expression ’
have been visible from any journal in this State over the
mining jobs of smellful Woothakata. The biggest weekly of
Bananaland-headed its news of the Stannary Hills flop
‘ Another good mine gone wrong ! ’ with no comments as
to why. Yet same journal was the unfortunate district’s
principal boomster. Just prior to this flop the Herberton
Slimes yelled vile epithets at some misguided persons of
the district honest enough to give a genuine opinion of
the over-capitalised nest of ‘ worked-outs.’ Their lynching
was about to proceed when shock duly arrived by wire.
One rag, to writer’s personal knowledge, got 50 Mt. Gar-
nets at flotation—with instructions to hold on for £5 a
share ; and you can bet that rag did its little bit to get
the shares to £5. Can only speak for this one. The
warden reported, on verge of the Stannary slump, that he
reckoned there was enough ore in sight to keep an extra
forty head of stamps jigging. Honest enough, only he
didn’t know. With decease of Smith’s Creek, zincified
Garnet, Coolgarra, and Einasleigh, and with Chillagoe and
Stannary Hills in trouble, to say nothing of such horrors as
Summer Hill, Arbouin Hill, Surprise Gully, etc. ; and
with the genuine old stand-by, tin-sluicing, about worked
out, the tin-scratcher and his gin (back-numbers while
boom-beer flowed) once more come into their own. And
now, on top of the lot, Cairns—where the white does kow-
tow to the Chow—holds mass meetings demanding that
somebody build the Almaden to Georgetown nightmare i
This might open up a big scope of alluvial tin country for
fossickers, but Georgetown’s present patchy gold wouldn’t
buy a beer for the guard. Granstedt (Bewick, Mordng’s
agent) t’other day, in newspaper interview, said flatly
that present developments didn’t warrant railway; and
he was mild. Georgetown is one of the oldest and most
tried fields of Northern Australia, and has broken more
hearts and pockets than even Woothakata ; so ‘ present
developments’ to-day sounds deadly. For next ten
years, until the new crop of speculators ripen, district
remnants must live on one another.”
The N.S.W. Railway Commissior ers are mak-
ing another determined fight against ticket scalpers. On
a , i ese .illegal ticket brokers make nearly
out of tae railways every year. Now another
trouble has come in the shape of forged tickets. There
is nothing easier to forge than a railway ticket. It is
done by splitting an old ticket in two, and faking one
siae by the addit ion of the split half of a recently-dated
short-distance ticket of similar cole.'. The Commissioners
have been aware for some time past that such forgeries
were in circulation, but in the ordinary ticket exam-
ination at passing stations there has been little or
no time for minute inspection. If the public refrained
from dealing with scalpers in both town and country
there would soon be an end to the traffic—a continuance
of which will perhaps lead to a withdrawal of all return
tickets.
* * * *
English excise authorities have decided that
“ the penny box of pills”—which had become a favorite
article of trade—is amenable to the tax of lid. imposed
by English excise law on each package of a patent medi-
cine. That tax, by tile way, gives a revenue hint to the
Commonwealth. And if the box of pills pays a tax how
about an excise duty on faith-healing ?
* * * *
Some time ago Auckland city jobbed away its
electric tramway rights to a private co. and has been in
the soup ever since. Its alleged tram system seems to be
a thing, of shreds and patches, and a recent accident
proved that when one brake failed to act the driver had
to rush through a crowded car to the other end of the
thing to get at the alternative brake. Result was that
when he got there the machine was beyond control, and
there was a great smash. The trams are huge, cum-
bersome, hideously ugly and yellow, and managed by boys
in ill-fitting- brown uniforms. The co. introduced double-
deckers, and experience in Auckland has borne out that
of Sydney, that double deckers are unsafe, cumbersome
and fit for comic-opera trams only. The council wants the
co. to abandon the use ofd.-d. cars, and the co. wants com-
pensation on the ground that the council in its ignorance
sanctioned their use. Then the electric cars kick up a
tremendous dust, and not only the passengers but the
people in the streets and the goods in the shops along the
tram-lines suffer. The council wants the co. to take steps
to lay the dust, just as the Tramway dept, does in Sydney,
where it runs water trams with automatic sprinklers
attached ; but the co. says there was nothing about lay-
ing the dust in its deed of concession and it will see the
council smothered first. And a council which jobs away
its tram rights is only fit to be smothered.
* * * *
Maoriland has been finding out what “driving
capital out of the country ” means. There used to be
eight or ten J. Bull co.’s, mostly more or less related, on
the Coromandel goldfield. Practically all of them have
gone now, but the mines are still there, and all of them
that have indications of being any good are worked by
Maoriland co.’s, which employ Maorilanders, buy their
machinery and supplies in Maoriland, hold their board
meetings (and spend their board fees) in Maoriland, and
pay dividends to Maorilanders when they pay any. The
Hauraki Co. —the principal of the Bull litter—
stayed till it had torn out and sent off almost
the whole of the phenomenally rich stuff ; then it was
“driven out”—when the prospects of further dividends
looked blue. In the 10 years, 1881-1800, before Ballance
and Seddon started to “ drive capital out of the country,”
the whole output of the Coromandel mines was 15,101
tons ; in the last year for which figures were issued (N.Z.
Mines Record, Feb., 1904) 22,580 tons were mined and
crushed. Thus, after the capital had been “ driven out of
the country,” just 50 per cent, more stuff was mined in one
year than was handled in the full 10 years when Vogel
and the rest were cordially inviting Bull to take posses-
sion of the land.


STOCKS ARE NOW AT THEIR BEST.
sd
SPARAQUS
DISHES
Some very handsome
pieces in best Silver-plate.
These form uncommon
Wedding Gifts. A Heart-shaped Dish,
with Sauce-Boat and removable rack, for
84s. An oblong Frame, with heavy cast,
mount, pierced removable rack and pair
of Asparagus Servers, 80s. A neat, oval
design, with handsome, large, wire re-
movable rack, 635.
All the New Easter Goods are on view—New Jewellery—New Silver Goods—
New Purses—New Plated Ware—New Clocks. Come and inspect them, no
matter whether you want to buy now or later. It costs only a little time to
become acquainted with the new styles from over the seas. This store is pre-
eminent for the Reliable Quality of the Merchandise it handles, and we always
quote lowest prices. Our Eight Australasian Stores with their big buying
powers compel bottom prices, combined with dependable qualities. Our Cata-
logues are free, and all Goods are sent out post paid. Write us if you can't call.
fsd
fsd
f
IROOCHES
of Every Good Kind are
here—in all gold from 5s ;
in the popular New Zea-
land Greenstone and Gold
from 10s 6d to 25s ; Gem-
set Brooches ; Diamond Brooches that
blaze and dazzle, all are here in such a
breadth of variety that to be unsuited is
almost an impossibility. Our fine dis-
play of Knife-edge Bar Brooches, set
with precious stones, from £l5 10s to
£3O is worthy of close inspection.
sdf
IREENSTONE
Ihe real Stone from the
home of the Maoris, not
the common Chinese
Jade, which, though a fair
imitation, is but an imita-
tion. No doubt many jewellers sell the
Jade in the firm belief that they are sell-
lng Greenstone. If you want a piece of
the popular, real Greenstone Jewellery,
we can command our assortments to
your inspection.
sdf
PINKS'
For your cuffs, with strong
connecting links, thus en-
suring long wear. Every
heat style made finds a
place among our unrivalled
display of these most necessary pieces of
men’s jewellery. We do not stock the
very light weights, as satisfaction cannot
be bought for next to nothing. But for
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s you can get a
pair of gold Cuff Links that will be a
pleasure to wear.
sd
UEENSLAND
BEANS
Mounted up as Match-
boxes, are eminently
suited to give as Gifts,
especially for friends at home or going
home. Selected Beans beautifully
polished, and mounted with sterling
Silver, Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
A S iuff-box might suit an occasional
Gift-buyer. Silver-mounted, 13s 6d.
n
JASES
Graceful Silver Vases, with
slender stems and wide
opening's at top—Vases in
Glass with Silver Mounts
—in fine Silver Plate—
dozens of pretty ones to select from. A
few Buds in one or more of those dainty
ornaments will go a long way towards
making your dinner table good to look
upon. Prices from 2s 6d up to, say, 50s
for the large silver ones.
sd
snivh!
in Silver and in Gold
Single styles or in the
fashionable pocket-to-
pocket form. All the
good designs, some plain,
others slightly fancy. Quality is standard
in all. No seven carat for nine and
twelve for fifteen ; but full quality
guaranteed. In Silver, single styles,
8s 6d ; double, 12s 6d. In Gold, single
and double, as low as £3.
fd
IAT PINS
Every woman can find use
for more, no matter how
lavishly she is supplied.
She can leave a supply in
each hat ready for instant
use. Silver Kangaroo, Emu, Jackass, or
Swan Hat Pins for Is. Any Initial nicely
cut out, Is 6d. Gold Emu or Kangaroo
Hat Pins, 4s 6d and 8s 6d. Lots of fancy
styles as well. Some Fine Gold & Tortoise-
shell Hair Ornaments, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6.
f
IUFF CHAINS
Still a favorite with
the ladies, and no sign
of going out. They
look so graceful when
compared with old
style short chain or fob. The 9ct. gold
Muff Chains run from 555, then 60s, 635,
70s, 955, £5 ; in 15ct. gold, £6, £6 15s,
£7 15s, £8 10s. Pearl ornamented ones
in a variety of styles from £6 10s up-
wards. Silver Muff Chains from 8s 6d t®
13s 6d.
sdfsd
SDNII
This is a favourite depart-
ment with us, probably
because we fit so many
dainty fingers--some with
— Engagement Rings and
others with the Plain Gold Circlet, that
binds two lives together. If you want a
Ring, come here, where the best can be
seen linked to lowest prices. 18ct. En-
gagement Rings, Gem Set, 32s 6d to £i.
Wedding Rings, 21s, 2ns, 4os, 50s, 60s.
f
lATCHES
Fool a man once and
that settles it. Cheap
watches never built up
a man’s business. We
have the kind of
watches that enable us to say we sell
more watches than any firm in Australia.
Come in and talk the watch question
over ; or if you cannot, write us for a
copy of “Honest Watches.” Forty-eight
pages of watches fully illustrated.
sd
liamond Rings
For Engagements and
Birthdays. The daintiest
and most charming gift
you could send a woman
who loves pretty things.
Having ourown house in Hatton Garden,
London (the home of the Diamond), we
are able to pick up parcels of pure White
Stones at favorable prices. Upon inspec-
tion of our lovely stock of Diamond
Rings, you will see at once the effect our
methods have Upon the prices.
ďs
INKSTANDS
The Gift pre-eminent for a
man. Probably the hand-
somest and best lot in
Sydney, or, for that matter,
in Australia, to select from,
the rustic Silver-plated Single Bottle-
Stand, with pen-rack, at 9/6, up to the
elaborate Solid Silver Presentation pieces
at £6 10Silver Topped Bottles, 7/6 up.
Silver-plated Inkstands, 16/6, 25/-, 35/-,
55/-. 70/-, £5 5/-.
fsd
IECKLETS
Everyone wants one of
these for hanging the popu-
lar photo pendant on. As
usual, we are fully equipped
with a splendid stock of good
and useful designs. In 9ct gold, 6s 6d,
12s 6d, 13s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s ;
In 15ct. gold, 32s 6d, 40s, 60s, 655. Then
we have the patent Pearl Necklets made
from mother-of-pearl and coated to imi-
tate the real, 63s to £5. Gem necklets
£6 10s to £385.
sd
UGAR BASINS
and SCUTTLES
A new shipment of Silver-
plated and Embossed
Sugars, just right for after-
noon tea, 12s 6d each. Then the favorite
Scuttle designs in the very best quality
silver plate for 20s, 22s 6d, 255. A Solid
Silver “King James" Sugar Basin, 635.
These are just a few picked from the
m.'tnv we stock.
đs
lceptional Value
Oar stock of long-wear
purses is complete, and
when you see them you
will want to buy. With
the exception of a few high-
grade American purses, our stock is
entirely best English, each being care-
fully made and sewn, with English
Hall-marked Silver or Gold mountings.
Prices from 8s 6d to 25s for silver-
mounted ones.
ds
NTREE
DISHES
No woman can consider
her stock of table plate
complete without one or
more Entree Dishes. The cover has a
handle, and this, by half a turn, comes
off, and there you have a second dish,
which looks equally well as the other.
All good Plate, from 42s to 70s. Vegetable
Dishes, Steak Dishes, Soup Tureens, Pie
Dishes —in great variety.
fsd
JAfl DISHES
These are articles of daily
sale, and, in consequence,
our stock is constantly
changing. We add new
designs every fortnight—
all bought for cash by our Hatton
Garden (London) buyers from the most
reputable Plate manufacturers in
England. You can pay as little as 6/6
for the simple styles, and then go up by
easy steps to 25/-.
fsdf
PAL
BROOCHES
One of popular gems of
the day is the Opal—that
lovely Stone with sun-
shine in its depths—flashing forth every
color under the sun. A splendid selec-
tion of styles in Opal Brooches to pick
from, including some specially fine and
practically unmatchable pieces. Bings,
Bangles, Pins, Pendants—all are fully
represented.
ď
lEA POTS
Only reliable quality of
Silver plate is stocked, and
Tea Pot prices for Full
Sizes commence at 15s 6d,
then 18s 6d, 22s 6d, 255,
30s, 355, 425, 50s, 60s. The cheaper ones
being much plainer in treatment, the
higher-priced ones showing evidence of
superior skill in the decoration. We
have Tea Pots to suit every table, from
the cottage to the mansion.
sd
ACHTING
TROPHIES
Our stock of suitable prizes
is a good one, and includes
some of the finest silver-
work ever brought into Australia. The
Armada Jug, a solid silver piece at forty
guineas, is a gem fit for a collector. The
Union (Jup, at the same price, is also very
hand some. Lots of appropriate Cups and
Bowls, in solid silver and fine plate.
s
RUIT KNIVES
and FORKS
Cased up handsomely—6
Knives and 6 Forks. Just
the quantity for a young
household. Smart looking in design—
no clumsy effects. Knives have nicely
engraved blades in a variety of designs.
Strongly Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
and made for use, not ornament only.
For £2 10s you can get a splendid set.
We have a big range.
śd
lETTLES
Handsome pieces to have
on your table—effective as
wedding remembrances,
and nowhere else can you
see such good - looking
Kettles. We have —at least, we think we
have—some of the prettiest Kettles made,
and as for the prices—well, £2, £2 15s,
£3 15s, and £4 4s will buy something in
which you can have lasting pride and
satisfaction.
ďs
HOTO
PENDANTS
We could not describe
them in detail—the range
of styles is too wide. You
must come and feast your eyes on them
in the store. Prices were never so
reasonable for good Pendants. For 6/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 to 15/6 you can get the Gold
ones ; then the Stone-set ones from 21s all
the way up to £6. A beauty, with star-set
Pearls in 15ct. Gold for £2 12s 6d.
ds
Inique Designs
That is what we offer you
in 15ct. Gold and Fine
Pearl Star Brooch and
Pendant Combinations.
Not the stereo-typed
patterns, but the novel and effective
styles —Stars that have passed the
test of expert judgment, and priced as
low as the fine quality will allow. Prices
for 15ct. Gold and real Pearl Stars 57s 6d,
60s, 70s, 955, 110 s, 130 s, and 140 s.
sd
EALOUS
ATTENTION
That is what we promise
all who call or write. We
are ever ready to show you
and tell you all about the new things,
and, no matter whether you are a buyer
or not, that same zealous attention will
be given. If you write, we will supply
any information you may desire, together
with catalogues profusely illustrated.
“Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benger*s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t j find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
Most of Maoriland’s greenstone in the
rough is sent all the way to Amsterdam to be cut
into t rinkets and j e wellery designs. Can’t Seddon
keep that trade in his own country ?
The Netherlands tariff (Holland has
been, up to now, a sort of Freetrade country, but
finds that game doesn’t pay) imposes duties rang-
ing from 6 to 12 per cent, on all manufactured
articles. The Government is given power to in-
crease duties by way of reprisal on any foreign
country treating Dutch goods with hostility.
Lacking Protection, the British producer
is put to all sorts of mean little shifts to do by
underhand ways what a tariff would do for him
honestly. _ Once upon a time he used to spread the
yarn that imported frozen meat was full of small
hooks, and therefore dangerous to life. Now it is
suggested in England that frozen meat causes
cancer 1
“ Port Darwin ” writes:—
Now that Labor Leader Watson has disposed of his
motion against the introduction of Chinese into
the Transvaal, he might inquire into the employ-
ment, of Chows in the Federal service. For some years it
has been the practice of the Postal Department to employ
a jiu ,° these yellow aliens in and around Port Darwin,
and I believe they are still retained by the Commonwealth
Government to ths exclusion of Australians.
“E.J.W.” : I vote for Kingston as a
name for the Federal city, in honor of Australia’s
most honest, capable, and democratic politician—
the man who socked it into the fat, defrauding
importer. The name is short, crisp, and solid,
and, anyhow, it would be far and away in front of
Jvangarooanemia or Wombatville or Platypussia,
or some other idiotic name.
Ihe other day the N.S.W. Arbitration
court gave a verdict for the employers which
removed a long-standing grievance against which
the ordinary law gave no ready remedy. It made it
punishable for a tradesman’s delivery man, when
he changes his employment or sets up for himself,
to try to take away with him his old employer’s
homers the ones whose acquaintance he made
while delivering the old employer’s goods. And
even then Sydney Telegraph did a soured and
confused sneer in a leading article. When the
Arbitration Court decides for the employees the
Telegraph says it is oppressing the employers,
and when it decides for the employers the Tele-
graph asks the employees if this was the sort of
thing they expected.
The Victorian parsons have confessed their
inability or unwillingness to do their special work
—to inculcate morality into the rising generation.
Now, supposing the Scripture-in-Schools Refer-
endum succeeds, and the State undertakes the
Church’s work, then the State should immediately
resume all the land given to those churches for
Sunday school and other educational work.
From the South African News special
correspondent at Johannesburg:—
All the eyes of the workers are turned back to the days
of Paul Kruger. They are now calling him the “ working
man’s friend ” ; “he always stood by us,” they say. “Do
you know what he told the mine-owners once ? ” said a
president of a large workmen’s club to me. “He said
to them : ‘ Gentlemen, if you do not keep the mines work-
ing, I will take them over and work them for the State.’
And what have we now?—bad wages, little work, and
Chinese coming in on us! ”
According to recent statistics the total
arrivals of Polynesians in Queensland since the
beginning of the Blackbird traffic numbered
60,372. Of these 37,751 returned to the islands,
and there are at present 8564 residing in Queens-
land. This means that 14,057 Kanakas and all the
natural increase through births have died out. If
reliable statistics could only be published dealing
with the effect of the traffic on the island popula-
tion there would be some startling reading.
Sydney D.T., April 18, announces with a
gloomy “I told you so” air : “ The cost of Federa-
tion is now estimated at £1 Os. 7.jd. per head per
year,” which, with its clear implication that that is
the new cost involved by Federation, is an
astounding falsehood. The total cost of the
Federal administration only reaches £1 Os. a
head, and out of that sum has to be met all the
transferred expenditure for defence, the post
office, the customs, and so on. Britain spends
more than that sum per head on defence alone.
Vic. Opposition leader Mackinnon has
probably become more radical during the last
couple of years through the right-down caddish-
ness of men who used to be his associates. Mae-
kinnon is a member of the Melbourne and
Bohemian, the two most exclusive clubs in Mel-
bourne. When he opposed Irvine and Deform,
the cads of both those coteries (and most of the
members seem to be cads) cold-shouldered him,
whilst in the first-mentioned open hostility was
shown. Irvine is also a member of the Bohe-
mians—perish the name—and the merchants and
money-grubbers who make up that hilarious party
feted their frozen idol on two or three occasions,-
and also took a large hand in raising the £2050
with which the cool, calm, strong individual filled
his pockets ere he went off on his holiday spree.
One of the new industries cf the Common-
wealth is nail-making, now carried on at Home-
bush (N.S.W.) by the inventor of a new process,
Mr. P. Price. The tariff on nails is from 3s. to
ss. a cwt., which is the principal secret of the new
industry.
The Sigh Commissioner Bill provides for
a salary of £3500 and for the upkeep of offices in
London at the expense of the Commonwealth.
The High Commissioner must not act as director
of any co. or syndicate.
The three men who sit in N.S.W.
Assembly for the three Far Western districts—
the Darling, Murray, and Cobar —will represent
territory rather larger than the U.K., and 18,000
square miles more than there is in Italy; while
Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Switzerland, Servia
and Greece could all be dumped into it, and still
leave room for two more Belgiums.
A traveller, writing from Geraldton (N.Q.),
says that the country there is more like Asia than
Australia ; and much Government reserve land is
held on sub-lease by Chinese. White men—men
with a “pull”—lease the land at a nominal rent
from the State, and then sub-let to Chinese.
The new Queensland Government might make
inquiries on this point.
“ One Lung ” from Maoriland :
Even if Maorilanders have to pay a little more for a pair
of boots (boots are the only things I find dearer than in
N.S.W.) the money saved in stamps and railway fares
fully recompenses them. What with penny postage, six-
penny telegrams to all parts of the State, and cheaper
railway fares and freights, I find I am more in pocket at
the end of the year than ever I was under Reid’s so-called
Freetrade. The people here make their own goods (and
no shoddy either) giving work to their own people, and
living is cheap and good, and we haven’t had a deficit in
the Treasury for 15 years. But we do pay 2d. more for
our boots ; that is the price of prosperity.
“Huffin-Guffin”: To bring the wheat
down from the Northern districts- (through many
miles of unused wheat country) the Yic. railway
authorities have this year largely gone in for
“double load” trains, with two engines attached
to save some of the blocking on the single lines —
and also to save guards’ wages. These trains are
continually “ breaking away ” owing to the great
amount of “ slack ” between the trucks. So com-
mon have mishaps become that the department,
fearing a serious smash sooner or later, has stopped
passengers riding in the guards’ vans of these
trains under any circumstances. (Passengers are
permitted to ride in ordinary goods trains under
regulations.) Which sounds ominous for the man
who has to ride in these guards’ vans—the guard.
Candid criticism by Frederic Harrison in
recent London lecture on Imperialism :
H wa s impossible to change the conditions of modern
me in the British Empire permanently. Canada was
bei’-.g- drawn somaHy, commercially and politically toward
ine united States. Australia was a group of Americanised
republics, smart, selfish and vulgarised. They regarded
Britain not as a mother, but as a grandmother. Maori-
land was more democratic. It gave us mutton, swagger,
impudence, but not manners or literature. Once Britain
ost the command of the seas the empire would tumble
like a pack of cards.
Ihe ingratitude of it. Maoriland sent about two
dozen contingents to Chow Africa, and now it is
told that its chief products are mutton and impu-
dence.
Queensland reckons it has just put up a
record for Australia in railway building. On March
21st last year George Willcocks signed a contract to
build the second section of the Gladstone-Rock-
hampton railway for £92,000. There were 40
miles of it. with no less than miles of timber
bridges, besides two steel bridges—one of them of
some size. Three months later the contractor was
bustled along with a promise of a £2500 bonus if
he could get the whole thing through by February
—the contract time was August. That £2500
made things fly. On December 19th the Govern-
ment was running traffic right through, and the
whole business was squared up by the first week
in March.
Yic. Opposition-leader Mackinnon thus
jeers at the Bent Government:—
The Government has had its vicissitudes. It started
two years ago in a six-in-hand, with silver trappings and
outriders. Then it was transformed into a sort of humble
omnibus, taking up and setting down passengers rather
frequently—and for very unpleasant reasons sometimes.
Last of all, it became a Governmental car—a pauper’s
hearse—with the body of the Reform League inside. And
the worst of it all is that the gentleman with the ecclesi-
astical name (G. W. S. Dean), who used to preside as
chaplain, has deserted that poor corpse when payment
for his services at the obsequies is not forthcoming.
The other day a certain volunteer corps in
Maoriland discovered that the State’s War Office
is careful and canny about the strict observance of
the regulations. It applied to the Defence De-
partment for eight whistles, and kept on applying
for months. Finally, it got a reply in which the
Department pointed out that, under rule 673QX24a
of code 242|, a volunteer corps could only apply for
six whistles, and asked that the application should
be amended accordingly. The application was
amended, and after three months’ further research
the department replied that it had no whistles,
never had, and never would have, and spoke
vaguely of regulation 2XP9|.


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling- Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 11,50,000 at 5/1 each.
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
. of AUSTRALIA
Works! DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jeweller s’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearn
9
Bronchitis
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. ** °
BE3WA.RB OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO GOLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —1 wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I userl your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it eured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.’’
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.’’
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.— R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—f Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.’*
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in ths time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effeot.
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
The curs was
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I *m very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“t have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
“ 1 suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C*
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
’• Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very' bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
O
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CUReT)'’iN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
The Scibntikic Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during' the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’sßronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be fc
“ Yours nftst faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to day'that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Gkelono Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S. W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot, office i n oi 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size. 2s 6dl Laraie. 4s 6d. Sold bv ciieinists and TVTedieine Vendors Forwarded bu Post to anu Address when not obtainable Locallu .


n
/
A
/
£
/
The Sunlight Maids have washed the Sunlight way.
This is the best soap for washing clothes. It requires much less
labor than common soap and makes the clothes snowy white. If
you -want to boil and scrub your clothes you will get much better
results with Sunlight Soap than if you used common soap. If you
wash according to the directions on the package you will know what
the Sunlight way really means. You will give up boiling and
scrubbing. Sunlight Soap is made of pure oils and fats and will
not injure the most delicate fabric.
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white and won't injure the hands.
'LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY. Sc
A Ballade of the Captains.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHERE are now the Captains
Of the narrow ships of old—
Who with valiant souls went seeking
For the Fabled Fleece of Gold ;
In the clouded Dusk of Ages,
In the Dawn of History,
When the ringing songs of Homer
First re-echoed o’er the Sea ?
Oh, the Captains lie a-sleepinj
Where great iron hulls are sweeping
Out to Suez in their pride ;
And they hear not, and they heed not,
And they know not, and they need not,
In their deep graves far and wide.
Where are now the Captains
Who went blindly through the Strait,
With a tribute to Poseidon
A libation poured to Fate ?
They were heroes giant-hearted,
That with Terrors, told and sung,
Like blindfolded lions grappled,
When the World was strange and young.
Oh, the Captains brave and daring,
With their grim old crews are faring
Where our guiding beacons gleam ;
And the homeward liners o’er them —
All the charted seas before them—
Shall not wake them as they dream.
Where are now the Captains
From bold Nelson back to Drake,
Who came drumming up the Channel,
Haling prizes in their wake ?
Where are England’s fighting Captains
Who, with battle flags unfurled,
Went a-reiving all the reivers
O’er the waves of all the world ?
Oh, these Captains, all confiding
In the strong right hitnd, are biding
In the margins, on the Main ;
They are shining bright in story,
They are sleeping deep in glory,
On the silken lap of Fame.
Where are now the Captains
Who regarded not the tears
Of the captured Christian maidens
Carried, weeping, to Algiers ?
Yes, the swarthy Moorish Captains,
Storming wildly ’cross the Bay,
With a dead hidalgo’s daughter,
As a dower for the Dey ?
Oh, those cruel Captains never
Shall sweet lovers more dissever,
On their forays as they roll;
And the mad Dons curse them vainly,
As their baffled ships, ungainly,
Heel them, jeering, to the Mole.
Where are now the Captains
Of those racing, roaring days,
Who of knowledge and of courage,
Drove the clippers on their ways—
To the furthest ounce of pressure,
To the latest stitch of sail,
“ Carried on ” before the tempest
Till the waters lapped the rail ?
Oh, the merry, manly skippers
Of the traders and the clijapers,
They are sleeping East and West,
And the brave blue seas shall hold them,
And the oceans five enfold them
In the havens where they rest.
Where are now the Captains
Of the gallant days agone ?
They are biding in their places,
And the Great Deep bears no traces
Of their good ships passed and gone.
They are biding in their places,
Where the light of God’s own grace is,
And the Great Deep thunders on.
Yea, with never port to steer for,
And with never storm to fear for,
They are waiting wan and white,
And they hear no more the calling
Of the watches, or the falling
Of the sea rain in the night,
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
A Plot that Failed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BE jabers, Mick, toimes is dahmned bahd,
isn’t they ? Divil a hope of a nip from
that ould thafe Jannie Ryanson, at the
poob beyant; afther we done in our chicks wid him
too, more be tooken. Our-rashun bag’s near
impty, an’ the fish in this blashtid hole’s too tired
t’ bite. No thravillers along this road wid anny
money or baccy or spare toocker. Oi’m thinkin’
we’ll hov to make thracks agin an’ look fur wurrk,
bahd cess t’ ut! ”
“ If we must, we must, if ther’s no hellup f’r’ut,
Pahtsy; more’s the pity, afther the grand shpill
we’ve bin havin’, an’ the harses on good grass, too,
an’ nobody anny the wiser. ’Tis a weary
wurruld !”
“ ’Tis so ! ” and two men, ill-treated by fortune,
lay still for a few minutes, silently contemplating
the green, scum-covered waterhole at their feet,
shimmering in the heat of the noonday sun, shaded
though it was by tall overhanging gums.
“ Mick ! ”
“Eh! Phwatt? Urg-g-gh ! Begorrah, ’twuz
dhramin’ Oi wuz thot Oi wuz bhack in ould Oire-
lan’, wid plinty t’ ate an’ dhrink, an’ not a taap to
do the live-long day but shlape an’ make love to
pretty Norah ”
“Ah ! Git out wid yer pretty Norah. Yez
know yez kim out a nipper in arrums, so yez did,
an’ from ahl yer father tould me —God rist his
sowl, honest mahn—’twuz plinty t’ate an’ dhrink
yez niver had in th’ould dart, none o’ yez. Look-
a-heer, ’tis near toime the Toolpara mailman kim
along. Kim over to the poob. Billy M ‘Coy’s
roonin’ the mail now, an’ he moite be good fur a
nip.”
The two whalers crawled over to the pub. which
stood silent and bare in the middle of a plain, a
quarter of a mile or so from the bend of the river
in which they were camped. Coffee-room and
bedrooms on the left in a building by
themselves; then the dining-room and the
bar on the right. A narrow verandah, shaded
by four stunted pepperinas, ornamented the front
of the coffee-room building. A sign hung from
one corner, a lamp and a dilapidated horse-rail
appeared in front. A race-track, marked out by
saplings, encircled the lot, and the judge’s-box,
a tumble-down edifice of gin-cases and saplings,
with a tattered bag roof, stood a hundred yards or
so in front of the coffee-room door. Between the
judge’s box and the river stood the killing-yards,
plentifully adorned with skins, hides, bones, horns
and offal in various stages of decomposition. A
vast heap of empty bottles was stacked outside
at the end of the bar, and the space round the
judge’s box was used as a dumping ground for old
slippers, boots, tins, hats, rags, decayed veget-
ables, slops, etc. On the bank of the river, along
which a flock of goats was feeding, a miserable
blacks’ camp could be seen, and half-a-dozen gaunt,
hungry-looking pigs were rooting in an aimless
manner on the “racecourse.” The pub., being
situated right on the main stock-route, the whole
plain round it was absolutely bare, though the
season was not a bad one. It was a picture of the
“abomination of desolation.”
Johnnie Ryanson, the publican, a bloated-looking
personage, was dozing in a chair in front of the
bar, like a fat spider on the edge of its web, as
Mick and Patsy approached, and he hardly woke
up sufficiently to “bid them the time o’ day.”
They sat on the ground at his feet, back to back
against a post, and the three basked for a time in
the heat of the sun and the perfume of the refuse
heap and killing-yards.
“’Tis dhry Oi ahm” said Mick tentatively.
Ryanson woke up sufficiently to ask in a hoarse
whisper—
“ Hav oo got anny money ?”
“ Divil a red.”
‘ ‘ Thin oo can’t hov anny dhrink heer.” He went
off to sleep again. After a few minutes’ silence, he
snorted, nearly choked, and glared wildly round.
His eye fell on Mick.
“Hov oo shtill got that brown Garfield mare,
Rethribution ? ”
“ Oi hov thaat.”
“ Phwatt’ll oo taake for her?”
“ Pfoive notes.”
“Oo will?”
“ Shquare an all.”
Ryanson again roused himself, this time suffi-
ciently to extract, with much difficulty, five £1
notes from his trouser pocket. These he handed
to Mick.
“ She’s moine,” he wheezed.
“ Is she, begob?” said Mick, carefully examining
the notes. “ ’Twas pfoi ve tin-poun’ notes I mint,
not pfoive wans,” and as he handed the notes
back he chuckled. Patsy also croaked hoarsely
at Ryanson’s discomfiture.
“Does oo dare be afther tryin’to take a roise
out o’ me?” said the latter furiously. “If I
thart oo mint ut, Oi’d put such a head on 00, oor
own mother would’n know oo.”
“Augh! Turrn it up,” said Mick; “’tis as
much as yez kin do to put a head on a pot o’ beer,
an’ as to thryin’ to take a roise out o’ yez, yez
wuz fairly had. What d’yez want wid th’mare,
anny way ? ”
“Shure, Oi thart Oi moite pick up a note ’r
two wid her at th’ op’nin’ meetin’ o’ this noo
Toolpara Ammychoor Race Cloob the’r makin’
such a song about. Oi’m on th’ com’tee,” and
Ryanson went off to sleep again.
“ Pahtsy,” said Mick, “ Oinivver thart ’f ut.”
“No, Mick, ye’re no racin’ mahn, though ye’ve
got a good mare. Oi’ll inshtruc’ ye whin the
toime comes. Here’s M‘Coy wid th’ mail,” point-
ing to a slowly-approaching dust-cloud on the
edge of the plain, which, as it drew nearer, re-
solved itself into a horseman leading a heavily-
laden pack-horse at a canter.
“ G’day, Missus. G’day, Jannie. G’day, Mick.
G’day, Patsy,” said M‘Coy as the latter helped
him off with his saddles and bags and Mrs. Ryan-
son appeared for her mail. A half-caste boy
turned up also from nowhere in particular and
went off with the tired horses for a fresh pair.
‘ ‘ Anny chanst o’ wurruk, Toolpara way,
Billy ? ” asked Mick.
“ Narry a chanst, Mick. But if you’ve still got
that Garfield mare of yours, an’ she’s fat, you
might make a bit of a rise at th’ amyture meeting,
though they’re bound to stiffen her with weight.
Here’s the paper anyway, an’ you’ll see they’ve
cut out over a couple o’ hundred quid fur a two
days grass-fed meeting.”
“Phwatt? Grass-fed is ut ? An’ my little
mare no good at ahl aff th’ grass. The murdh’rin
villyuns. ’Tis thryin’ to do a pore harrud-wur-
rukin’ mahn out iv his money they arre. Grass-
fed ! ’Ts not raacin’ at ahl. The hay thins.
Quanesland’s goin’ to the divil. Kim along,
Pahsty, an’ let’s git baack to our camp.”
• • * *
“Pahtsy, Pahtsy, ’tis crool. Two hunderd an’
fifty quid ! A fifty poun’ handicap ! A forty-five
poun’ handicap ! A sixty poun’ bracelet —money,
too, more be token, not joolery ! Nathin’ over a
mode ! But, grass-fed, Pahtsy ! Grass-fed ! Och !
’tis crool.”
“ Hould yere whisht, Mick. Oi’m thinkin’.
Ye’ve got the mare, Mick, an’ she’s faht, an’ ye’ve
got her dahm, an’ she’s faht. Now, how manny
could tell th’ould mare from th’ yoong ? The’r as
loike as two pays. Ther’s a manny’d know the
wan from th’ other if they seen ’em together, but
in a mob o’ harses ther’s moity few, onless they
looked close. An’ they’ve both the saame braand
—d’ye moind me now?”
“Ye’re roite in what yez say, Pahtsy, but th’
ould mare can’t gallop an’ the yoong wan can—
thot’s the differ.”
“Hould on now till Oi’m troo. All harses
nom’nated hov to be hahndid to th’ sikithry on
Febooary 9th, anny toime—lishen to thot now.
Harses hov to be taaken away agin on March 10th
an’ the raaces is on the 17th an’ 18th. Now who’s
the sikithry? Isn’t ut Jorgin ? A noo-chum who
wouldn’t know the difference betune a raceharse
an’ a wurrukin’ bullock ? Ut is. Well thin,
phwatt’s to prevint ye nom’naytin’ Rethribution
an’ haandin’ th’ ould mare over to th’ sikithry
afther darruk on 9th Febooary—she’ll be run out
to the paddick with th’ others in th’ darruk—an’
we km thrain th’ filly on th’ quoiet heer.
Thin on the 9th Maarrch, afther darruk, we
kin shlip th’ filly in th’ paddick an’ taake out th’
ould mare. Ther’s nawthin’ in Harsetraylee, grass-
fed, kin touch th’ filly thrained at anny dishtance
up to a mode.”
“ ’Tis meself knows thot, an’ your’s is a grate
shkame entoirely Pahtsy. But Oi see difficoolties.
Wher’ll we git the money to thrain with ? Or to
nominayte? We arre both shtiff.”
“ Thot’s the ounly difficoolty, Mick, my son, an’
difficoolties wuz maade to be overcome. We’ll
hov to taake thot thafe Jannie Ryanson into the
know. He’ll joomp at th’ chanst, an’ he’ll find
th’ feed an’ th’ money. Him bein’ on the Com’tee
’ll maake it easier fur us, too. ’Tis harrud loock
on us, bekase we’ll hov to share wid him ”
“ Mebbe we will, mebbe we won’t.”
Ryanson was duly approached by Patsy with
persuasive tongue.
“ Hid oo see this ? ” Jannie asked. “ Ahl harses
nom’nayted hov to be the bonyfied prop’ty of a
mimber of th’ Cloob, an must be ridden by a
mimber of th’ Cloob. None but amychoors shall
be admitted to th’ Cloob. Arre oo an amychoor,
Mick ? ”
“Be jaabers, ther’s no wan in this disthrick kin
say Oi’m not an amychoor. Not undher me
prisint naame anny way.”
“ Let’s see phwatt mimbhers of com’tee ’ll vote
for you,” said Patsy the practical. Here they
arre. Muggins—”
“Th’ pooblikin. Oi’m shwate wid him. He’ll
nivver objec.”
“ Jorgin—”
“The Sikithry. A noo-chum. O’ll tahk him
overr.'*
“ M‘Eachran.”
“ Herbie M‘Eachran. Shure, Pahtsy, yous and
oi are his white-headed bhoys. Hid’n’ he saay we
wuz th’ bist min he ivver haad ? We’ll pitch him
o taale about two harrud-wurrukin’ min who’s
saaved enuff money to buy a harse, and ashk him
to propose me fur a mimbher. He’s a consated
little animile, an’ he’ll belave annything we till
him. He’ll be roite.”
“ Wallace Allan M‘Cluskie.”
“The groonter. He’s roite if he’s flattliered
enuff. Oi’ve ounly got to till him ’tis a murdhrin’
shame thot a mahn of his jaynious an’ moity in-
tellec’ ’s not med gin’ral maanagher of th’ comp’ny
an’ mimbher fer th’ disthric, an’ give him the
naames of sum min who’ll vote fur the Minis-
tayrial candidate if he ashks ’em, and he’ll sicond
Herbie M'Eaehran’s moshun. ’Tis a shure thing
to thry ’im fur wurruk on th’ saame loines, but
thin he’s a fair terror to wurruk fur.”
“H. Black.”
“He’s threas’rer ’v the cloob, an’ he won’t risk
the loss of a subscripshun by lettin’ on if he ain’t
shure whether oi’m a thoroughbred ammychoor
or not.”
“ Ryanson, you’re on as a delikit compliment to
th’ counthry subscribers I s’pose, J annie ? Augh
well, there’s plinty to put you throo, Mick.”
Ryanson joined in the conspiracy conditionally
on Mick becoming a member of the club, and in
due course he was accepted, and Mr. Mick
Donovan’s br. m. Retribution, by Garfield out of
Destruction, syrs. old, was nominated for the
Toolpara Amateur Race Club Handicap, the
District Handicap, and the Ladies’ Bracelet (by
Mrs. Ryanson), besides some of the minor events.
Mick, returning to the pub. after nominating,
joyfully exhibited the secretary’s receipt for the
said br. m. Retribution, and related with glee how
Jorkin had remonstrated with him for bringing
the mare up so late. However, he had seen her
taken out to Tom Dal:in’s paddock all right.
“ Tom Dakin’s paddock ? ” said Patsy.
“Yes.”
“ Is thot the paddick th’ cloob’s rintid ? ”
“It is, thin. Tom’s caretaker, too.”
“ Why, the Com’tee must be mahd. Tom’s got
two harses of his own entered. He’ll be feedin’
thim harses an’ gallopin’ thim an’ gittin’ th’
strenth of th’others. God knows phwat divilment
he’ll be up to. ’Tis robb’ry, thot’s phwatt ’tis.
Besoides, he knows the filly’s well ’s Oi knows
Mick. Och, the shwindle of ut! ”
However, there was no help for it. It was
too late to alter things. The training of the mare
went on steadily and regularly, and gave every
satisfaction to the three conspirators. They
backed the two “Retributions” for the double
in the various books that were opened,
and even, here and there, for the “thnbble.”
They heard no word that anyone had recognised
the old mare paddocked in the place of Retri-
bution, and it seemed that nothing could mar the
success of their plot. Mick and Patsy used to
chuckle with glee and plan what they’d do with
their money when they had pulled off their
“ good thing.” It is sad to relate that they spent
a considerable portion of each night plotting how
they could best take Ryanson down for the price
of the feed he had supplied and the nomination
money. They called this revenge, not robbery.
And their plot might have come to a successful
issue, had it not been for Patsy’s indignation at
the Committee’s folly in selecting Tom Dakin’s
paddock for the grass-fed horses. He was right
in surmising that Tom knew Retribution perfectly
well. He did, and he was fully alive to the fact
that the mare had not been put in the paddock,
but was being trained down the river. Patsy was
also right in his conjecture that Tom would be
feeding his own horses and playing tricks with the
others placed under his charge. But Patsy need
not have been alarmed. Tom—with the cattle at
his command—could not soar as high as the Han-
dicaps and the Bracelet; he only wanted to make
sure of some of the minor events and had no
desire to interfere with anybody else’s little game,
so long as he was left undisturbed to play his
own.
Patsy, however, could not be expected to know
all this, and the situation alarmed him. Prom
constant pondering over it, he did what even the
greatest generals have done —made a false step.
He was firmly impressed with the idea that if it
could be brought about that the grass-fed horses
should be shifted from Tom Dakin’s paddock,
nothing could interfere with the success of his
plot; so he wrote to the club :
Wombat’s Hole, February 27th, 183?.
The sikithry, Toolpara Ammychoor Turf Club.
Der Ser, i takes up my pen to rite yous a wurrud ov
wonin as its Tom Pagans paddick the amychoor harse is
in, an’ Dagan’s no good, he has got two harse roonin’ and
we think it suindel if he aloud to feed his harse an’ thry
thee other harses in paddick witch he duse in a box in
scroob Sir we thinks you should git enuther paddick if
anny mimbir of Comty git the harses in yard an’ watch
Tom Dagans black mare an’ roan colt they See I tell trute
bout the feed.
Yor sinseer well wisher friend.
This letter he showed to Ryanson before he sent,
and Ryanson approved of it. Shortly after Ryan-
son was summoned to attend a committee meeting
to consider Patsy’s effusion. It was decided, despite
Ryanson’s powerful appeals, to take no action,
the epistle being anonymous. Then Ryanson
confided to the secretary that the letter came from
a man of weight who was the partner of Mr.
Michael Donovan, owner of Retribution.
Jorgin thereupon determined to take steps on
his own account, and rode out to the paddock
next morning, accompanied by a friend. He had
the horses put in the yard, and, sure enough,
found abundant evidence that Dakin’s horses were
fed. He then gave Dakin notice that the horses
would probably be shifted to another paddock,
and that his case would be considered at a special
meeting that afternoon.
“Well, Mr. Jorgin,” said Tom, “would you
mind telling me who split on me ? ”
“ I don’t know that I ought to,” said Jorgin ;
“ but I don’t see that it can do any harm. It was
Mick Donovan’s partner.”
Then the air was full of clamor, curses, and
explanations, and the story of the old mare that
was pretending to be Retribution was told at
length.
° * * * »
Retribution, cleverly ridden by Ryanson’s boy,
easily won the Toolpara Amateur Club Handicap,
and the wild hurrooshes and yells of Mick and
Patsy could almost have been heard at the place
where the mare was trained. Then, immediately
after the declaration, a formal protest was lodged
against the mare, on the grounds that she had not
complied with the conditions, had not been put in
the paddock, and had not been trained by the
owner. An inquiry was held. Michael Donovan
and his mare were disqualified for life, as also
were Jannie Ryanson and his son. Patsy got off
scot-free, his connection with the matter being
difficult to prove. But Dakin informed him that
the mischief had all arisen through his letter, and
wound-up by knocking him down. They had a
fight, and Patsy got very much the worst of it.
Then their creditors came down on them, and,
to satisfy them, Mick had to sell not only Retri-
bution, but her dam. Ryanson and Mick were
not so severe on Patsy as might have been
expected. Mick put it all down to Patsy’s educa-
tion.
“ Eddicaashun’s the wurrest thing m ahl the
wurruld fur a wurrukin’ mahn.”
“ Bad cess to the day I ivver learnt to use a
pen,” said Patsy, as they rolled up to travel (per
boot) to a job they had flattered Wallace Allan
McCluskie out of.
“ Oo’re roite,” said Jannie ; “ a pick an’ shovel’s
about the roite thing.”
NE'ER-DO-WEEL.


PERHAPS YOUR KIDNEYS
JOL
A
t,. /(-a
(/ TL
V
w
/fof
A
“Every Picture tells a Story/*
ARE
E CAUSE.
Backache is the sure sign of Kidney Complaint and Bright’s Disease, for, in
reality, the ache comes not from the back, but from the kidneys, which lie just
beneath the small of the back. The pain is caused by uric acid and other poisons
oppressing and hindering the kidneys, and until these poisons are removed you can
never be well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills—the special kidney medicine—give the
suffering kidneys just the help needed ; they drive out of the body all the liquid
poisons, giving freedom of action and new life to the kidneys, and ridding the blood
of the impurities which spoil your sleep at night, yet make you feel drowsy, heavy,
and heartless all day.
Thus, by bringing the kidneys back to health, the Genuine Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cure.the CAUSb of Bright’s Disease, Dropsy, Urinary Disorders,
Gravel, Bheumatism, Stone, Sciatica, Nervous Ills, and Depression. They counteract
the harmful effects of beer, spirits, and tea.
And—best of all- the proof given here is Sydney proof.
A SYDNEY CURE.
Mr. James Higgins, Epsom-road, North Botany, this city, says:—“Sometime ago I was taken badly
with kidney trouble. I don’t know what caused it, unless several accidents were to blame. I consulted three
doctors, and underwent treatment, and each one failing to do me good advised me to go into the hospital to
undergo an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that the operation was my only chance of
recovery, as one of my kidneys was in a thoroughly diseased condition. . Up to this I had taken medicines of
all sorts, the empty bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. I was in such pain and misery at the
time that I did not care if 1 lived or died. I had severe pains in the back, giddiness, and headache, and
scalding urine. I was completely done up, and scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the
operation, and I actually came to the day it was to be performed, when a friend of mine asked me had I yet
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me of the case of a friend of his who was in as bad a condition
as I was when he started using this medicine, and these Pills cured him thoroughly—and for good. I post-
poned the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned to
work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in me would ever have been possible.
There is no doubt it was wonderful. I was not then quite cured, but was as fit for work as a man could be. I
continued taking the pills, and have been splendid ever since. I am now quite recovered, and advise all
kidney sufferers to use this medicine.”
OAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
Are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Fitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S
The Cruiser.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE came at break of day,
Her hull against the dawn,
Blundering up the sleeping bay
Before the nets were drawn.
But little we cared for that,
The cruiser claimed our eyes—
Her funnels and spars lay flat,
And the air was full of cries.
On her bridge the captain stood.
His eyes were staring wide,
Lost in a madman’s mood,
Searching the rosy tide.
The smoke from the splintered stacks
Rolled over her decks in clouds.
In her armor were rents and cracks,
In the water dragged her shrouds.
We hailed, “Ahoy ! ahoy ! ”
But her steersman never turned.
He scraped the channel buoy,
And his eyes with madness burned.
Her plates were shattered and bent,
One screw was shot away ;
Broken and wounded she went —
Halt and lame, up the bay.
A wild face came to the rail,
Just aft of the broken guys ;
He did not answer our hail,
But we saw the look in his eyes.
Terror and weariness,
And the look of a deafened man—
Ah, well! we could only guess
This ship had been in the van.
She had fought where the fight was worst,
With decks all splashed and strewn.
When the shrill shells struck and burst
In the light of a chill half-moon.
The smoke rolled over the sea,
And oh ! she moved so slow,
And oh ! the moaning of agon
From the wounded men below.
Into the port she went—
We turned and watched her go,
With armor shattered and bent
And engines toiling slow.
Yet proud she looked, and grim,
As though she had fought her fight,
Out there on the morning’s rim,
Back there in the awful night.
Never shall I forget
That sight in the early dawn,
As we lounged in the sea-mist wet,
Before the nets were drawn ;
When that broken cruiser came
So slow that she raised no foam,
Tottering, weary, crushed, but game.
Groping her blind way home.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
The Man from the North-West.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Man from the North-West smiled a
smile that lit St. George’s Terrace from
Barrack to William-street. When the
glow had subsided he spoke.
‘ ‘ Sudd en death !” he said; ‘ ‘ you don’t know her.
Why on Beagle Bank last year there were five
funerals in about four minutes. Crossbore ar-
ranged the obsequies and provided the corpses ;
you know Crossbore ? ”
The Easterner shook his head.
“Crossbore evaporated just after ; it was a bit
too tough, and even Broome bucked. Big fellow,
Crossbore; red beard up to the eyes and a temper
like a walking hell. He’s reckoned to be over in
the U.S., or somewhere, waiting for the five
funerals to be forgotten. Won’t take long.”
They had reached the Palace, and went up the
white steps together, the Easterner smiling like a
placid bagman. A boy concealed behind a gross
of breast-buttons brought their drinks into the
smoking-room, and spilt a little Apollinaris on
the Easterner’s left sleeve. He wiped it off imme-
diately and apologised, but for a moment the
Easterner’s face looked like Sheol at midnight
with a full blast on.
The man from the N.W. was busy lighting up
and did not notice. Presently he leant back with
his cigar canted away up toward the frescoed ceil-
ing and talked.
“Yes. You want to go round the Seveque to
see life—and death. You Easterners and Perth
and goldfields men know and hear and see and
do nothing. You might as well be ants. In fact
you are ants. Every white man up in the North-
West is a spider or a scorpion, though ; men with
sulphuric acid in their veins and livers like
Satan’s. Crossbore and Scarvin and Sammy
Centipede —they used to call Crossbore the Java
Scorpion, and by h he scorped! Wonder where
he’s raclcetting now.”
The Easterner twiddled his cigar and rubbed his
mouth—a mouth that, when closed in thought,
looked like a fresh-healed scar. He said nothing,
and the talkative North-West man went on.
“ Crossbore was a great axeman; though he
.didn’t chop wood. His Chow cook offended him
once in a peculiar celestial way—it cost him a paw.
Gee ! It was the shell-men’s talk from the ’Pelago
round to Thursday Island. Press the bell, will
you ? ”
The Easterner rang and softened his mouth
down to the amiable expression of a draper. “ A
man like that would have great difficulty in ‘ hold-
ing himself in ’ in the civilised parts of the world,
I should think,” he said.
The North-Wester laughed. “I’d sooner pour
water on the red-hot walls of Hell than argue a
bad point with him. I bet he finds civilisation
awkward all right. And it finds him embarrassing,
too, for that matter. A queer cuss; never had
anything to do with the women up there. Scarvin
reckoned he had a religious wife in some other
part of the world—he was a great hymn-hunimer.”
The Easterner ran over a line or two of “ Bock
of Ages ” in an inaudible tone, and then yawned.
“ Good night,” he said, “ I think I’ll get down to
the Esplanade. Will you dine with us to-morrow ?
- I’ll introduce you to my wife.” The North-West
man nodded and held out his hand; the other
shook it and went down-stairs.
* ♦ * •
The North-West man dined at the Esplanade
with the Easterner, and met his wife also. Next
night they went to the theatre with him, after
dining at the Palace. They had supped and dined
back-and-forth a dozen times, and the man from
the North-West looked covetous looks at the big
black-eyed woman whenever he felt assured that
her husband wasn’t gazing, i'he Easterner, how-
ever, had a universal-joint sort of eye that saw
backwards and diagonally, a ratchet eye that
observed better out of the corner than straight
ahead. And his eye lingered thoughtfully on the
North-West man when it seemed to be fixed on
the purple bookmaker at the other end of the
dining-room.
They were sitting at dessert in the Palace,
with the pre-understanding that, after dinner,
the North-Wester was to take Mrs. Francis back
to the Esplanade balcony, and there chat to her
while her husband went down to Fremantle to see
a man on business. So the three drove down to
Wellington-street in a hansom, and unloaded the
Easterner at the railway station. Francis smiled
to his wife. She smiled quietly at him. Then he
went to the booking office and bought a return to
Karrakatta as they drove off. It takes about five
minutes to get to Karrakatta, and five or six more
to come back ; Fremantle is a matter of half an
hour or so. The Easterner came back, and went
down to the Cremorne for a while. The Cremorne
theatre is the best in Australia, from the common
sense point of view—no roof, no boxes; merely
rows of seats on the grass, creeper-covered walls,
a stage, and a couple of bars for the thirsty. The
Easterner smoked a cigar, had a drink, and strolled
down home to the Esplanade at 9 o’clock or
thereabouts.
Mrs. Francis and the man from the North-
West sat out on the balcony among the pot-plants
and palms. The passivity of her eyes puzzled the
North-Westerner’s brain.
He knew women, he thought, and according to
all canons the indications-in-general said, “ Come
on.” Only her eyes, expressing simply nothing,
bothered him. She had done and said nothing to
entice him on, but neither had she said or done
anything to repel him ; therefore his chaos of
brain. Finally, he decided to be a doer, and laid
a hand on her arm. There was no resistance or
demur, and the hand went from arm to neck.
He talked a sort of love to her among the
swishing palms; and the faint breeze coming
from Perth Water deadened the North-Wester’s
hearing and nerved him in the chase. He pressed
the beautiful face with the silent eyes toward him.
Someone the other side of the palms laughed
and the Easterner looked through at him, along a
barrel. ‘ ‘ Good night, Mr. Devil-from-Derby ;
I’ve got back,” he said; “or rather the ‘Scorpion’
has come back.”
The North-Wester’s spine melted and sunk
down like a wax-candle. “Crossbore!” he
quavered.
The Easterner laughed. “ Why, certainly ; you
didn’t know me with the jungle of whiskers off
and the new hair on. This is moveable, see ”
He took off a black wig; there was red under-
neath.
Crossbore laughed again, stepped round the
palms, and pushed the barrel into the North-West
man’s ear. “Shall I pull the trigger, ‘Three
Fathoms’ Tommy’?” he asked, “or do you want
to get back to Wyndham and talk to Scarvin ? I’ll
be up around that way presently. You can make
my path straight, past Beagle Bank and the like,
you know.” . . ,
The North-Wester shuddered against the
barrel-point. Crossbore took him by the ear and
stood him upright, facing the exit into the hotel.
“Get away up to your boat at Geraldton, you
North-West ant,” he said. “Tell all the other
ants I’m coming back, and say that I’m bringing
my religious wife along with me eh, J ess.
There, g6t> ! ,5
His wife laughed as he kicked the North-
Western demon stairwards on his road back to
Broome.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Point of View.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Murrumbidgee, the whaler, was waiting
for the store to open, when Walter, the
stud-groom, came up.
“Give us a pipe o’ terbaclcer, please, sir,” said
Murrumbidgee.
Walter was touched. The “ sir ” was soothing
to his vanity, and he fished out a cut plug from
one of his pockets, and presented the lot to Mur-
rumbidgee, and told him to put it in his pocket.
A “ Thank you, sir,” put Walter, in imagina-
tion, still higher. From the elevation of “sir-
dom ” down to the gully of whaler-dom seemed
such a distance that the temptation to improve
the occasion was too strong to be resisted.
“ It’s a wonder you fellows don’t try to get a
job, and stick to it, instead o’ tramping round the
country for a bit o’ flour an’ meat. What you see
.in it gets over me. There’s whips o’ work about,
if you’d only take it, instead o’ whalin’ up one side
o’ the river an’ down the other.”
“Oh, it’s all very well for you to talk,” said
Murrumbidgee. “You’re young yet, an’ when
you get out of a job, you can always drop into
another. But wait till you’re older, an’ then you
won’t have such a lot to say about it. You don’t
know what it is to be hard up yet.”
“What f” said Walter; “me dunno what it is
to be hard up ? Gord’s truth, man, it was only
last year I was workin’.on a station in Victoria.
Come all the way from Melbourne for it, an’ when
I was only a fortnight there, the bloke —a fair cow
he was, too—give me the run. I hung round for a
day or two, lookin’ for a job, but it was no good.
So I cleared out, and walked all the way from
Dim - dam - boola to Warrackna-dam-beal with
only eleven an’ six in me pocket. I thought I’d
ha’ died before I got there. It took me two days
to do it, but I did it.”
“How much did you say you had?” asked
Murrumbidgee.
“ Eleven an’six.”
“ Oh, Hell! I don’t see what you wanted to
walk for.”
“Oh ! you don’t, don’t you. What’d you ha
done, anyhow?”
“Oh, me ! I wouldn’t ha’ walked,” said Mur-
rumbidgee. “Td ha’ camped”
JIMMY THE RINGER.


Could Not SI 66 p
Aver’s Sarsaparilla and Pills Bring Back the Appetite, Insure Restful
1 Sleep, Give Energy. Felt Twenty Years Younger.
Mr.A. Moyes, Franklin St.,
Adelaide, So. Australia, sends us
his photograph, and says:
“ I feel sure that it is to Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and Pills that I owe
my good health. Previous to
taking this medicine, I had no
appetite and suffered from loss
of sleep. I had no energy to do
or to go anywhere. The doctor
told me to go away for a change.
I did so, and I did not feel any
better after coming back. I came
to the conclusion it was old age
coming on me. Anyhow, I soon
altered my opinion after takiffg
the Sarsaparilla and Pills. Now
I can eat and sleep well; in fact,
I feel twenty years younger. And
when West I need never fear the
diet one has to put up with on the
fields, when my medicine-chest
contains a bottle or so of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and Pills.”
Why is it that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is such a strong nerve tonic ? Why is it
thatthis family medicine brings back the appetite, makes the nerves steady
and strong and gives sound and refreshing sleep? The answer is easy.
Because ifremoves the impurities from the Wood
and keep them in a restless and weakened condition. When fed with p
blood, the nerves settle right down to their regular duties; the brain,
stomach kidneys, and heart all do their work as nature intended.
To get these results you must take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other
kind. The market is full of imitations. * -
/ ■
m
m
r
ds
Sa
V.vA
Purifies the Blood. Strengthens the Nerves.
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver active. They aid the Sarsaparilla.
* tTw TVR. J. O. AYER CO., Lowell, Mass TT. S. A.
MARCUS CLARK & CO., Ltd.
Combination Conch and Bed.
A Marvellous Invention.
This is a COMBINATION COUCH AND BED—a long
looked-for want —which can now be supplied at our
Newtown Emporium and Branches,
ITS SPECIAL MERITS.
Simplicity and Usefulness,
The Most Comfortable of Couches.
Convertible by a wave of the hand, into a Luxuriant
and Substantial Bed.
Apiece of Furniture of Highly Artistic Finish and
Design. <
An ornament to any room, in addition to the above
useful advantages. ■ v ■
At prices within the reach of all.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
£2
£3
£3
£4
Patent No. 1227 U.
Upholstered in Cretonne, from .. ..
and Plush, from .. ..
Upho stcred in Cretonne, with box, from
In Tap'5 tr y and Plush >
Can he nv.’.olstered in any material: Leather, Cretonne,
Tanestrv pro V invaluable to Hotel and Boarding-
* «**■ visit,>rs. g
As it is eonvertihlP inP a dou ¥ e L bed at a moment’s
notice! any°room c“n a B d oom where
one of these admirable Combinations)., P !®f e(L
sni p diput u.. ? nd obtainable only at
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
JEEP'S
ip OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain m the Stomarfi Sick HeadacheS
V Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Col<*. Chills, h lush
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Costiveness Biotches on the blan Di|
turbed Sleep and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THU llKbi
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction Evei-y sufferer U
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOK-.ua
WU BEECILAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like inogic-a tew doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; P'oVtn'ietite' 2d
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion; bringing bach the keen of appetite^
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy to the
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best uarantee ; n
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Mediemem
he icorld. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Jinxes, Is lid, and 12s 9d each. _______
Shooters obtain the most satisfactory results by using
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
;/ S-',U’;:-- . • ' ■; ■ J
.. ' .;• -:... . ; ■ ■r&kjyl
- ? { ,'g (_, [_!<• ■ ',(>/ OKSTl■£■ POV'/uEfc^^B
and U.M.C. AMMUNITION,
ds
dsf
sd
sd
ORDER
f
AND ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE
sd
Price 1/1
Post Pree.
IfIRRY MORANT:
His ’Ventures & Verses
■
sdf
Consults by Letter, .£l-
- COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THb BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CARD.
I
u
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P..E., L.R.C.5..E.,
1 LFP S G etc.
ered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ ELM LEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
The only L a KMhr*«!aitfEd Medical P r actlUoner o a«er t M"K
ssss irsas 5 a |S*Egsg3£&sss£ sasssass
cooele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases. froin y chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Austraha an "„ a gti Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout Bronchitis Piles , Number o( RESIDENT
and Kidney Complaints, etc., ,etc. DR. MARIUS has Accomn:“ Moderate
Patients at “Elmley House,” suffering from above TOmplamt . flbgo ,J te anci Rapid Cures. N
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatme ,_ ® KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
“Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the ME' VoSNDCncLdYng rdrdn A e" 9tr REMEDIES Observation to
all parti of^Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to SdU&"hiBrowne'-Sequard, Krafft-
Dr. MARTIN has with him all the LatestEurcpeanTreatmeits.inclu g Bladder, and all
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung .Heart. Liver, _* , >’ racti(je in Australia
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during h competent and
(over 20,0f>0 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate cn g
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS . c ,
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St, _
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper ? e
I Olga Nethersole tells London Playgoer of a “terrible
cperience” in Chicago, when she first played Juliet,
omeo (Maurice Barrymore) whispered just before he
ed, “ I have forgotten the dagger.” Olga suffered
jonies while trying to think of some method of dying.
Had it been an ordinary melodrama it would have been
isy ; but, alas! it was Shakspeare. I thought of the
•ws of the Medes and Persians, and saw no way out of
le difficulty. The moment came for the fatal blow, and
could see nothing for it but an ignominious breakdown,
hen, by a lucky chance, my eye caught sight of the
vord with which Borneo had fought and killed Paris. I
sized upon it, and placing the hilt against the wall
retended to impale myself upon-' it, thus removing the
nfortunate Juliet from the vale of tears. Next morning
tie crities/^fy—trniw'mous in condemning me for intro-
a new method of killing Juliet. They .wrote at
jreat length upon the cast-iron traditions of the immortal
Shakspeare, and advised the ‘new English actress to
itudy them and keep them ever before her.
A new building opposite the Strand in Pitt-street,
Sydney, stands upon the site of an historic house of enter-
tainment. -‘The Shakspeare Tavern was built in 1847 by
Mr. Wm. Knight, It had a large room at the rear, on tne
panels of which were scenes from Shakspeare s plays>»
done by some of the best artists of those days. Sub-
sequently Thomas Spencer kept the house. Spencer was
of a mechanical turn of mind and the house became noted
lor 111 eccentricities.” Water bottles were charged witn
electricity, a bar round the counter ditto, and miniature
railway trains amused the consumers of long sleevers.
While the Victoria Theatre was open opposite, the bhafcs-
peare shared with the White Horse, at the rear of the
theatre, the business of players and playgoers.
IVhen the Prince of Wales Theatre, Castlereagh-street,
Iney, was burned in January, 1572, many effort* were
de to relieve the distressed, actors. Amongst other
ractions was a cricket match on the ojd Albert ground,
zabeth-street, Redfern, between Press and Stage.
,ge was represented by J. J. Bartlett, J. Bennett,
G. Oarey, George Darrell, H. Douglass, John Howe,
J Holloway, W. H. Metcalfe, Sam Poole, J. H. Rain-
d and Charley Young. One half of these have gor e
jr. The press representatives were Alfred Bennett, ~
tier, alias Grosvenor Bunster, W. A. Cooper, G. Etc,
T. B. Gibb, W. H. Hicks, Rowley Pickering, P. Procto.,
trace Rogers, J. R. Robinsrfh, Harold Stephen am.
,rnet Walch.
“T.D.”: To my own knowledge and regret, there are
present five sopranos in Mel hourne planning benefits for
emselves in order to go Londonwards, and of the bunch
ere is only one whose voioe is big enough to heave nt
ything more formidable than a suburban charity con-
rt audience. WhiBh of the five this is I leave for the
her four to guess. Even that gifted creature will hai e
least three years’work in front of her befoie she can
tempt to storm London, and whatever she may realise
nn the projected benefit won’t carry her the
■st year/ Up to date it has cost a well-known Sydney
iger, who is now figuring at London concerts, near y
1000 to get a footing, and she has not quite arm ed, (
r en yet.
A Kino- who goes round to the shows is, in one respect, a
ss grovelsome influence than an aged Queen who lives
it of the world. - Seems that an awfully loyal song,
ititled “Edward, England’s King” (no mention of
lotland, Ireland, India and the other items) would have
jen introduced into a recent musical comedy but tor a
nt from the Lord Chamberlain. His gracious may hail
3 desire to sit in a private box and hear himself warbled
jout by a topical patriotic songster. Enough Gorsave
as good as a feast.
The Lynch Family of Bell-tinklers, etc,, now touring
ictoria for the sixtieth time, first struck_ that state s
idiences with their melodies in the middle sixties,
arry Lynch, present manager of the troupe, was a
iveniie then in his'father’s company. Where all the boys
.arned to tinkle and warble to a profitable extent. • Ola
i a d Lynch, at 82, is still well and able to throw a consider-
ble shadow. He retired some years ago, “went on the
md ” at the Bass River, but now resides in Fitzroy.
«»T.S.” : The Duke of Loam’s unusual butler has been a
lost interesting visitor, but the lapse of time has thrown
o new light on his impossibleness, nor did he become
ny more feasible as he progressed. There seems just a
hance, or the pallid spectre of a chance, that a man with
he elements of greatness and the capacity to command
night be a butler by mistake, simply because he didn t
mow he had the elements of greatness concealed about
urn • but the idea that the man who had discovered m
timself the ability to be a leader of men should go back and
luttle of his own free will—should slide voluntarily, hkqa
legraded avalanche, down into his old place in the servants
ia ll —is impossible. No one remember,* any great man
rho rose from being a butler ; during last century a pig-
lealer overthrew one huge tyranny and became a King ;
md a solicitor’s clerk overthrew another against stupen-
lous odds and became a President; and a peasant became
eader of the Redshirts who poured into Naples ; and a
ail-splitter became the savior and father of his country—
>ut all the butlers of the earth only said Yessir _re-
ipectfully, and buttled. The “ Admirable Crichton is a
msrht, pleasant impossibility, There is na future
mtler, the flunkey, and the great plush-clothed multitude
>f Jeames. •
Despite the archaic saw, an ill wind seldom blows much
rood to anybody. A Chicago paper states that since the
miming of the Iroquois Theatre there has been a panic
unong theatre-goers, with the result that 6000 people,
ifho earned their living in theatres, are out of employ-
ment in that city. Further, the mayw of New York has
notified that there are serious defects in the construction
Df 19 theatres, and unless alterations are commenced at
once they will be closed.
Young W. J. Lincoln (of Melbourne), who is, after all
one of Australia’s few practical dramatists, tells a storj of
the time when he went to London, a mere boy, with a
view to eclipsing Pinero. Dropping into the American
Exchange, where actors congregated, he found ■
Anson in a state of simulated woe. Anson, not long
returned from Australia, had been to Irving s theatre (the
Lyceum) on the previous night, in blissful ignorance of
the fact that Irving’s part in “ King Lear was bemg
taken by the whilom idol of Ballarat. I expected a
Seat Lear,” said Anson. “ I had made up my mind to
weep. The ‘star’ came on and started to perform. I
rubbed my eyes, and cried-Bill Holloway ! Vm gtdl
crying—Bill Holloway ! ” It is a matter of histoiy that
Bill Holloway, stalking around the Lyceum stage in
Irving’s boots, was calculated to move anybody to tears.
Rats infest Melb. Aquarium huilding When big
affairs, whereat refreshments are provided, come off, rats
indulge in riotous living for some days, carrying foodl to
their hiding places. Provender then gives out, and a com-
pulsory fast ensues. Then the rodents rage round like
wolves. Not so long since, in the part where there s a
scene representing early gold-digging days, a laughing
jackass used to amuse and entertain visitors. One morn-
ing he was found wingless and almost speechless on the
floor of his cage. During the night tbß rats had attacked
the bird.


sdf
Is worth its weight in
gold to you. It’s macin-
tosh time just now.
These are the best
Macs, made stylish-
full of wear, and abso-
lutely waterproof.
GENTLEMEN’S MACINTOSHES—
35Sj 42Sj 50s*
LADIES’ MACINTOSHES—
With Cool Ventilations under Cape—
-355.
Perdriau Rubber Co.J?
(Late Perdriau & Co.)
RUBBER MERCHANTS.
270 Georg-© St., Sydney.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Compouad Jet Candeasing Pumping Engine.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd , London.
Warren Webster & Co. New jersey.
ENQUIRIES INVITED FOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters $ Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
DRESSERS
SfSsfclii
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformatiohs you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up info Switches at
2/6 per ox. Spcci.ic Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
sd
sd
f
sdf
sd
Every
Length
and Size
stocked.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers,
SYDNEY,
PERTH,
MELBOURNE,
COOLGARDIE.
AND REPRESENTING IN i
TANGYES, LI Ml
WIRE
fsd
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
Steam Engines! Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machines]/.
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Stur.evant Ore Rolls and Crushers.
f
Record SHAFT SINKING in Australia
£ Jl ie ! lmU ie Q ueen Central Block Co., Charters Towers, was sunk a distance of 336 feet in thirteen weeks ; or, at the rate
°i depth of 140 feet (from 404 to 544 feet) was put down in four w r eeks and 31 feet timbered (slabbed) in
a , c i lO . n \ . -*■ . size ie s baft is 15 feet by 4 feet 6 inches, and the formation granite. This performance constitutes a record in
shaft sinking m Australia.
FOUR INGERSOLL-BERGEAIMT DRILLS of the D 9 TYPE were used in sinking this,'shaft, and the,men
woiked three shifts, each shift doing 42 hours per week.
.ItChANT BOCK BRILLS AND AIR COMPRESSORS hold the highest average records throughout
e wor d. lhey have met and defeated in fair competition every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain
their reputation for doing the most w r ork at the least expense.
INQERSOLL-SE'RGEANT DRILL CO., NEW YORK.
■A-GriESircrTiS— r: "- : ■■■— —' - _
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd., 60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Mining: and Hydraulic Engineers and SVlachinery IVSerchants.
BBS 5S
T. - M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st., sybisey
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE
Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting. Etc
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. Hew and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
'
■ :: 7'
flU ‘"liliii
mr
Size, SJ" x 3.1 "x 5".
<L't#
and have
for Sale-
SNOW DUPLEX
(all sizes
tor a.!l
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Re quisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors
CRWTTONiC
NOTHING g '? IIAI * m
hetai SOLARINE polish
For GLEANING GOLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL, TIN, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and LESS MATERIAL THAN ANY OTHER POLlty
ON THE MARKET. far Sample Tins on application.
r'\K v p><;'-V ' ; -
Sole Agents
_
mums
71 Clarence Street, s yfi , nev -
486 CoSlins Street, M^gb OM y W e.
