

GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
McEWAN’S ALE.
Mining ancl
Kent Street,
—FOK—
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
107
Contractors’
Sydney,
Machinery,
Mining Requisites
McUfEN’3 Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
dg
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of-laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character —very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to anvaddressin Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Bex 3, P. 0,, Haymarkat.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 m s SYDNEY.
>Blf Asantß for J, & H. MoLAREH, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traotion Engines for Haulage, General and Special Worfc
We Stock and have to arrive McLaron’s Compound Traotion Engines; BOSTON'S Portable Horizontal and Yartloa! Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIROHNER’B Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND
TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
HOBART.
XSJSk
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
sdfg
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING!
sfd
.
EVERV BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
tyfrllans ' (imooKu^
I
IJrtEGISXACRJEU.,
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free , under cover.
Stiuctly Confidential.
A. G. LUMSDEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD.
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
~Xs>
C 3
Rftc
A
Zi
o
cs
HERVEY’S
RACKAROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. & GO
DYEES & CLEANERS, 3
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post .from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
I Uftrtnett' throughout Crtmi Britain and CaUrntm.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remain! which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; wholesystembuiltup; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hav Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Du. P. HAROI.DHayes’A6THM VTIC iNSTIICXI,
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. 8. A.
THE
hdsg
‘PLUM’
OENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
' * like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kina of
j dge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify 'o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
"RAZOLEO" LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. oake.
Prig*
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
/Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Rkgustered and Sent Tost Free to any Part of the World.
tsr Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
... _ . -
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
A Gold or Silver Watch Free!
MONEY.
s \\%WY-
StfV'.u
\
WE hereby undertake to
give one of qur Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
the only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
M**S T**S C****E
and addressed envelope, so I hat
we may inform you if you have
won the Watch. ' We are n laking
this offer solely with the object of introducing and advertising our
goods. Forward your letter to our address : [or Box 565 G.P.0.l
GOLDSMITHS •■COLONIAL CO , PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D2NTVAIT
F2RTHIS
sdg
Capilla
is a medicinal—curative—refresh-
ing scalp treatment, and possesses
all the elements that go to produce
a good head of hair. Its powerful
stimulating qualities go straight
to the hair roots, giving them a
life and vigor they never knew
before—and life and vigor to the
hair roots mean more hair—
stronger hair—better hair. Re-
member, there is no “ fragrant
aroma ” in Capilla : Perfumes
don’t make the hair grow—they
don’t even help.
Capilla Hair Tonic
will do for you what a perfumed
preparation will not do, it will
GIVE YOU BACk YOUR HAIR,
Sold by all Chemists and Stores—
-2/6 a bottle ; full course,
posted direct, 17/3.
W. O. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MEMO. FOR 1904 ; AUT HELIDON AUT NULLUS.”
The Bulletin
Vol 25.—N0. 1261.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, April 14, 1904.


Latest Books a*
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Boothby, An Ocean Secret, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Haggard, Col., A Canadian Girl, paper>2s 6d,cloth 8s 6d.
Glasgow, The Deliverance, paper 2s'6d, doth 3s 6d, p. 6d
Tvtler, Four Red Roses, cloth 3s 6d, p. Gd.
Kinyon, How to Memorise Music, Is, p. 3d.
s, An American Prisoner, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
, The Iron Hand, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
feile, Myra of the Pines, doth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Reed, Shadow of Victory, by author of Lavender and
Old Lace, ilhis., 3s 6d, post 6d.
Xh'e Rationalist Press Series of
(contains books by Darwin, Spencer, Huxley, Clodd, Laing, etc.,
. i*n number, price 7s, post free.
Write to us for any Book you Require.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
We are always pleased to answer inquiries.
‘ ' ' at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
m
..
ff
r*
r.
% A
v
&
iQK
am
Tbe NjsfrataiW} M ed»caTG*zefte
/ Tof Great Service in Affections
UQf the Voice &Th roat '!•
&>ld by Chemists, tins, 1.6, ojfrom the Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, p|s| IfLV’VLondoD
Stamps. Sydney Depdt : 5 & 7yQueen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian. States &N. Z. , and at S2O Regent st.,
THE RED PAGE.
VERSE BY CHRISTINA ROSSETTI
When I am dead, my dearest,
Sing no sad Sonys for me,
Plant thou no roses at my head,
Nor shady cypress tree
Be the green grass above me
With showers and deivdrops wet:
And if thou wilt, remember,
And if thou wilt, forget.
I shall not see the shadows,
I shall not feel the ra in ;
I shall not hear the nightingale
Sing on as if in pain :
And dreaming through the twilight
That doth not rise nor set,
Haply I may remember,
A nd haply may forget.
J*
I have desired, and I have been desired,
But now the days are over of desire,
Now dust and dying embers mock my fire:
Where is the hire for ivhich my life teas hired, ?
Oh vanity of vanities, desire !
Longing and love, pangs of a perished pleasure,
Longing and love, a disenkindled fire
And memory a bottomless gulf of mire,
And love a fount of tears outrunning measure :
Oh vanity of vanities, desire !
Now from my heart, love's deathbed, trickles, trickles,
Drop by drop slowly, drop by drop of fire,
The dross of life, of love, of spent desire :
Alas, my rose of life gone all to prickles /
Oh vanity of vanities, desire!
Oh vanity, of vanities, desire /
Stunting my hope which might have strained up
higher.
Turning my garden-plot to barren mire ;
Ok death-struck love, oh disenkindled fire,
Oh vanity of vanities, desire!
Bemember me when I am gone away,
Gone far away into the silent land :
When you can no more hold me by the hand.
Nor I half turn to go yet turning stay.
Bemember me when no more day by day
You tell me of our future that you plann’d:
Only remember me ; ‘you understand
It will be late to counsel then or pray.
Yet if you should forget me for a while
And afterwards remember, do not grieve :
For if the darkness and corruption leave
A vestige of the thoughts that once I had.
Better by far you should forget and smile
Than that you should remember and be sad.
Jt
Pardon the faults in me,
For the love of years ago : \
' Good-bye.
I must drift across the sea ,
1 must sink into the snow,
I must die.
You can bask in this sun,
You cam drink wine, and eat:
Good-bye.
1 must gird myself and run,
Though with unready feet :
I must die.
Blank sea to sail upon,
Cold bed to sleep in:
Good-bye.
While you clasp, I must be gone
For all your weeping :
£ must die.
A kiss for one friend,
And a word for two, —
v . Good-bye :
A lock that you must send,
A kindness you must do :
L must die.
Not a word for you,
■ Not a lock or kiss,
Good-bye.
We, one, must part in two;
Verily death is this :
1 must die.
- fit ; '
Shall I forget on this s ide of the grave ?
I promise nothing : you must wait and see,
Patient and brave.
(0 my soul, watch with him, and he with me.)
Shall 1 forget in peace of Paradise l
I promise nothing : follow, friend, and see,
Faithful and wise.
(0 my soul, lead the way he walks with me.)
*
Where sunless rivers weep
Their waves into the deep,
She sleeps a charmed sleep :
A wake her not.
Led by a single star,
She came from very far
To seek where shadows are
Her pleasant lot.
She left the rosy mom,
She left the fields of corn,
For twilight co’d and . lorn
And water springs.
Through sleep, as through a veil,
She sees the sky look pale,
And hears the nightingale
That sadly sings.
Best, rest, a perfect rest
Shed over brow and breast;
Her face is toward the west,
The purple land.
She cannot see the grain
Bipening on hill and plain,
She cannot feel the rain
Upon her hand.
Best, rest, for evermore
Upon a moss*/ shore ; ,
Best, rest at the heart's core
Till time shall cease ;
Sleep that no pain shall wake ;
Night that no mom shall break
Till, joy shall overtake
Her perfect peace.
GHOSTS
The death of Jesus Christ, if ever living,
occurred on a particular day. His resurrection from the
dead, if it was a fact, also occurred on a particular day.
Yet both events are celebrated at a different time in
every succeeding year. The anniversary of death
must fall on a Friday, and the anniversary of resurrec
tion must fall on a Sunday ; and the Friday and the
Sunday fall now here and now there, according to an
astronomical calculation. Nor is that all. First, the
position of the sun is taken into account: the vernal
equinox must have arrived. Secondly, the lunar phases
are taken into account : a full moon must have followed
the vernal equinox. Then come Good Friday and Easter
Sunday. And the result is that Christians have to con-
sult the almanack in order to learn when they are to
expect these occasions. But this strange fact does not
excite their curiosity ; if it did, they would learn that
Easter is a conciliation of sun-worship and moon-worship,
that it is an old Pagan festival, and that it has no relation
whatever to any event that ever happened in Palestine
or elsewhere.— G. IF. Foote.
The missionary as trader is no novelty ; but it
is new to find him openly exploiting the Gospel with the
aid bf the Companies Acts. The Rev. F. VV. Walker,
known in Papua for several years past, is how in
-England promoting a company called “ Papuan Estates,
Limited,” to be rooted in religion and to flower in cash—or
rice versa. Mr. Walker explains in The Examiner, a
weekly Nonconformist paper, that religion must be allied
with commerce in order to do good to the poor untutored
savage. “ The position,” he says, “is this. . . We go to
a raee like the people of New Guinea, and preach to them
the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which is a gospel of peace.
We teach them to leave off fighting—which is one
of the principal things they live for ; and if we
simply cast out one devil, the devil of fighting,
and leave the space in their lives empty, what
will happen? As Christ foretold, seven other devils—
devils of sensuality and idleness and other evils—will
come in, and the last state will he worse than the first.”
This, as C. Cohen points out, criticising, reduces to a
cipher the value of Christianity as a civilising agent;
since, _ unless secular agencies are superadded, the
Christianised savage is a lost saint. If the fear of God
is the beginning of wisdom, the collection of copra is the
dividend.
The Sonny Ways of Australia.
And see ye not yon bonny way
That winds about the ferny lea ?
That is the way to fairy land,
Where you to-night must go with me.
SOME day, and somewhere, I shall meet him'.
Out on the plains where the spaugles on the
salt bush shine ; high on the solo mountain
head where March reveals the mile-broad
glory of the immortelles ; in a ravine of the coast
where the centuries have built up the spires of
amygdalina; higher than Cologne; on a strip of
ocean marge where the land wind bends a mile of
honeysuokle as a single leaf, and the sunlight-
flashes from a new bared blade of silver. By
myall or belar—who knows when or where ? The
last of his race, and lingering still, though all the
bonny ways are closing, closing fast.
Will he sing as sang the other belated one, to
the lass at the “gloamin* buchte”? A great
song that, though lost almost as iA the strange
sprite who sang the maiden’s heart to stillness,
and her soul away.
Oh, where is Tiny Fay ?
And where is Little. Len f
And where is Mysie May,
And Menie Of the Glen f
An’ where’s the place -of rest,
The ever shifting hame ?
Is it the gowan’s breast
Or 'neath the saut sea’s faem ?
Who knows where or when ? The only thing
seen is that soon the bonny ways will all be
closed. So ruthless, so insatiate is the advance of
“ our civilisation.”
Ay, it was bonny once out back there—when
the innumerable glitter of the saltbush made
morning glory even on the treeless plain; when
the mirage was not a mockery but a breadth of
heaven let down to complete the gladness and
beauty of the earth. When grass and herbage
did but rest through the drought, as the vine
rests in every winter; when the myalls were
unlopped, and no man wanted more of belar or
wilga than the shadow of their boughs ; when the
timberclosed in on the plains with the night’solose,
even as the trees lay their dark arms about the
little fields of little England. When the sand-
ridges were undesecrated sanctuaries; when
galahs like doves, with breasts wild rose bloom-
tinted, fluttered among the pines. Ay, it was
bonny then at night and morn. And it is well
nigh awful seeming to realise’that the bonny ways
will never be trodden again. Bonny and barren.
The two words describe the past and the present
so accurately. For neither one nor a dozen good
seasons will restore the old world face. What we
see now is as the rank weed mat on a
Diverina fallow. The glory of the long lone
plains returns no more, and all their bonny ways
are lost.
Does it not come as a command to us who
have trodden them, to make some little record
with pen or brush ? Shall we permit it to perish
utterly arid be forgotten, that robe of virginal
beauty Australia wore when our civilisation
clasped her in its withering embrace ? Some
shreds remain, some bonny ways are open and
meet for Faery still, though unknown even to
those whose business it is to know, as were the
three ways (yea, and a fourth) to King Lemuel.
JS
There is the way of the big forest. Who that
has known has failed to find faery in it ? Where
the tree ferns rise above the bracken and the harts-
tongue, the sassafras above their palm - like
crowns, the lightwood boughs above the sassa-
fras, the amygdalina over all. Firmament on
firmament, height answering unto height, the
light of blue or the sailing clouds aloft appearing
actually as patches of a world of riieaner things.
Bonny when the sunlight filters through and the
lightwoods quiver, and only the sassafras sways.
Brave as roaring ocean on beetling cliff front
when the tall trunks bend and actual torrents
foam down to the cleft ravines of their boles, and
the mightiness of moving things makes man mute.
Axe and fire are in it now, and no man of the
next generation may be able to say to his son:
“Go up there and behold the works and listen to
the voice of the gods.”
J*
And there is a way of the mountain head, the only
Austral mountain head the summer does not smite
with baldness. The lustreless shroud of the snow
on southern slopes where no sun shines and no bird
sings, has been there from the beginning. It is
eerie by the black water below the grey snow
un visited of any gleam. But bonny on the crown
and all about the gleaming eastern front are the
ways in the autumn time where surely the faery
folk must linger still. Those ways are all bedecked
with amaranthus blooms. Their white and tiieir
gold are seen as in the Mount Cook lily. But the
league-broad mat of their foliage is all of a pearly
grey, soft as the plumage on a ringdove’s breast.
Millions of milk-white blooms are there with
golden shining eyes. Do faery bells never ring
across them, while grey things huddle down there
by the black tarn ? It is faery land—our land’s
end, subjected to influences (as we needs rhust
believe) elsewhere unknown—and its beauty and
its witching will vanish on the tourists’ intrusion
as the wild bird flits to return no more when once
a human touch has defiled the sanctuary of its
nest.
There are ways by a river, the river of Aus-
tralia which enters through the Eastern gates to
the valley of Australia, and flows westward
evermore. The great red gums were there,
in vistas and avenues planted by those to whom
was given the clothing of Australia’s nakedness.
Never elm or oak or sycamore or beech of Europe
or America showed a nobler growth than the
river-side red gum of Australia. Their great
trunks—tnarbly, smooth and hard—rose fifty feet,
and thence the great limbs branched out—free,
uncrowded ; with leaf canopies whose rich tints
changed witli the changing lights. Spring saw
tall green crass down mile-long avenues, and
closed by a bend of the river, flinging around its
timber fringe like a living forest gate. Beyond
that gate was the sunset; one opal palpitant with
a thousand coloured fires, and overall the crowns
of the trees a splendour rolled as the materialised
breath of a god. A vagrant wattle in the under-
growth gleamed as a golden banner, a magpie
sang, a lone star kindled, and the souls within us
were vibrant with response as the spirit of even-
ing passed. Assuredly it was a bonny way, and
the end thereof is, alas ! in fairyland, unrealised
and lost.
J*
Far away on the Victorian coast is a little river
coming out of the big woods, meandering over
a narrow plain and forming, as is the way with
many of our rivers, a long lagoon by the beach.
There was a bonny way from that river’s bead to
the lagoon end. The water leapt from its fronded
cradle'to the broad breast of a coastal hill where
silver wattles grew, a little forest of silver wattles,
each tall and fair as the spreading chestnut tree
under which the village smithy stood. Not one
tree was crowded, and there were ten thousand,
maybe. Surely it was a-bonny way, beneath the
web of that feathery foliage, beside the laughing
water. And when at times the sky was mir-
rored in a pool, the blue sky webbed with the
tender green of the wattle leaves, there was
inspiration to all who had eyes to see. Out
of the wattle into the lightwoods. through the
lightwoods on to th‘e flat, frdm the flat to the
lagoon, beyond which you might hear the thunder
of the surf behind the sand-ridge crowned with
noble honeysuckles. Demur not to the adjec-
tive, you people who have known the honeysuckle
only as stunted and gnarled on the rocky
northern coast. These trees rose to a height of
eighty feet. They were full foliaged as are white
cedars in December, and when the wind smote
them they rolled upwards, an unbroken under-
surface woolly white —white as the Lombardy
poplars, blown furiously by a wind coming steady
and strong frqm the sea. The lagoon lay as a line
of steel, of silver, of lead. And when the sun had
set, the wattles were grey as the witch cloaks of
the scud trailing landward over Woolamai. Axe
and firestick closed that way long ago.
JS
There was yet another which I would recall.
It may remain undesecrated still, for a kindly
humanity has it in keeping. It was by a cliff
front of that same coast which the blackfellows
had named Barragundah. Thereon the waves
roared in thunder. Hence Barragundah ! Poor
dull unperceptive blackfellows, how justly we
despise them ! A mile inland from Barra-
gundah was a very homely home bowered in with
mulberry, camphor laurel, and pine. But all
between that foliage band and the edge of
Barragundah was open she-oak forest. Will you
walk beneath these oaks awhile? Will you listen
to the sibilant whisper of the needles?. They
needs must whisper while Barragundah talks
aloud. Will you note the white caps flash in the
sapphire beyond the russet and the green of the
oak foliage ? It is a bonny way, a dear, sad, eerie
way. The good gods send it be open still.
As we gather the memories of all the ways and
range them in sad splendour and pathetic incom
pleteness about us; it seems that they are frag-
ments of a beauty whose whole must have been com-
plete and unique ; and that the tutelary deity, the
creative and inspiring genius made manifest in
them all, is of equal rank with any of those whose
priests and temples crowd and crown the ages.
Nearer to us, moreover, and therefore dearer,
fairer.
Fairer than these, though temple thou hast none,
Nor altar wreathed with flowers,
Nor virgin choir to make delicious moan
Upon the midnight hours.
Not much worship, not much knowledge, not
much memory or perception of the native grace
of our loved world’s end, amongst those who
marshal or those who follow in “the march of
our civilisation.” And yet, and yet... 1 But let
us make an end, for this, also is vanity. Whoso
hath eyes to see hath seen; whoso hath ears to
hear hath heard; whoso is gifted with memory hath
remembered—and no human can be instructed, or
led, or coerced in those ways. To whom privilege
and opportunity come, impulse and compulsion
will not be lacking. But too often, na,y almost
inevitably, they will come to him in unutterable
loneliness and yet under stress of companionship
bewildering as inexpressible. And he shall watch
the dearest children of his soul die ere they are
born, and he shall walk the atony ways of the
world sometimes pitied, often despised, always
misunderstood.
F.M.
CONTRIBUTORS
“ E.S.S.” comments—
Oh, had I known in time, alack 1
An authoress so.fair
Was washing dishes at Tdor.dk,
I ’(? been a gardener there !
How gaily J ’d have plucked the chooks
And scrubbeil the frying-pan,
While planning or discussing books
With Little Mary Ann !
Say, Mary ! did the bobby Cali
To share the kitchen tea f
And did the postman vxink at all
Or try to Jlirt with thee ?
I trust you broke no hearts among
The “ pink-struck-Lizer " clan,
Or “strung” the butcher boy too long —
My Little Alary Ann !
F.M. finds this ballade by Oatulle Mendfes in La Vdohe
Enragee, 1896
BALLADE DU BON VIEUX COAIPAGNON DE
BATAILLE DE BUVERIE ET D* AMOUR.
Bon sang de Dieu ! si Von m’allume
Ca chau fe.ra ! je cogne dru /
Sous cinquante ans, marteaux d’encluvii,
Qui m’ont. refvrgi, j’ai recriu
Garyons ! craignez mon poing bourm !
Car telle est mon accoutumance,
Centre un cent mime secouru,
Quand j'ai fini, je recommence ! j
Refrain qu’on chante et piots qu’on huvie !
Au cabaret de Lustucru
J’obtiens le prix, quoique posthume,
Du boire et du rythme congm.
Ah ! les mignots, vous avez cm
Qu’elle dtait marie, ma romance ?
Que non 1 Plein du vin demon cm ,
Quand j’ai fini, je recommence 1
Les soirs, sans que lefraism'enrhume,
J’itreins d’un disir bien membra
L'Agnes oil Vavril se parfume I
J’eus la grand’mere, et fai la bru.
Au fond du bois, le long du m
Suivez-moi, Paule, Agathe, Hermanee,
Car, sasidis ! encor que ventru,
Quand j'ai fini, je recommence 1
Envoi.
Prince, avec moi, nul, inalotru,
Noble, en lice‘ r au lit, d la ruense,
N’a, sans defait.e, concouru !
Quand fai fini, je recommence.
Fred Bradshaw : Please send address. . .G.B. : Thanks ;
will try and use.. . E.T. : You will find it in The Bulletin
Reciter , price 4.5. 6 d. ■ •
MEMORANDA
Arthur A. D. Bayldon in publishing a subscription
volume of his verse, to be called The Western Track, and
Other Verses. It will include the best of his earlier work,
and a number of newly-written pieces with a more Aus-
tralian tinge. Bound in full roan, the price will be 7s. 6 d.
Orders may be sent to the author, G.P.O., Sydney.
The spirit of the Japanese. Fukuzawa, one of
the pioneers of New Japan, sold his mosquito-net to buy
a Webster’s Dictionary. A young disciple craved it, but
had no money to purchase. Fukuzawa lent him the
dictionary, and he made two copies of the whole work.
Count Katsu, who took the first Japanese ship to San
Francisco, accomplished the same-feat. What thirst for
kftowledge ! What energy 1
Or...consider the amazing bibliographies of a
German like Nietzsche, an Italian like d’Annunzio, a
Frenchman like Mirbeau, a Belgian like Lemonnier—or
of hundreds less well known. You read of dozens or
scores of substantial works,, little and big, completed
before middle age—verse, prose, plays, besides innumer-
able considered 'articles in periodicals. And their liveli-
hood is earned thus or between whiles : they are not
rich in money. Nor are they hermits. It is a matter of
industry little short of ferocious.
Here, as we know, if a writer lays a little
rhyme of sixteen lines, or a little story of a thousand
words, he is apt to cackle over it for a week and slumber
upon it for a month. “ We must buck up.” Easily said.
Yet... the noted contrast was worth noting. There are
natural disadvantages here, to be sure. Atmosphere—
the writer must create his own. Audience—it is scat-
tered over a continent. And printing expenses are
enormous—from 40 to 50 per cent, in advance of London
or Paris. The Labour paradise must be paid for, and
imported material costs. But excuses cannot content us.
After all, is there not a lack of the single aim, the
strenuous life 7 Is it not sleep upon full stomachs that
makes the difference ?
RECKITED
The Tariff Dictionary (Lond., Simpkin, Marshall;
2s. 6 d.) A bandy “ fiscal dictionary,” boiling down
certain world’s-tariff facts and figures for plain men’s
consumption. Particular reference to the U.K. Limited
and unauthoritative ; but relying on sound authorities,
and correct as far as here cheeked.
The Filigree Ball, by A. K. Green (Lond., Unwin , 2s.
Qd.) When one positively can do nothing else, it is good
to follow Disraeli’s habit—“lie on a sofa [Aust.: ham-
mock] and read detective stories." A. K. Green’s detec-
tive stories are notorious, and can be read ; but they are
not good, only as good as the average. Anna Katherine
invents ingenious plots {The Filigree Ball has a highly
ingenious plot); but study-spun, and peopled by puppets
living in a thin, dead air of theory. Her liberal “blood”
is a crimson simulacrum, not the real thing, not the
Blood, blue blood,
The product of the bullock that falls downitriih a thud,
as fondly picturedLby a local poet. On the whole, she is
not worth more than sixpence a story.
Mary of Maqdala, bv Edgar Saltns (Lond., Greening;
2s. Grf.) Greening and 00. are a young firm, somewhat
less conventional than the oldsters ; and one wishes them
well. But to do well, they must improve the
facture of their “Colonial Library”: it is shabbiest
of all tendered to Australia at the half-crown price.
While other publishers turn out for the money books of
so much better appearance, Greening’s books won’t
sell and don’t sell. As for Saltus, he is the most
purple and “precious” of American journalists;
not without wit, curiousknowledge, and occasional
verbal felicity ; but on the whole irritating rather
than stimulating. The extravagant artificiality of his
style, endurable in an occasional article, becomes in-
tolerable in most of his books. He has merit, but not
enough for his pose. Yet one supposes that both Francis
and Edgar Saltus missed genius as closely as any Ameri-
can since Poe. — Alary of Magdala is a romantic recon-
struction of the story of Jesus, ingenious and uninterest-
ing. The matter is dead, despite labour and luxury of
phrase—the characters unrealised, the emotion unfelu
Salome, for example, is feeble after Wilde. “She was
young and exquisitely formed”—banal. “In her face
you read strange records, and on her lips were promises
as rare ”—suggesting Da Quincey or Pater on unattain-
able heights. “ Her eyes were tortoise-shell, her hair
was black as guilta typically bad simile. And so on:
language is given to Saltns to conceal his facts ; r lauo
has lived for him in vain. And he is too old to alter.
A.G.S.


wool
■
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
■iiurm SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH,
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCH COMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
ARE THE BEST SALESMEN
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, £KD
RESTORES EYFLASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
[SI EVER rails:.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Eook:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
The Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
I. Hollis
& Sons
“The Reliable,’’
£6 12s 6d
sdg
N?n
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action, Real Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt, Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Foie-
end, chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
& SONS’ “ KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
left choke, right cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap
noAHr, 101 walnut stock, GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
JrUWDER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price... ... ... ...
™ SONS ’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
fcrU JM, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin.
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING RIFLE, 1903 model, Special
22 Calibre, fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight sJlbs.
£5
£l2 12s
£5
AMMUNITION.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB
E. B. SMOKELESS „
AMBERITE
E.O.
12?. 6/-per 100
16?. 6/6 „ „
12?. 6/6 „ „
„ 12?. 6/6 „ „
16 or 12g. 9/- „ „
12?- 16/6 „ „
12?- 12/-' „ ,
Per ICO. Per 1000.
WINCHESTER 22 short 1/3 10/6
„ 22 long 1/5 12/6
fI 22 ex. long .. .. 2/- 18/
„ 22 long shot .. .. 2/6 23/6
„ 22 short smokeless .. 1/6 14/
„ 22 long „ .. 1/9 16/-
~ 22 automatic .. .. 2/0 21/-
IW- REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
f
Folding'
CoKec or Gun, 410 g.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel
barrel, case-hardened locks * 1
WINCHESTER ” S.S. Rifle, 11302 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V sights
scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2jlbs
“ REMINGTON " S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 2Cin. barrel
weight
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifles, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine ... Round barrel, 555. ; Octagon barrel,
FIEPER’£> “BAYARD ” S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weight
3|lbs ... 13s. 3d.
15
18
0
17
1
6
0
6
6
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE
RELIABLE.
ryarjrT*”^
cc lf\e f y ]<ftir^e”l^if > le
Rifle Apart
22 <B/rorf orLffng. Pin /wr, BottA effort
Pound Q/ueef Sfe ef/sindt Barred, Yiefdhffy if
fitted mfhpfa/n Ifordfiding Bock 5/gftts
(rtuarranfeedfardOOYbi). PoJuhednsfnor
dfoch. Poa/dcge onP/f/e, hdo exfhg.
MICK SIMMONS,
HRYMarker, Qyd/yby.
sdg
WITH PLAIN SIGHTS 13/d
SUOING- SIGHTS TO 300Y05 15/6
Cartridges Can OnfyOe De/ivered by Rail or Boat
dsg
JAMISON TOWN, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —There is nothing- that gives
me greater pleasure than 'showing or
speaking of the great benefit I have re-
ceived from wearing one of your Belts.
For seventeen years I was a cripple, almost
a burden to my people, and a perfect
misery to myself, in fact I was what you
might call a useless man. I tried a good
many doctors, but got no benefit from
their treatment. My boys subscribed £5
for me and got me to Sydney, where I soon
got the Belt. I wore the Belt pretty regu-
larly for from five to seven hours each day
for about three months. My neighbors, like myself, were more than
surprised at the great good I was receiving from the use of the Belt.
I thank God my footsteps were directed to your Institute, for I am
positively a new man altogether. I remain,
Yours faithfully, CHARLES SHEPHERD.
YOU GAN
OBTAIN
The same Benefits these men and
thousands of others have received.
12 Loftl Avenue,
KEW, VIC.
Dear Sirs, —I must say that your wonder-
ful Belt is my best friend, for you know
when I came to you first I was looking
miserable and worn, but I can now say that
I have worn your Belt for three months
and it has improved me wonderfully. I
eat, sleep, and work better, and I find my
life a pleasure. I find your little book
speaks the truth, as your Belt has cured
me, and I am doing my best to let every-
one of my friends know of my great cure.
sd
As for leaving it off, as you were saying . . .
some people do, I have not left my Belt off for one night since 1 »
it, and Ido not mean to for some time yet. I hope every P
with a Lame Back as I had will take my advice and get one oi yo ui
Belts, for they speak for themselves more than anybody can.
Yours etc., A. E. PAGRAM.
You can be made Strong and Vigorous. You can get back Health and Happiness.
WE know that no man remains a weakling or suffers the pains and discomforts of life because he wants to ; we are sure that you want to overcome
every indication of early decay that has shown itself on you. We don’t think the man lives who would not like to feel as big and strong as a
Sandow, and we know that if you have a reasonable foundation to build upon we can make you a bigger man than you ever hoped to be. We
want you to know that—you who can’t believe it, and we want you to have our Book, in which we describe how that we learnt that manly
strength was ONLY ELECTRICITY, and how we learned to restore it; also we want to tell you the names of some men who will tell that when they
came to us they were physical wrecks, and are now amongst the finest specimens of physical manhood.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
With Speoial
Attachments
will cure any form of WEAKNESS, NERVOUSNESS, LASSITUDE, LOSS OF VIGOR AND VITALITY, WEAK BACK, DIABETES, INDI-
GESTION, CONSTIPATION, FLATULENCY, DYSPEPSIA, and ALL LIVER, KIDNEY AND STOMACH DISORDERS, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, STIFFNESS, PAINFUL JOINTS, SPRAINS or ACHES, LUMBAGO, RUPTURE and VARICOCELE, whether such ailments be in
a Chronic state or not. Those who have tried Drug Treatment without success, will find that Electricity will give speedy relief. It is pitiable to think
of the vast number of men and women who suffer misery as the result of their weakness, while right at their doors other people are being cured of their
troubles, but we know in the end they must turn to Electricity to obtain relief.
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
d ■ !
Wi
2HV
m
fas*
3M
hsm
SiuV«C
333
To the men or women who want to regain their health, who want to feel like they did before misfortune overtook them, we offer
one of our Books, which will show you the road to happiness. They are brimful of the things you will like to read, which wi]l give you
courage and enlighten you as to the causes and cure of your troubles. They will point out the pitfalls, and guide you safely to a future
of strength and happiness. They are beautifully illustrated, and tell what others have suffered, and how they have cured themselves.
They are free, and will be sent free, closely sealed, without marks, if you will send for them. If you are not as well as you ought to be,
send for one to-day. In addition, we will send you our Book of Cures, which gives the names and photos, of a great many people who
have been cured by using our Belts.
We specially invite you to call any day between 8.30 a.m. and 9 p.m., and obtain our Advice (Free)
and have the working of the Belt explained.
gsd
NAOKARA, S.A.
Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to let you know
that lam in the best of health. I have not
worn your Belt for about six weeks now,
and I think I am all right. The suspensory
did what you promised, and now I feel a
heat all through my body. I got wet
through, and did not feel the ill-effects
from it that I used to. You may book me
as cured, and the Belt is as good as the
day I got it. I take this opportunity of
thanking you for the great relief you have
given me.
I am, dear Sirs, yours truly,
CHARLES DICKSON.
CAUTION.—Our success has Induced Quaoks and
Pretenders to have Worthless Appliances made.
These articles, which can be bought for a few
shillings, are used as a snare to try and sell their
Drugs. DON’T WASTE YOUR MONEY !
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO.
100 W. Market St., Sydney
Melbourne Office—l67E. Swanston Street.
N.Z. Office—s 4 Willis Street, Wellington.
William Charles Crawford.
“ Merly," Carrington Road,
BOX HlLifj, VIO.
Dear Sirs,—l hare much pleasure in in-
forming you, in answer to your inquiries,
that I am now, after wearing your High-
Grade Belt for two months, completely
cured. My back is quite strong, and the
pains I used to suffer from have entirely
left me. I shall be only too glad to see or
correspond with anyone with reference to
your treatment, as I have been most cour-
teously dealt with since I first put myself
under your care. Again thanking you,
I am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
CHARLES LEWER.
g


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On SecurLy of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
BebMtur a a J ,d |n«n P ;,h»H^* ln „ e i, d) p a storat an d Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
ebentuies, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Auetrallan States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Dscd contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
n; cent -<« the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Pne
Oirectow-TuoMAs L'TOLwohn, Esq Chairman; The Hon. A.W Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
General = The Hon. It. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
„„ and Actuary-li, chard Teeck, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S S
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ' ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
J4SP-
S
%
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the I're-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and irivin" Lustra
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. “Ifit ij
Thin, TRY IT. Trice—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. aura.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
£3T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra/
HOLLAND'S NATURALINE.
US' For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
4
&
Washington 11. Soul & Go..
Pitt-street, Sydney. -
#
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR
Sold by *ll Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane : Mr. GORDON 9° Gear,..
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and ’ “ or *'*
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
There’s SECURITY in
=53
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
[FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
BARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prica,
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter's
ĝsd
V vi/.* • V‘
2 K;-i J, ;r > 7c
I Xc*Va
SS&SS&TK:
1
i
22
X
wo&nd//d , p
ifiItiRYTHIMG
S&S&lv
3 -
SraaS/i
*
No
Darkroom
Noui
WmMcgue M''
yopent/on this paper
fiIHI&OLUNS ST
MELBOURNE.
KODAK!
4 m
m
Oil BACK YOUR STRENGTH.
«!. 7
Weak Men, Rheumatics, Nervous People, and
those who have Lame Backs, Sciatica, Indigfes*
tion, Constipation, and Kidney and Bladder
Troubles
May Get Cured to Stay Cured.
Any man or woman who will seoure us oan have out
appliances and
PAY WHEN CURED.
You run no risk. Failure to cure costs you nothing,
as we take all the chances. Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt is
the best Electric body appliance that has ever been in-
vented. It will last longer and cure quicker than any
other, and is guaranteed not to burn or blister as the old
i style belts do.
. NOTICE.—We receive thousands of
testimonials trom people who have used our appliances;
copies of these letters will be sent upon application, or
can be seen at our office.
Bl]ou™f re^bv° e ™rv JdflPVr 11 A b , eilutiful Hlratrated Medical 8001, which
pc.p,T Sf s fSi t hS'LThI ’ in pl ““ wtappor> *“ charse *
O TEITE y TO-D g A i ?. )rOUr We wffl m,kB * mMea
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. M<
49 el, zabeth street, Melbourne, victoria.
Now Zealand Branch: 19 Prince* Street, Dunedin.
GRAMOPHONES
The “ MONARCH ” Gramophone is the “ King ” of Talking Machines.
The “ DE LUXE ” Gramophone is the “ Queen ” of Talking Machines.
The “MONARCH Junr.” Gramophone is the “ Prince ” of Talking Machines.
WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT ?
Or will you take the whole “ROYAL FAMILY w ?
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYL.ES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia— X
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDORPE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. . .
Send for Price Lists
and Catalogues of
Records.
%
The ‘MONARCH’
Triple Spring
Gramophone,
Fitted with
Tapering Arm,
complete—
£l4 10s.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


.•y*.
You go to your barber, week after
week, hoping the shampoo will cure
your dandruff. But the dandruff con-
tinues to form as badly as ever. The
trouble is you do not go at it in the
right way. The scalp is diseased, and
you must cure it before your dandruff
will ever disappear. Simple washing
will never bring this about.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
This splendid hair preparation cures
dandruff because it cures the disease
of the scalp, and then the dandruff
soon disappears for good.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor will prevent dan-
druff, and at the same time it will
keep your hair soft and glossy.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
s<nrMOO<is
'»» HSU
SPOONER S
XA
'
icrr.i<v Bt'Cti
■ .‘*.v.r t, *,r * c
...
• i
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
Fcir Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) od. and la.
BXIA.CE Oil.
Ha Best Dressing for
HABNESS DEATHEB (in
hottle), la.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrlvallsd EMBROOATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Em, Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
READ it.
JOHN DICKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Bole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calolum
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
W he FM -S, K‘ G ? v n rnment; s y dne y Harbor
Educational Department; Railway De-
. V ni 6r a " d Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
XL°® C ®. ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters,^ Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
Dlreotlons for Use.— Throw the Carbide down the tube:
the Machine does the rest.
yohousa
Beware of infringers of our Patents
•?" T te of the fact that we have obtained several
n?ifv, nC^ 10 !J 8 againsfc infr jngers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide The n, 11•
requested to see that each drum bears our label without
WetppVcfrbidet l6 t 0 an action f °r infringement
fVl ® su PP*y Cerbide for any generator either direct or
charged tTtheTubhc it England!’ PriCe3 '° Wer than ia
Send for our Neio Catalogue No. ISO.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
fit^cured
From the first dose of Oiaciha ct, __ T , .
Thousands of Testimonials. St all Chemists,'^Stores, etei
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY
Prepared * I- W. Nieholl.Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland,
of VOICE
Sore Throat
Bronchitis*
Influenza
with
bonnincton's
Carrageen or
IRISH MOSS
Large and Small Bottles.
21/-
%
HE
SMITH
P=a
21/-
Convincing Proof
Qunnedah,
N.a. Wale*.
Received Solid SUver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/*, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and 1*
splendid value—best in Austral*
asia.
Tours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading- Jeweller.
H. F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
II MODEL 1902 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE II
g
THE name “ Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
tarn
m
Concerning Elgin Watches^
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another!
PRICES :
GENTS.’— 4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents: SWIFT & GRICE.
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co. 9 Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
>/
tho Australian States or New Zealand
on security ot Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C. L.) or Government Stock of
, at Lowest Current Rates of Intel est.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalment*!
without notice or payment of any fine*
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love and Hatred.
Thou hast scented thyself for the bridal bed,
Thy bosom is fair to see,
White are thine arms, thy lips more red
Than rose or peony.
Thou art waiting his coming with blood aglov
With blood and with brain afire,
Because of that love thy soul would know,
Because of thy heart’s desire.
Poor fool 1 is love more strong than hate ?
Then call his soul again ;
Fling back with love the Veil of Fate,
Bid Death unbind his chain.
White are thy arms and thy bosom fair,
But his face still whiter shows ;
His eyes are set in a sightless stare,
A lure for the carrion crows.
His hair, thy hands last night caressed,
With blood and dust is stained ;
His lips, that thine in love have pressed
And answering kisses rained.
Are pale as thy soft face will be
When home his corpse they bring,
Who yesternight breathed love to thee,
A battered senseless thing.
To-inorrow all the world may know,
His blood lies on my head ;
Blood calls for blood—to-night I go
That road his spirit sped.
N.s.w.
EDGAR HEANE HARRIS.
The Corpse Pays.
The Widow—cheery little soul—
One recent afternoon,
Beside a young, fat, florid Ghoul,
Sat in a Fish Saloon.
She did not seem of spirits slack,
Although in mourning rigged ;
And, when she laughed, her feathers black
Like jaunty hearse-plumes jigged.
She looked so sweet in widow’s weeds !
Her eyes, that danced and beamed,
Were brighter, blacker, than the beads
That in her bonnet gleamed.
And ’midst that bonnet’s trimming sat
(Unseen, and lurking low)
A Cupid in a mourning hat,
With weepers on his bow.
“My late-lamented slumbers well,”
She sighed, with eyes grown dim—
“ These pale cold oysters in the shell
They make me think of him ! ”
“Some more, sweetheart?”—“Though quite three-
score
He was a simple soul;
He was. I’ll take a dozen more.”
“ He was,” remarked the Ghoul.
“ He had for living quite a zest,
And yet,” said she, “he died !
But it was, maybe, for the best.”
“ It was,” the Ghoul replied 1
N.S.W.
C.R.
Awakening.
Far from the city’s gloom and dust I wander,
’Mid hills that never cease ;
By the clear brooks and mountain streams I
ponder,
In happiness and peace.
Now through the hazy mountain-mist I’m drifting,
While from the deepening shades
Comes the glad song of birds, their voices lifting
To Heaven, ere daylight fades.
Upward I gaze, and to my view grows clearer
In the blue depths of light,
Myriads of angels drawing ever nearer,
To hail the coming night.
Gladly I watch, as they draw near me singing
A song of love so free;
Crowns on their heads, and harps with music
ringing,
Over that crystal sea.
Then I’m alone, by grief and sorrow shaken,
As I can dimly see;
That bright array to Heaven its way has taken
And left no crown for me.
Tis but a dream! All dreams must have their
ending,
And waking brings me nought
But thoughts of toil, in the drear world con-
tending,
And days with sorrow fraught.
N.S.W.
W. J. w.
After the Heat and Burden.
The heat dies down, the brazen sun
Glows through the drifted smoke-rack red
And fiery, all the east is dun,
Far off tl.e purple ranges spread ;
While in a misty golden haze
The last beams pour amid the trees,
Through dark and massy blackwood boughs,
And feathered wattles. Now the breeze
Wakes, stirs in coolness sweet, and then
Dies slowly, but to wake once more.
The creek sings softly in the glen
By sandy beach and ferny shore.
On scrub and plain the shadows fall,
Dusk droops her mantle over all.
VIO.
KATHLEEN WALKER.


sd
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has solved the problem' of how to LIVE LIKE A LORE on a SMALL INCOME.
This is how it is done—
First Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.—Thus they
will only be charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER from Is. per meal.
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System or paying: for
room on arrival, and Meals as they are Had.
Engage Rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
WHAT
ABOUT
CHINA?
Putting aside the question of Russia and
Japan, we know all about China.
CHINA IS DOOMED.
We will divide China among our Clients.
First Floor “ China Department Forward ”
From Doulton’s Artistic Creations to homely Stone Ware IS A FAR CALL, yet if you call we
will answer, and break prices to suit every purse.
Dinner Services
Tea Services
Dainty Afternoon Sets
Toilet Ware
Crystal Ware
Household Glass
Tumblers
Wine Glasses
Decanters
Water Jug's
Butter Dishes
Etc., Etc., Eto.
REMEHBER—What we say we do, we do do.
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
252 GEORGE ST. (Between Bond & Bridge Sts.), SYDNEY.
Experiments —with other brands-
means taking chances.
Stick
CAMEOS
and ascertained quality.
IF YOU
COULD
MEASURE
If you could measure the advantages to be
gained by having your residence roofed with
the original and genuine
RUBEROID ROOFING
AGENTS FOR
NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON—
THE STEWART TIMBER, GLASS,
and HARDWARE CO., Ltd.
AUCKLAND—
T. & S. MORRIN, Ltd.
DUNEDIN & INVERCARGILL—
J. G. WARD & CO.
CHRISTCHURCH—
BOWRON BROS.
you would not hesitate a single hour in having your house
transformed from a furnace into a cool dwelling—a home in
which life would be worth living.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd ~ Sydney & Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1261.
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1904.
Pbioe 6d.
A WINK IS AS GOOD AS A NOD TO A BLIND HOUSE.
Reid says he is going to vote with the Deakin Government on the Arbitration Bill, but adds that if his followers vote against the
Government he won’t blame them.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
** A iistviiliu Jot' the
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only).
Per Armum ... ... ••• A
Half-yearly ... nvn
Quarterly ••• u '
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part ojf
the contents of th is number is hereby expressly reserved by
tl e ’llie Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and■ not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly conji-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Itlaelc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies 'of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <Sc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal,
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetown ; H. R.
Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia ;
and others.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1904.
TO PREMIER WATSON OF AUSTRALIA.
The Government of Premier Deakin has appa-
rently decided to stand by its foolish and luckless
resolution that State servants 'are to be a pariah
class, under special disabilities, and shut out from
the benefits of the Arbitration Act. Therefore, if
the Labor party does its duty, and if luck stands
by it, there will shortly be a vacancy for a new
Premier. At this crisis, the victory of Dr.
Maloney at the Melbourne election is a good
omen, and it seems as if luck will stand by the
Labor party, supposing it does its duty and is
equal to its opportunity. The Bulletin takes
the chance, and is the first to greet the new Premier
—the Premier who ought to be. There is no reason
why this country shouldn’t have a Premier named
Watson. It has had Premiers named Beat, Dky,
Smith, Whyte, Dobson and Jenkins, and it still
survives. It can probably stand a Premier named
Watson a great deal better than it could Bray,
or Dky, or Smith.' Even if the crisis which now
seems imminent should be somehow postponed, it
is practically certain that there will be a crisis
before very long. When it is over, one of the
three nearly equal parties in the Australian
Parliament must emerge with the chief spoils of
office, and if the Labor party, which is now the
strongest of the three, doesn’t reach out with both
hands like the rest it will be meanlv going back
on its supporters. The only reason why any body
of electors votes for a party and a policy is that
the party may get office if it can, and personally
carry out the policy. A great mass of the people
have backed the Labor men, and these
backers want a run for their money. Experi-
ence has shown that the Barton-Deakin
party could hold office though its direct
following was barely one-third of the Representa-
tives. The party of Reid, and the two dismal
Smiths, and local preacher Cook, is eagerly grab-
bing for office though it also forms barely one-
third of the Representatives. If our party can’t
do the same then The Bulletin would be glad to
know what is wrong with our party.
! * * * *
There are many reasons why, in common justice
to its supporters, the Labor party should reach out
for direct control of the Federal Government. If
it took 'office with a policy worthy of it, as a
party that is in favor of high Protection, of no
borrowing, of paying for all public works
out of revenue, of absentee-tax, heavy gradu-
ated lahd-tax to break up the big estates
and supply land for the people, of consolidating
and gradually paying off the State debts,
of a sensible banking law on the Canadian plan,
of all-rdund Arbitration, of Federal control of
industrial legislation in general, of bonuses to
create Australian manufactures—in short, if it
took office with an all-round National programme
—it would put a definite end to the inconvenient
and nefarious three-party system. That alone
would be a great gain. The progressive members
of the present Government party would necessarily
be with it, and by judiciously sharing the port-
folios with them, while still keeping the Labor
element predominant, it could keep them
with it. The hopeless members would come to
anchor in the cool and appropriate shade of
Bruce Smith —the gentleman who thinks there
was once a Protectionist Chinese emperor
who built a wall round China. There would
be stragglers, of course —there always is a
Ministerial corner and an Opposition corner but
there would no longer be any definite third party
after the Labor men had absorbed the great pro-
gressive majority in Deakin’s following. 1 here
would be an end of the system whereby the
balance of power is held by a body which takes no
responsibility in the matter of government. I he
remark about “ support in return for concessions
would cease to be heard; it isn’t a pleasant re-
mark and has always sounded like a statement
that the party is for sale. And with the ending
of the three-party system the Tory press would
be deprived of a most useful and venomous lie,
which in itself is a matter worth consideration.
* * * *
The Tory press would be deprived of other
things also. Its great argument and lie
and fraud, which it has spread not only
over Australia but over the world, is to the
effect that the advent of the Labor party to power
will assuredly be the beginning of utter rum and
desolation. Capital will “leave the country,
and the capitalist will root up the Equitable
building and the Federal Coffee Palace and
depart with them on his back ; industry
will perish like a caterpillar on the Last
Day; agriculture will dry up, and this country
will gather its swag and light out for Gehenna.
True, the Labor party has got into power, or
partly into power, in Queensland, and the visible
result is the first spell of honest and decent
administration the State has seen for very many
years, a solid increase of revenue, cessation of
borrowing, and general signs of returning pros-
perity. The same party has been absolutely in
power for 13 years in IVLaoriland, and the conse-
quence has been such a period of prosperity
as no other Australasian State has seen or
heard of for a very long time. In Maori-
land, even the Tory papers’ lie about the
awful consequences of “ experimental legisla-
tion ” has died out, and the worst Tory liar of all
doesn’t dare, for fear of raising a universal shriek
of laughter, to say any longer that capital is being
driven from the country. The same result would
follow in Australia if the Australian Labor party
has anything like the brains of the Maoriland
organisation. The sure and reliable way to con-
found the Argus, to show up the petty ignorance
and incompetence of the S. M. Herald, to brand
the Sydney Telegraph as the liar it is, and to
blight the Brisbane Courier, is for the Labor
party to take office at the earliest possible moment
and confute all their prophecies. When high Pro-
tection had covered the country with factories;
when a really heavy graduated land-tax had
killed off the huge land monopolies and
placed thousands, or hundreds of thousands,
of new settlers on good land ; when the absentee-
tax had reduced the drain of money to foreign
landlords and money-lenders ; when every finan-
cial institution was prospering, as almost every
one in Maoriland is prospering, by reason of the
new business thus created ; when Australia had
actually begun to pay off its public debt, and was
no longer the scoff of Cohen— then the great
Telegraph and Argus lie would be dead. It
would be so dead that the Telegraph and Argus
would deny that it had ever been alive, and would
swear that they had voted the Labor ticket all
along. But if the Labor party doesn’t take office,
the lie will remain in good working order for an
indefinite number of years. It may not do so very
much harm, yet it is an annoying animal that
yelps on the premises.
* # * *
The people who have stood by the Labor party
through good and evil want some reward, and
under the present system of standing on one side
and balancing parties, the reward is long of
coming. For one thing, the people want to see
the great land monopolies broken up so that there
may be room for close settlement in the well-
watered parts of Australia, and they have no
chance of any such reform from the Bents of
Victoria and the Propstings and Dobsons of
Tasmania—their only hope lies in the Australian
Parliament. The Watson Government which
The Bulletin hopes to see could probably pass
the necessary Act—with the support it would get
outside its own immediate ranks —in a month, for
many members of the Deakin party would vote
for such a measure, though they may refuse to
openly “go back” on Deakin for not
introducing such a measure. But the Watson
party, as a mere third party, can’t even get the
Federal graduated land-tax officially mentioned.
The Labor supporters also want an absentee-tax,
but under the present system it isn’t yet visible on
the furthest horizon. They want a real Arbitra-
tion Bill, but both Deakin and Reid are hostile,
and apparently, so long as the Labor party
believes that it is the heaven-sent mission of
Deakin and Reid to take office by turns while it
lies low in the background, they will never get it.
The people, in short, want something of the pros-
perity which they see Maoriland enjoying under a
Labor Government. And it isn’t too much to ask
that their leaders should take some risks to achieve
that end. At the worst they are only asked to
take the risks which Barton and Deakin (neither
of them strong men) have taken, and which even
such a poor creature as Reid is willing to take —
the risk which is involved in assuming office with-
out a certain majority and trusting to luok and
good management for the rest.
The Labor party can, of course, wait till it gets
a majority of its own, or something nearer to a
majority than it has now. But that is a slow and
weary process—the astonishing lies and objurga-
tions of the daily press about the inevitable ruin
that must follow the establishment of a genuinely
Democratic Government being one reason of the
slowness and the weariness. On the other hand,
should the party get a chance, or make a chance,
to snatch office now, it could almost certainly,
with good management, form an agreement
with Protectionists outside its ranks which
would give it a working majority for the
present. If, after that, it put forward such a
programme as has been already suggested, and
lived up to the programme, the chances are that
in three months it would have consolidated a per-
manent Democratic party with a permanently
assured majority. The chances are, also, that
inside two years it would have so utterly dis-
credited the false and lying prophets of the daily
press that their stock would have fallen very low
indeed. The Labor party owes no gratitude or
obligation to the daily press that it should need-
lessly postpone the duty of proving it the liar it
always has been. Nor is there any reason why it
should needlessly prolong the period during
which the daily press earns a dishonest and
infected copper by maligning democracy with
impunity. Even if the party failed to hold
office at the first attempt, as Anderson
Dawson’s Labor Ministry failed in Queensland,
that is no reason why the attempt should _ not be
made. There will be no loss in failure; in fact,
it should bring ultimate success nearer. The
mere attempt at office would show the party’s
supporters that it is a fighting party ; that it fully
intends to give them some better return for their
support than a succession of lukewarm Deakin
or Pumpkin Smith Ministries; that it doesn t
propose to be content with always giving a vast
amount of support in return for very little
cbncession ; that it isn’t going to spend its whole
life keeping Fysh and Forrest m office. Men
like Dibbs in N.S.W., Sudden Solomon m S.A.,
and Morgans in Westralia led far more desperate
forlorn hopes in their attacks on the Treasury
benches, and there are equally good Democratic
examples in the cases of Graham Berry in
Victoria and Dawson in Queensland. It is up to
the future Premier Watson (or the Premier
Watson who ought to be) to do something of the
same kind.
* * * *
There are rumors that the Federal Labor party
is looking for a leader. It is said that it wanted
to rally under Kingston, only his grievous illness
has made this impossible. Then it is said that it
had ideas of taking office with George Turner—
certainly a reasonably good, democrat, and the best
Treasurer Australia has produced since it began
to have Responsible Government—as Premier,
but Turner stands firmly by his present chief.
But, after all, there is no reason why the party
should wait for an outside leader. Turner
didn’t make his great name in that way ; he was
an almost unknown private member when he took
the State Premiership at a time when Victorias
fortunes were at the lowest, and he made his
name by showing the tottering State that it had
at last found the pilot it was looking for. Ihe
people support J. 0. Watson that he may
do the same. If he isn’t ready to make the
attempt, then it is a fair thing to ask why he
stands where he does, and why his party keeps
him where he is. Of the other two leaders, one
holds office with a smaller direct following than
that which J. 0. Watson commands, and another,
also with a smaller following, is reaching for office
with both hands and one Dry Dog. The men who
support the Watson party at the polls don’t want
to be always in the rear with the ambulance and
the commissariat waggons, or always supporting
John Forrest in return for very small concessions
lest the alternative should lie in supporting Pump-
kin Smith for still smaller ones.
* • * *
The Bulletin has this much faith in its own
Eolicy : It believes that if the whole policy could
e put in force and kept in force for three years
there would be such a boom in immigration, in
agriculture, in manufactures, in general business,
in banking, insurance and commercial profits,
that many even virulent and ignorant Fatmen,
who now regard the policy as a thing accursed,
would feel like going down to personally kick the
editor of the S.M. Herald for leading them
astray. They might not be able to get out of the
life-long habit of talking Toryism, but they
would probably feel as above described. The
Bulletin believes that a whole-souled democratic
policy, intelligently administered, would make
the poor incalculably richer, and leave enough
surplus wealth to make the rich on an average a
little richer too. (Many of the alleged rich, as
the effect of their own policy, are reputed not to
have much now but their Tory prejudices
and an overdraft, and the pitiable but bumptious
dead-beats that Toryism occasionally returns to
Parliament under the pretence that they are
“men with a stake in the country” are evidence
in support of this theory.) The present condition
of affairs in Maoriland is one reason for holding
the view that good Labor government would mean
an all-round benefit. In that State the Bank of
New Zealand, under Labor legislation, can earn
nearly £300,000 a year, while the biggest bank in
Victoria, under the Bent-Irvine Tory regime, can
only show less than one-third that amount. The
National Bank of Maoriland earns nearly 25 per
cent, profits on its capital, and four Maoriland
fire insurance companies do 50 per cent,
more business than all the eleven fire companies
of the Commonwealth States put together. Also,
the Maoriland Treasury has had 15 consecutive
surpluses, and is frequently reducing _ taxation,
and in Seddon’s Labor-ruled State, immigration—
not nigger immigration—is twice as large as that
of all Australia. Looking at these results of the
most advanced Labor legislation in the world with
heavy Protection added, the only possible opinion
is that the threadbare Fatman of Australia, as he
howls for the policy which broke his banks and
wrecked his building societies, is a very monu-
mental ass. But for all The Bulletin’s faith it has
not faith enough to believe in the success of its
own policy when administered by grudging Tories
who only give concessions in order to hold office,
and who would almost prefer that the policy they
profess to follow should fail and drop into disre-
pute. A democratic policy, reluctantly adminis-
tered by Forrest and Fysh and Barton, or by
Reid and MMillan and Bruce Smith, is always
liable to fail; also it is liable to fail so badly as to
prove to the satisfaction of the daily press that
democratic ideas are ruinous, impracticable and
visionary. The policy of support in return for con-
cessions (the administration of the concessions
being too often left to men who reluctantly gave
them because they couldn’t get the support other-
wise) is putting the baby out to nurse with a
hostile relation. That is one more reason why The
Bulletin wants to see J. C. Watson reach out
for office; and there are still others which might
be added.
G. H. REID’S NEW YES-NO.
G. H. Reid repeats his historic wriggle on the
first Federal Constitution Referendum m defining
his attitude on the Federal Arbitration Bill.
Then he was going to vote “ Yes,” but advised
others to vote “No.” Now he announces that
he will vote “No” to the Labor party’s proposal
to extend the benefits of arbitration to State rail-
way servants, but advises his followers to vote
“Yes.” He repudiates any desire to exercise the
slightest influence on their decision by his example.
If they break away from his leadership and range
themselves on the opposite side of the House, it will
not, he states clearly, put them in his black books.
In fact, though Mr. Reid does not say so straightly,
those among his followers who are menaced with a
gleam of sense (and there are some) must
see that it is his wish that they should vote
against him on this issue. He himself has not the
courage to go against the Government in the
division; his Tory newspaper tyrants forbid.
But he whips up his party to vote in the way he
dare not vote. And the motive of this new
Yes-no is the same old motive which inspired the
previous one on an issue even more momentous.
George Reid, as he himself confessed, wishes to
be top-dog, and is careless as to the means by
which he climbs. There is a faint prospect of
office coming to him out of a crisis. On the fall of
the JJeakin Cabinet there would be need for a new
Ministry, and George Reid might snap up
thievishly a bone which will never come to
him honestly. So, though he believes that
the stand of the Deakin Government in the
matter of State servants and Federal Arbitration is
right, and holds that for the issue to go against the
Government on that point would be wrong and
disastrous, he eggs on his followers to vote what
is, to his mind, the wrong way.
* * * *
It is a characteristic Reid move, characteristic
in its cynical contempt for the intelligence of
public opinion. Reid has always been a bravo m
politics. In State politics, he began as a
but changed promptly when office was to be
gained by truckling to the Labor party. In
Federal politics, he has not only changed from
one side to the other repeatedly, but sometimes,
as in the present case, has been on both sides at
once, remaining as a professed friend in the camp
of those whom he was opposing, so _ that he
might poison their wells and undermine their
entrenchments. That George Reid’s sword is a
mercenary one wielded in whatever cause pays
best, is a heavy reproach, still a reproach which
he shares with others. But the deeper scandal
taints his political life that he sometimes fights not
only with the sword but with the stiletto and the
poison flask. So it was when the fate of the Aus-
tralian union hung in the balance, a,nd Reid
wished to defeat the movement but still leave a
way to revive it under his leadership. Announ-
cing that he would vote “ Yes ” to the Federal
scheme, he took bread in the camp of its friends,
while using his position inside the lines to betray
the cause to the enemy. Now, less disgracefully
but still with such scandalous contempt for politi-
cal honesty as no other Australian public man
would dare display, he Yes-noes on the _ issue
which has caused the first great political crisis of
the Commonwealth, hoping that double-dealing
will give him what honesty would not. If,
as is rumored, Reii), after all his pro-
fessions of an intention to vote with the
Government, finds “ urgent private business to
prevent him from voting at all, in _ the hope that
the absence of his name from the division list will
both help to destroy the Government and make it
easier for the Governor-General to “send for” him
—the incident will provide a complete display of
Reidism.
• * * *
But it is difficult to believe that in the
sphere of Federal politics such tactics can win
success. It was by such means that Reid won
and kept power in New South Wales, aided by
the newspapers that called themselves Free trade
and were prepared to endorse anything that he
said or did whilst he did not interfere in his
scheme of “complete Freetrade” with the very
high Protection and the very considerable
subsidies that they enjoyed. But in an
Australian Parliament the conditions are
different. A man has not the means
available there to win influence by concessions
such as subsidies for newspapers and roads and
bridges for local members. And there is a, strong
and increasing tendency to take an Australian and
not a parochial view of political issues. There is
still a contingent of parochialists mainly sent
in by Sydney or Melbourne influence —but the
majority of members have some perception of
their national duty, and that puts them out of the
reach of Reid’s very crude and transparent wiles.
• • » *
Reid has now waited three years for a chance
of office, and has seized upon this one desperately.
If it fails, and he is unable to snatch anything from
the coming crisis, the Foreign-trade leader will,
it iB rumored, give up the game. Politics have no
charm for him without office, and if office seems
hopeless he will retire from the Federal Parlia-
ment. That will be a distinct gain to the charac-
ter of the Legislature, but it may prove a loss in
another regard. Whilst Reid is leader of the
reactionary section of the Federal Parliament its
impotence is practically guaranteed, for he has so
discredited himself in the minds of members that
his own followers give him but reluctant loyalty,
and no other party will even seriously consider
the prospects of a coalition with him. With
another leader the so-called Freetraders might
come to greater influence in Parliament, might
one day, with the dull and respectable Dug aid
Thomson or the sly and respectable Joseph
Cook, come at least to a share of power. But
with Reid at its head no decent party wants to
coalesce with the Foreign-trade section: the
humiliation of sitting in Cabinet with Yes-hio
is too shuddery a prospect. So Reid has his
use, and, provided he can be kept away from any
administrative work, The Bulletin would not be
sorry to see him remain in the Federal Parhament.
The Parliament, however, would deserve sym-
pathy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bent’s Grandmother.
At Brighton (Vic.)) last week, Premier Bent
howled officially at his constituents, and outlined
the curse and bite and shriek of wrath on which
he proposes to base things at the approaching
election. The meeting was not a disorderly one,
but a few interjections were made, and each time
Bent danced with rage like a cube of meat, and
said things that sounded like the language of a
gutter youth playing marbles. His most states-
manlike utterance was undoubtedly his answer
when a constituent inquired if he would lay a tax
on land in order to get the means to repurchase
large estates, whereupon the chief of the State
shouted, incoherently, “ Tax your grandmother.
Apart from this proposed tax on grandmothers,
about which, unfortunately, no details were sup-
Elied, the Bent programme is a rather indefinite
usiness. It includes a Bill providing for the “arbi-
trary dismissal” (these are Bent’s own words) of
railway employees; a violent threat to wholly
disfranchise civil servants if they don’t vote for
the kind of people that Bent likes; and a sidelong
suggestion that there may yet be something done
in the wav of repudiation of the State’s pension lia-
bilities. The descendant of Bent’s, as yet, untaxed
grandmother also suggested a Bill to make it coin-
Eulsory on every elector to vote. Being asked if
e would abolish the Upper House, he called the
questioner a dashed fool or something of the sort,
and told him to swallow a hot potato. The Bent
Government, in addition to the vague proposal
already mentioned, for taxing its grandmother,
has a scheme for the compulsory acquisi-
tion of land for closer settlement. It is a
hazy scheme as yet. The money to repurchase
large estates is not to be raised by a general land-
tax ; and Bent proposes to reduce the income-tax;
and as his new scheme for taxing his grandmother
doesn’t seem as yet to have got beyond a mere
figure of speech, it doesn’t appear as if the money
would be available out of the present revenue.
In fact, Bent practically admits that he has no
money with which to repurchase large estates,
but the idea is part of the programme none the
less. No estate worth less than £lO,OOO is to be
resumed. No estate is to be resumed at all
until all other means of acquiring it have failed,
in consequence of which it may take years to
fet to the real compulsory resumption stage.
Iven when all other means have failed,
nothing is to be done unless both Houses
of Parliament agree to the purchase (there


must be a separate agreement of both
Houses over each individual purchase), and as the
House of 48 Rich Landlords seldom agrees to any-
thing that is calculated to diminish the influence
of the landed aristocracy, not much is likely to be
done at any time. But three of Bent’s con-
stituents (at least, it is probable that they will
be Bent’s constituents), are to be appointed
(doubtless at good salaries) to bid for land at
auction sales —three men to bid for land at auction
sales on behalf of a Government which buys about
one bit of land every two years. And when they
buy land the public is not to be informed how much
mis paid for it, so that if a purchase looks like a
shameful job, whereby a friend’s property is
bought for twice what it is worth, there can’t
be any row. Then, after a casual glance
at the necessity for taxing his grandmother,
Premier Bent flew off into curious side
issues. He said there were 88,000,000 square
miles in Victoria, at which rate Victoria
is more than 29 times as large as
the whole Commonwealth. He said the
awful £5,000,000 loan was a great success, despite
the fact that a good part of it was left on the
underwriters’ hands, and the rest floated on
hideously expensive terms. Also, he declared
that the Government had faced a deficit of
£900,000, which, seeing that the previous Peacock
Administration only left a shortage of £400,000 to
be overcome, is a dull sort of falsehood-at best.
And in the end Bent dropped massively into his
seat and left the great scheme for taxing his
grandmother a mere name, or outline, or glittering
figment of the imagination after all. And it was
the one thing the audience really longed to hear
about.
N.S.W.’s Loss of Population undor
“ Freotrade.”
The latest “great speech” of George Reid con-
tame:l -so many curious misrepresentations, insinua-
tions, and lies-by-implication that it would be a
hopeless undertaking to criticise it in detail, but
the following statement (which the silly and
ignorant Sydney Evening News published under
the scare-head ‘ ‘ Drifting Steadily Away ”) deserves
a passing notice :
Is it not a marvellous thing that with our wonderful
resources hundreds of thousands of people are going to
the Argentine every year, while we cannot get 3000 people
to come to Australia in ten years? How is it that the
people of Australia can go on enjoying themselves while
the currents of enterprise and humanity are drifting
steadily away from the southern seas ?
A few points in reply to the fat and ignorant old
man:—
<1 Argentina never got 100,000 immigrants (let alone
hundreds of thousands ”) in one year. In 1902 (later
figures are not available) 96,080 people entered Argentina
and 79,427 left the country—net gain, 16,653. Tins isn’t
<iuite the same as “ hundreds of thousands.” Still
Argentina has been doing very well in the way of immi-
gration—since it became a highly Protectionist country.
. (-) In the same year N.S.W. (Reid’s own State), which
is about one-quarter the size of Argentina and has about
one-fourth the population, received about 150,000 people
and sent away about 143,000 —the exact gain by immigra-
tion was 6902. So, in proportion to its size, it is doing
nearly twice as well as Argentina—since it got Protection.
(3) On the other hand, from 1896 to 1901, when N.SiW.
was under Reid’s alleged Freetrade tariff, it lost 10,393
people by excess of departures, an average loss of 1732
persons per annum.
(4) Before Reid’s time, during the four years it was
under the semi-Proteetive Dibbs tariff, N.S.W. gained
3032 people (an average gain of 633 persons per annum) by
excess of immigration. Therefore, the period of the
Reid tariff is the one period in all recent N.S.W. history
when it lost population by excess of departures.
(o) It would, as Reid says, be a remarkable thing if we
couldn’t get 3000 people to come to the Commonwealth
territories in ten years. But as the gain by excess of
immigration in the ten years between the last two
censuses (1891-1900) was 26,515 (2651 per annum), and in
the two subsequent years under Federation (1901-1902) it
was 6187 (3093 per annum) it isn’t a remarkable thing ; it
is only a remarkable lie.
George Reid was the one statesman N.S.W. ever
Cssed who knew down to the ground the
2d art of driving population out of the coun-
try. And he promises, if he becomes head of the
Australian Government, to abolish the nefarious
policy of Alfred Deakin by which N.S.W.
gains 6902 people by immigration in one year,
and go back to his own good old Reid policy
under which N.S.W. lost population steadily at
the rate of 1732 per annum. It isn’t much of a
prospect, but, though Australia may not yearn
after Reid as a Premier, it must admit his
advantages as a side show. The righteous indigna-
tion with which he charges all the nefarious things
that happened under his regime to his opponents,
and the aspect of a great and good Pecksniff
struggling under unmerited calumny with which
he takes credit to himself for all the benefits that
accrued from his opponents’ policy and under his
opponents’ management, is wonderful The
spectacle of Napoleon 111. after Sedan speaking
severely to the incompetent Wellington for losing
the battle of Waterloo would have been a
picturesque incident if it had happened, and it
ought to have happened—just to prevent George
Reid feeling lonesome. To be the greatest
political fraud, bounder and contortionist on earth
is to occupy a lonesome pinnacle where the want
of human society must be severely felt. Even
the Dry Dog can’t alleviate the solitude.
♦
The Beggars of Woollahra.
A strange, helpless little row which is now going
on between the N.S.W. Government and certain
Sydney suburban municipalities throws a curious
sidelight on the ways of N.S.W. Local Govern-
ment. There is not much Local Government of
any kind in N.S.W. ; out of an area of 310,700
square miles less than 3000 square miles have any
kind of local administration. Even in this limited
area the local administration is largely a fraud,
seeing that it depends as much as it possibly can
on what it can screw out of the State Treasurer,
and as little as possible on its own rates. Also,
even in Sydney, there has always been a most re-
markable system by which certain roads —in
many cases running through rich municipali-
ties in which wealthy merchants, Freetraders,
Deformers and Joey Carruthers politicians
have their residences —are wholly maintained by
the State. The general rate which may be levied
by municipalities (except the city of Sydney
which has a law of its own) is limited to Is. in the
£, and every suburban municipality already collects
the full amount, and is still m difficulties. There
is certainly a power (very little used) to levy
another Is. 6d. in the £ for special purposes, but
this authority the average alderman ignores as
much as possible. His plea is that the munici-
palities can’t maintain all their roads themselves
because their taxing powers for general pur-
poses are exhausted. Twice the Lyne and
See Governments tried to relieve these har-
assed aldermen by giving them larger taxing
powers, but they declined to part with their
useful grievance, and a combination of aldermanic
members threw the Bill out each time. Then the
See Government took wise and strong measures
and declined to further maintain certain roads in
the rich Woollahra municipality and in certain
municipalities adjacent thereto. A great row en-
sued. The local aldermen said they couldn’t
maintain the roads in question (though they collect
rates from them) because they already collected all
the general rate that the law allowed. The
Minister replied that it was they and similar
aldermen who had prevented the Government
giving them power to raise more rates. It was
suggested that if the aldermen in Parliament
would give their hearty support, a Bill giving them
authority to raise plenty of rates might easily be
passed, but there was no visible enthusiasm over
this point. The aldermen intimated that if the
Government wouldn’t go on maintaining the roads
as aforetime, the said roads might relapse into
jungle; and the Minister’s attitude was that if the
municipality wouldn’t keep its roads in repair
that was the municipality’s own funeral, and if
wealthy citizens liked to live beside roads that had
become impassable through neglect, it was their
necks, and not his, that would be broken. So, for
the present, there is a deadlock. Some of the
richest municipalities around Sydney say they are
so poor that they can’t keep the cow’s food from,
growing in their own streets, and they want to
have charitable aid doled out to them on socialistic
principles. The Government, on the other hand,
tells the anti-socialists of Woollahra and Waverley
that for the moment socialism is off, and that
woalthy and truculent beggars will not be listened
to with any profitable result. And in this matter
the Government is distinctly right. By the time
Glenmore and Point Piper roads have been leased
for grazing purposes by reason of the rich feed
accumulated on the footpaths it may be able to
get a hearing for its new Municipal Bill.
♦
The Vision of Philp.
Up North, ex-Premier and busted Conservative
Philp seems to announce the sale of Crown lands
as the chief plank in his platform :
Mr. Morgan had. already admitted his failure to cuts
down the civil service by calling in a commission. It had
been said that expenditure could be reduced by £500, 00&
per annum. That could be done only in one way, and
that was to sell the public lands, use the proceeds in re-
duction of the national debt, and so reduce the interest-
bill. The advantages of land alienation were then dealt
with. He did not think the Government could finish, the-
year without a deficit, but he would not blame them, for
that, as they could not make sure of a revenue. He
would like to wipe out the income tax, but this eoold
only be done by selling the vast public estate, as Canada,
the United States, and South America had done.
Philp, in effect, addresses Queensland something
like this:—
You have told Bull-Coiien that you have put his:
money into permanent and reproductive works. That-
was a lie ; you didn’t do anything of the sort. The works:
do not pay much more than a third of the interest bill.
Cohen has lent us about £39,000,000, while on a 4 per
cent, basis our works are not worth more than
£14,500,000. Last year we had to pay him £1,491,589, and
our works only earned £550,293 ; the other £941,296 we
either had to make up out of taxes or land sales or to bor-
row from Cohen. If you are tired of paying taxes to pro-
vide the interest, you can do something else. Our works,
built with Cohen’s money, won’t pay interest on more,
than £14,500,000. We owe £39,000,000. Let us get-
Coiien to take the other £24,500,000 in public lands—or
as much of £24,500,000 as he will swallow.
As an explosion of the lie that the loans are repre-
sented by reproductive works the Philp policy is-
thus complete. But, unfortunately, Queensland
can’t get out of the troubles into which the bor-
rowing disease has landed it so easily as that.
There are two or three things in the way. Accord-
ing to the Philp method of doing things, all the-
land revenue that can be scraped together by
selling or leasing the public estate is required
for the ordinary expenses of government. Philp
used to get nearly £600,000 a year land revenue,
and to have about £400,000 a year deficit, and'
Philp without his land revenue—for he can’t sell
the land twice over—would be an alarming
spectacle. Then there is no one in Australia who-
could pay for £24,500,000 worth of land in one-
fatal act, and if Philp sold it to English syndi-
cates —supposing he could find them, which is-
very unlikely—the country would be as deeply
indebted as ever. The money that was going out-
would be called rent to the British landlord,
instead of interest to the British bondholder, but-
it would be money going out just the same.
Further, Queensland has no £24,600,000
worth of land that can be made sale-
able without a great preliminary expense
for roads, railways, bridges, etc. The best
evidence of the futility of Philp’s magnificent
idea is that Philp himself knew a great deal too
much to try his own gorgeous scheme while he
was in office. On paper it is a simple, pleasant
device by which Queensland, being shockingly
hard-up, is to put its finances right without fur-
ther taxation; and by which, thopgh burdened
with about the biggest debt on earth m proportion
to population, it is not to be compelled to lay any
impost on its big landlords to co per the interest
bill, though almost every other country on earth,
even if carrying only a fraction of Queensland’s
debt burden, has long since found ii> necessary to
tax that person. And these easy devices, in a
general way, are all vanity.
♦
The Victorian Opposition.
The remnants of an Opposition which the weak
and vacillating Peacock left to Victoria has
launched this election programme :
1. Readjustment of taxation. —(a) Repeal of the present
land-tax and the substitution of an unimproved land
value tax, incomes derived from land to be exempt from
income-tax. (b) Raising the minimum of exemption from
the income-tax, and the lowering of rate of the tax. (c)
The limiting of borrowings, (d) The establishment of
sinking funds in connection with loans.
Closer Settlement. The immediate acquisition of
250,000 acres of land for purposes of closer settlement; if
such land cannot be obtained by voluntary sale, provision
to be made for the compulsory purchase of large estates.
Constitutional Reform.—(a) Repeal of separate repre-
sentation ; (b) adult suffrage.
Electoral Reform.—Provision for residential voting.
Encouragement to mining and agriculture.
Permanent enactment of Shops and Factories Act.
Simplification of procedure and introduction of business
methods in public departments with a view to their
economical and efficient administration.
State Education.—No children to be excluded, and no
fees charged.
The Bulletin has an idea that if the butlers and
waiters at Parliament House drafted a programme,
it would be a programme just like that. You can
almost hear the “Yessir, coming sir,” breathing
through it. They are so careful not to pour the
soup down anybody’s back, so careful not to tread
on anybody’s corns. If they put their foot down
at all the only impression that they make is that
they are ready to take it up and swallow it if that
will give anybody any satisfaction. And Victoria,
afflicted with Bent, and the House of Rich Land-
lords, and other unnecessary evils, wants a party
which will stand firm on one foot and kick hard
with the other. It isn’t any time, this, for a
“Yessir, coming sir,” party. “An unimproved
land-value tax ” —what does that mean ? Anything
or nothing—probably nothing. Wasn’t Irvine an
unimproved land-value taxer? How much tax?
Graduated or otherwise ? An exemption, or none ?
A surcharge on absentees, or the same all round ?
With these things told, the party would have told
something. With them unknown, it is a mere
“Yessir, coming sir” plank. And this party
believes also in “ the limiting of borrow-
ing.” Of course. Everybody does. The Owe’-
Sullivan always said he did. There is only
one safe limit —only one line, in fact, about which
there can be no mistake —and that is NO borrow-
ing whatever, except to renew or consolidate, and
even then a part of the loan should be repaid every
time, and only the balance renewed. But that is
a definite policy, and apparently if it had no oth< r
virtue that one would be sufficient to disqualify it
here. There is the same professional, but strictly
non-committal, “Yessir, coming, sir,” about the
plank “ The establishment of sinking funds.” How
does the McKinnon party propose to safeguard
the sinking funds ? Premier Turner established
such a fund, and where is it now ? It is a very
fine thing to swear off the drink, but the man who
proposes to run an inebriates’ retreat ought not to
keep the bottle on the shelf; yet, so far as
its ideas are known, that is what the Vic-
torian Opposition proposes. Equally unsatisfac-
tory is the plank dealing with closer settlement.
A poor little total of 250,000 acres are to be at
once made available, compulsorily if the owners
will not sell voluntarily. There is to be haggling
and bargaining first. If the Vic. Opposition were
more definite and satisfactory with regard to a
land tax, it could be as indefinite as it pleased with
regard to this other matter, for with proper land
taxation the land-for-settlement problem would
just about solve itself. But this Victorian
Opposition is not definite about either;
and it is the least definite about the land
tax, which is the thing of all things that
it ought to be most definite about. Yet
there are some things about which the Vic.
Opposition hasn’t even an indefinite opinion—as
to which it can’t trust itself to even say “ Yessir,
coming, sir.” On the great question of the aboli-
tion of the Leg. Council it is absolutely silent. It
professes to favor adult suffrage, but it doesn’t
open its mouth to denounce a system under which
adult suffrage would be a sham. What hope can
such a party have ? Surely Victoria has no room
for it. Surely it doesn’t want a neuter, a spine-
less thing, without grit—a poor, colorless object,
relying not at all upon its own virtues, but hoping
to squeeze in somehow, because of the public con-
tempt for Bent on the one side and a vague fear
■of the Labor party on the other.
»
■Chief Victorian Hansard Reporter writes
Re Mr. Peacock’s speech on railway strike in Vic. Leg.
Assembly, The Bulletin has been altogether misled by a
lying correspondent of the Age with regard to the alleged
suppression by Vic. Hansard of the words “on their
knees.” The Hansard report (13th May, 1903) is as
follows :
Mr. Peacock : “ These men should go down and declare
the strike off.”
An Honorable Member : “ On their knees ? ”
Mr. Peacock : “ Yes, on their knees.”
“ Anti-Smooger” in the Age of 22nd March last quoted
Hansard without giving the interjection and reply, and
then went on to denounce the report as a “ scandalous
perversion of an official record”! “ Anti-Smooger’s ”
misrepresentation was exposed in a letter to the Age
the following day by Mr. J. Gavan Duffy, M.L.A., who,
as having been present on the occasion, vouched for the
absolute correctness of the Hansard report. The news-
paper reports failed to show that Mr. Peacock simply
echoed an interjection. It is not surprising that Mr.
Vincent, before drawing his cartoon, failed to notice Mr.
Duffy’s letter, as, while “Anti-Smooger’s” charge was
published in the most prominent part of the Age, the
reply was relegated to the shipping column ! As to
“ bowdlerising ” Hansard, I may mention that it is not
the practice in the Victorian Parliament for members to
see proofs of their speeches, although they are occasionally
allowed to do so. Last session, not more than a dozen
proofs were seen by members. Mr. Peacock has never
on any occasion seen a line of one of his speeches prior to
:its publication in the weekly number of Hansard.
This letter is verbatim, barring the fact that the
writer alludes to Mr. Peacock as “Alexander
Peacock ” with some foreign title (supposed to be
partly derived from an ancient “saint” who
swindled the Roman army in bacon contracts)
before the “Alexander.” The Bulletin long ago
:gave up putting frying-pan handles to Australians.
Correspondents who wish to write about alleged
knights, honorables, and other dervishes will
please note. The Bulletin regrets having unin-
tentionally done the Hansard staff an injustice,
"but Mr. A. Peacock is going to be the same old
kookaburra in its columns even at this crisis.
Thb case of Major Carroll is another of the
numerous military scandals which explain why the
defence forces are going to ruin in Australia.
Carroll had an enthusiasm for soldiering, and at
his own expense went to England and passed
through the military course of training there,
securing first-class certificates. Returning to Aus-
tralia, he gained a position on the Queensland
Permanent staff, where he had an excellent service
record. Under the Commonwealth, he was in the
N.S.W. branch of the forces, and was, the other
day, retrenched, want of competence being alleged
against him. It was said that this was due to an
unfavorable report by one of the comic-opera
military-political popinjays who have influence
at headquarters. Demanding an inquiry, Carroll
found that some of his service records—which
were his testimonials—had been destroyed. Push-
ing the matter further, he secured from the
Defence Minister a declaration that inquiry
showed “ that he is a good and zealous officer, and
that no imputation of any kind rests on his
character.” But, unfortunately, he can’t be rein-
stated “as his dismissal was for retrenchment
reasons.” But the original reason given was his
want of ability. Forced to admit that was wrong,
the Department now takes refuge in the plea of
retrenchment. A full inquiry showing at whose
instance Carroll was dismissed would yield some
picturesque disclosures.
♦
A paper compiled by Mr. George Carter, a
cigar manufacturer of Melbourne, and conse-
quently entitled to some consideration as an
expert, calculates that the total expenditure on a
Government tobacco monopoly throughout the
Commonwealth would be £1,013,238, and the total
receipts £4,018,307, less cost of distribution. That
would leave a handsome net revenue to the Com-
monwealth Treasury. The figures may not be right
to a pound or two —though they seem to be very
carefully calculated—but it is certain that a State
monopoly, which yields to France £12,000,000 to
£16,000,000 a year, to Italy £7,560,000 a year, to
Austria (excluding Hungary) £4,600,000 a year,
would bring to Australia proportionately hand-
some returns. It would further benefit the
Treasury, as is the case in France, by saving a
f;ood deal of pension expenditure. The aged
unctionary in France, who can no longer serve the
State at active work, is saved from the pension
list for a long while by being employed as a
tobacco retailer at one or other of the kiosks or
shops. The Labor party should persevere with
its idea of the nationalisation of the tobacco trade ;
it is a financial proposal of great value.
♦
A very old and silly fable was revived last week
in N.S.W. Arbitration Court when lawyer Win-
deyer ; assured the court that owing to the opera-
tions of the Arbitration Act “capital was being-
scared out of the country.” If only one ass out of
the herd of wild political and other asses who
repeat in parrot fashion this childish lie would go
into particulars, it would be an enlightening cir-
cumstance. Does lawyer Windeyer know capital
from a crow when he sees it ? Has he seen it
leaving the country, and if so, in what shape or
form ? CoGHLAN’estimates the wealth of N.S.W.
at £356,000,000. Of this, £257,000,000 is land and
improvements, which haven’t left. About
£30,000,000 is live stock, which is still with us—
no one has seen the sheep and the bull flying into
Asia to escape Arbitration. Another £15,000,000 is
furniture and clothes and such like, and the public
still has a chair to sit on, and isn’t any more nude
than usual. About £36,000,000 is merchandise (there
seems as much as usual), machinery and trade im-
plements (the factory returns show that these are
increasing), and shipping (which is also increasing).
Nearly £9,000,000 is represented by mines, and a
mine is a hole in the ground, which is seldom taken
away. The balance is cash, and the bank returns
show that the cash isn’t declining. Certainly, an
increasing proportion of the wealth is mortgaged
to the foreign creditor, but that evil is always with
us, and the Arbitration Court never ordered the
Government to borrow money. Will some deafen-
ing lunatic or other kindly explain what capital is
leaving the country to. any greater extent than
usual, in what form it is leaving, in what ship it
went away—in fact, will some ass give any kind
of detail ?
♦
A Melbourne pressman writes:—
Premier Bent seems to have bitten off more than he
can bellow at over the Hospital for Consumptives
question. The proposed ward at the Austin Hospital—
the result of the Kronheimer bequest—is still in the plan
stage, Bent refusing to promise any State assistance
towards its maintenance. The remarkable statesman
from Brighton first had an idea that a Consumptive
Hospital would improve the landscape at Royal Park,
where the Zoo lion might cheer up the patients. Next
he proposed to run the patients down to the Point
Nepean quarantine station. Now he has abandoned that,
and reckons he has dropped on a really ideal site in the
Rutherglen Viticultural College. This monument of
socialistic legislation—to which the vignerons persistently
refused to send their sons, and which has conse-
quently been a white elephant for years—has been
favorably reported on by two competent medicos,
is well situated, four miles from the town-
ship, and practically isolated, and can be fixed up to
accommodate 100 patients at a comparatively small cost.
So Bent considered everything settled. Then the Ruther-
glen vignerons, who had never used the college when it
was kept specially for them, suddenly arose in protest.
Also Isaacs, whose Federal electorate includes the wine
township, spoke coldly of the proposal, whereupon Bent
bellowed about the “beastly interference” of Federal
politicians in State matters. Furthermore Landlord
Saciise, Minister of Education, backs up the protestants
—if he doesn’t his seat is as good as gone—so there are
the makings of a row all round. Looked at critically,
however, Bent’s proposal is a remarkably sane one, and
if he really possesses half the backbone and a quarter the
good intentions he credits himself with, he will open the
Viticultural Hospital as soon as possible.
*
A picture (from Cairns) of the high civilisation
which our beloved brown and yellow brethren have
introduced to Mongrelia:—
Plague having broken out at Alligator Creek, Dr.
Cummins wired to Dr. Ham for instructions, pointing out
that the houses were merely built of old kerosene tins,
pieces of bags, and debris of all sorts, being most insani-
tary and impossible to fumigate, as 40 or 50 colored men
and five white women were living there entirely without
sanitary arrangements. Dr. Ham wired back instructions
to burn, and,Dr. Cummins lost no time in carrying them
out. This was. on Saturday evening, and, kerosene being-
procured, a bonfire was made of 17 of the humpies in the
presence of the police and municipal authorities. No pro-
vision, however, was made for the burned-out inmates.
Some went to Chinatown, and others waited till the
g-round was cold, and then stuck up more mia-mias with
pieces of iron and tin —being careful not to put anything
inflammable into their new mansions. On Sunday another
“town ” had sprung up.
♦
Recently a story was published in the Australian
Tory press to the effect that N.S.W. Works
Minister O’Sullivan had received a communica-
tion from the head of Maoriland Labor Depart-
ment stating that an influx of Australians had
congested the labor market, and necessitated the
institution of relief works. It was a very nice
little item, from the Tory point of view. It
showed at once how Australian socialistic legisla-
tion was driving population away, and how demo-
cratic Maoriland was so hard pushed to find work
for its own people that it couldn’t stand any “in-
flux.” And, alas for the story ! t’other day
Secretary Tregear, of Maoriland Labor Depart-
The Kingdom of Heaven.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lii Adelaide Do win said he hoped that Kina 1 Ned would
Set to Heaven, but believed it would only be by “the
skin of his teeth ! ” Thereupon Mayor Coiik.v shut the
Town Ilall against Downs, and the Minister of Education
declared him guilty of “ diabolical license and practical
sedition. ” — News item.
“ The King shall have right to govern wrong ”
That was the claim through ages long.
But a newer Moses this law has given,
“The King shall have right to enter Heaven.”
No patriot he who shall dare to say,
That ever a monarch is turned away.
A crown shall cover all royal sin,
And Petek shall usher the wearer in.
For all who ever a sceptre swayed
In the orchestra stalls has room been made.
For Charles, who died at the public block,
Flew wide the door at the kingly knock ;
No truce of the crime that caused his fall—-
The crown on his bleeding head covered all.
To Nero who lived in a mist of blood,
Petek aside in obeisance stood.
And when he can murder no more outside,
To Abdul the Damned the door swings wide.
Each and every ensanguined King
Petek passed in unquestioning ;
Their seats were booked when they climbed the
throne,
And now they had come to claim their own.
F’or the Lord hath blessed them and marked them
down,
All they who put on the kingly crown.
And cursed is he, and of low estate,
Who shall say that Peter may hesitate.
So when some saint who has served his Loud
Comes to the gate for his reward—
“ The Kingdom of Heaven, I understand ?”
The keeper now waves a weary hand ;
“ The Kingdom of Heaven it used to be,
Nuw ‘The Heaven of Kings ’” —and he turns the
key.
For this is the law, by our Moses given,
Our Kings shall de jure enter Heaven ;
And be shown to the front of the common crowd
With this welcome from Petek, “ You do us
proud ! ”
S.H.P.


The equitable life assurance society
HENRY B. HYDE, Founder.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED Hat DECEMBER, 1903.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
ASSETS
SURPLUS
The New Business EXCEEDED that of 1902 by
£289,738,301
£78,341,950
£15,053,725
£8,383,994
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.O.
Sir FRANCIS SUTTOR, K.C.M.G. A. WATSON MUNRO, Esq., M.D.
F C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
c. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
once.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O
for this?
r
2®
Write for 01
explaining what
Ail Records t
ir Illustrated Booklet, mailed Free on application.
can be done with the Pianola.
lupplied from our immense Circulating Libraries.
Ask for Catalog 8.,
HENRY M. BiRGE & CO.
Sole Agents for
Australasia,
323 George St., SYDNEY ;
185=7 Collins St., MELBOURNE; & at Finney, Isles & Co., BRISBANE,]
ment, wired stating that no “influx” of Austra-
lians had unfavorably affected the Maoriland
labor market; that no relief works were started ;
that there was no need for relief works ; that he
didn’t have any communication with O’Sullivan —
in fact, that the whole thing was the usual lie.
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Admirable Crichton.'
Theatre Royal “ Great Millionaire.”
Criterion “ Message from Mars.”
Palace “ What Happened to Jones,"
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Pei,more Park Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus.
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Mama’s New Husband.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Darling of the Gods.”
Theatre Royal “ The Face at the Window.”
Opera House Richards’ Variety Co.
*
Barrie’s satire, ‘ ‘ The Admirable Crichton, ”
is drawing large audiences to Her Majesty’s
(Sydney). Cuyler Hastings, after the first week’s
run of the play, ceased to model his deportment
on that of the hall-porter at the Hotel Australia,
and is consequently less haughty and more flunkey.
The cricketing clergyman appeals to the local
willow-wood-heads. They did not know that
England was so enlightened as to consider a parson
with a good leg-break a success solely on that
account. As for the intellectual significance of
the piece, an indignant correspondent, calling
himself “Esmeddon,” has been attending to that
branch of the business this week. He writes: —
What is Barrie driving at in the “ Admirable Crichton ”?
The first act is burlesque ; the austere figure of the butler
is only saved from being unnatural by the recollection of
the rigid conventionality of his life’s environment. Skilful
writing and skilful acting are required to present Herbert
Spencer as head flunkey. The Earl’s politics are of the
crude and primitive order which existed in the Tertiary
period. They represent what the average ignorant
denouncer understands by socialism. The audience sees
the impracticability of such absurd views, but fails to note
the scurrilous libel involved in terming them Socialism.
Seems as if Barrie erected a straw-man to knock
it down again with gusto amid the approving
cheers of Fat. In Act 11. Crichton is forced, through
stress of weather and circumstances and vague alarms of
ferocious carnivora that don’t turn up, to find himself,
and to turn round and look at himself, and
take stock and figure out how many ounces to the
ton he really does run. Act 111. reverts again to burlesque
or pantomime, and shows through the wrong end of the
telescope an autocratic czar, at thought of whom his ship-
wrecked companions tremble. The lightest, daintiest
sketching was needed here ; Barrie has daubed on the
color with a whitewash brush. Act IV. has both shoulders
dislocated. During the two years’ exile Crichton has
developed into a man. He dreams, he tells Lady Mary, of
a prior existence, when he was “ a king in Babylon,” and
it looks all out as if his Chaldean incarnation has
come back to stay. But after the rescue Crichton
reverts quite tamely to flunkeydom—under the cii*
cumstances an impossibility. The man who finds out,
whether on a desert island or elsewhere, that Nature
intended him to rule, will keep his hand in for the rest of
his life. Crichton would return home to run for a Lan-
cashire constituency, and use his own powers and the
Earl’s influence to push himself up to a seat in the Cabinet
and a peerage. The last act should show him as Lord
Crichton, married to Lady Mary, and upholding the most
bumptious traditions of the British aristocracy. The
incongruities of the play, “ the favorable eye upon
Tweeney,” and the grand finale, “the little public-
house,” are inexplicable. Imagine the dominant, master-
ful Crichton, who dreamed of his rule in Babylon,
finding the acme of his ambition in pulling beer for a bar-
ful of sodden Hodge 1 The author has made his creation
serve as a vantage ground from which the superficial
Tory hurls rocks at socialism in the intervals of pious
prayers that the working masses may become glad to do
their duty in their proper station, after the example of
the obsequious Crichton of the first and last acts.
# » *
Those who haven’t seen W. F. Hawtrey’s
co. in “The Two Mr. Wetherbys,” at Sydney
Cri., will not have the chance after Friday night,
when, reckoning that it has sufficiently lectured
women upon their duties to husbands, tne co. will
revive “A Message from Mars,” with a view to
calling unrighteous man to repentance. The cast
will be practically the same as it was when Heggie
last came from the other planet to set men right
on this ; so that no doubt The Bulletin will be
able to say the same pleasant things of it as it did
last time Hawtrey was out having a bad time in
the snowstorm —with the same reservation to the
effect that the man who came from Mars to teach
unselfishness is about the most selfish brown brute
in the whole collection.
** * *
The Manly chute folk have now issued an
illustrated guide to their pleasure ground, which
will enable any sober person to discover the fiery
dragon in its lair and the chute on its lofty perch.
From motives of philanthropy—or some _ old
motive like that —the guide is sold at the “strictly
nominal ” price of one penny.
** * #
“ The Great Millionaire,” at Sydney Royal,
continues to raise the price of bread in London to
ss. a loaf by way of revenge on the aldermen who
have affronted him. It is an unreasonable sort of
revenge, for the London alderman rarely _ eats
bread ; a comer in turtle soup, raising its price to
£lOO a plate, would be much more sensible.
But, apart from the slight incoherence of the
bread corner incident, ‘ ‘ The Great Millionaire ”
on a second visit gives, if anything, an improved
impression ; it has certainly struck the public in
the right place, and houses have been crowded.
** # *
Nothing particular has happened at Fitz-
geralds’ Circus since last week except eight
crowded houses and a runaway horse. The horse
has stopped, but the houses are still going. The
team of Jap wrestlers continue to do the most
sudden style of wrestling The Bulletin knows.
The gold-decorated referee and the performers
have chopped off part of the preliminary fan-
proceedings, and this gives time for an exhibition
of rough-and-tumble, in which the champion
(whose name, as near as The Bulletin can get it,
is Tomato Jam) shows some of the 48 ways m
which a man can be thrown according to Chrysan-
themum rules. The trained terriers are still
doing mathematical calculations with a horse s
legs; “Dr.” Gordon, the strong man, is doing
with his jaws most of the things that the other
strong men do with their hands ; and the hyena
smiles at the entrance of the Zoo, which you can
see, and smell, without paying anything extra.
** * *
What will Happen to JonesatSydney Palace
on Saturday night. (This is not a query, but a
statement of fact, and when read carefully the
fact becomes apparent to any intelligent mind.)
Willoughby and Geach had intended to let the
three red Indians in a Strange Land see the brief
season out, but there has been such a general m-
quiry after the frolicsome bagman that he will be
recalled for three nights to the house where the
great success Happened to him three or four years
ago. After him “ The Wrong Mr. Wright will
run for two nights, and then Willoughby will re-
move his saucy socks to Newcastle and Brisbane,
and the Permans will replace him at the Palace.
** * *
“ The Ladder of Life ” was withdrawn
from Sydney Lyceum on Tuesday night, and, to
close the season, “My Jack ” was to be staged on
Wednesday, what time The Bulletin was m the
throes of the printing press. Mr. Anderson ends
a long and successful season on Friday night,
April 15th, when the gallery will drop the real
brine of a tearful tribute on to the property salt
sea waves of the nautical drama. During a close
and muggy summer the Lyceum has kept a con-
siderable proportion of the community m a state
of cold shudder, and the management deserves
miii-li gratitude. There have been nights when the
only cool thing was the shudder at the Lyceum.
#* * *
Sydney Tivoli’s bill this week is the same
strong bill that it was last week, with the dainty
Bells and the alluring Six Empire Girls and
Russell, the very good ventriloquist, printed m
the biggest type. A recent comer is T. Dawson,
a patter comedian of the quiet sort; and the new
cinematograph films round off the show.
** * *
Mr. Ernest Toy—which is a contradictory
sort of name, half of it having a square jaw and a
firm purpose, while the other half is a mere frivol
or rocking-horse—opens a series of concerts in St.
James’ Hall, Sydney, next Saturday. Mr. Toy is
recognised as a violinist of the first rank, and he
has some additional claim to favor in that he is a
Commonwealth product. In his recitals he will
have the support of some prominent Sydney
musicians.
Melbourne has decided by a large
majority that “ The Darling of the Gods ” is an
interesting as well as a handsome 5-act modern
melodrama in the early Japanese style. It
naturally suggests comparison with “The Sign of
the Cross,” which was modern melodrama con-
structed on traditions of ancient Rome, and the
comparison is favorable to “The Darling,” inas-
much as it is free from all cant of religiosity,
and devoid of glaring anachronisms. This play is,
of course, solidly Pagan in sentiment. The only
prayers that occur in the course of the trouble
(and the tale is full of trouble) are devoutly
offered up to an eccentric image. The bloodthirsty
Minister of State is the most devout pleader, and
the Image gives him all he asks, whereas the
meek Early Christians in “The Sign” failed to
score a point by praying. They talked a terrible
lot about their religion, but they had nothing to
show for it at the finish except a few odd bones,
which the lions left in the arena for the sake of
manners. The Jap pagans— i.e., Yo-San and
Kara the Outlaw—arrive at a definite conclusion
through their time-honored faith. When last
seen they are re-united in the First Celestial
Heaven, and the spectacle of those two moder-
ately good people achieving a spiritual embrace
after waiting 1000 years, is both impressive and
comforting. Present scribe hopes for nothing
better Hereafter than to be served with salvation
& la Japanese. After three samplings of the
Williamsonian show this impressionable journalist
is prepared to fall an easy prey to the first pagan
Dowie who presents himself.
** * #
The joyous frivolity of “Mama’s New
Husband ” appeals to a numerous nightly audience
at the Princess’s, and supplies a matinee want on
Wednesdays. Given a broad, humorous actress
(or a J. F. Sheridan) in the character of Mama the
performance would carry a little more weight,
perhaps, but the American show, under existing
circs, is undeniably brighter than the old-fashioned
musical farces in which John Gourlay and Snazelle
struggled to be funny of yore. Also it is a blessed
improvement on the old musical melodramas that
Carrie Swain, Minnie Palmer, Katie Putnam and
other visiting Yankee “stars” inflicted upon Aus-
tralia, the “star” in each case being a farcical
high-spirited gal, shining against a dull back-
ground. Miss Olive Evans, the gal of George
Stephenson’s co., shines against a light background,
and illuminates the career of “ Mama’s New
Husband ” with a talent, which is almost a genius,
for losing herself in her part.
*# * *
At Melbourne Royal the temporary resur-
rection of Robert Inman’s corpse continues to
emphasise the maxim that Electricity is Fife.
When the cold remains have been mysteriously
loaded up with vital energy they arise and write
something on a piece of paper, like a spiritualistic
“ medium ” in a paid-for trance, and then it rests
with the dramatist to devise a suitable means of
releasing the remains from their horribly upright
position. This is where the dramatist takes the
scone for ingenuity. Seeing that Inman (deceased)
is understood to contain enough electricity to kill
a dozen men, it is certain that none of the
virtuous people present can afford to push his
obstrusive body out of the perpendicular. So
the villain Willard straightens the situation,
so to speak, by putting his hand on the
chest of his late victim, whereupon Inman
falls back upon the pillow in a respectably corpse-
like manner, and Willard drops dead upon the
floor, as every villain should, especially one who
has his overcoat lined with crimson satin. A
startling peculiarity about this gruesomest of
Anderson dramas is the absence of Bert Bailey
from the last scene. The low comedian might
play some new and original jokes with the elec-
trified corpse, but the opportunity is allowed to
pass. There is, however, plenty of time for
writing up the low comedian’s part. “ The Face
at the Window” is still going strong.
#* * #
The first Melbourne appearance of Miss
Lilian Foulis, at the Town Hall, suggested a pos-
sibility of that effective violinist giving more than
three concerts. All the same, she is not attractively
supported, except by the pianist, Mrs. Charles
Heath. The two vocalists, Miss Henderson and
Signor Rebottaro, possess voices of ordinary
“professional” dimensions and are capable
singers, but they are somewhat uninteresting.
And they give three “turns” apiece.
41 # m *
A marvellous performance by two German
lads —the Uessems —astonished the crowd at
Melbourne Opera House last Saturday. Or
rather, it astounded a section of the crowd, and
was voted “ not too bad” by the casual Australian
majority, who are never very enthusiastic over
anything short of a football match. The Uessems
are sturdy little brothers, the eldest _ only
14, whose “turn” resembles that of Willie and
Charlie Schenck, but far surpasses it as a display
of head balancing. The 14-year-old Uessem is a
pocket Hercules, and his 12-year-old relative stands
upon his head under conditions which, in the lan-
guage of the gentle advt., are “indescribable.”
The bill at Rickards’s is very fine and large just
now. The bounteous beauty of Miss Maud Beatty
adds special value to her pleasing warble, and the
popularity of Nat. Clifford appears to be growing.
But Nathaniel, on Saturday, had danced himself
into a muscular difficulty with a Latin name, and
though he appeared upon the stage, it was merely
to apologise for his non-appearance.
*m m *
From an Adelaide correspondent:—
“ The Marriage ol Kitty,” making its first appearance
in Australia at Adelaide Royal, proves to be a very inno-
cent adaptation from the French by one Gordon Lennox.
The idea of a wife falling in love with her own husband
was doubtless a pleasant novelty in Paris, but has been
somewhat overdone by English writers. However, the idea
has been well worked out. The uncle of Sir Reginald Bel-
size has left him a big fortune on condition that he marries
bygiven date someone who is not Peruvian nor a widow.
(This is to block one Madame de Semiano, whom Uncle
John had known and disliked.) Kitty is almost destitute
and willing- to do anything respectable (except work). Her
god-lather being Belsize’s solicitor, the matter is arranged
at once. Reggie is to marry Kitty, make handsome settle-
ments, never live with her, and obtain a divorce in a
year’s time. Then follow's one of those scenes which
make the fortune of a play. The other lady won’t have
the temporary wife too good-looking, and Kitty,
before inspection, has three minutes in which
to make herself plain. With her hair hastily
done a different way (and part of it taken off), skirt
twisted round, dress pulled out here, and pushed in there
—all in full sight of the audience—she changes into an
uo-ly girl-from-the-country, and passes muster trium-
phantly. The other two acts are of less importance.
Reo-gie calls to see his wife after a year or so, finds her
charming, stays to dinner, and is gradually drawn away
from the “ Peruvian person.” What the original was can
only be guessed at; in the adaptation there
is no indecorum, unless such as arises from
the natural determination of the French maid
that milord’s portmanteau is to be taken into miladi s
room. Williamson’s new comedy co. skims through this
light stuff with ease and grace. Of the new people, Wil-
fred Draycott shows in both style and appearance as
uncommonly like Cecil Ward. He has an awkward part
as the (quite un-English) hero, under the thumb of which-
ever woman is nearest, and makes it as lifelike as possible.
Florence Hamer plays the jealous, bad-tempered widow,
with realistic hysterics. Other newcomers take small
parts carefully and well, and are to have better chances
later on. Rose Musgrove rises at her big opportunity as
did Nellie Stewart (whose manner she occasionally sug-
gests) at hers, and will go far. She gives full value to all
the witty dialogue of the first act, and is convincing
whether gay or sad. Athol Forde also gets a big show as
the solicitor, whose part is about as important as that of
the invertebrate hero. Altogether an artistic success,
and Adelaide audiences havs taken full advantage of it
** * *
An interesting but erratic show quitted
Australia last week when Preacher Dowie left hy
the Mongolia, cursing violently to the last, and
uttering howls, of great execration. His last
message to this country was to the effect that
“ editors and reporters will have a special place in
hell”—Dowie’s knowledge of hell is something mar-
vellous. His Adelaide understudy, Preacher Friend
Hawkins, says that the Profit is coming back with
1000 Zion guards and a 6000 ton steam yacht, to
conquer Australia, and then his flag will wave
over the whole Commonwealth. Meanwhile, the
bailiff is said to be waving a good deal over the
City of Zion in Illinois.
In the time of Old Japan
Lived a maiden named Yo-San ;
A tender maid of noble birth,
Whose innocence excited mirth,
And caused her grim old governess
To blush behind her fan.
In sore distress that governess
Would blush behind her fan
When yearning Yo
Cried “ Hilly-ho !
Give me, O gods, a gallant bean,
A soul-enthralling Man ! ”
Love savors sweet as sugar beet
In freezing clime or melting heat.
In Russia or Japan,
Since ever Time began,
The girl has loved a Man.
“ Say so,” cried Miss Yo-San ;
“ A clinging European kiss
Is needful to a maiden’s bliss.
O, gods, am I not right in this ?
Say so,” prayed Miss Yo-San,
“Say so.”
In the time of Old Japan,
Yearning maiden named Yo-San
To Kara pledged her tender troth,
And won a Future for them both—
A Heaven ’midst the rolling clouds,
Where angels float in silken shrouds
(Profusely trimmed with lace),
And sorrow hath no place —
Where angels float in silken shrouds
Around the misty space.
Those lovers died a tragic death;
But ere they drew their final breath
They vowed to meet again anon,
And when a thousand years had gone
They realised their plan.
The Love-star guided Yo aright;
She rose from darkness into light—
“O, are you there, my Kara bright ?
Say so, beloved man ! ”
A voice replied : “ Yes, I am near;
Keep floating on till I appear—
My love, my life, my ever-dear ! ”
“ Say so ! ” said Miss Yo-San.
“Say so !”
Ten billion angels in the skies,
They smacked their lips and shut their eyes,
And whispered—whispered merry-wise—
“Say so !”
The Birth-rate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The folks who’re blest with babies two
They lecture them with three,
And say—why don’t you multiply
And make the country gee ?
The folks who’re only blest with one
They scold the folks with two,
And cry, “ How can we run the world
With people such as you ? ”
The doctor-man without an heir
He runs the workers down,
And says their cussed negligence
Is emptyin’ the town ;
The landlord —who’s a bachelor—
He says it makes him wild
To see how couples sail along,
Content, without a child.
The Swells in sweet Suburbia
(Whose family’s seldom one),
They rage about th’ iniquitee
Of poor folks havin’ none;
They say the blessed impudence
Of some folks strikes ’em dumb;
Why—next thing they’ll depopulate
The Lobd Almighty’s Slum !
The folks who live in luxuree
With servants half a score,
They find if they’ve a single chick,
They’ve seldom time for more;
And so they say the common herd
Must early mate and pair,
And help the failing baby crop
By raising double share.
And everywhere you hear the howl
Of High Sassietee:
“ This trouble comes of givin’ votes
To them of low degree.”
And yet, somehow, you mostly find,
Whene’er some half a score
Of healthy, squalling brats you see,
It’s at a toiler’s door.
And when you see a lordly house
Perched on a lordly hill,
You wonder what’s the matter that
It seems so calm and still;
It seldom rings out joyously
With childhood’s happy play—
Its folks aie busy figurin’
Why birth-rates fall away !
Q.
PHILANDER FIAM.


W
--.
Branches Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney Melbourne and iSeh 1011 ’
MDENTB vt’^ inS t T jP- Portable 0 Tramway, Switohes Turntablef^ 6
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e. t EVERYTHING * c *
( - >ur CATALOGUE is yours for the asking,
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY A. E, LEPL&Strifd .»
Representing Quniio and Hopped, Ltd., London, rr e ?ih™nTp^ r ’
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
SchweppesSoda*
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.
The Wild Cat Column.
Naturally, following the gathering of a pheno-
menal harvest, State revenues for March show a consider-
able improvement:—
State Revenues for March.
March, 1903. March, 1904.
N.S. Wales .. £948,460 £1,095,754 Inc. £147,294
Victoria .. 615,424 748,272 Inc. 132,848
Queensland .. 277,062 301,979 Inc. 24,917
Westralia .. 310,725 323,937 Inc. 13,212
Tasmania .. 62,426 76,896 Inc. 14,470
Both in N.S. Wales and Victoria the increases are
almost wholly traceable to the unusual harvest.
But yet, whereas in the lean year we can find a
hundred excuses for not paying our way, we don’t
expect in the extra fat year to any more than
do it, and if we don’t do it we put it down to the
fact that the country hasn’t quite recovered yet from
its previous shock. Instead of striking an average and
expecting the fat year to give a surplus sufficient to
wipe out the deficit of the lean year, we accept the
phenomenal year as normal, and put the other sort down
as an “ unprecedented and unforeseen disaster.” Both in
N.S.W. and Victoria 1901 and 1902 saw wheat harvests far
above the average, and yet both States had deficits in
both years. And this year N.S.W. at any rate will have a
big deficit. What Victoria may have it is impossible as
yet to say, because Victoria trusts its Shiels and Irvines
and Bents so much that it doesn’t require them to fur-
nish monthly, or even quarterly or half-yearly, expendi-
ture returns. Of the N.S.W. month’s revenue increase of
£147,294, £43,789 is from lands and £43,214 from railways.
“ The land ” is singing the same siren’s song that it sang
12 or 14 years ago ; and, until the good coastal country is
opened up, the result is likely to be the same—the more
numerous the settlers and the bigger the land revenue
from new selections, the larger the call presently for relief
funds, and seed-wheat funds, and free railway carriage.
And the foregoing remarks apply equally to the next
batch of figures:—
State Revenue foe Year So Far.
1903. 1904.
£ £ £
N.S. Wales (9 months) .. 8,234,701 8,464,272 Inc. 229,571
Victoria(9 months) ..5,059,502 5,367,389 Inc. 307,887
Queensland(9months).. 2,519,361 2,592,951 Inc. 73,590
Westralia (9 months) .. 2,927,533 2,632,985 Dec. 294,548
South Aus. (9months).. 1,766,947 1,786,307 Inc. 19,360
Tasmania (3 months) .. 197,298 208,632 Inc. 11,334
N.S. Wales’ increased revenue has, however, been accom-
panied by a considerably increased expenditure. Victoria’s
position in that respect is unknown ; probably, however,
its absolute gain is greater, because, for one thing, the
inexpensively collected probate duty has returned
£149,154 more. N.S.Wales’ chief gains have been from
lands (£124,966) and railways (£99,360) ; customs collec-
tions have been less. Westralia continues to suffer from
the removal of the local duties and its failure to put
anything in their place; it comes close to being this
year’s shocking example of how not to do things.
Only three States furnish monthly expenditure
returns:—
State Expenditure for March.
March, 1903. March, 1904.
N.S. Wales.. £1,090,124 £1,163,973 Inc., £73,849
Queensland.. 174,558 162,483 Dec., 12,075
Westralia .. 301,194 317,556 Inc., 16,362
And for the year so far :
State Expenditure for Year so far.
1903. 1904.
£ £ £
N.S. Wales (9 months).. 9,064,459 9,106,074 Inc. 41,615
Queensland ( „ ).. 2,393,768 2,330,958 Dec. 62,810
Westralia ( „ ).. 2,637,428 2,674,712 Inc. 37,284
S. Australia (6 months).. 1,216,109 1,253,359 Inc. 37,250
Queensland’s Labor (or largely Labor) Ministry is making
a good struggle under the awful disadvantages which
it inherited from the Continuous Government ; while
Westralia is burning the candle at both ends—fiercely at
the revenue end and freely at the expenditure end. S.
Australia’s figures for the past quarter are not yet avail-
able ; Adelaide has been too busy expressing its horror of
Dowie’s disloyalty to bother much about its bills.
Summing-up the position so far as it can be
summed the States stand as follows. The returns for
N.S.W., Westralia, and Queensland are for nine months
to the end of March, for S. Australia to the end of
December :
DEFICITS. \
t " >
1902. 1903. 1904.
N.S. Wales .. £119,115 £829,758 £641,802
S. Australia .. 215,568 153,485 171,385
SURPLUS. DEFICIT.
Westralia .. 283,732 290,105 41,727
Available for Current Half-year’s Interest.
Queensland .. 126,256 125,593 261,993
Queensland’s interest bill is about £129,000 per month, so
that its present actual deficit amounts to about £125.000,
as compared with £247,000 this time last year.
* * * *
As to loan expenditure, the following particulars
relate to N.S. Wales:
For 9 months.
o -nr t. . 1903. 1904. Decrease.
N.S.W. Resumption*.. £1,365,665 £469,989 £895,676
N.S.W. Works.. ... 2,488,198 1,461,318 1,026,880
Total .. .. £3,853,863 £1,931,307 £1,922,556
Queensland’s total expenditure for the nine months has
been £461,332, or £252,957 less than for the same part of
last year.
* * * *
Acting-Premier Wise, of N.S.W., explaining to
Bull Cohen, through one of his papers, why N.S.W. has
borrowed £17,916,107 for other things than the repay-
n*e*J*' loans since September, 1899, says: “A succession
of bad years having seriously diminished the avenues of
private employment, the Government, in order to avert
distress and tide over diflieulties, deliberately adopted a
policy of increasing the expenditure on public works
ou * l° an money. This implied a return to normal
conditions when the drought crisis had passed.”
The whole explanation—the whole attempt to shuffle the
responsibility for the loan drunk off the Government’s
back rests upon the statement that there has been “ a
succession of bad years.” And there hasn’t been any such
thing, if by bad years poor harvests are meant. The
average wheat yield for the 10 years, 1893-1902, was B'B
bushels per acre ; and the yields for 1900, 1901 and 1902
were aU well above that average. For 1900 the crop was
by far the largest ever reaped in N.S.W. ; that of 1899 was
the next largest; of 1901 the third largest. In this line,
therefore, there was a succession of good years. As to
N.S. Wales production lor the five years from
1897 to 1901 was worth £5,737,462, while for the five years
from 1887 to 1891 it was worth only £2,166,120. The coal
output reached figures that had never before been ap-
proached. The copper production for 1899, 1900 and 1901
ra fo^ eatie o’ >' ear > than ever it was before, except
in 1883. So far then, from there having been “ a succes-
mon of bad years,” there was, both in minerals and agri-
oudtural produce, a succession of remarkably prosperous
To put the matter still more clearly, this is the
value per inhabitant of the products of all N.S.W. indus-
tnes at various times during the last few years (the years
quoted are the only ones for which State Statistician
Coghlan worked out the figures):—
Value of products of all
N.S.W. industries per Loan Expenditure per
isos inhabitant. inhabitant.
1893 .. £29 4 7 £1 12 1
1894 .. 26 2 6 11 e
1897 .. 26 4 2 1 3 1
1899 .. 28 13 7 110 7
1901 .. 28 7 9 2 0 2
1902 .. 26 911 3 n o
From these official statistics (figures for 1903 are not yet
available), it appears that 1901 was distinctly a better year
than the average, and 1902 a good average year. Cer-
tainly it appears that, despite all losses through drought,
the people of N.S.W. earned more all through the period
of the Lyne and See Governments than they had been
doing in immediately previous years, and should have
been able to reduce borrowing instead of increasing it.
* * * *
The only possible excuse is that the borrowing
policy had left the State so weak that it could not face
a set of circumstances not nearly so bad as those of 1894
without huge extra outside assistance. Having to pay so
much interest, it could only do it and keep itself comfort-
ably by borrowing more—and it didn’t have the moral
courage apparently to live uncomfortably for a while and
borrow nothing. Even if, as the Acting-Premier says,
there had been “ a succession of bad years ” it would
still be a shockingly bad advertisement for the country
to say that it hadn’t enough accumulated resources
to pull through ; but when it hasn’t had any succession
of bad years at all —when, in fact, it had a succession
of unusually prolific years—and even then could not pull
through without extra borrowing incurred solely for the
purpose of keeping it out of the workhouse, the mess is
surely about as bad as any country ever allowed itself to
get into. And the Government’s way of tiding over it
was simply to wade a little further in. Yet apparently
even now the Acting-Premier isn’t ashamed of the plan.
• * * *
As soon as ever it learned that a far-reaching
and inquisitive Commission could probably find out
enough abuses in connection with the butter-export busi-
ness to lose a great many Fatmen their reputations, the
Yic. Government decided that it wouldn’t have any far-
reaching and inquisitive Commission ; all it would have
was a mild little inquiry into the specific question of re-
bate on freights. If that part of Victoria which has grown
fat on trade-trickery doesn’t give Bent all its votes it will
have no more sense of gratitude than it is suspected of
having.
* * * •
The Mutual Life Association of Austral-
asia :
Added
Total Written to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1894 .. £195,228 £103,525 £40,698 £4,491 £46,514
1895 .. 195,364 107,747 38,114 10,721 38,782
1896 .. 197,722 97,286 41,912 10,530 47,994
1897 .. 208,576 102,635 41,676 9,832 54,433
1898 .. 216,197 100,088 42,502 6,196 67,411
1899 .. 233,625 83,348 44,117 4,301 101,759
1900 .. 244,076 111,442 50,183 4,202 78,249
1901 .. 268,334 112,552 53,571 6,130 96,081
1902 .. 287,399 123,926 56,026 2,200 105,247
1903 .. 322,329 133,102 57,508 2,059 129,660
Total addition to Funds in 10 years .. £766,130
The year’s addition to funds is the largest in the society’s
history; and there are other satisfactory features besides.
First there is a very substantial reduction in
expense rate
Expense Rate to Total Revenue.
1894.. £2O 16 11 per cent. 1899.. £lB 17 10 per cent,
1895.. 19 10 2 „ 1900.. 20 11 2
1896.. 21 311 „ 1901.. 19 19 3 „
1897.. 19 19 7 „ 1902.. 19 910
1898.. 19 13 2 , 1903.. 17 16 0 „
It is still high, compared with what one or two societies
have shown to be possible ; nevertheless, when all the
returns are made up for the year, the Mutual Life will
most likely be found third or fourth on the list of all
offices doing business in Australia. It and the National
Mutual now run almost neck and neck ; the Mutual Life
lias between 3d. and 4d. to the good. Nothing in par-
ticular has been responsible for the improved figures ;
except with regard to salaries, there has been a small
reduction in expenses almost all round, notwithstanding
the larger income.
The next test gives less satisfactory results :
Interest Earned on Mean Funds.
1894 .. £5 310 per Cent. 1899 .. £4 10 0 per cent.
1895 .. 6 0 2 „ 1900 ..4 9 0
1896 .. 418 2 „ 1901 ..4 8 9
1897 .. 418 7 „ 1902 ..4 7 4
1898 .. 414 11 „ 1903 .. 4 7 0 „
This isn’t an absolutely low return, but it is a trifle under
the average.. Compared with what was realised 10 years
ago (the return was £5 7s. 7d. in 1893), the shrinkage is
very considerable ; but then the steadily changing nature
of the securities must be remembered. This can be
partly shown this way :
How Funds Were Invested.
Mortgages .. £513,703 or 50J p.c. £888,596 or 494 p.c.
Freeholds .. . 240,558 or 24 „ 236,780 or 13J „
Loans on Poli-
cies .. .. 151,993 or 15 „ 165,904 or 91
Debentures .. 29,000 or 3 „ 160,980 or 9
Foreclosed
Freeholds .. 24,100 or 24 „ 99,361 or 64 .
State Securi- ”
ties .. .. 6,500 or % „ 177,474 or 10 „
Cash, &c. .. 45,754 or 4j „ 53,578 or 3 „
Total .. £1,011,608 £1,782,673
New South Wales and Queensland municipal debentures
and State (Australian and British) stocks now represent
19 per cent, of the total funds, as against a total of
3£ per cent, represented by public securities 10 years ago.
This change almost necessarily involved a reduction in
earnings per cent.; but it has certainly added considerably
fc) the solidity of the society. And this movement is still
proceeding; wisely taking advantage of the low quota-
tions, another £50,000 was put into Australian and British
Government stocks last year. Altogether, then, what
looks the least satisfactory feature in the society’s year’s
experience is capable of an explanation which makes it
look not at all unsatisfactory, after all; so that the whole
year’s record is one with which the society ought to be
very well pleased indeed.
* * * •
Medicus: Cannot advise you to continue pay-
ments to that co.
* * * *
The probate-duty cheque which reached Yic.
Treasury after Alfred Felton’s death was for £31,711195. 3d!
* * * *
A young man has been bowled out in Melbourne
while in active pursuit of a rather unusual calling. The
complaint of the University authorities is that T. A.
Wright passed the matriculation examination, calling
himself Grounds, in May, 1902; that he passed the pre-
liminary examination of the Pharmacy Board, calling
himself Grounds, in June, 1902; also calling himsaif
Harwood in September, 1903, and Chegwidden in Decem-
ber, 1903. The University authorities assume that he
either called himself these imaginary names for fun or
else that he was paid by Grounds, Harwood, and Cheg.
widden to pass examinations for them which they didn’t
feel equal to passing themselves. Consequently the
authorities are angry at Wright and Harwood, and’ look
coldly on Grounds, and wear a hostile expression towards
Chegwidden. Many years ago James Payn wrote a novel
in which the rather shabby hero made a living in this
way. He was afterwards sentenced to 20 years in gaol
for stealing bank-notes, and when he got out he
righteously killed Solomon Coe, who was a bad character
and not calculated to inspire sympathy. Payn’s hero waa
described as having “ invented a new sin," but the idea is
probably as old as the primitive Irish University of Tara,
* * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co. (Ada-
laide): —
fwat* »!«<!«*.
f fi e Q b 7 -' * serves, serves.
low / . . nor
1898.. £20,244 7 p.c. «£17,500 £l7BB £956 8’241
1899 . 15,953 6„ „ 12,500 3229 224 8’465
1900.. 21,233 5 „,, 12,500 2083 6650 15*115
23,468 5 „ „ 12,500 3468 7500 22,615
902.. 22,506 5 „ „ 12,500 1250 8756 31 371
1903.. 13,752 5„ „ 12,500 750 502 31’873
1904.. 12,935 5„ „ 12,500 750 _ jjlgf
The directors will have to seriously think about reducing
the dividend if things don’t improve during the current
half-year—the co. pays its div. in half-yearly instalments.
And even if things do improve, they ought to think about
it. The reserves are not large enough, even if they
were all real, which they are not, as a goodwill
item is included (though it is impossible to say
how much it represents, practically the whole of
the assets being thrown into one bloated barrel). The
co. derived last year £13,719 from rents, so that its
freeholds and leaseholds are fairly extensive ; and as a
considerable part of them are at Broken Hill, where
values and most other things are very uncertain, the co.
needs a strong and solid reserve fund. And it needs it
even more because of its very heavy debenture debt; the
ordinary capital is £250,000, while debentures (5 per cent.)
represent £200,000. A co. with such a debenture debt as
that can’t afford to take chances. In all these circum-
stances there can be no doubt that the dividends have
been much too large during the past two years.
* * * *
The Newcastle (N. S. W.) coal-trade, which boomed
in 1902 and the early part of last year, is sick enough now.
The first quarter’s export figures show 666,519 tons
shipped, as against 784,694 tons last year. Inter-State
requirements have been less than they were, but the
worst fall has been in foreign exports. Only one mine is
working full time.
£ Jf. £ £
There is another underground movement in the
Block 11 end of the Broken Hill Prop.—a part of the mine
which has been shaky for years past. Of course, as usual,
no harm is done, according to the reports. When the
collapse came in Broken Hill Junction some years ago,
then-manager Phillips referred to it as quite a providen-
tial occurrence—it would save so much filling up. All
the same, the mine hasn’t paid a div. since, and the co.
has had to be reconstructed two or three times. Certainly
the B.H. Prop, isn’t like that; it is not a one-block mine,
and, anyway, its solid sulphide workings are rarely
affected by these movements. Nevertheless, in spite of
all the customary reassuring reports, the movements
mean, almost without exception, considerable expense, as
well as a loss of good ore which can’t subsequently be got
out of the crush. Also, every movement points to the
probability of further movements.
* * * *
Times are decidedly bad along the Berry lead,
Oreswick (Vic.). Madame Berry West is practically off
gold ; Spring Hill Leads, by pumping, is lowering 100 ft. of
water at the rate of only 6in. a day; and West Berry
Consols is not in good dirt. Result, shortening of hands,
calls, and much distress among wage-earners. Are the
excuses so often given as to irregular quality of the wash
at the Berry Extended hints to look out for diminished
returns ? As the heavy ground at the bottom level keeps
a lot of picks out of reproductive work, Jonah Ward
can’t cut ex.’s down much. It is true that he has a big
width of wash to work at the south end, but a wide
gutter does not always mean rich ground.
* * * •
Bendigo (Vic.) Easter-week dividends, £17,698;
Total divs. for three weeks, £35,700. This is apart from a
reservation made by New Moon board for machinery pur-
poses. Hustler’s Reef No. 1 tops the list with £4048. But
the most significant div. was that by Great Central Vic-
toria, as the stone is from the deep workings. Its
neighbor, the Consols, working the formation at 2815 ft.,
has crushed some 15dwt. stone.
* * * *
Lord Nelson North, at St. Arnaud (Vic.), is at a
standstill. Directors wanted old Zeb. Lane to let them
bore from Lord Nelson mine for the reef, but he was not
on. There ought to be no objection to Lord Nelson board
doing this if it got a suitable option over the property
first.
* * * •»
Lumps of gold do not stick out in the Mt.
Elliott, Corryong (Vic.), just now. The co. is about
making both ends meet, but it will never do better until
it stops pottering about, and proves if it has a mine.
Shoots of gold at Corryong have hitherto been notori-
ously short, and until Mt. Elliott demonstrates the con-
trary, that show isn’t likely to trouble the market much.
A few calls ought to be made to provide funds to drive
vigorously along the formation.
* * # *
Madame Berry West, Creswick (Vic.), is nearly
in straits, though shares not long since were at 30s. That
was because the co. had bought the West Loughlin ground,
and was paying Is. divs. The rise, however, was not justi-
fied, because bores sent up by the old West Loughlin
co. did not give gold. Madame Berry West directors
sapiently assumed that payable wash made away from
West Berry Consols, whereas now they have learnt by
actual work that it passes into it. Recently, therefore,
they wanted to buy 1000 ft. of gutter in the Consols
ground, but haggled over the difference between 30s. and
£3 per foot, and so lost the block. Had they been far-
seeing they would have taken the ground and kept up
divs. until they had driven to wash near Charlston’s HilL
They have under £9OO cash and £2OOO worth of firewood.
The distance to be driven to get to wash is 1500 ft., so it
looks like calls or an overdraft. As the West Berry Con-
sols is not doing well, the best course for the two co.’s is
to amalgamate ; then work could go on from Madame
Berry West shaft, and with the profits the West Berry
Consols’_ big stretch of lead could be opened up. The two
companies amalgamated would not make a big concern,
and there might be no need to drive 1500 ft. to Charlston’s
Hill.
* * * *
Queensland mining is barely holding its own
this year. A comparison with the first quarter of 1903
shows:—
Gold. Dividends.
Jan.-March, 1903 .. 148,4120 z. =£630,439 £213,796
Jan.-March, 1904 .. 145,0270 z. =£616,051 212,406
Decreases .. 3,3850z.= £14,388 £1,390
As to gold, calls and dividends of principal individual
fields :
Gold. Calls. Dividends.
Charters Towers.. 62,9290 z. £26,520 £102,992
Gympie .. .. 29,4140 z. 16,416 64,283
Mount Morgan ... 28,5430 z. Nil 37,500
Croydon .. .. 7,1730 z. 1,188 7,331
Ravenswood ... 8,2510 z. 3,989 Nil
Etheridge .. ... 1,5830 z. Nil 300
Gympie’s figures, month by month, show the best progress
by a long way:—
Gold. Calls. Dividends.
January .. 4,921 oz. £5BOO £3,790
February .. 11,542 „ 4217 17,000
March .. 12,951 „ 6399 43,493
29,414 „ £16,416 £64,283
Mt. Morgan’s monthly gold output continues to diminish
—Jan., 10,0240 z. ; Feb., 94940 z. ; March, 90250 z. The
other fields show no striking features.
* * * *
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is still
under the control of the Philistines, whose previous
management left almost everything to be desired. Landau
is once more chairman, and has as his colleagues, John
Waddington, H. B. Hooper and Pierre Ledoux, all of the
Associated board; the only real outsider is William Clark,
the well known sharebroker. Manager G. M. Roberts has
Just announced that his treatment costs for three months’
running of the mill were 15s. 9d. per ton. As 26,713 tons
of ore, which might have been treated on the mine, were
shipped to smelters at a cost of £4 19s. per ton, the net
loss is £4 3s. 3d. per ton, equivalent to £lll,2oo—enough
to have paid for the treatment plant three times over.
Landau told shareholders that “ late manager Rodda was
so overwhelmed by the discovery of the pocket of rich
ore, and the fear of its being stolen, that he was incapable
of carrying on further operations." This is rot. In
Rodda’s annual report of two years ago he distinctly
stated that the bottom was out of the mine at the No. 4,
or 350 ft., level, but enough ore was in sight to pay £2 a
share in divs. It was only after a lot of prodding from
London that Rodda yarned of alleged rich ore at greater
depth. Landau also told shareholders that “ enough gold
from the mine to have paid a very handsome
div." If this is so, the ore must have been carted away
by the truck-load. That gold was stolen there is no
Continued on pagt 98).
doubt, but the “ handsome div.” is another question. At
the 1050 ft. level the crosscut is in 500 ft., but although
rises have been put up, no trace of the rich ore at 912 ft.,
or the bore hole which found it, can be got. The co. is
still in a strong position financially, as its original working
capital of £lOO,OOO is still intact in cash and securities,
but the outlook on the mine itself can’t be regarded as
anything but blue.
» * » •
Cue Exploration Co., Day Dawn (W.A.), has
been sold up holus bolus for a paltry £l9ll. As the
property and effects were valued at £lOO,OOO, and
the amount realised will not pay creditors, the fiasco
is complete, and shareholders will get nothing, and
hardly deserve anything better for letting their affairs be
so mismanaged. Over £lOO,OOO in hard cash has been
squandered since the property was first floated in 1894,
and little work of any practical value has been done. It
is rumored that the co. is to get another dose of corpse-
reviving mixture and take on another lease of life. It has
already been revived in one way or other seven times, in-
cluding increases of capital, so that it has very nearly
reached the proverbial limit of the cat.
* » * •
South Kalgurli (W.A.) prospects at present
appear to be very good. The crosscut at the 900 ft. level
has passed through the main, or L.V. Consols, lode, which
averages loss, per ton for a width of 20ft. Recently, the
diamond drill intersected Morty’s, or Perseverance, lode
at 160 ft., worth 4oz. for a width of 14ft. How this lode is
to be worked remains to be seen. It is situated about
600 ft. west of main shaft, and to work from this shaft
would mean an enormous amount of crosscutting at every
level, and would vastly increase costs, for, even if cross-
cuts are only driven at intervals of 200 ft., that means
3000 ft. of crosscutting down to 1000 ft. only. On the other
hand, the sinking and equipment of a second main shaft
would mean an enormous initial expense, as well as a per-
manent one for extra engine-drivers, firemen, truckers,
firewood, water, &c. This lode was only worked down to
about 100 ft., where it became so poor that Isles reckoned
it was no good, and gave it best. On the other hand, in
the Perseverance, very rich ore was followed, in the upper
levels at least, right up to the boundary, and it is hardly
credible that the gold was suddenly cut off by an imagi-
nary line. That insiders are satisfied of the prospects of
the mine is evidenced by the fact that the war has not
affected the price of the scrip to any extent. The outlook
is so good that the overhauling of the treatment plant is
on the tapis.
* * > *
The following is an extract taken from the new
book on “ Ore Dressing” by Professor Richards, the well-
known American mining expert“ The appearance of
the Wilfley Tables, while a most fortunate event for the
cause of ore dressing, has been most unfortunate for the
appearance of this book. It could not have happened at
a more inopportune moment, for in the summer of 1896
the author visited nearly 100 mills, obtaining careful data
from them. On returning home the data was written out
in systematic form, mailed to the mill managers for their
criticism and correction, and when it had all been returned
and placed on file for the preparation of this book, the
first Wilfley table appeared. From that day to this it has
been finding its way into the mills of almost all descrip-
tions. The appearance of the Wilfley Table is an event of
such importance that the book should either have been
put on the market in 1896 before the first Wilfley appeared
or have waited until 1905 when the adaptation of the
mills to the new comer would be complete.”—From
Professor Richards’s book on “ Ore Dressing.”*
• • » *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free en application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
* • * * ■
The Australian Financial Gazette' and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903 :
“When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management en the excellent
results of the year’s work."*
* * • *
The baud saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.*
• * ♦ *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * e s
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Rivited Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedlev Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tory, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * •
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), tributors seem
to have a much better nose for gold than the manage-
it : last published fortnightly return shows
that they have fossicked out 9030 z., bringing their total
for six months to 45000 z., worth about £17,000. As the
P er cen t- royalty, its share comes to a nice
little £3400. The co.’s South Gippsland property is not
looking at all well, and is not covering exes., and may
shortly bs abandoned. This is the property Harvey
Patterson bought for the co. after prospecting with a
divining rod.


gd
THE "ORIENT”
ONE GUINEA BOOT
Black Calf.
Special.
Price - -
Delivered, Carriage Paid, to Any Address in the States,
PA VIP JONES ANP CO.,
6EOR6E aod BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
m
m
From Fashion’s Domain.
THE
P-D
..CORSETS..
The Leading Shapes
In Straight-Fronted Corsets.
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Eaoh Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on
baud inside, as illustrated.
Obtainable from leading Drapers everywhere.
Society
Canadian
Club
Whisky
AFTER THE HOT WIND.
EVE : “ Oh, Adam, I can't possibly wear this
again."
ADAM : “ Woman, do you know that is the third
new dress you’ve had this week."
In giving particulars of Francis Hope’s
latest matrimonial experiment Melbourne Argus
unintentionally throws more contumely at those
pillars of the Empire, the British aristocracy.
The Duke of Newcastle’s heir apparent was spliced
quietly at Dover, to Olive Muriel Owen, formerly
Shaw, daughter of George Horatio Thompson,
deceased, banker. The prospective duchess was
divorced by Richard Owen, but who Shaw was
goodness knows. The only witnesses to the
wedding were Hope’s solicitor and Lilly Paddey,
Mrs. Hope or Owen or Shaw’s mother. Paddey
is almost as select as Guppy or Tunks, and seems
to suggest that there is more interesting history
in the background.
* # * *
Judge Boucaut—who is getting old and
has to keep telling counsel and witnesses alike to
“speak up”—at the recent criminal sittings in
Adelaide gave a man of 40 (with a record of 22
previous convictions) the ferocious sentence of
eight years’ hard labor for stealing a four-and-
elevenpenny pair of trousers. At the same
sessions he sentenced a man to six months for
attempting suicide. The new Judge, Gordon,
has also made it clear that the way of the habitual
transgressor is going to be hard in S.A.
Australia learns with interest that its
highly-paid imported military chief and his ex-
pensive headquarters staff, and the rest of the
beautifully-dressed figures, who are mostly called
D.A.Q.M.X.Y.Z. or G.A.B.S.R, A.T.S., are get
ting the details of a huge defence system settled, and
that not even a button can now go astray without
various officials inquiring into the matter and for-
warding reports at great length. Witness this
choice specimen of administration, forwarded to
Melbourne Age by a correspondent:—
Regimental Dist. Order, R.A.A., published on 25th
March, 1904.—1467. Board. —A regimental board, consti-
tuted as under, will assemble at such time and place as
may be appointed by the president “ to inquire into and
report upon certain damages alleged to have been sus-
tained by a saucepan in charge of O.C. Queenscliff
district.”
President, Captain H. Cox Taylor.
Member, Lieutenant H. B. L. Gipps.
All evidence to attend.
It is alleged that a searching investigation has
traced the wrong done to the saucepan as far back
as the year 1900, and it is estimated that His
Majesty’s injured utensil has been deteriorated
from a value of 3s. 6d. down to 2s. 3d. If it is
found that the defendant implement damaged it-
self on purpose it will be executed in cold blood.
On the other hand, if some pro-Boer did the foul
deed, vengeance will be exacted, and all Hades
will ring with that saucepan.
• • * *
A case of embezzlement before a Sydney
police court last week was that of an employee of
one of the largest importing firms of the Common-
wealth. This employee, after 13 years’ service,
had been placed in a position of trust, and was
allowed the princely income of £9 a month —£2
and a fraction per week, or less than the pay of an
able-bodied and industrious laborer. This in-
stance might be cited to the Carruthers party and
others who prate about the mutual trust and
respect between employer and employee that was
rampant prior to the passing of the Arbitration
Act and other “Socialistic legislation.” The
accused in this case didn’t come under the Arbi-
tration Act, and wasn’t affected by “Socialistic
legislation.” His case should be a great encourage-
ment to unionists in trying to return to the
period of mutual trust.
• • * •
Tho now electric trams in Wellington
(M.L.) are already shunting the cabbies out of
their old busi-
ness. Lately
two of them put
their worldly
possessions into
their cabs and
drove into the
interior in
search of better
fortune. They
camped out by
the road and
their horses did
likewise ; they
did business at
casual race-
in e etings,
hustled for fares
in small towns
which th ey
passed towns
which hadn’t
seen a cab since
they were built
announced
cheap fares to
any place be-
tween there and
Auckland, and
asked every-
body if he
wanted $o buy a
vehicle for his
private use.
One man sold his cab at Wood ville and took a job at
street-preaching or something; the other was last
seen vanishing m a cloud of dust towards the Hot
Springs.
* • * *
The town of Wyndham (Westralia) lost
rather a large object, some weeks ago, in the
person of a policeman named Parker. The other
day, it captured an unusually commodious alligator,
and, on opening the animal, most of Parker’s uni-
form was found inside it. There were not, as a
general thing, any alligators on Parker’s beat, and
the secret of his fate is a mystery. The Bullet]*
remembers no other case in which a white police*
man was consumed in full uniform while m the
execution of his duty. Policemen have met many
strange and tragic ends in Australia, but the case
of Parker of Wyndham is something beyond the
a ven^«.
• • • •
An Adelaide clergyman points out that in
Revelation it is stated that when the second
Elijah comes he will be murdered and thrown into
the street, where his body will lie for 3i days,
after which he will come to life again. He asks
whether Dowie is prepared to undergo this test,
but up to the sailing of the Mongolia on April 7
no reply had been received from the prophet. Yet
what a chance for Dowie to say that he was quite
ready, and tell the Adelaide clergyman to come
along and slay an unresisting prophet on the spot,
and leave his body on the tram-line for days,
after which period he would either rise again or
the Adelaide clergyman would be hanged.
A HANSOM PHILOSOPHER .
“If she be not fare to me what care I how fair she be! "
Melbourne Cemetery was finally closed to
new-comers on March 30th, and none too soon, for
it now holds some 250,000 dead, and its flowers
bloom rank and lush, and its worms crawl sleek
and large. Starting in ’53 with 40 acres, it has
gradually expanded to 108 acres, and from within
10 paces of Lygon-street footpath, right across to
Prince’s Park, it holds most of the well-known and
the unknown dead who have passed away in the
last half-century. Many of the names are re-
membered only on the stones, others need no epi-
taph. Towering over all others is the tall, gaudy
monument voted by the Leg. Council to Chas.
Hotham; contiguous to him lie Redmond Barry,
John Price and T. B. Payne with many of his
family (one wonders whether their spirits fore-
gather and how they agree). Other notables are
ex-Premiers Richard Heales, J. B. Patterson,
and John O’Shanassy, Dean Macartney, W. J. T.
Clarke and his father, Surgeon Beaney, little
Vi. Varley, Robert Hoddle and Hutton’s remote
predecessor—Major-General Robert Nickle —who
died in ’55; also one Alastair M ‘Kenzie,
Colonial Treasurer, of whom no further par-
ticulars are given. Johnny Fawkner lies beneath
a sort of stone hut, snug and dry, and opposite
his last home a plain slab records the fact that
Derrimut, a native chief who saved Fawkner and
other early colonists from massacre, died in the
Benevolent Asylum in ’64. But none of the other
monuments, gorgeous though some are, comes
near that over the bones of Burke and Wills —
dressed slabs of granite bearing a massive rough
block of the same material, the whole almost
hidden by big trees, and standing on a triangular
plot by itself.
* • • •
The announcement that Melbourne
Cemetery was to be finally closed on March 30,
except to those who already possessed planting
allotments therein, drew a rush like unto a crowd
at a bargain counter. Hundreds of prospective
defuncts swarmed into the cemetery office, and the
officials couldn’t gather in the coin and mark off
blocks fast enough. Women figured largely among
the purchasers, and many_ fainted in the rush.
This yearning for company in death, however cor-
rupt the company may be, in preference to the
clean lonesomeness of the new burial place, is a®
unaccountable circumstance. If the general
t jsurrection were due to-morrow it might be pos*
sible to understand it, but apparently there may
be lots of society at the new emporium before
that event arrives. And by that time. Melbourne
will probably have grown over and obliterated the
old cemetery. Quite probably by that time the
moth and rust and the gohanna and the pricklv
pear will have grown over and obliterated Mel-
bourne,
* • • *
Four dead infants were found in Sydney
during the first week in April, just at the time
when the papers were full of the declining birth-
rate. The question of how to deal with the baby
when born is every bit as important as the question
of having him born. Probably the four little lives
would have been saved had Sydney possessed a
foundling hospital, or some similar humanitarian
institution*
Having begun to take an
interest in embroidery and mer-
veilleux, and the Eastern position,
and to cry out for ‘‘ a richer
ritual,” the Methodist Church,
which used to be content to hold
its services in a barn or around an
upturned tub at the street corner,
is now starting to say severe things
about “this abominable itiner-
ancy.” The Methodist preacher
used to be a “revivalist,” pure and
simple ; and the man you have
known for long can’t revive you
worth a cent —you know too
much about him. It is only
while he wears a halo that
he exercises his power as an
emotional “revivalist” ; and a
man can’t stay in a place very long
without showing spots and dents
in his halo. So Wesley introduced
the itinerancy, and ordained that
all his preachers should move along
every three years at least. And
now the Wesleyan parson pro-
tests ; and in Maoriland the Con-
ference has decided, by 38 votes to
29, to call upon the General Con-
ference for Australasia to knock
the system on the head. The
truth is that the average Metho-
dist parson isn’t a “ revivalist ” any
more; and when he strikes a
pleasant parish, where the climate
is good and likewise the collections,
he doesn’t want to shift —he just
wants to stay and be comfortable,
and drone out two sermons a week,
like the parsons in the more
fashionable tabernacles, and take
an increased interest in clerical
trimmings to atone for the di-
minished interest he takes in other
things.
* * *
At Broken Hill police court
a bright specimen of young Aus-
tralia entered the witness box the
other day. She was aged 12 only,
and there was some douht as to
her capacity as a witness
“I suppose you never tell stories?” asked one of the
solicitors.
“ Oh, yes, I do. But not like this.”
“ Do you think it is wicked to tell stories ? ”
“ Yes.”
“ And still you tell them?”
“ Nobody can live without telling stories sometimes.'
Then there was no doubt.
AT THE MELBOURNE HOSPITAL
BAZAAR.
BEAUTEOUS FANOY-DEESS JAP MAIDEN: “Will
you go into a raffle far a mouth-organ?"
Presence of mind is not such a rare com-
m :>dity as some people think. After the tramway
collision and fatal accident at Kensington (Sydney),
last week, the main concern of a large section of
the passengers was to collect their personal
belongings. One demanded that the whole avail-
able tramway staff should search for his brolly
among the debris. When the Northern express in
England ran into some petroleum tanks and caught
fire, burning several persons like rats in a hole,
a well-known peer rushed to the luggage-van and
employed himself in busily hauling out his per-
sonal effects. This devotion to property at
moments of crisis has in it something of the
sublime.
EPITAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here is Brown lying dead,
He climbed not Fame’s pinnacle.
To his credit, though, be said—
He could strop a razor well 1
Saving virtues he had none,
Only this whereof I tell:
He was hard on wife and son,
But—he stropped a razor well!
He was fond of dice and drink,
And he made his home a hell;
At strange girls he used to wink,
Still—he stropped a razor well 1
He was dissolute and bad,
And his oaths were horrible,
Yet this shining grace he had—
He could strop a razor well I
He could change the dragging blade
To a gliding miracle ;
Let the earth be lightly laid—
He could strop a razor well 1
All his sins were balanced
By the virtue which I tell;
Here is Brown lying dead—
He could ttrop a razor well !
GRANT HERVEY.


||AIR DESTROYED.
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Destroy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or Injury
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits, but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DRUG CO., 8 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS.
At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all days on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-st.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lockyer’s
the real English Hair Restorer. Large bottles Is.
everywhere.*
Premier Bent’s alleged policy, as stated at
Brighton, was obviously inspired by the wrong
brand. Had he consulted D.C.L., the whisky
that keeps its most foolish votaries from saying or
doing foolish things, he would at least have talked
a little sense. For D.0.L., properly administered,
illuminates with wisdom even the mind of a Bent.
But in his case the quantity would need to be
exceptionally great.*
Workers who desire to have their humane
ideals disseminated broadcast throughout the
Commonwealth should promptly purchase a
Workers’ Watch from H. Newman, of Bourke-St.,
Melbourne. This serviceable, beautifully chased
time-keeper has an engraving on the back
emblematical of the eight hours principle, and the
words “Working men of every country unite
together to defend your rights.” A great idea. A
24 hours watch strengthened with the 8 hours
nrinoir.le.*
SILVER
STARCH
STAR
THE WORLD.
THE BEST
N
BILE BEANS
t Q& ,0« SNESS
AHP A
Troubles.
Melbourne has just buried a remarkable
suicide. One day, over a week ago, two
men were passing through the Fitzroy Gardens,
when they observed Thomas Wilson sit on the
grass, put a revolver to his mouth and fire. The
occurrence being somewhat unusual, one man
hurried away for a constable, while the other,
Michael O’Shea, kept the intending suicide in
sight, presumably for fear he would go away and
stand for Parliament. The constable was some
little time in homing, and before he arrived
Wilson repeated the performance several times,
apparently without any interference from Michael
O’Shea. When the policeman captured Wilson
he had six bullets in his head, and was still being
kept in sight by Michael O’Shea. Defendant,
despite his injuries, lingered in hospital for six
days. That and the calmness of Michael O’Shea
are the two really remarkable circumstances of the
case. Firm, collected men like Michael O’Shea
are the sort who prevent the country going to
wrack and ruin.
A SPORTING NOTION.
CYCLIST: “Increasin' the birth-rate! I tells yer
straight, the commission ain't got a 'ope with-
out it gits a couple of real good pace-makers."
In Wellington (M.L.), some three years
ago, a Scotchbyterian divine was struck with a
brilliant idea to raise to the memory of the local
heroes of the Chow-African war a kirk, in which
there should be a record tablet to them and a
pulpit (with collections) for him. He enthused
over the bravery of “our boys at the front,” and
collected for the erection of the kirk (and inci-
dentally a manse), which, in due time, was opened
and preached in by the late Hector Mac-
donald. That was when Maoriland was flushed
with Jingoism. Now, when it is proposed to
hand over the Rand to the Chosen People and the
Yellow Agony, the mortgagee of the kirk has
foreclosed, and a R.C. publican has purchased
the sacred edifice for a dance-hall. Pastor Thom-
son, at the final service, briefly explained the
financial extremities to which the elders were
reduced, terminating his remarks thus: “We
will now worship God by taking up the collection.”
The collection is the last thing to perish.
• • • •
N.S.W. State Governor Rawson’s intima-
tion that he will not accept public banquets in
country towns during his current itinerary is a
blow to scores of soapy aldermen and bushtown
J.’sP. These grotesque hoodlums have made it
Suite a custom to dine and wine a visiting
rovernor and fall out about the expense after,
and hiss and bite in public places until the guest
must often have wished he could give them Lack
their feast. It is to be hoped that Governors
generally will act like Rawson; if they don’t they
should at all events, before sitting down to table,
insist on seeing the caterer’s receipted bill.
*•* * j
Anglican Bishop Clarke, of Melbourne,
g reached a nice, interesting sermon the other
unday about scanty families, and at the end of
his “ thirdly ” found the solution of the birth-rate
problem in a “vigorous crusade” by the clergy
and more religious training of the young. Next
day a matronly churchgoer sent a letter to the
Hekald, in which she mentioned that she had
lived under the episcopal rule of five Anglican
bishops of Melbourne, four of whom had no chil-
dren. What is the average birth-rate in bishops’
families ?
MR. DOWIE’S CHAMBER OF HORRORS.
(For Catalogue see daily press.)
“ M.G.” writes to explain that the old
verse—
A dog, a wife, and a walnut tree,
The more you beat them the better they be—
isn’t true now :
Re Henry Fletcher’s story (8., 25/2/’O4): —The idea that
Punching and drunkenness make a woman a good wife
elongs to the day of the joke against the mother-in-law,
and both to the time when woman was the chattel of
man, and had neither individuality nor reputation apart
from him.
I doubt, indeed, if the idea ever worked out in absolute
fact as to wife- hood. Wherever woman could (or can)
get away from brutality she has done so, as is shown by
the divorce court. But this is beside the question.
Years ago, Henry Lawson (with the fine intuition that
is at once typical of genius and of the woman touch that
is also genius) wrote a little sketch of man, and of
woman, and of life as they are, and not as they might
have been in ages or conditions when man, at least in
some of his developments, still went on all-fours. I have
forgotten details, but it was of a drunken, broken-down
gentleman and—a woman. “ Drink, drink, drink ! Why
do you stick to him ?.” was the question. “ Because he is
always a gentleman,” was the answer. “ I work for him ;
I go on dry bread to get soup for him when he is bad ; I
go without clothes to pay his fines when he’s pulled up.
... I could work my fingers to the bone. ... I could die
for him. Why ? Because in his treatment of me he never
forgets he’s a gentleman. That’s why.” And that is life.
There is only one type of being, either male or female,
that improves under the fist, and one hardly knows
whether to call it the viciously insane or the insanely
vicious—the odd one here and there in whom the brute
overpowers the human. But this is not human, and,
though it be something caught in the fringes of its
garment, neither is it life, as white people understand it.
Even with the blackfellow the days of the waddy and the
nullah-nullah are few and far between.
* * * *
Even a rabid teetotaller can achieve an
effective “wheeze” once in a way. John Vale,
addressing a blue-ribbon audience at Melbourne
Temperance Hall, remarked that “the brewer and
the publican always cry out for ‘ liberty ’ when it
is ‘license’ they are thinking of.” He might
have added that any mention of liberty in
connection with the liquor trade is absurd. Even
the privileged pub-keeper hasn’t the liberty to
get himself fined more than three times for
Sunday-trading.
* * * *
A S’African Cohen paper describes an
anti-Chow meeting
Almost all the audience consisted of loafers, alligators,
Australian “stiffs,” and undesirables, and the whole
proceedings were of a rowdy nature, and ended up in a
fight in the street.
Let’s see ! Wasn’t it to be one of the good
results of Australian participation in the Boer
war that “the colonies would get a grand adver-
tisement”? “Loafers, alligators, Australian
‘ stiffs ’ and undesirables.” That’s the adver-
tisement, bought with blood and shame.
* * * *
In consequence of the late little military
difficulty Tasmania hasn’t now one artilleryman
left to man the obsolete local gun, and but 50, all
told, of the local infantry to repulse a foe.
Much litigation is due to the Law’s off-
hand habit of providing penalties for offences that
it does not take the trouble to define. What is
badly wanted is a glossary to identify, beyond the
possibility of doubt and indecision, every noun
that occurs in the statutes. A case in point has
just been reported from Wellington (Maoriland).
An Act says that no dealer shall purchase second-
hand goods from anyone under the age of 16 years.
A man was charged with buying bottles from a
boy of 12. It was urged that a bottle was not a
second-hand article, seeing that washing would
make it as good as new. The magistrate took time
to think over the point. What is the use of the
Law purporting to have a brick that it is willing to
heave at a man if it doesn’t say what circum-
stance shall induce it to heave ? Maoriland is still
suffering from the strain of trying to discover,
from the 8769 different definitions of a bona fide
traveller, whether it can have a drink on Sunday,
and is growing old and grey in a vain attempt to
realise what a hundred other things are, and the
magistrates are committing suicide through the
hopelessness of ascertaining whether a bottle is a
criminal act or whether a bona fide traveller is a
negotiable document, and a state of uncertainty
and instability prevails—the sort of uncertainty
that Euclid would have experienced if he had
tried to prove certain things about a circle on the
strength of an unreliable rumor about a straight
line.
* * * *
The Russian Viceroy of the East seems to
be busily engaged in scattering decorations and
swords of honor. In its regard for gold braid and
gew-gaws militarism remains as infantile as it was
in the beginning. Satire is wasted on children
and swashbucklers.
Extract from “The Scholar’s Companion,
a History for Classes 111. and 1V.,” issued under
“the Education Department’s Revised Pro-
gramme” for use in Vic. schools :
The selection and meeting of the first Australian Par-
liament was fixed for May in that same year, and the
Duke of Cornwall and York, now Prince of Wales, pro-
mised to attend in person to open the Parliament, and to
deliver a message from the throne. But the death of
Her Most Gracious Majesty, good Queen Victoria, early
in the year, sent such a wave of sorrow round the empire
that Australia was prepared to be disappointed, for it
was feared that the Prince and Princess of Wales would
never be able to take the long journey to Australia. Our
gratification, however, knew no bounds when the Prince
and Princess, despite their private grief, determined to
fulfil their original programme and visit Australia.
When young Victoria is fed on such sludge, is there
any reason to wonder at the existence of Bents in
public life ? As the young twig is Bent so does it
grow Bent.
OPENING A CONVER-
SATION.
THE SHEPHERD : “ Well , my little man, and what’s
your name?"
LITTLE MAN: “Garni What’s yours?”
Promoters of a Brisbane memorial to
S’African heroes find their project has missed fire.
They have raised £B5O, want £l5OO and asked the
Premier for the difference. He coldly waved them
off the premises and referred them to Eckstein and
Beit, or the Chinese Government—anybody but
the Queensland Government.
. * * •
Mrs. T. R. Andrews, wife of Secretary
Andrews, of Melbourne Hospital: “One of our
collectors recently called at 26 houses on Beacons-
field Parade without getting a penny.” Beacons-
field Parade is the very toniest street in tony St.
Kilda. It is complained that under the present
system, whereby hospitals have to depend on
promiscuous charity instead of being supported
by State grants, 58 per cent, of the subscriptions
go in collection expenses (the State can raise the
money, spending less than 5 per cent, in collection
expenses). Now supposing the collector, who has
to live in some sort of fashion, got 58 per cent, of
the money collected in Beaconsfield Parade, what
are his chances of meat for his Sunday dinner ?
What do we import Governors for ? Well,
partly to write things like this published testi*
monial re a nerve tonic run by a Maoriland
nunnery:—
Be good enough to convey to the Rev. Mother my con-
gratulations on her labors ; they are of great value for the
relief of human miseries, and appear to me capable of
furthering colonial industry, and should at the same time
be profitable to those good works which she seeks to
realise.
Accept, my dear doctor, the assurance of my appreci-
ative feelings.
(Signed) Onslow.
There was a time when Onslow would have been
whacked at the academy for such baboo com-
position as that.
* * * *
Dowieism in one form is common all over
Australia. “He’ll grow out of it,” is a frequent
remark made by parents when alluding to some
ailment in a child that requires the immediate
attention of a specialist. A young fellow
reached Sydney the other day, only to be
told by the specialist that he would be totally
blind in three months, “but if he had seen him 12
months before he could, in all probability, have
saved his sight.” The boy wanted to voyage to
Sydney to be examined two years before, but the
farm could not spare him. The average Austra-
lian never troubles about turned eyes, slight deaf-
ness, acute sandy blight, or granulation ; he hasn’t
time to worry about such matters. The cows have
to be milked.
* * * *
Police methods of dealing with the young
person who gets assaulted in a lonely place are
improving. Recently one of these damsels com-
plained to the authorities at Ballarat (Vic.) that
she had been twice criminally assaulted, giving, as
usual, a description of the assaulter. On this
occasion, however, the officers did not make any
arrests. No citizens were run in, and lined up to
allow the girl to pick out a victim, as is generally
done in cases of this sort. Instead the force set to
work, made careful inquiries, found that the
story was the usual concocted one, and ran the
girl in on a charge of vagrancy. There is yet
a chance that a magistrate will get angry with
this kind of lady and lecture her severely, or even
fine her half-a-crown.
* * # *• '
While Yic. Education director Tate was
touring Maoriland recently he fell in with a Ger-
man princeling of the Battenberg clan, attended
on his travels by a field-marshal, or something
equally important. They arrived at an accom-
modation house in the Lakes district, and
Tate was disconcerted at seeing the two
Teuton notabilities appear at dinner in
beautiful evening dress. He was on
the point of quitting the table, when
a maid approached, with wonder in
her eyes, and announced: “There’s
tinned ’errings and corned beef.”
Even the Battenberg grinned at
the humor of the situation.
One supposes that the
character of some of the
English jingo parsons in
S’Africa, is faintly indi-
cated by the notorious
case of the late Earl of
Stamford. This dis-
tinguish ed gentleman,
formerly the Rev.
Harry Grey, re-
. presented th e
Church of Eng-
land in Natal in
the 60’s, and was
doubtless ah en-
thusiastic ba r-
rackerfor British
supremacy and
the Grand Old
Flag. But he had
to abandon his
cure of souls in
consequence of his
weakness for our im-
moral black sister. His
reverend name became a by-
word for Zulu amours, and
finally he married one Tante
Mata, daughter of Queen Reb.
One of his daughters—Lady
Mary Grey—survived him,
and is an heiress in a small
way. Also his wife Tante lived
to be his widow, and is now
happily married again to a colored
person, named Pieter Somebody.
S’Africa was a demoralising region
long before the gold-bugs were attracted
thither. It doesn’t promise to take a higher
tone through the introducduction of Chinese
labor.
* * * *
The row has wakened some of them, any-
how. A young South Australian farmer, who
called in Mrs. Gamp for the first time the - other
day, was rewarded with three. How many times
this has happened before at a first birth in South
Australia The Bulletin can’t say, but in N.S. W.,
with about four times as many people, it has only
happened twice in the last 10 years for which the
figures are issued.
“THE EXILES OF THE WEST.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the pathetic heading over a letter written by a
bush pedagogue to the Sydney Morning Herald. The
letter is too long to quote in full, and too diffusely
gloomy to be quoted in detail.
Your hards may.sing of the sun-setting in the strange,
romantic West,
But still to the town and its pubs, they cling—they know
what suits them best.
To live in the West and toil and teach from dismal day to
day ;
Sir, if the chance were within their reach would they
take it on ? Not they.
Westward the Star of Empire goes—in Yankeeland,
perhaps;
But westward the Sun of Promise sets for us poor teach-
ing chaps.
What can we hope to truly teach who never, or seldom,
see
The bathing ladies at Manly Beach and the girls at the
Tivolee ?
Your bards may sing of the sun-setting—to which they
might give a rest —
But we are the truest exiles, we—the exiles of the West.
We have in the Bush for company the sheep and the
cows and stars ;
But it’s O ! and O 1 for Rickards' show and the barmaids
and the bars.
N.S.W.
O.


OOAf
*
Q
O
%
w
?o
Austral?
AND
OLD TOM
GOitBOnS
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN
WHISKY.
s
8
§>v
“eRAVENETTES"
Are the Ideal fv\Bßics
FOR
Ush,
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 12, 1904.
My Deab Abini,—
A.J.C. Easter races for 1904 are now one with
Nineveh and Tyre and Chowder and other back
numbers. On Saturday Lady Rawson ceased to
mourn for the full-yeared Cambridge and put pink
roses in her toque. Several well-known women
wore the same dress on all four race days (don’t
misunderstand, they didn’t syndicate the one
costume), and their friends are now saying that
they sleep in those gowns and that their husbands
or fathers are on the verge of insolvency. What
took my sympathy was the efforts made by the
morning-paper chroniclers to write up these gowns
as if they were all different. Mrs. Bland Holt
made a rosy sky effect with her sanguine attire.
She was as red as the Lady of Ostend. Miss Fos-
bery, who is just built for tailor-mades, wore one of
deep blue, but she has my permission to put that
scoop hat into the scuttle that holds the coal.
Mrs. A. A. Dangar looked one of the best-dressed
of women in black crepe-de-chine with gold sequin
decorations, and Mrs. (Dr.) Thring wore pretty
magpie plumage. There was a strange man much
about with one of our Sydney belles, and all the
other women were after his identity. His was
just the face we give the hero in the stories we
write when we are sixteen. And we describe it as
handsome and haggard and world-weary. (The
editor we “ try” it on tells us to go home and get
weaned.) Report says that the strange man came
from Fiji, where the confidence hawk’s uncle
dwells.
Rupert Clarke gave a rose-pink “At Home” on
board his yacht during race week. But people are
so modest. Those who attended won’t give any
details of the function for fear you’d think they
were boasting.
Homely wit is a complaint the Rawsons are
striving to avoid by avoiding home-keeping ways.
Next week they are off again—father, mother, and
firlie —for an extensive tour in country districts.
lanila, Barraba, Armidale, Inverell, Boggabri,
Gunnedah, Quirindi are some of the poetically-
named districts where his Ex. will talk to
the local shorthorns and her Ex. to the
local mayoresses, and the Girl will kodak the
grouping, and Mr. Share will give the main short-
horn a hint that his Ex. had heard of him (favor-
ably) before leaving England to take up this
Governorship. A notification that will crush like a
steam-roller has gone ahead —no banquets, balls, or
entertainments. And His Ex. desires that lunches
be of the very plain kind. Cold corned (local)
beef with mashed potatoes, and billy tea. Above
all, no Heidsieck or other bubbling temptation.
Mushrooms (this is their season) will grow undis-
turbed on Cranbrook lawns until the 26th, when
the Vice-regal people return.
“The grand old woman of Australia,” Miss
Catherine Spence, is at present in Sydney, and
quite ready to help Mr. B. R. Wise with his
Destitute Children’s Bill. I saw her at Miss Rose
Scott’s on a night last week with a woman-doctor
on one hand, a woman-barrister on the other, and
a judge blocking the view of other young women
with academic affixes. She was conversing (some-
times involved in argument) on some of the “ burn-
ing ” questions of the day, as well as on the poetry
of Stephen Phillips, and I for one came away with
the impression that her brain was in its prime and
her heart in its youth. Her eyes are bright and
alert, her voice vigorous, her perceptions vivid.
Nothing about her is out of date, except her
bonnet, and when a woman has a “head” she
seems somehow to often neglect her bonnet. Miss
Spence came to South Australia in ’39, at
the age of 13 years. Dr. Campbell, the father
of Auckland (M.L.), who recently gave a park
to the people, was doctor of the ship on which
she travelled.. He was then aged 21 years.
As well as being the author of four novels, Miss
Spence has written hundreds of articles on eco-
nomic questions and delivered numerous addresses
and lectures. Whilst in Sydney she will help
some Good Causes along with the spoken word.
Miss Rose Scott will hold a reception for her.
On last Good Friday—when the rain rained
tanks all day without pause or peace—l was so
hard up for something to read that I asked our
misfit-for a loan of her literature. She gave me a
journal, which I opened at the middle of a story
and read : “ The ivory moonlight streamed down
upon Miss Boscawen’s exquisitely lovely face, and
the man at her side would have given all his
possessions and they were many —to have
the right to kiss it. But right well did
Lord St. Asaph know that to one in Eleanor
Boscawen’s position a kiss means betrothal.” I
had forgotten Eleanor and her noble bloque until
a point in “The Admirable Crichton” brought
them to memory. The butler and the Earl’s
daughter get engaged, but the love-making is con-
descending and perfunctory on his part and
careless and jocular on hers. There is no hug,
there.is no kiss. This is what annoys the Cuyler
Hastings devotee, who is wholly young woman,
and who demands, above all, seriousness in love-
making. Playwright Barrie hadn’t the courage
to allow any action of the “ Governor ” and
“ Polly ” to embarrass the pair when they would
be once more the flunkey and the lady. An ex-
butler now a publican, who had once kissed an
earl’s daughter ! The very thought is enough to
make all the Lord St. Asaphs and Eleanors in Eng-
land expire. “Expire” is the word, it is more
stylish than “die.”
Pity the sorrows of the poor tram conductor
One of these sorrows is the requirement by the
department that he shall not allow children to
stand on the seats at all, or occupy seats unless
fares be paid for them. A fat boy with dirty boots
is standing on the seat near his mother, and when
the conductor asks for his fare the mother looks
aggrieved, and says he is only two years old. The
man explains the regulations, and the woman very
slowly lifts the child on to her knee, exchanging the
while “ what-do-you-think-of-that ” glances with
the sympathetic women around her. Presently the
imp wants to get back to his perch and see the
puff-puffs and the gee-gees, and the maternal one
says in a high, thin voice, “You musn’t, dear,
that disagreeable old thing” (the conductor is
about 22) “says you mustn’t.” Then there’s a
fresh exchange of sympathetically indignant
glances, and one woman says, “Well I never !” and
m two cases out of five the infant does go back to
his coign, and the conductor, squirming and say-
ing to himself “How I hate women,” goes to and
fro trying to look as if he never saw a muddy
infant in his life.
Ada Crossley has left S’Africa after a triumphal
tour. Writing to Mrs. J. C. Williamson she
mentions that, in some instances, the Australians
in the up-back places where she sang sent 500 miles
for the flowers they gave her. The presentation
kangaroo holding flowers was again to the fore,
also a silver jackal kaross. Tea-sets made out of
shells, with mauser bullet spoons, were among the
offerings; also there were a few diamonds from
some of the mining companies.
Amongst the young barristers going on circuit
this session is Mr. Tom Curran, who, his friends
hope, will “ arrive ” in time. His young idea was
taught to sprout first at Riverview, later at Oxford.
He took first prizes and medals for oratory and
debate here and yonder, and was the youngest
member of the House of Commons. Ilis father
is, or was, one of our wealthiest citizens, owning,
amongst other city property, Wentworth Court.
He gave largely to the Home Rule funds. Curran,
junior, is a native of the future Federal city of
Bombala. Soon after leaving Oxford he married
Miss Marie Brooke, a very pretty little singer and
clever actress, and since quitting England the pair
have had anything but a rose-leaf time. But they
carry always a brave and cheerful front to the
world.
Two engagements are now above the matri-
monial horizon. One is that of Mr. Percy Wills-
Allen, a son of the well-known wool man, to Miss
Pearl King, daughter of Mr. Gidley King—the
Gidley Kings are of the family of the third
Governor of N.S.W. Other engagement is that
of Mr. A. H. MacTaggart, dental surgeon, to Miss
Brenda Lee, daughter of the Lieutenant-Colonel
who dominates the rusty cannon at the Heads,
and sees that the public doesn’t leave its cast-off
sandwich in the artillery.
As for that other “ engagement ” of a star actor
to the Sydney girl with the bewildering smile, it
is not a fact. You see if she married she could only
please one man, but would offend a score of others.
If he married her —well, all those kittens’ theatre
parties would cry “Curtain” (or “meow”), so far
as he is concerned. I often wonder where, when,
and how reports of engagements (between persons
who have no notion of engaging) originate. A
usually well-informed woman of my acquaintance
ambled up to me last week and told me of the
engagement of one of the best-known young men
in this State to a certain larrikin-looking damsel.
I assured her he was already married, but that
his wife was visiting her mother ip another
State. She denied the wife. I produced a
photograph of the wedding party, in which a
school-fellow of mine shone as main brides-
maid. She persisted that “ she had the engage-
ment on the best authority.” I compromised
with her saying that I would send the “engage-
ment” to my dear Arini under the head of “forth-
coming bigamy.” She grew angry, and said it
was no use giving me news.
The new flagship Euryalus carries a full com-
plement of the best brand of Englishmen.
They are mostly young, and, if report "Speaks
truly, impressionable. A rumor comes from
Hobart that all the midshipmen, amongst whom is
a Lord Alastair Graham, and some sub-lieutenants
lost their hearts within 24 hours of their arrival at
Rip Van Winkletown. There are gaieties ahead
of the Sydney girls. The wardroom officers are
already planning dinners and flirtations on an en-
closed quarter-deck. The fleet ball this year is
almost certain to be something very special, owing
to the influence of new blood and new ideas. Last
year, that giddy function lapsed because the Royal
Arthurs had mostly married during the commission
(a married naval man is, socially, a very wet peli-
can), and the unmarried opes had tired of the local
girl. The new men, because of the de-
parture to England of the Burdekin and Bennett
families, who were the established hosts of naval
officers, will be distributed, much to the prospec-
tive joy of the Sydney girl.
A correspondent writes
Sydney drapers are growing wiser in the ways of busi-
ness and robbery. There was a time when they paid their
salesmen and women a salary, and the wage was regulated
by what the Sydney morning papers call the “ inexorable
law of supply and demand. ” If skilled salesmen and
women were applying in any considerable number the
wages in that shop came down with a run, no matter
whether _ business was brisk or slow. Then one man
started giving the attendants a small commission on what
they sold, just to encourage them to push business, and
now the system is in full blast throughout Sydney—with
disastrous results to the poor purchaser, who has to
contend against the piratical instincts of the whole staff,
in addition to those of the Customs-dodging importers
To enter one of_ the big emporiums under the present
regime is to be seized by a pirate in a frock-coat, dragged
round to every counter, loaded up with parcels of goods
you don’t want, and have your purse looted, and then be
bustled outside to make way for more victims.
But purchasers of this calibre who cannot say
“No, get thee behind, shopwalker,” should not be
trusted abroad with a purse. The Master in
Lunacy is accessible for interviews daily.
A most attractive piece of Viennese live porce-
lain is in Sydney for a few weeks for the purpose
of introducing to Sydneysiders the preparation
known as “Valaze.” This is a “skin-food,” the
discovery of a Russian doctor, and its agent in
Australia is Miss Helen Rubenstein. She will be
at Washington Soul’s for a few hours daily for
consultation.
Dr. Richard Arthur, of Mosman, is turning
his eagle eye towards politics, and will in
response to a long requisition stand for Wahrin-
gah, which is. the aboriginal for his sea-lapped
suburb. He is probably relying largely on the
woman vote, for he has always had a sympathetic
ear and advisory word for the most tiresome of the
sex that Crosland says ought to be kept in a hutch
at the bottom of the garden. Dr. Arthur is
married to a daughter of Rev. Mr. Bruce, of
Maoriland, and niece of Dr. John Hay, of Coolan-
gatta. After their marriage the Arthurs lived and
strove and taught amongst the poor in the East
End of London, and practised Self Denial, in
large capitals, for religion’s sake.
Miss Noel Griffiths, of Sydney, who went to
London some five years ago with Miss Ada Ferrar,
seems to have at last got a good chance on the
stage. She is playing a capital soubrette part in
the “Love Birds,” a new musical comedy.
The widow of the late Daniel Cooper has donated
£lOOO to the Victoria Home for Consumptives, by
way of tribute to her deceased husband’s memory.
Daniel Cooper had an unappeasable land-hunger,
and used to own pretty well all the land from
Paddington to Watson’s Bay. His heir still owns
Australian tracts of earth larger than German
principalities, so the lady’s gift to an Australian
charity is not so generous after all. If this State
knew its business it would get much more than
that with an absentee tax. By-the-bye, the Grand
Horticultural Fete, in aid of the Q.V.fi. for Con-
sumptives, is to be opened, with massed band
effects, by the Mayor on the 21st.
Evergreen Mrs. Langtry has been telling an
interviewer her scheme of life for remaining young
and fresh. “A cold bath with Suthalay soap,
and massage to begin the day. A light breakfast
of toasted bread, fruit and tea (never coffee or
meat). After this some exercise—a two-hour
walk, tennis or a canter. Then lunch : an entree
and a bird, or chicken salad and savory,
no potatoes or starchy foods. Next rest;
one should at least try to sleep until visitors
come, about five o’clock. Then tea. Later a
light dinner and a good night’s rest. Change at
least twice a year, and no worry.” One wonders
when Mrs. Langtry studied the numerous plays
in which she has appeared, or looked after her
ranch business and ravishing toilets. The whole
day seems taken up in the pursuit of the historic
Jersey Lily complexion. And there is nothing
said about any spare time for the stage.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ The Pursey Chirnsides alighted on the Holy
City for Easter week, and tore round the white
roads and away into the blue distances towards
the Hills in their flash motor. As in Melbourne,
people at first sight imagined the machine to be
an extra noble ice-cream cart, and the white-
uniformed stoker, or valve-manipulator, helped
the delusion. Therefore the Adelaide folks ran
after the vehicle to buy a penn’orth, but it fled and
left them hopelessly in the rear.
“At Miss Lilian Foulis’concert last Saturday,
the Northcotes made a merry party, setting an
example to the audience to make the most of the
intervals for gossip. Lady Northcote’s gems were
fine. She wore her diamond and pearl collar. A
new, gorgeous, and notable gown of royal blue
velvet was paraded by Mrs. Bulky Johnson, the
stately kind of robe which the Lady Dedlocks of
haunted pasts trail along a castle terrace in sad
soliloquy on moonlight nights.
“ It was in the last item on the programme—
‘Souvenir de Moscow’—that the slim fiddler proved
to a Melbourne audience the virtue of her talent.
Before that she had showed a lot of culture but a
lack of‘soul.’ The ‘Souvenir’ had passion, and
the Strad told its story in a brilliant and tumul-
tuous style.
“The Waxellency’s only son, Captain Guy (a
cruel name for a rotund young man to carry
through life), has his counterpart in actor-manager
Willoughby of the gladsome waistcoat and the
saucy socks. The likeness has been more em-
phatic since the actor extended his girth measure-
ment and evolved an under-chin. In kilt and
claymore, Captain Guy is superb. There is
nowhere in the Commonwealth such a fatted calf
as his.
“ A Melbourne girl abroad writes of extra-
ordinary fashions coming from the ateliers of
Paris. The latest skirt is whaleboned over the
hips. That sounds rather forbidding, but the
writer declares she is wearing a boned garment
that gives a delicate curve to the flattest hip. Of
course the whalebone must be cunningly inserted.
Also the gay Parisienne is sporting jewelled hair-
nets which give to the top-piece a splendid illu-
mination. The latest frame is of basketware. It
is light and springs up when the hat is removed.
The old ironmongery and horse-hair pad, when
squashed down by the hat, did not rise to the
occasion again.
“Harold Grimwade (Majah), who commands
the 3rd Battery of the A.F.A. (Vic.), is off to
England per China next week, and when he
gets there he will visit the ranges at Okehampton
in order to show the Britishahs that an Australian
has nothing to learn in the art of dropping shells
where they are likely to do the briskest business
with the enemy. Major Harold G. is the son
of Grimwade, M.L.C. The superior Bwitish
warriahs will find the man from Australia just as
frilly, or otherwise, as the occasion requires. In
Melbourne he seems a very agreeable sort of Major,
but he can probably put on a lot of pomp when
roused.
“ The lady who started the elocution boom in
Victoria, and for many a day made hay while the
sun shone, has returned from a prospecting tour
through Britain, in command of a new educa-
tional scheme with money in it—a fresh system of
physical culture. Motto of the process: ‘ Take
care of the trunk, and the legs and arms will take
care of themselves.’ No apparatus is used, and
all the training tends to inculcate the three great
maxims (1) Sit correctly ; (2) stand correctly ; (3)
use the pocket-handkerchief vigorously. Pud-
ding hips, short waists, post-nasal growths, cer-
tain phases of deafness, and stuttering, are all to
be chastened directly or indirectly by the new
process.
“More and more people seem to be taking to
grain and nut diet. So much the better for Uncle
Sam, who is never so happy as when inventing
new patent foods—good paying lines of victual for
export. The thing to do when one patents a food
product is to start a religion or found a community,
pledged to eat nothing else. Spend money on
periodicals, inculcating faith in pumpkin-cheese,
or whatever it may be, and painting the corporeal
and moral filth of the bean-butter gluttons. A
new food-religion presents attractive phases at
times, late on Saturday night, say, when one sees
a hawker taking home a barrow-load of dried-up
old rabbits, to spend the week-end with Mrs.
Hawker and the kids, preparatory to entering the
market again on Monday morning.
“A fashionable wedding of the week is that of
Miss Loe Chapman, daughter of the rich mining
magnate. The bridegroom, Mr. Smith, is also a
member of a moneyed clan. The pair will live at
one of the Smith places, near Warmambool.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Monty Severn astonished their
Melb. friends by disembarking here just before
Easter and staying on in this town what time our
smartest were skipping Sydneyways. Among a
certain jovial Toorak set, the Monty Sevems are
hailed as mighty wags. Mrs. Monty is generally
short of time and breath, and in catching up to
both she laughs and talks so energetically that
everyone else laughs and acclaims her ‘ a sport.’
Toorak has no higher praise for the breezy than
that.
“The most radiant beauty giving the Block a
treat these days of the moleskin coat is a young
divorcee, a sweet, looking brunette with a most
attractive eye.
“The singing lessons taken by the Earl of
Shaftesbury when aide-ing in this State have
been turned to service in entertaining Londoners
on behalf of charity. Quite recently this go-ahead
young man was billed alongside Miss Maggie
Stirling to make holiday for a concert gathering
on behalf of a blind Kaffir, or something. The
York pair were present, and other princelets of
more or less account.
“ The dancing girl wipes a tear from her eye at
the news that the latest military economy gives
the militia only one uniform (kharki and red) for
the field and the ballroom. The scarlet and gold
trimmings that once were sported at balls and
junkets are to be sacrificed. So the dancing girls
sorrow. The taxpayer will rejoice.
“ Miss Margaret Baskerville, the only sculptor
in this State of many budding Melbas, was fare-
welled by brother-artists last week. She goes by
the Afnc, and is prepared for long months of
study in Italy and France.
“All Melbourne’s roses seemed to have been
transferred to the decks of the Mongolia when she
departed for Europe last week. Weepful partings,
by the way, at Port Melbourne are out of date.
Linked couples wrench apart without a sob.
Parents leave their families, and children their
parents, dry-eyed. A flip of the fingers, a nod
and a final injunction of affectionate concern, and
the tearing asunder is consummated. The seeing-
off of the ocean liner has now become quite a
social function.
“ During his brief visit to Melbourne, Adelaide’s
Mayor Cohen has been flitting about Collins-street,
whispering to the Aides at Government House
anent his coming wonderful Adelaide hop. Elec-
tricians are already laying the plant of a lighting
apparatus that is expected to provide the most
almighty blaze ever seen, since the destruction of
Jerusalem by fire.
“ An advanced bachelor, who looms large in the
municipal eye of a big sporting district, was
honored with the usual soup tureen presentation
and felicitations on his marriage-eve, the other
day. He seized the chance to throw a few
bouquets at himself. He dilated on the joys of
amorous and mellow bachelorhood, and ended
with a burst of confidence that he could have been
married many a time before the present crisis, had
he wished. His Council brethren took this artless
prattle in a cold and humorless, perhaps a jealous
spirit. But the bridegroom-elect considered it an
impressive performance.
“Recent arrivals tell of the Countess Russell
keeping things humming at the leading hostelry in
Colombo. The lady of much divorce and paper
notoriety is described as tall, rather lean, and not
particularly attractive. When she turns her sharp
edge to the audience she isn’t quite invisible, but
getting on that way.
“The parsons started coupling pairs early on
Easter Monday and are still busy. A Sydney
bachelor, in the tobacco line—-Mr. Archibald
Dixson—was one of the principals in the frilliest
ceremony up to the present moment. His partner
was Colonel Ballenger’s petite daughter, Myrtle.
“A Melbourne visitor to Stratford-on-Avon
writes of meeting shoals of Shakspearian devotees
at work on fresh lives of the bard; One Collins-
street doctor, who has been abroad for years, is
said to be engaged on a volume of ambitious pro-
portions.
“There was nothing soulful or gaudy about
Miss Elsie Moore’s departure by the Mongolia
last week. She was dressed smartly for the deck
promenade, and the posy of remembrance occu-
pied the hand that wasn’t waving a casual adieu
to a few friends. Very prosaic this after her
chum Blanche’s emotional anchor-weighing at
Sydney.
*■ That gilded youth of Sydney who played the
super in his native city out of affection for a star
came down here with the Co., still infatuated.
His freak is described by his deeply-injured rela-
tives as resulting from infection with Tolstoyism.
“The array of girl graduate taking its B.A. or
M.A., or some other classic badge, at the ’Varsity
opening on Saturday was imposing. Miss
Georgina Sweet topped all the efforts of the she-
students by earning a doctor’s diploma.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
In the latest row between General Hutton
and Amateur Lieutenant-Colonel Neild all public
sympathy, is likely to go with the General. The
situation is this : As a Senator, Neild claims the
right to violently censure his superior officer in
the Senate. As an Amateur Lieutenant-Corporal,
he has no such right. When General Hutton
points out to his subordinate, Amateur Lieuten-
ant-Commissariat-Waggon Neild, that he mustn't
be disrespectful to his superior, Neild says that
this is an outrage on the rights of Senator Neild.
Hutton naturally says this is a fine distinction;
that he only knows one Neild —the Horse Marine;
and that he recognises the Neild who speaks
disrespectfully of his military chief in the
Senate as his own subordinate Horse Marine,
and treats him accordingly when he finds
him outside. Anyhow, Hutton should com-
pulsorily retire the Amateur Lieutenant and
Honorary Sentry-box Neild, about whose identity
he has no doubt, and chance a row with any
other Neilds who may. be around ; and let that
outraged veteran, Partially-Paid Howitzer Neild
threaten to sool Senator Neild on to him.
Kingston managed to run two anomalous capaci-
ties—those of Minister of State and military pri-
vate —with dignity; but Neild isn’t capable of
doing so. He can’t keep the jobs apart.


“ALIVE WITH PAIN.”
Rheumatism is caused by acid in the blood. Nothing more—nothing less. Liniments can never
cure what is rooted in the blood. A blood disease like Rheumatism must be cured through the blood. That
is why Rheumatism yields like magic to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually make new blood. This
new blood conquers the painful poison, sweeps out the aching acid, soothes the nerves, loosens the muscles,
and banishes Rheumatics for ever. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually have cured the very worst cases of
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, and Backache—and they can do the same for you.
“ Indeed, I know what Rheumatism is,” said Mrs. M. Moore, Alexandra Cottage, Dibbs-street, Alexandria, Sydney. “ I was
simply alive with pain from it. Its terrible twinges first started in my joints about seven years ago. I could get no peace by
day, or sleep by night. My knees swelled up and I couldn’t move from bed. All my sinews were drawn up tight and stiff. I
was so racked with pain that I couldn’t bear anyone to come near me—l couldn’t even have the bed made for days. The least
movement set the pains aching all through me. For two long-years I suffered untold agony. I thought I’would never be *•
better, for although I used lotions and embrocations, the pains never left me for an hour. Then I read how Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People cured anaemia, indigestion, rheumatism, sciatica and all such diseases that were caused by bad blood, by
actually making new blood and driving all poison from the system. So I bought some. After the first box, I really began to
feel better. Two boxes drove the acid right out of mv blood, and the pains almost stopped. Nearly every ache and pain had
gone after the third box, but I used four boxes to make'sure of a lasting cure. My health has been splendid ever since and I
am more nimble on my legs than ever. lam quite sure now that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will cure almost any ease of blood
disorder, debility, rheumatism and the like, if patients will follow out the simple directions as I did.”
Write for Free Medical Advice. Dr. Williams’Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. ,2s. Od. a kox.T-Refuse all subditutcs.
I
«
PERSONAL ITEMS.
George Coppin entered on his 86th year
on April Bth. On the 28th Pa Brunker will enter
his 73rd year.
A man named Tipple was fined 55., or
“the rising,” for drunkenness at Sydney Central
one day last week.
The death of Miss Jennings Carmichael
robs the Australasian of its solitary poetic
standby. The Australasian one time pedestalled
her with Mrs. Hemans.
Randolph Bedford’s book, “True Eyes
and the Whirlwind,” has had a fairly big success in
London, and the Australian edition is now avail-
able at most booksellers.
Captain H. W. H. Chatfield has retired
from the employ of the Union S.S. Co. of Maori-
land, after 25 years of unbroken service, with the
unusual record of never having made an error in
judgment.
A brother of Edwin Arnold, the deceased
poet, kept a boarding-house in Woolloomooloo for
many years. He scribbled a lot in verse, but not
so successful! v as Edwin, whose Jap raptures he
cordially disliked.
W. J. Lyne placed his sixtieth birthday
behind him last week. He claims to feel younger
and more in touch with life than when at twenty-
two he returned from abortive station building
in the Gulf country.
Elder Hawkins—Dowie’s representative
in Adelaide—was promoted to his present rank
because he was struck by two rocks during the
strenuous campaign in the city. If he had been
struck by three rocks he would have been made
an overseer.
How do these things get into the papers—
about Smiler Hales’ wounds won in the war, fcr
example? The noble brow scarred by a Boer
bullet, the mutilated hand —one finger cut off by
an enemy’s sword ? Smiler had ’em long before
he saw a war.
Eloquent peroration by Sydney alderman
at a recent banquet: “ And these things were
accomplished (culvert and some guttering in
Waterloo and Petersham) during the reign of the
§:eatest, wisest and best of English monarchs —
ueen Victoria.”
Philip Gidley King, grandson of Governor
King, is still, at 87 years of age, superintendent of
the Peel River Land Co. and M.L.C. Whatever
he may be in the co.’s work, as a N.S.W. law-
maker he is a standing proof of the folly of keep-
ing up a Leg. Council of life nominees.
MALCOLM McEACHARN.
King Ned attended naval manoeuvres the
other day at Portsmouth, and bravely went aboard
one of the new submarines. Afterwards the sub.
was submerged, but not with the King on board.
Then some humorist hoisted the Trafalgar signal,
“ England expects every man to do his duty.”
A. R. Fowler, ex-M.H.A. (Tas.), used to
brag often that he was “in touch with the press.”
Somebody at last found out that the back yard of
the Launceston Telegraph ran up to the back yard
of Fowler’s house in Charles-street, and that some-
times Fowler handed paragraphs oyer the fence.
Colonel Matthews, who died at Woollahra
(Sydney) last week, had a genius for organising
things and getting on top of the organisations.
He was a digger, sailor, soldier, lawyer, Oddfellow,
Druid, Mason, and many other kinds of man.
Most of his life was passed in Adelaide, where he
was an aide-de-camp at Government House during
the giddy reign of semi-bachelor “Bill” Robinson ;
but on coming to Sydney he became an elder of
St. Barnabas’ Church, and died at 72 years of age.
M‘Leod, Yictoria’s new Minister for
Mines, is rarely to be found in his office.
M‘Leod was for years town clerk of Daylesford.
When he went into politics he was forced to give
up that job, and took to the business of legal
managing for some mines in the district. It is
not known what salary he gets for this work, but
certain it is that the £lOOO a year he receives from
the State is not a quarter earned. He has the
distinction of being the most crusted Tory in the
Victorian Parliament, not barring Frank Madden
and M'Cutchcon.
John Howell, for years Governor of
the Adelaide (S.A.) Gaol (the pleasant old
place next door but one to Government
House on North Terrace, where the guests
do odd jobs about the olive grove, and wait
for the time to arrive when they will be
turned out upon a harder world), has had
another of his epidemics of poetry lately,
and it’s hard to pick up a local paper with-
out reading a pleasant jingle signed “John
Howell, North Adelaide.” John has pub-
lished one lot of verse, and apparently
another is coming.
“Jim” Conroy, the much-travelled
mail guard of N.S.W., alluded to in a recent
issue of The Bulletin, is a well-fleshed man
who makes the spring weighing machines
turn pale as he passes by. The fat man, un-
troubled by nerves, can travel by train for
half a century without feeling any ill effects,
while the nervous, irritable man goes to
pieces from th® continuous vibration, grind,
and rattle. A retired railway guard once
told the writer that his idea of Sheol was a
circular railway on which carriages filled with
lost souls travelled at express speed, with an
occasional jolt when a humorous devil put a
lump of coal on the line.
The servants of the N.S. Wales Par-
liament are not subject to the Public Service
Board; hence some ancients there. A. P.
Clapin joined in 1850 ; Mowle, in 1852 ; and
J. J. Calvert, in 1853; and all are still going
strong. Larry Harnett joined in 1860; R.
W. Robertson (son of “ Old Jock”), in 1866.
IT. W. Webb, just retired, entered the
service in October, 1851. With the excep-
tions of Harnett and Robertson, all saw, and
assisted at, the inauguration of Responsible
Government.
Josh Bell, Minister for Lands (Q.),
cultivates a fine Chesterfieldian style of his
own. An unsatisfied deputation was dis-
missed recently in this wise : “I assure you,
gentlemen, it has given me the greatest
pleasure to meet you. It is one of the happy
features of Ministerial office that we occasionally
have the pleasure of meeting gentlemen like
yourselves.” How different from the days when
Dalrymple absent-mindedly gave a State school
deputation a profound dissertation on seed wheat
and pumpkins.
Dill Macky and his brother (also a Presby-
terian clergyman) figured on the same Sydney
platform a few nights back. The brother is an
ingenuous-looking sort of Dill, but those with
opportunities to know assert that his calves would
look far more imposing if James ll.’s army saw
them on the walls of Derry than those the noble
Dill swaggers about on.
Died at Montpelier-road, Hobart, at the
age of 70, on 27th March, 1904, William W. Ellis-
ton, eldest son of the late William Gore Elliston,
and grandson of the celebrated comedian, Robert
William Elliston, of Drury Lane, who flourished
in the reigns of the third and fourth Georges. W.
G. Elliston was a solicitor, who emigrated to
Hobart Town three-quarters of a century ago.
Mr. A. W. Jose, of Sydney, is now London
Times’ representative in Australia. Jose was at
one time a schoolmaster at Bathurst (N.S.W.).
Then he was an “extension lecturer” for Sydney
University, went to London to pursue literature
some years ago, and has captured a good ’Jour-
nalistic post. Jose is a bright, forcible writer,
strongly obsessed with “ Imperialism,” but yet a
Liberal.
Steady, conscientious Treasurer Turner—
lately robbed of his presentation watch and mem-
ber’s pass by a soulless miscreant—set an example
to tired Australians by spending an hour of his
valuable time at the Hawthorn Revision Court,
getting his name transferred from the St. Kilda
roll. And, no matter how busy he may be on
State election day, George will find time to vote
against Bent.
Under-Secretary Bridges’ opposition to the
N.S.W. Commissioners’ proposal to abolish the
pupil-teacher system in N.S.W. State schools,
recalls that he was himself the first male pupil
teacher in the public service. He served at the
Fort-street school, of which he afterwards became
headmaster. Probably his view is : “How can
there be anything wrong with the system which
produced ME ? ”
A Sydney M.L.A., very anxious to come
back as one of the 90, has attended the church
services of three denominations in the last three
Sundays. He is inquiring the whereabouts of two
or three other churches, and says he doesn’t care
ho_w small or obscure they are, or what they teach.
His method is to walk ostentatiously to a front
pew and rise a few times during the service to let
his open countenance be well seen.
Chief Justice Way (S.A.) completed his
68th year this week (April 13). He has been 28
years a Judge. During the hearing of the pro-
tracted Sweetapple judicial separation case the
little Chief has been enlivening the intervals of
cross-examination by little comments on his own
experiences as a married man, which only began
a few years ago, Way having shamefully neglected
the birth-rate most of his life.
THE CONVERT.
“The Nonconformist Churches at Johannesburg have
adopted a resolution strongly deprecating the agitation in
Englandagainst the importation of Chinese labor to the Rand.
The resolution points out that the conditions of labor are
voluntary, and similar to those long prevalent in South
Africa, and it goes on to urge the Council of the Free
Churches of England to limit its efforts to securing perfect
freedom of Christian work among the Chinese. ” — Cablegram.
THE PARSON'S PET : “ You catchee me that wicked
Englishee man's job, an' me be goo Clistian
allee time.”
Thos. Hungerford, dead at 81, was one of
the good old pioneers of the continent. Coming
to N.S.W. in 1828, he, early in life, led an expe-
dition to the North-west, and later took up land
in the Gulf country. In these pioneering days he
learned much of the language, manners, and cus-
toms of the aborigines, gaining their confidence
to such an extent that he was one of the few whites
upon whom was conferred what the blacks con-
sidered the high honor of initiation by their
methods into the state of manhood. Mr. Hun-
gerford took part also in the political life of
N.S.W., and, squatter though he was, always
advocated a land-tax. Altogether a fine type of
the Australian pioneer. He leaves 15 children.
There was no birth-rate problem in his early life.
Mayor J. W. Pepper,
of Launceston (Tas.), is
Dickens’ Pickwick in real
life. When you first meet
him, you wonder where the
dickens you saw him before,
but by-and-by you remem-
ber the portraits of Pick-
wick in the early editions
of Dickens, and then you
know where the dickens
rapper and you became
acquainted.
Repi’esentative Car-
penter (W.A.) has a dialect
which puzzles those who
try to locate his origin.
Both Melbourne dailies
claim him for a North of
Englander; but both are
wrong. Writer knew him
as a native of Swindon,
Wiltshire, where, as a boy,
he was chiefly noted for
playing truant and scouring
the hedgerows with a shang-
hai. He suddenly got grace
with the Methodists in his
teens, after which the local
policeman ceased to take
any further interest in his
career.
One Orient liner visit-
ing Sydney is said to have
a typical pair of bull-dog
breed tars. They are bos’un
and carpenter of the ship,
and for four dreary, trucu-
lent years they have lived
together in a little hole
measuring about 6xB, and
in all this time have never
been known to speak a
word to each other. A dispute as to the payment
for certain glasses ot beer at Tilbury caused
this enduring estrangement.
Henry Clarke, now 82, announces himself
ready to fight another election when N.S.W.
Assembly dissolves. He was 47 when he entered
the House, so that his Parliamentary record is not
quite so long as may appear. It already, however,
covers 35 years, minus one year of eclipse, when he
was beaten at Moruya.
The Mount Kembla (N.S.W.) colliery
disaster is killing people still. Patrick Purcell,
who was hurled 20, yards by the explosion on July
31, 1902, and felt the after-damp as he lay buried
among the debris, lingered till last week, a hope-
less, painful wreck, and then died at Wollongong.
This brought up the total of the Mt. Kembla
victims to a round 100. Among them were three
brothers of this Purcell, his uncle, and five other
relatives.
Old bookseller Rich, the most Dickensesque
character in Melbourne, passed out of earthly
business a while ago, and some 20,000 of his dusty
volumes were sold by auction last week. Rich
must have had a very lucrative trade at his shop
(Elizabeth-street North) when second-hand book-
dealing in Melbourne was confined to a few identi-
ties, but for many years past he was merely a
well-to-do old dodderer drowsing the time away
amidst his ill-assorted library, and regarding
would-be customers with suspicion. A book-
hunter had no chance of getting a fair quotation
for any old book from old man Rich. To inquire
its price was to enhance its value in the ancient’s
filmy eyes. Besides, he didn’t care for selling
stock that had been on the shelves so many years.
A queer, miserly fellow, he rarely parted company
with a scarce work of standard literature unless it
was stolen. “I did have a copy of So-and-So,”
the old ’un would ruminate, “ but it went.”
He seemed to speak of these thefts as the
happenings of long ago —sorrows that he had out-
lived. The disposal of his whole stock at auction
prices must have been a terrible experience for
Rich’s weary spirit.
Writes a burrower among dusty antiqui-
ties :
At a George-street (Sydney) auction room amongst
other curios was sold, recently, a cast of the head of John
linatchbull, a scion of English aristocracy originally
transported for picking pockets at Vauxhall, London, and
hanged in front of Darlinghurst gaol wall on February 13,
1844, for the murder of Mrs. Jamieson, a poor widow who
kept a little shop at the corner of Margaret-place and
Kent-street. Knatchbull had a remarkable career in Aus-
tralia, escaping the gallows on more than one occasion by
his treachery to his fellow convicts and his influence in
high quarters. Robert Lowe, afterwards Lord Sherbrooke,
defended him on his trial for the murder, and did every-
thing that could he done to save his neck. He went so
far as to appear before the Executive Council in wig and
gown, hut Judge Burton was firm, and the Governor left
Knatchbull to his fate. He was hanged in a suit of black
broadcloth provided for him by Lady Gipps, wife of the
Governor. He was buried in an unmarked grave in the
old Sandhills, and his bones have gone with the unnamed
to La Perouse. In Burke’s peerage the only mention
made of the fellow is “John d. unm.” —only this and
nothing more. The Knatchbulls are amongst the oldest
families in England, the baronetcy dating from 1641.
John was in the navy and reached a commander’s com-
mission, but he appears to have been a criminal by instinct.
The plaster cast elicited one hid, of half-a-crown, at which
sum it was knocked down. The rope mark is quite dis-
tinct in the plaster.
CARETS IDEA OF A DEITY.
At the Chatauqua, Dev. S. P. Carey (of Vie'.), speaking on
“ War and National Life,” commenced with the remark that “war
is a weapon of God.”
Michael Burns has had some weird drink
experiences. A year ago at Wagga (N.S.W.) lie
took a draught of acetic acid, thinking it was
whisky. That burned his mouth and throat to
badly that he had to be afterwards fed through a
tube leading to his stomach. Though not having
a mouth on him, he still kept a taste for liquor,
and the other day at Bendigo (Vic.) took a
quantity of beer through his tube, was arrested
for drunkenness, and fined.


\
m
o.
SL
t Lll-i iTIi o ij
THE LARGEST
Photographic
Australasia. Hamit aCtll TOrS
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
375 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
and at
260 Oollins-St.,
Melbourne.
37 Eundle-St.,
Adelaide.
90&92 Queen-St.,
Brisbane.
■07
3?
m
luui
M ARJDY
JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS and WATCHMAKERS.
Toilet Requisites in Sterling Silver
All Silver Puff Box, £3.
GLASS PUFF BOXES,
with Silver Tops,
15/-, 20/=, 24/-
GLASS PUFF BOXES,
completely covered with
pierced Silver work,
27/=, 40/-
All Silver, up to £3 ss.
Write for Hardy Brothers’
Complete 1904 Catalogue,
illustrating: all branches of
their business.
All Silver Puff Box, £2 15s.
13HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, &AT BRISBANE iIQNDOi
Aboriginalities.
A GRAND COUNTRY FOR THE WALKING MAN!
OLD ROPKR : "Thirty-five refusals in 19 miles! ’ Tain't
hands what 're wamted in this country — it's feet! ”
There seems to exist a diversity of opinion
as to the exaofe date, allowing, of course, for good
seasons, when our flocks and herds will stand in
point of numbers as they stood in the palmy days,
and just as we have worked it out mathematically,
along comes a man named Crain, from up Cairns
(Q.) way, and upsets all calculations. Crain had
seven milkers whose progeny amounted to 140
young calves. He got two years. Writer knew a
private enterpriser, way back in the sixties, who
started a farm with six working bullocks, and at
the end of the second year had 127 yearlings and
161 calves. He gob into Parliament. With these
facts as a basis the inference is that, in about
three months, N.S.W. will have more stock than
it ever had before, and a Parliament of 1837 cattle-
thieves, and 18 large new gaols.
“ C.C.” : At a recent Agricultural Show
one of the advertised attractions was a stock-horse
contest, for which good prizes were offered.
Visitors had visions of a succession of bearded
stockmen, with long-necked spurs, red shirts, and
flyaway silk ’kerchiefs, wielding 40ft. stockwhips,
in pursuit of an unruly steer “cut out” of a mob.
But alas for the stockman of romance ! Two
competitors entered the ring, and took it in turns
to canter around a pole stuck in the ground—
which pole represented the wild, untamed clean-
skin to be yarded. As the “ beast ” couldn’t prop
and double back out of the circus, the “stock-
horses ” might as well have been entered for a
chaff-cutting contest for all the chance the pole
offered to display their ability. After waltzing
around the pole for about fifteen weary minutes,
the blue ribbon was awarded to a little pony
ridden by a stockman in a very unorthodox hard-
hitter, starched shirt, and baggy trousers, and
whose stirrup-irons almost brushed the grass. An
old-time bushman with a neck like a piece
of iron-bark sat next me staring at the apparition
with an expression that meant swear or bust; so,
to give him a chance to relieve his feelings, I said
softly : “I suppose it reminds you of old times to
see those stock-horses performing ? ” That fetched
him. “ Stock-horses !” he spluttered ; “ I’ve gob
a tom-cat at home that can chase his blessed tail
round a. verandah-post for hours, but that don’t
make him a stock-horse. In my time, when we
wanted to show what a stock-horse could do, we
Sulled the bridle off him and let him cut out a
east on his own; and when the beast wheeled
the horse would whip round the other way to
meet him—not circus around like those coves did
round that dashed post.” He’d have said more—
a lot more, but at that moment a cattle dog, filled
with curiosity, trotted up to the post and, after a
brief inspection, expressed his contempt for it,
and the indignation of the old-time stockman
ended with laughter.
• • • •
“ H.S.R.” : In reply to “ F.C.” (B.
10/3/’O4), the castor oil is applied to the parts
affected, such as around the eyes. It is not the
most effectual remedy, but is commonly used. A
mixture of oil of juniper, loz., and vaseline, lib.,
is a better remedy, and a mixture of loz. vaseline,
loz. naphthaline, and 1 diachm oil of juniper is
best, and is also very good for all sorts of sores,
cuts, etc., on horses.
“D.T.M.” : “It isn’t a bad
sort of a knife, that,” remarked the
old whaler to me at the bar as lie
returned the borrowed implement;
''but it ain’t a patch on one I’ve
got here,” he said, putting his hand
oyer the region of his ribs. I asked
him rather testily why he wanted
to borrow my knife if he had one of
bis own. “ It’s inside me,” he said
by way of explanation, “and I
can’t get at it. 1 wish I could.
It’s the best knife I ever saw.
Bought it off a bulloeky bloke at
Mulwala for three bob. Ihree
blades and er corkscrew. I was
tank-sinkin’ Out-back, and I got
’idatids, and they took me to the
orsepital. Appears that the doctor
had been away at a race-meeting,
and he wasn’t too good when he
comes back. He looks at fSe and
sez I must be operated on at once.
I remember the warder bloke takiu’
the knife to cut a bandage, and he
put it on the bed somewhere near
me. I seen thedoctor lookin’ at it
when they guv me the chlorerform,
and I never seen it again. I comes
too when they was fixing me up
after the sewing was done, and I sez
to the bloke : ‘ Where’s that knife ?’
I could see the doctor was knocked
all of a heap. He sez, ‘ Oh, you’ll
get it after. It wouldn’t do to give
yer knives now—yer might cut yer
throat.’ I never seen it again, but
the warder was a decent cove, and
he told me strickly confidential,
that the doctor had took it to scrape
something, and when he put the
affair all back, he put the knife
with it. He was having a whisky
at the time, and wasn’t looking.
That’s a fact, so ’elp me,” he con-
cluded as he scraped the heel of his
pipe.
• • •
“ Scallywag ” : The study of
horses’ idiosyncrasies is interesting.
I have a neddy which, up to date,
has bitten three Chinamen, and
his bitterness towards the race is
so great that I believe he would
bite Eekin if he could get at it.
* * * *
“ Petramos ”: In the solitude of the
Gawler Ranges, upon a time, squatter Blank en-
deavored to cause rain, and built a huge kite on
which he tied dynamite cartridges to explode in
inid-air and shake the atmosphere up. Two
valiant blacks helped, and from a peak of a rugged
mount the squatter hoisted the kite and waited to
get wet through. But the kite refused its office,
and suddenly dived, whereon the squatter, mind-
ing himself of the dynamite, flew down the
mountain side with extreme velocity. An explo-
sion told him all was over and that he was safe.
As a thanksgiving, he personally dug the grave of
one black and presented the other with a cork leg
gratis.
BY THE OTHER WORM.
View from underneath of the deputation, readied up
by Alderman Grease, which called to ask Alderman Phatt,
of Bogville, to stand for Parliament on the Deform ticket.
“Ne’er-do-weel”: Is the barracouta of
these waters any relation to the barracouta of the
West Indian seas ? Latter grows to Oft. or Bft. in
length, has a mouth full of hideous needle pointed
teeth, and is more dreaded by bathers than the
shark. It is exceedingly swift, and will kill a
swimmer by successive bites. Coming from
Belize (Honduras) to Jamaica one time, we had
the barracouta lines out —bait, a piece of pork
skin. I struck a ’couta, and two of us hauled in
as fast as we could—we were going before the
wind with every stitch set at the time—but we
fot nothing inboard but the head and shoulders.
feceased’s mates had scoffed the rest. No good
fishing for anything else when barracouta are
about. If, when making a good catch, fish sud-
denly stop biting, it is safe to bet barracouta have
appeared on the scene, and a glance over the side
into the beautifully clear water will probably
reveal the long, lean pirates prowling about the
bottom. Fishing for them is good sport; a
“ hawser-laid ” line (so they used to call it), almost
as thick as the signal halliards, is used—bait a
yellow-belly. In the boat barracouta snap like
dogs. They are not much good to eat —coarse
and rank.
• • • *
“ Nym ”: Have only seen one bunyip,
and t)e was an astonisher. When the N.E. Vic.
railway line was being built between Benalla and
Albury, certain philanthropists at Wangaratta
thought the presence of the contractor’s gangs in
the neighborhood presented a golden opportunity
in the ciluse of charity, so a big carnival was
arranged on the racecourse. This was in the
early seventies. The Three Mile Creek runs
through the course, and under a spacious mar-
quee, fixed over the deepest hole in the creek, a
bunyip was on exhibition as a side-show, at 2s.
per head. When the marquee was packed the
bunyip was hauled from the bottom of the hole,
only to retreat with a splash. Such a commotion
I never saw before; women fainted, kids
screamed, strong men fled in panic, so uncanny
the monster looked. The carnival proved a
gigantic success, and the bunyip was referred to
in terms of awe, till one day the diver engaged in
fixing the cylinders for the big iron railway
bridge over the Ovens was called upon to give an
unrehearsed performance in searching for the
body of a man drowned up the river, and then
the “ fake ” leaked out. Never believed a diver,
with a cow’s tail fixed to the seat of his dress, and
horns on his helmet, oould be so frisky in the
sweet cause of charity.
• • * .
“ Cockney the Outcast ” writes :
“ War E.” (B. 31/3/’O4) tells the same weary old yarn
about swagmen refusing work. Probably few men have
travelled over more of this continent chan myself, and,
after 20 years’ battling, a man ought to know something
of swagmen. I can take my solemn affidavit that, in all
my experience, I have never known hard-up swagmen
refuse work in a shed, except for some good and just
cause. With regard to living on the hospitality of the
shearers, that’s impossible these times ; at best, swaggie
gets a feed of the scraps that are left after meals, and, if
he wasn’t there, the said scraps would be burnt. As the
cooks invariably refuse tucker for the track, it doesn’t
make the tucker-bill any heavier. Most shearers are
cookies nowadays, and their boys go rouseing about, and
sometimes they take the old woman along to put up as a
candidate for the cook’s billet, so swaggie hasn't much of
a show anyhow.
When Cockie Dipper quitted
farming and crossed the Great Divide,
old Bill, hearing the family—one
widow, six girls—wanted a handy
man, offered his services, and was
accepted on condition that he. kept
sober. Bill’s new billet worked a
transformation in the champion
tangle-footer till he got all the de-
ceased Dipper’s togs. Then Bill got
converted, and the Missus, who had
a dipping-well fixed up in the floor of
the dining-hall for family purposes of
religion, baptised Bill in orthodox
style. All went well till Bill got ’em
bad one day when in with, a load of
wheat—then he sought to con vert all
hands at the bar, mostly 7 old pals.
He managed to get three of the worst
of them out to Dipper’s, but the
family was away»at the bun-struggle,
so Bill, not to be done, decided to
do the dipping himself. Afterjnuch
wobbly effort from the well to the
baptismal tank and back the quartette
managed to fill the concern to the
brim, then, overcome with their exer-
tions, they retired to the stable and
fell asleep. It was dark when the
Dipper family arrived home, without
matches, and started to walk across
the threshold to the bedroom candle-
stick. The yells of the drowning
women woke the slumberers, and,
taking in the situation, they rushed
to the rescue. Seven draggled fe-
males had to be appeased. Bill stated
the facts about his converts, pleading
that three sincere Christians were
waiting the old woman’s returp to
baptise them when they fell asleep.
There is now a padlock on the cover
of the baptismal well, but Bill still
holds his billet.
» • * *
“A.R.T.”: Bourke (N.S.W.)
the Bank of N.S.W. closed with the
March half-year. Conditional pur-
chases can be bought at ss.an acre out
there; freehold (bankhold) nobody
will touch. There’s a pub. that era-
f Joyed twenty hands now employing
ess than half-a-dozen. There are also
pubs, employing no hands —they’ve
shut. Such is Bourke in the year of the record
harvest.
• • • *
“Robert Hap”: I was much interested
recently in the labors of a ‘ nesting ’ kookaburra.
A pair of the birds alighted on a tall spotted-
gum, on the side of which was an ants’ deserted,
wet weatiier retreat. After a preliminary
chatter one of the birds flew off for a dozen
yards or more, and turning, dashed with great
force into the nest of mud. Then he proceeded
to excavate the interior until sufficient earth had
been removed to admit them both. As only one
of the birds did the graft, I surmised that
‘ Jack ” had married that morning and forgotten
to first find the home—or was it an elopement?
When, after a week, however, and during a spell of
heavy rain, the nest collapsed, and I saw the other
bird perched disconsolately on the top rail of a
fence and receiving visits from numerous friends,
I concluded that it was a case of “marry in
haste, repent,” eta
LATE THOMAS HUNGERFORD, One of the
Men who Blazed the Track.
Photo, by The Swiss Studio, Sydney.
“X”: Re aboriginals eating white ants;(B.,
18/2/’O4). Snake was a favorite diet of the aborigi-
nals of the Bathurst and Mudgee districts about
the sixties. The reptile’s head was chopped off,
and the body roasted on red hot coals. “You
gi’me bacca,” an old gin, called Peggy Lambert,
used to say to anyone asking for a piece of cooked
reptile. Fried snake was too valuable to be given
away gratis. When cooked the snake resembles
fish in color. I have never tasted it, though no
one knows what he may eat before he dies.
THE ARMY OF SILENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In my dreams I see them marching out across the voice-
less plain,
Tramping on the same old journeys through the land of
All in Vain,
Bearing on the same old burdens with a courage grim
and grand—
Facing drought and desolation in the Dead and Buried
Land.
Never a halt for rest I The host goes marching on—
Ghostly packs on ghostly backs, and faces grim and white.
On and on and on they go, as they’ve always gone,
Till the bright star fades with the passing shades, and
the Dark gives way to the Light!
So they swing the same old billies—grinning as they did
of yore, '
When the long'miles lay behind them and the long miles
stretched before;
When they faced the Plains of Silence—God knows what
they hoped to gain
In the land of dust and spaces—in the land of All in Vain.
So on they go 1 Ever and ever on ;
On moonlit nights and moonless nights they march on
tireless feet;
Until the dawn 1 Till the last faint star has shone,
Through scrub and sand of the sun-scorched land where
Hell and Failure meet 1
Why—you’ll ask —are they still roving when their lives
were all unrest?
You who fathom not the spirit stirring in the wanderer’s
breast—
But to us (who knew their mateship— knew their hand-
grips firm and brave)
Fancy ever paints them restless rovers still—beyond the
grave. *
And night by night they face the same old track—
Knocking ’round till the trumpet-sound shall gather the
scattered band.
Tramping on through the endless leagues Out-Back,
Till the East grows grey when they fade away with the
shades in the Never Land 1
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


Dr. Thomas, of 57 and 59 Swanston-Sfc.,
Melbourne, is the most progressive of dentists.
He combines all the latest American methods and
discoveries in skilful and painless dentistry with
amazingly moderate charges.*
AS GOOD
I OR
WOMEN
AS
FOR MEN.
k:*
*
MUFF CHAINS^
We make in many Designs.
We make them Solid throughout.
We make them in Plain Gold.
We make them with Jewelled Slides.
We stock every approved Design.
As Makers we supply them direct to the
Wearer at London Prices.
Solid 15ct. Gold,
Selected Pearls and
Turquoise, £8 Bs.
s^oooo^oooooeooo
Solid 10ct., 63 -
15ct., 84/- to £7 78.
London Prices
Plus Duty.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
Solid Gold throughout, from 38/- to £6 6s. in 18et. with Jewels up to £2O.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
“ C.C.” : The old-time drover, with his
“jingling quart-pot” and other trappings of
romance, is fast becoming merely a legend in the
South. The up-to date “ Clancy of the Overflow”
doesn’t ride behind ’em singing in these parts.
He simply lounges in his sulky behind long strings
of sheep or cattle, crawling through interminable
lanes. The cushions of the sulky are much more
comfortable than the saddle, and, besides, there
is no nice adjustment of carefully rolled swags on
a pack-horse to be considered. Blankets, billies,
camp-oven, &c., can be bundled into the tray of
the sulky without any trouble. Not that the
modern “inside” drover troubles much about
carrying impedimenta. Seldom do any watch-
fires gleam where he camps. A yard for his
charges, and a bed for himself at the frequent
road-side pub are easily obtainable. Practical, no
doubt; but—recalling the good old times when
we yarned around the fires during the drovers’
“ dog-watch,” and drew near a township with the
joy of a sailor entering port after a long voyage—
we have nothing but scorn for the soft-loaf-and-
tin-of-sardines cattle-man of to-day.
* * * ♦
“ Gilrooney ” : The determination of the
bushman. One morning, after a dance, I heard a
“ son of the soil” solemnly swear that he’d marry
a certain girl whom he had first met during the
night, or kill all his horses in the attempt. That
girl lived 30 miles away from his home, and the
subsequent courtship meant to him, I daresay,
something like a thousand miles of riding through
rough country—and quite half of it in darkness !
He is married now—and he deserves to be. His
horse deserves to be also.
* * * *
“ Peto ” tells something about the duties
of a “gohanna” :
Is the tongue of the gohanna less sensitive than that of
higher animals ? Mate and I had a pet gohanna in the
West, ai.d the reptile installed himself as general
scavenger to the camp. One of his duties was to clean
the frying-pan, wherein little else than bacon was ever
fried. Whenever the pan was “going,” the gohanna
would range up to the fire, and as soon as the cooking
was over, and the pan with its still bubbling fat placed on
the ground, the ’hanna would plunge his long tongue into
the scalding liquid quite cheerfully—for all the world like
a kitten drinking milk. His snout would get quite
greasy with the operation This occurred not once or
twice, but regularly
ON THE FLAT.
BOOKIE : “Hullo, you broke? I thought the old
man left you every bloomin’ thing.”
PLUNGER: “So he did—every bloomin' thing but
his luck.”
, “ Yacka ” writes :
As a youngster, I once frolicked with a tame emu. Was
taking a short cut through a neighbor’s paddock when
bikFeathers gave chase., I reached the opposite side of
*e paddock first, but the fence was too high for me to
t over. I knew there were occasional holes in the
fence, so I ran along looking for a sufficiently spacious
opening. The emu was beginning to crowd me, and I
could hear the pounding of his claws on the grass, when
I tripped and fell full length. The bird turned me over
and played, “ he loves me, he loves me not,” or “ tinker,
tailor, soldier, sailor,” with the buttons of my jacket
until he had swallowed each one. My yells failed to
bring help. After swallowing my catapult and a top,
which fell out of my pocket, he allowed me to crawl
through a hole, giving me a parting peck in the rear to
help me along. Then he kicked my hat into the middle
of the paddock and ran races with it.
AT THE SHEARERS’ DANCE.
JACKAROO: “ Are you—ah—romantic ”
BUSH GIRL: “Romantic I Get outl Would lie
satin’ out here on this cold stone if I wasn’t?"
“ Chasselas ” : Present year seems to pro-
duce abnormal results all round. Not uncommon
to see swans and wild ducks with clutches of
young ones now. Also shot a quail recently, and
when opened she was full of eggs. Appears as
though the birds are solving the population ques-
tion by going in for a second batch of young ones
as a regular thing.
* • * *
A drunk in an outback town where the
seven days’ hard is put in at the police-barracks’
woodheap, happened to wander
round that way when about
“half sprung.” There had been
a dearth of cases, and the
heap was very large. An
axe leaned lazily against
a block. “Ah,” said
lie, “no fear—l’m not
havin’ any. I puts the
blooming peg in right
away ! ” And he did
put it in, and kept it
rammed tight down,
too.
• •
“ Myrtle ” : Some
of the Queensland
aboriginal tribes have
written signs. Was, in
the company of a black-
fellow, hunting for
“ sugar-bags ” on the
Mary River, when we
came upon a good
swarm in a big iron-
bark. The darkie, after
looking at some marks
on the tree, said
“ That bag belonga
Tommy.” He refused
to touch it, and when
I put the axe in it he
left in a hurry. Also,
once carried a little stick,
greatly hacked with zigzags
and crosses, from a young buck
to his gin. Seemed to be some love affair, though
I couldn’t see if either blushed.
* ♦ • •
“ Periwinkle”: Of all the wallaby-trackers’
substitutes and make-shifts for tobacco I find
honeysuckle fluff the best-flavored. Have tried
tea, coffee, and tow ; the last is a terror. Gum-
root, that abounds on the river banks, gives a
good cherooty whiff, though a trifle hot. Euca-
lyptus leaves, fresh dried, are good for a cold, or
chest-troubles, but smell too much of the drug-
gists den for me. Ti-tree leaves aren’t much
chop. Coffee is flavory, but hot. Tea, hot
and not flavory. Have smoked brown paper
in desperation—but always carry a supply of
gum-roots to prevent such a diabolical contingency
arising again.
“ Nym ” : Have had no
slight acquaintance
with gohannas, but the
Species that ‘ ‘ chaws ”
its grub, and lias bones
for dessert, has not
been served up in my
drinks yet. The cor-
rect etiquette of go-
hannas I have met is
to swallow their meal
of two or three month-
old chickens, a nest of
young ’possums, or
family of baby bun-
nies, blood-warm and
uninjured in any way.
When the meal is
digested, the bones,
skin, etc., are ejected
via the mouth. Even
eggs (for which the
gohanna’s partiality is
on a par with the
whaler’s desire for
tanglefoot) are swal-
lowed whole. Then the
gohanna doesn’t climb
to the top of the
highest dead gum and
take a flying leap to
break the egg-shells;
he waits till his gastric
juices do the work. It
doesn’t matter how
hungry a gohanna may
be, you can never tell
by his appearance that
he has dined. Half-a-
dozen eggs, four
chickens, three joeys,
or a wounded magpie
may have been his
meal —hispauneh looks
just as slim after as
before. Before laying
up for the winter, have
known gohannas in
Gippsland to swallow
a piece of soft wood,
when food wasn’t forth-
coming, with which to
delude their “innards”
during the hibernating
period. Have never
known the “go.” to eat
dead food, unless, like
the Hindoo and Jew,
he has killed it himself.
At a meeting of
Me] bourne Royal Society
recently Prof. Baldwin
Spencer showed some genuine moa feathers
brought back from Maoriland. The feathers,
though shed by their original wearer some cen-
turies ago, are in good condition and have a
remarkable resemblance to the feathers of the emu.
m • • *
“ Ciro ” in defence of his snake :
“Lindon” (8., 21/l/’O4) impugns the genuineness of
the two-headed snake described by me (8., 3/12/’O3), and
evidently believes it to have been a stumpy lizard. This
is pretty severe on seif and mate, whose record of snakes
killed up to the time mentioned went over 10! 0 between
us. Considering these same stumpies are more numerous
on the Werribee plains (Vic.) than in any part of the
Wimmera I’ve visited—l think I know every yard of both
districts—l wruld hardly mistake a sleepy little stumpy
for a 2ft. snake. The double-header we saw was of the
carpet variety, non-venomous. Half the snakes here are
carpets or diamonds, and if I don’t know a carpet snake
when I see it what on earth do I know?
* * * •
Sbrange names of places in Queensland :
O.K. Station, Crow’s Nest, Gentleman’s Seat,
Middle Ridge, Hell Hole, Monkey Waterholes,
Chain of Ponds, Limestone Quarry, Lord John
Swamp, Accommodation Creek, Kettle Creek,
Iron Dot Creek, and Quartpot Creek—all on the
Darling Downs. The pioneers of the Downs
were a highly original crowd. Barring the few
casual flights of fancy quoted above, almost every
stream is named either Oakey Creek or Spring
Creek.
FROM A CATTLE-CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ebon blackness brooding darkly over bend and river gum,
Cautious notes of black ducks calling from the limpid
river come.
Stars are blinking, crickets chirping, camp fire’s embers
wan and grey,
And the fire-flies dance and twinkle in the scrub-land far
away.
Soft ASolus thro’ the gum trees croons a low and muffled
tune,
And the placid river answers with its ever-changeless
rune ;
Sense of white grass bending softly to the swaying of the
breeze,
And defiant song of freedom thro’ the lorn and lonely
trees.
Radiant star-points slowly paling, blue dome whitening
overhead,
In the Orient faintly showing, scattered streaks of thin
dawn-red ;
Cool morn-breezes softly blowing from the faint-illumined
East,
Mellow light thro’ gum trees showing, and we’re moving
—man and beast.
NJ3.W.
DAVID H. H. RICHARDS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
A. Kimbel: Awful verse T.M‘G.: This is
the first time that the tomb has made us laugh —P.M.:
“ Beloved ’’ and “ Rival ” both rather inefficient scraps.
The Coster : Some good lines, but on the whole un-
satisfactory J.E.K. ; Please consider yourself dead
Kodak: Good idea; handling rather crude F.F.W. :
No ; it’s not of bush origin. It’s nautical —“ to clear out”
(outwards) at the Customs Erne : The unintentional
anti-climax ruins it.... 8. Mac: Depends on the nature
of the subject and the spirit in which it is treated
M. Murphy : You talk of “ The Bulletin’s habit of finding
fault with everything ” / And when, O blind Murphy, did
The Bulletin find fault with Protection, with the policy
of cutting up large estates, with the absentee-tax, the
repayment of the public debt, payment of members,
one-man-one-vote, the retention of the public parks,
Federation, a uniform railway gauge, or hundreds
of other things? O, Murphy, do not be an ass!
G.O.W. : In present form unsuitable ; doubtful if it would
“work up.”.. ..R.A.K. : Hospital subject anticipated.
....D. : But even the poor little rat in the civil service
who subscribes to his boss’s testimonial, for fear and
crawl reasons, deserves protection, or, at any rate, autho-
rity should not protect his blackmailers....A.J.W. : You
sav “ the ways of trees are as various as men s ways are.
Let that settle an already too lengthy controversy....
H.M.M. : It is, presumably, still among a heap of accepted
and paid-for verses, awaiting publication. Will try to
give it a push... .Asterisk : Poem follows right here:
2 Beat (Chow-Africa): Letter and paper to hand
with many thanks... .G. Darling: A pretty little thing,
but it strikes no new idea... .8.C.: “ South Head light
joke would look very poor in cold print.. ..Bertie Drip-
ping : Verse doubtful. Some pars good. Can’t account
for “X ” incident. Expect it arose out of the ponderosity
of atoms or the cussedness of defunct substances....
YV. Brenta: It has good points, but the bad stick out
furthest .. .Les Lee : Both are too diffuse andjiabby ....
G. 8.5.: No room at all for illustrated articles on British
clothes ; takes all our space to deal with Australian flesh
and blood S. Jones: Your notion of Tub Bulletin
office as a place where the editor, “ swearing horribly,
is constantly engaged in chucking out bush writers,
“ swindled of their back pay,” and dispensed with because
“ better liars happen along,” is the brightest gleam in a
weary week. Evidently there are some bright, picturesque
“ bush writers" in your locality K. : “ How will she
look when she is dead” is a well-meaning effort at the-path-
etic, but we fear that oft-repeated line would bring smiles.
.F.D. : Thanks for good opinion. Item sent hasn’t
interest enough... .D.D.: Good enough in its way, but
too guide-bookish Slant-Eye: Material good, but
handling hopeless....A.YV.F. : No point or vigor....
Timaru : Will be duly returned O.E.D. : Neither
quite good enough Ivor H.: Worth a par only G.
Matthews : Too tamely told Lawrence R. : Very crude
in places F.R.S.: Worst thing we’ve struck for
months Ernest R. : What’s it all about, anyhow?
Leigh W. : Too flimsy Alex. Fraser: Can’t trace
it unless you can give date much more accurately
Lympsfield: If ever the Australian nation acquires a
religion it will probably provide an Inquisition with
auto-da-fi fixings for those who blaspheme the horse.
In view, therefore, of the possibility of your being burned
at the stake for heresy we suppress your remarks about
the horse being “ a filthy and stupid animal.”. .. J.H.R. :
Isn’t it rather late to discuss now the criticism of Morant
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” ? The book has been pub-
lished for nearly two years Gilroone.v : Just misses
the mark.. ..Patricio: By signing the deposit slip you
contracted with the bank that you could not withdraw
the amount except on production Of the receipt they
gave you ; that contract binds you, and it seems that you
must follow the conditions set down by the bank. The
bank’s demand is, of course, inspired by the fear that the
ieposit receipt (which, in a sense, is a negotiable docu-
ment) has fallen into someone’s hands who will raise
money on it R.J.M.F.: A nice little poem about a nice
little girl, but cuts no ice F. 0.: The Dickens!....
Bull’s Wool : Probably that house advt. (Age 2/4/’O4) —
‘Government Man wants House in Auburn, with gar-
ien, plenty of time to keep in good order”—was the
itab-in-the-back of some Bentite. It’s Bent’s lie that the
Rate servant has a loafing time, put slily S. : You
jpread to rather great length your contention that
jmployers should accept advanced Labor legislation as a
•easonable compromise to save themselves from absolute
locialism John 0. : Reads like Browning and spasms.
T.F.N. : Heavy satire Victim: But Neitenstein
laid “music,” and you refer to “discord.”... J. Sin :
Hardly direct enough J.M. :It barked as it slid into
he w'.p.b H.K.L. : Verse not good enough. It is
mpossible to acknowledge pars, in this column
5.F.L. : Bad verse in bad writing Pucha : The Navi-
gation Bill, faulty as it, has a clause to prevent that
LG. : Yarn about the mineowners* conspiracy to dis-
ranchise all miners doesn’t look too credible. Mine-
iwners have some sense.... Caber: Lots “of our
eaders ” have doubtless had similar ghost experiences.
iut were they sober when they had them ? Will S.:
lot a gleam of poetry about those verses Scalliwag :
Icarcelv up to mark A.P.R.: Doesn’t give any fresh
nformation M.E.L. : Has points about it, but is not
veil enough put together Homer : Not much of value
imong them Bill : Read half your romance and
piessed the rest. He mounted his coal-black steed,
iidn’t he, and galloping furiously through the dense
orest, with the form of the insensible girl on the
laddie in front of him, he presented the forged cheque
it the Bank of England ? Then he got a job ringbarking
it the Tower of London, and called out in a deep
mice “ Avaunt 1” J.C. : A sprinkling of for-
nalin solution will clear out fleas for the time
leing: but it’s rather an expensive remedy....
raniwha : In short, the schoolmaster was walk-
ng backwards before a Governor and collided with a
;ree Te Aroha : So many poets are now on the salt sea
;rail H.A.F. : Honestly, we can see no reason why you
should persevere on the poetic path Pakeha : Cordially
agree; in fact, we’ve said the same thing ourselves.
Mots: You’re a fortnight late for the fair
Brickie: Not a quite bright enough brickie
B.D. : Nothing fresh about “In Memoriam.”
Alex K. : Humor rather mechanical Scrubber : Not
well done, and turns upon a very ancient gag.... Mira: A
very tired little tale B.N.W. : Thrice too long
Evan D. : Broken-backed kind of verse about nothing in
particular Unsuitable: H.E.R., J.A.H.0., M.S.D.,
Alfred P., Bushman, A.M.Mc., Ruby K.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
O.R.Y. : Rather wooden H.W.L. : Drawing not
good enough. Joke ditto D.B. : Girl and lover and
pa’s boot are a worn-out joke Butler : Picture of man
hanging on lamp-post declined Bandar: Gas joke
wouldn’t illustrate we11....P.W.5. : Second lot fell into
basket. Third lot under consideration.. ..C.J.C. : Can
only say that we wouldn’t take lessons under like cir-
cumstances. We would take rum Broad Arrow :
“ Hop.” doesn’t look like that W.C.S. : “ Financial
Lifebuoy” idea hardly fresh enough Nemo : Drawing
respectable and no more. Very labored jest H.W.C.:
Drawings good, but jokes inefficient Harold R. :
Photo, too dim to reproduce effectively ; otherwise
would have been glad to use it Clark : Not up to
mark A.H.K. : We wouldn’t accuse three nice girls of
having feet like those.. .John H. : Is the elder one a
man or a woman ?... .H.G.S. : Nearly arrived—not
quite... .F.J. : Dowie picture very poor.. ..Unsuitable :
Donald McC.
SHOT OUT.
Shot out 1 Shot out!!
Pushed off 1 Heaved in the mud—
No one to beat a drum or wave a flag,
No bang of gun, nor bung.
No time to yell, or shout,
Or say—“ Good-bye."
No time to pack a bag,
Nor yet to tie a tie,
Or pull on socks ; but just
Grabbed violently and flung
Suddenly into the dust.
Eight from the third floor
Straight through the street door,
With a horrible thud.
Beyond the possibility of doubt,
Shot out 1


Holder
k*"V
C900,y
Om ,
1%?
M r PeavKirr Viyte<l BornWai
-fro*n Victoria* J|e fa,Ys, is e* trc+nely
'difficult rocky- it will be A font
Victoria* will n?aKe y
V'Al I WxfTr[€*£iJl_^
g
on wVich newp^s
CpufJ te boagh'TadTiqe lielb
Itse office wa\ Wese4 '’ >
J tt€W,
l]owj Bent? (c rt\\nly *i6T~\ TJo yoM t&fnK. /
1 Could e-ver 7 9^ »j>ll jjere 117
' {jresen-r Stv> of- Vic /
Jf s mey/fjera where 'tffey
V'oH , l7|^!3lcSefv r «s •
IfIHHiHHIK
Hot” ]om
. ow fjinK 1 a^ii
j*} Iwite well siifte £of in 7
Is Ifere «or
Sotije
of ijie V/OKK
ovcH^bbinc
fT'Syrs
fojoNfjje^ue-
oia m i,, 3 t3of
vro+\ up- nov/ ? ,
- 'Too K* 7 ? " % r€ll b « 50 n?McfT t
irin ihe Country t* 111 tardly §«r 4
A
f e '
"fife £ **» Hb (fis
fo|i cf
Ben't’.'- 'Tfc ’finKerul
*s itv ?
getftfttqen !.
' Now! wljkli of »lo Oo ? -
"ttjere Amr roonf for boifj
Vc 'n "too njwtl/ aJiXe
A*» \hlmeo3c of- ice
not-sa^s
(py scolh ofise it
y*
>* -WeCaat'
WUf
op ke. §&+<> Sufficie'o/fy f
THINGS BENT AND OTHERWISE.


“The London Times is very anxious
about Australia.” — Cable.
Small Boy : "So sorry, Granny 1 Now I never
lost an hour's sleep on your account! "
It is persistently rumored that King
Edward will mediate in the Russo-
Japanese war.
Voice from the Press Gallery For
'Eving’s sake, whatever you do, don’t
help the Bar ! ”
London, Tuesday Afternoon" ~ Mr. Warner
captain of the English team of cricketers recently'
in Australia, has a satirical letter in the \V|.vr
minster Gazette. Barraekers, he said were ,
i lovely ’’ crowd at Sydney. Anyone wh..
piaycd there should be thoroughly “salted
and fit to play before an audience from '
the infernal regions.
Which suggests a scene like the
above. Say a batsman just
out—tail before wicket
“ It, has always fallen to the lot of
women to war against uncleanliness
and corruption iri every form, and
if now we perceive the germs of
corruption in our public life,
let us step in and sweep them
away by our choice of repre-
sentatives, making our pub-
lic life clean, healthy,
ennobled.”
[ —Hilma Parkes
A^
U u
f
ffi ufoWfi-JM’
Female Reformer:
“ After all, it's
a man s job.”
“ I ana
going to vote
with the Ministry on
the Arbitration Bill. My
followers may do as thev
like.”—Reid.
STILL WOBBLING.
The Ameer of Afghanistan is going to trv and rub ilnnn i, . e
wives, having divorced the other hundred or so. Even wUl seem
THINGS GENERALLY.


OUR WEDDING PRESENT DEPARTMENT IS A SPECIAL FEATURE I
Unique Pure Silver-plated INK WELL and STAND,
Beautifully Ornamented and Embossed, 17s Gd.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 30s.
dip®'-*;
Kiddie
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nursery Rhyme CHILD’S SPOON, 7s dd.
Pure Silver-plated, 3s 6d.
15s 6d. 20s. 255. 30s.
Pure Silver-plated A Quality CUP and
Top SPIRIT FLASK, in Russian, Morocco,
Screw-lock
or Lizard.
Shorter
HllllimiK'ni unmug]|||
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut-glass SALTS and
Solid Silver SPOONS, in Silk-lined Case,
12s 6d. Heart shaped, 13s 6d.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISH and SERVERS,
Beautifully Chased on Hard White Metal.
Prices Ranging from 32s 6d to £2 10s.
EG3 STAND for Two, Beautifully Chased
and Muted, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Nickel Silver, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Hobnail Cut-glass TRIFLE
FRUIT DISH, £2 6s, £3 10s.
Oak BISCUIT BARREL,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts
and Shield, 20s. Other
Styles, 22s 6d, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER and TOAST COMBINATION, ?ure
Silver-plated, White Crystal Glass Lining
15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CAKE SERVERS, Mother of Pearl Handle. Beautifully Ornamented, 15s 6d.
Same Length, Light Handle, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s od.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure S’ver-plated on Nickel Sil/
RUTTER DISH and KNIFE,
A 1,17 s 6d.
White Glass Lined, 10s 6d.
DINNER BELL, Pure Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, 25b.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated TEA INFUSER, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 5s 6d.
SAL \D BOWL and SERVERS, Highly Polished English
Oak, Pure Silver-plated Mounts and Shield, £2 10s.
Our Illustrated
Catalogue
is full of illiisfrations of every kind
of Jewelleiy, Watches, Clocks, Nie
Nacs, Silver and Electro Plate, in
every kind of variety to suit every
kind of need.
figgr The Prices, too, are as interest-
ing as the Pictuies.
Is worth sending for!
Gent.’s Pure Silvisr-plated
SHAVING MUG, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation 6-bottle DINNER CRUET,
Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, £6. Without Shield, £5 10s.
JAM DISH, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Nickel
Silver, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated, Extra
Strong, Hand Carved, 20s.
Same Design, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. Pure Silver-mounted CARVING KNIFE, FORK, and STEED.
They are made of the veryj>est Sheffield Steel, Securely Riveted and Hand Forged,
In Silk-lined Case, 15s. Double Sets, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Oak BI TTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, Serrated Edges, with China
Lining, 2Cs. Without Lid, 8s 6d.
Plain, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CHRISTENING CUP,
Beautifully Embossed, 30s.
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
? ■' ■
OMOON&STONEY
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER
KNIFE, in Silk-lined Case, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s fid, 12s 6d, 15a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Shell-shaped
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, 12s 6d.
A 1 Quality, large size, 21s.
BREAD BOARD, Beautifully Chased and Embossed in
Floral Design, Pure Silver-plated on Hard White
Nickel Silver, £2. Can be used as Salver.
Knife, 7s 6d, 10s.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255.
Knife, 7s 6d and 10s, extra.
3-bottle BREAKFAST
CRUET, Pure Silver-
plated on Nickel
Silver, 17s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted
Hobnail Cut-glass
Cerebos Salt Castor
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
EGG and TOAST RACK COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-plated, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated NUT-CRACKERS and
PICKS in Silk-lined Case.
Ivory Hands, 21s; Pearl, 255.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN,
809. 811, 813. 815, 817
GEORGE-ST.
(OPPOSITE
HAILWAY STATION),
SYDNEY.


A NOVEL PRESENT.^*
AK receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handeomo
Set. Cold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In lfict. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King;, Cole’S
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
h\
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELEOTRO-GALVANIO
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and other
DISEASES in all STAGES
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTlCE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC) ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
VANISHED VIGOR,
Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
f Permanently Restored.
For Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
■SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vinegar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GI\ES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURGEON LANISTOM, m.r.c.s., eng.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Find Comfort in Outioura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap, and
gentle anointings with Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the blood. This is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and economical treat-
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, iriitations, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying
the fkin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspira-
tion, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative,
antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. No other
medicated soap ever compounded is to be compared with it for preserving,
purifying, and beautifying the skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other
foreign or domestic toilet soap, however expensive, is to be compared with
it for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines
in One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
best toilet and best baby soap in the world.
PIITIPIIDi DECniUCMT Dll 1C (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
(lU I luUllft IILOULVLII I rILLO odourless, economical substitute for the cele.
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for ail other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cdtiouka Remedies are fold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns k Co., Sydney. British
Bepot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Foxrss Osuo AND Cheu
Cost., Sole Props., Boston, V. 8. A.
sd
The Physician’#
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Goul
and Grarel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
I nfants, t'l ildren,
Gelicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA i
tm
7fte/c/ea/Af///r/voc/sfor/fofC///7?<3fes' t
f
A progressives
dietary suited to th*
growing digestive powers.
The Milk Foods are as easy of digestion
as maternal milk, and promote both vigorous and*
healthy growth. The " Allenburys” Foods rre especially valuable
in hot climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on INFANT FEjgPJ&G pages) Fr§e„.
Allen &Hanburys London,
The 'Allen burys'
Milk Food N9f.
| From 6/ft/i to 3 mortis.
The ‘ALLENBURYS*
Milk Food
From 3 to 6 mont/is.
The'Allenburys*
Malted food
From 6morrtAs uptvsrt/s.
WILL ANDRADE S usr .F BOOKS
gd
BOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MaRRIAOF, GUIDE
b,v Or. Faulkner, illustrated
with over SO engraving's,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks tor Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
•2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels. 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working eor Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d And ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Datb,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of‘Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Maks Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, is Our Mew
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d. 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANd ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc;
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
french Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHi.
BEFORE GOING TO BED
USE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth
Powder
instead of leaving your teeth exposed
all night to the spread of decay.
It is antiseptic, pleasant and
refreshing, and has the largest sale
of any dentifrice.
CALVERT’S
Prickly-Heat Soap
(10% Crystal Carbolio)
is a pleasant antiseptic soap, specially suited
for bath and toilet use in hot climates.
P. 0 CALVERT & Co., Manchester
ENGLAND
NERVOUSNESS.
£.OBB of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DHBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
oharge, to anyone Interested,
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MSB
DEAF
gds
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
I how long standing. Are the same
'to the ear" as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfo table.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. 11. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYBIhIGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Cienaes Instantly,
g
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVbL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free—
sealed. It gives price by mall,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of liouoi’ and Gold Medal by
Societc D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9, 1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MARVEL
284 George St.. Sydney, N.S.W»
POSTAL ADDRESS, BOX 623. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Term-
s (h's jn p r
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
0& ftXCOROo
of
ts
The only InfaKib'e Remedy for WEAKNESS, DSEILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S. IF.— Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 1-21 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREK to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
m
■
"EiREE BY POST.—A reliable
recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereaglust., Sydney.
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
IGOA
EPPS’S
Free to Men.
WRITE to me ami I will forward you my scientific
book, which w ill show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—(he envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mons. Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St.. Melbourne.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets ov Stereoscopes, os.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 890 Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
JON*
m
CURE
TO
FA I
EVF
LS
LumMo
Sciatica
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
and
Gfantists
Qf-all
SPECTACLES
S
-----
-FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-aerurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURIHC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George’St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
&
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Coliina-st., Melbourne.
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
d
GrO TO HESLL-
HiOUMi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists grattfc.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights a
his cases, and the harder the task the na
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bhgh-street.
MEDICAL OPINIONS ON DEAFNESS.
A medical discussion of great interest to deaf
people is given in the last issue of the ‘ Review o
Ear, Nose and Throat Diseases.” Anyone whose
hearing is failing should send for a free copy, or
though published in London, England, copies can
be obtained by sending name and address to:
“ Review ” c/o Box 241, G.P.0., Sydnev. With
the ‘ ‘ Review ” there is also a report form by means
of which anyone can obtain free advice by post.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Simple admission in S.M. Herald sub-
leader (7/4/’O4) —“Anyone may call himself a
Reformer.” Just now any one is calling himself a
Reformer.
Lands Minister Crick, whose West Mac-
quarie electorate was cut up, has pegged out the
new district of Blayney, which i 3 made up of that
part of the old district where he was strongest, and
Oberon, &c.
Queensland ivas greatly cheered t’other
week by the sight of a brace of Ministers travelling
per ordinary goods train to visit a country district.
The Philp Ministry used to “do the thing
properly ” in the way of special trains, and
travelled with a vast amount of costly refresh-
ment and quite a suite of hangers-on, while
preaohing economy.
APPEARANCES ARE DECEPTIVE.
“On February 20, at noon, we were about 420 miles north of Aden, when
we sighted a Russian battleship and four destroyers. One of the destroyers
detached itself from the main body and steamed towards us. They ran up the
signal ‘Stop instantly.’ The destroyer came within 30 yards, and after
scrutinising us hoisted ‘Beg to be excused,’ and steamed back to its consorts.
There was a great deal of excitement on board, as we never expected anything
of the sort.” — Captain’s statement.
CAPTAIN BLOWEMPSKY : “ Beg pardon; no idea you were an
English ship.”
It was a striking coincidence that almost
the last advocate of a Black Australia who will
ever try to enter the Australian Parliament was
defeated on the very day when the iniquitous
Kanaka trade ceased for good.
McEacharn was a true prophet as to the
Melbourne election —in a sense. “ There will,” he
said, “be no paltry 77 majority this time ; there
will be a difference of a thousand in the scores.”
There nearly was. But it was Maloney’s differ-
ence.
Interesting letters, it is said, have passed
between Premier Jenkins Iscariot of S. Australia
and Governor Le Hunte concerning the recent
utterances of the latter on the Bible-reading-in-
State-schools question. It is probable that his
vice-regality will be more circumspect in future.
“Cocky’ Carruthers takes on quite a
wilted look when anyone mentions the N.S.W.
Public Works Committee scandal. He has friends
on that committee; and, if the Premiership falls
to him, he has not enough Cabinet offices to go
round, so he will want the committee to be just
the kind of body it is. Carruthers has a deaf,
far-away expression as regards this subject.
Queensland has just one local body that, up
to date, has no loan incubus. It is Queenton, which
embraces the suburbs of Charters Towers. Per-
haps it might be as well to mention that it is only
about 18 months old. The councillors, however,
are hopeful and consider the fact of their not
having yet floated a loan the best reason for float-
ing one now. Treasurer Kidston should refuse, if
only to preserve a curiosity.
George Reid and his Dry Dog, when stat-
ing their position as regards the Federal Arbitra-
tion Bill, turned three somersaults in rapid
succession. First, George said that the Federal
Government was so nefarious that it ought to be
put out under any circumstances. Second, that
he was going to vote for it all the same. Third,
that he didn’t urge his party to vote for it. Then
Reid and the Dog come the usual end up again
without turning a hair.
The Broken Hill P.L. Leaguers will run
Arthur Griffith for Sturt, where he will bump
against two men who once belonged to the same
party—Ferguson and Williams —but who either
edged out or were squeezed out, or some of both.
In the Senate election Griffith polled a practically
solid vote in all the Broken Hill divisions, though
he had never opened his mouth in one of them;
so it is pretty certain that he can get to the State
House, anyway, by that back track.
“ Chasselas ” on new Vic. railway manager
Tait :
Tait has worked wonders in the management of the
wheat traffic this year. The way the trucks have come
along and shifted the piles of wheat at the various stations
has been an eye-opener to the cookies, who had become
quite used to waiting a week for trucks whilst the influ-
ential shippers used them until the grain was wanted,
instead of paying storage rates. At Wickliffe Road,
recently, 2000 bags of wheat were loaded and sent away in
a day. Writer remembers when five trucks loaded was
the signal for running the billy and general jollification.
It is indeed a cold day for the Dill Mackys
when they find a sin that they can’t charge against
“Rome.” Just now the Watchman apparently
has an idea that teetotalism is a, growing cause, so
it rises in haste to denounce drink as an insidious
papal device, and to state that most publicans are
Roman Catholics. Yet the present writer could
almost swear that he once saw the Rev. Dill
Macky buying a bottle of whisky, and being served
by an Irish R.C. barmaid, too. If it wasn’t Dill
the likeness was remarkable.
Thus Mr. Wyatt, special envoy for the
British Navy League, at Sydney, the other day :
If Japan proved victorious in the present war, she
would in ten years be mistress of China, with a mighty
army and navy. That would mean 450,000,000 yellow
people removed from Australia by a few days steam.
Unless command of the sea were maintained what chance
had Australia in the years to com# of possessing a White
Australia ?
Yet Wyatt’s bosses are the allies and friends of
Japan and are doing what they can covertly to
assist, by the “downing” of Russia, to bring this
danger to Australia.
So far as things have
gone with the miserably in-
efficient Victorian law for
the resumption of big estates
for closer settlement, five
properties have been ac-
quired at a cost of £210,000.
Where only five families
were formerly maintained
there are now 239. Not-
withstanding the drought
and two bad seasons the
officer in charge declares
that there will not be more
than between 2 and 3 per
cent, of the moneys due
outstanding for the three
years’ work. The Govern-
ment in consequence has
been able to meet the
interest on the money bor-
rowed for the purchase of
the properties, and also to
redeem the due proportion
of the debentures. In re-
fard to the Wandovale
Istate it is stated that out
of the 37 bachelors among
the lessees when the settle-
ment was established nine
have since married, and the
officer adds: “There are
evidences in the way of
arrangements for enlarged
buildings, etc., which indi-
cate that other bachelors
may be expected to follow
the example of the nine.”
And if Victoria only broke
up its big estates promptly
with a graduated land-tax
it might settle 23,900 fami-
lies instead of 239.
“ The result of the war
in South Africa is that a
new colony is to be provided for China to take
the place of Manchuria.”— King O’Malley.
Tasmanian Premier Propsting, who passed
many reform Bills through the Assembly last year,
and saw them thrown out by the House of Land-
lords, is still toiling. He has just introduced into
the Assembly a very humble Absentee Tax Bill
and a number of other measures, which the Upper
House will roll into a hard ball and aim at his
ear with a loud yelp. Unless the Broken Prop is
prepared to declare a war of extermination against
the Upper House, and pursue it to the bitter end,
he might as well give up his career as a reformer.
“War E.” writes :
“ Dog is going to eat dog” at the coming State elections
all right. In the electorate (Cootamundra) in which I
am placed no less than four “ old hands ” are spoken of —
Labor member Holman, crowded out of Wyalong ;
“ Tom ” Fitzpatrick, who defeated Arthur Rae ten years
ago by seven votes ; John Barnes, who never has spoken
a word in Parliament for close on 20 years ; and Carroll,
who ratted to the Deformed party. The Farmers’ Asso-
ciation threatens to throw its president, M’lnerney,
amongst this crowd on the “ off-chance.” The associa-
tion is going now to take to politics seriously, but it’s
about missed the ’bus, and will have to be satisfied with
“ off-chances.”
DONE AGAIN.
PRIOGEI (Cheekilyy as he walks past St. Peter): “ Stinkpot!” (Then
the keeper of the gate pulled the chain in an abstracted sort of way.)
One indisputable fact re the importation of
Chows to S’Africa has been stated by Merriman,
the Afrikander Bondite. “ The hypocrisy of the
Rand clergy in pretending that a Chinese popula-
tion will afford them ‘ a field for missionary enter-
prise’ is positively disgusting,” says Merriman.
The selfishness of the Jewhannesburg mine-owners
is hateful; the Yellow Evil policy of the S’African
Governments is deplorable; but the snuffle of the
Rand parson (practically bribed by the Jew
boodlers) is disgusting.
The haughty Jap has already got to the
point of trying to boycott the white man in Aus-
tralia. Wot very long since the Jappy men at
Broome (W.A.) met and passed a resolution that
no Jap should go out in a pearling boat if the
owner or any other white mullock was on board.
The Broome Jap says freely that Australia treated
its recent visitor, the brown admiral, so well,
solely because it was afraid of the Chrysanthemum
country. Booh Bah and Co. already think the
time has come to let the European know that he
only exists on sufferance.
At the Melbourne election last December
the postal votes numbered over 350; this time,
out of 16,475 votes polled, no less than 800 were
done by post, and of these 800 over three-fourths
went to McEacham, though he couldn’t collect
even half the ordinary votes. Postal voting papers
are only issued to persons expecting to be more
than five miles away from the electorate on polling-
day, or persons confined to their houses through
illness, or expecting to be so confined. Do the
rich man’s friends always enjoy such bad health,
or are they always expecting to enjoy it at any
moment ?
It was an object lesson on the uncertainty
®f politics to follow the procession which
escorted Dr. Maloney along Collins-street after
the election. Both newspaper offices were
fervently condemned by the passing crowd.
The respective staffs stood at the respective
thresholds and the respective windows looking as
cheerful as circumstances would allow. One huge
elector hailed the Akgus crowd with enthusiasm
and threatened to smite the premises with a fist
the size of a ham: “Now then, you metal-rule
serfs, laugh, or the boss’ll give yer all the sack.’
And the staff smiled with difficulty.
“Dicky” Haynes, K.C., John the Se-
cessher’s brother, is having a run this time for the
Westralian Assembly. “Wherever I find State
Socialism,” says Richard in his address, “I will
scotch it.” From which it is to be presumed that
next time Richard sees the Chief Justice on the
bench he will throw him off (though it probably
isn’t Richard’s fault that he doesn’t sit beside
him); and every policeman he meets he will crush
under his heel; and no postman will dare to hand
him a letter without danger of violence. The
man who undertakes to scotch State Socialism
every time he sees it nowadays, is going to be kept
pretty busy.
J. W. Fleming, the Melbourne Yarra-bank
orator, broke out the other day into red-hot
a/na.rchism of the most explosive kind, and the
Trades Hall Council promptly expelled him and
struck his name off the list of delegates. But
though Fleming departed cursing the whole
Trades Hall organisation and yelling “down with
it !” and “ long live anarchy ! ” the daily papers,
in reporting the episode, called him “the notorious
Labor agitator.” The Labor party had disowned
and expelled him, and he had disowned and cursed
the Labor party, but he is still “the notorious
Labor agitator.”
“ Salvo ” writes :
Bulletin article bn Australian Defence is fully endorsed
by many men, who with true patriotism have given the
best years of their lives to the Defence Force, free of
eharije, and who have seen all the disadvantages of the
“Himperial Hofficer,” and who have also felt the cruelly-
used power of some local staff officers—men who had
been, or would be, abject failures in any walk of life, but
who have been pitchforked into Staff jobs by political or
other influence, and who at once became damnable nuis-
ances to all those who earnestly desire the true progress
of the force. “ Regulations ” indeed ! that is all a lot of
these staff men can do—frame regulations to annoy and
vex the workers, and workers too without “ Pay and
Allowances.” At the present time a regimental Com-
manding Officer cannot call his soul his own, owing to the
reams of regulations ; and many hours of his time, which
should be devoted to study and to practical exercises,
are wasted in preparing reports, &c. Little encourage-
ment is given to shooting—the great essential—and its
importance is almost lost sight of in the search after a
paper army. The men are willing, but where are the
rifles and the cartridges ? The best field gun in N.S.W.
at the present moment is a Krupp, captured from the
Boers, and now standing on the lawn in front of General
Finn’s office at Victoria Barracks, as a curio.
Premier Morgan, speak-
ing in public lately, doubted
‘‘ the wisdom of appealing
for fresh loans even on favor-
able terms, and would not
be a party to adding £40,000
or £50,000 per annum to the
Queensland interest bilL
The country must for some
years live within its re-
sources and husband its
funds. If they remained
in power for two or three
years, they proposed to
carry on without making an
appeal to the London money
market.” Does this mean
that, so long as money ii-
tight and almost unobtain-
able, Queensland will ab-
stain from borrowing, but
as things look up and Bull-
Cohen grows accessible
again, Queensland will have
another turn at the loan
business ? If Queensland
can carry on without loans
in the bad times, surely it
should be able to continue
doing so in the better ones
that follow. There is little
credit in abstaining from
loan-mongering when loans
are almost an impossibility
and then rushing the Jew whenever he shows
signs of being open to persuasion.
G. H. Reid rises to truly audacious impu-
dence when, with his own record of Parliamentary
neglect before him, he slangwhangs electors for
staying away from the polls. A member of Parlia-
ment, leader of a party, who systematically deserts
his Parliamentary duties in order to push his
private business, is a devil reproving sin when h*
scolds a cocky who stays at home to look after
his crop. At most the cocky’s pursuit of private
pelf is only the loss of one vote out of thousands,
but the Federal member who hunts private gain
at the expense of his Parliamentary duties
really disfranchises the many thousands who
voted for him.
The “National Liberal” Ass of Westralia,
which was hatched in order to help the Govern-
ment down the Labor party, and makes “anti-
socialistic legislation ” its front plank, and most
of the rest of the platform as well, is in shocking
trouble. It had to listen the other day to Nan-
son, a member of the Government, referring to
“ the natural discontent felt by the farmers at the
inadequate prices which millers give them for
their wheat,” and giving a pledge “ to work for a
system of State flour-mills.” Gregory, Hopkins,
and other Ministers are going the same way ; and
the poor little Ass can only stand round and
listen to the people whom it came into the world
to help out-bidding the Labor people with respect
to the very things it came into the world to slay.
Importer M'Millan and G. H. Reid both
orate now on behalf of Stinson and Rich Landlord
Onslow and Carruthers, and the other stodgy old
Tories of N.S.W. State politics. Carruthers and
his crowd denounce the residence clause as regards
selections, and want to arrange things so that city
speculators can select land on the absentee prin-
ciple. Reid laments about “ the miserable experi-
ences of this State Arbitration. Act,” and importer
M'Millan denounces Federation in general, and
says that “ several States ” would gladly abolish it
if they could. These three soured failures, and
the awful Stinson, who suggests the abolition of
payment of members so that only rich men or
adventurers may be able to sit in Parliament, are
not a very good advertisement for the famous
League of Deformities.
Platitudinarian Joe Carruthers still casts
the gloom of many polysyllables over his inten-
tions should he become Premier of N.S.W. Joes
latest assurance is that he won’t do anything
serious to the detriment of the civil service;
nevertheless, it must be prepared to “bear a
share of the burdens which the exigencies of the
situation may create.” Almost every sentence
Carruthers utters has that “ nevertheless or
“but” or “yet” in the middle of it. That is
where Joey turns sharply round the corner and
flows gently in the opposite direction. His whole
policy can be put into a sentence: “We are
resolved to adhere firmly yet without any undue
violence or bigotry to A, nevertheless bya
judicious though not excessive admixture-of Z the
final result may be N or it may not.”
“D.” : He the Younghusband expedition
to Thibet, “ J.R.” (8., 31/3/’O4) states that if the
party had waited till summer the disasters in
the Jelep La pass would not have happened.
But the Younghusband force was timed to arrive
at Lhassa when Russia would be at death-holts
with Japan, and there was no guarantee that the
war would last the summer. This is Britain*
way of thanking Russia for nob occupying Herat
and the Afghan frontiers when the British army
was carrying pianos and suites of furniture up ana
down S’Africa. The delusion of the British
press anent Russia’s eagerness to fasten upon
India has become too wheezy nowadays, even tor
the gaffs and music halls. Some day Germany,
France and Russia may publish a joint note,
stating that they don’t want Britain s bubonic
dependency, and explaining why.
THE CAPTURE OF PORT ARTHUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ This morn we got a cable through ”
(’Twas thus the papers ran)
“ Port Arthur’s ta’eu and Russia’s crew
Has got its just and lawful due.”
And all the world uplifts “ Hurroo !
Hurroo for old Japan ! ”
They told us this a month ago,
And now from battle’s van,
They wire again—" The Russian foe
Is licked (the battle wasn’t slow),
And o’er his port the breezes blow
The flag of old Japan ! ”
And once a month will come the tale,
As fast as rumors can—
The Russian heart begins to fail,
A master new his port doth hail,
And Cossacks tell with faces pale—
How fierce is old Japan !
And every day in eager wise
The latest news we scan ;
And, as the fancied battle dies,
We wonder on in quaint surprise
To read again those lovely lies,
The lies of old Japan !
4-
L.


350
ACRES
FARM
LANDS
320
ACRES
TWO BLOCKS of RICH AGRICULTURAL LAND
for positive sale, at
SOMERTON, VICTORIA.
These fine blocks of Farm Lands are
WITHIN 14 MILES OF MELBOURNE,
with a good metal road right into the City. Undulating land and rich
flats, well grassed and
HIGHLY SUITABLE FOR AGRICULTURE AND DAIRYING.
EACH BLOCK HAS A FRONTAGE TO
A CREEK NEVER KNOWN TO BE DRY
FIFTEEN MINUTES’ WALK
FROM
Craigburn Railway Station.
It is now becoming increasingly difficult to get such good farm lands
at a reasonable price so close to the city of Melbourne. (Certificates of
Title).
350 ACRES and 320 ACRES
FOR POSITIVE SALE.
Particulars from
PEARSON, ROWE SMITH & CO.,
416 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
VITADATIO.
The Great Herbal Blood Remedy.
BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Conquered Again by
VITADATIO
Read what Mr. W. Mills has to say.
. Mandwrah Road, Freemantle.
Wear (sir.—Having suffered from Bright’s Disease of the
Kidneys in an aggravated form, and having tried many
so-called cures, I felt it my duty to inform you that after
a course of VITADATIO I obtained great relief, which
now appears to be permanent, and am now so well as to be
able to attend to my business, the duties of which are no
sinecure.
You are at liberty to make what use you please of this
letter, as I consider that anyone troubled with kidney
complaints cannot do better than give VITADATIO a fair
trial.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) W. MILLS.
Of Mills and Ware,
Biscuit Manufacturers,
Fremantle, W.A.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Read Office: Clarendon Street N.,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
„ The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss—
iff D
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
An?Pnt- < f^ :01 5? E S T - ’ SYI)NEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and T.nnsHair. sts., Melbourne
gsd
Engineman’s Master Key
Second. Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by E' T . R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE 8T„ MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
“J.F.D.”: Met a man in Burragorang
(N.S.W.), some years back, who had a unique
collection of labels taken from jam-tins. He had
been collecting some 15 years, and had hundreds
filed on pieces of wire. They constituted his
library, and he thumbed them over for hours,
reading about the virtues of the different brands.
A stamp collector would think him insane.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a century
has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos as the
best and safest natural aperient. Invaluable to
diners-out.*
The principal industries of New South Wales
are wool, gold-mining- and wheat growing. From these
sources last year were approximately produced the
following returns, viz, £7,000,000, £1,000,000, and £4,500,000
respectively. Excepting by sheer hard work and the
investment of money, there is no suggestion to be made
for the development of the two last mentioned industries,
but with regard to the former there are means which may
be availed of by every wool-grower at a minimum cost.
We refer particularly to dipping. The operation is
inexpensive and according to reports of practical men,
who regularly adopt it, the benefit to be derived is
enormous and far reaching. For instance the wool
realizes more money, the sheep thrive better and there is
no appearance of that destructive Maggot Fly, which has
of late years been such a scourge and menace to the
industry. Many inquiries are now being made by
pastoralists who have not dipped their sheep as to the best
method of banishing the latter pest, and they may be
unhesitatingly recommended to treat their sheep to a
bath of Cooper’s Dip every year off shears and they will be
relieved of all the attendant anxiety and have a better
clip for sale the following shearing-.*
Missing Friends.
Kopje, of Birmingham, is earnestly
requested to COMMUNICATE WITH
HIS FRIENDS.
IA#ANTED to know the whereabouts of MICHAEL and
ww JAMES and THOMAS NAUGHTON, natives of
Kinvarra, County Galway, Ireland. Reply to JOHN
NAUGHTON, c/o Kilkelly Bros., Glove Bush, Southland,
New Zealand.
LSJ3M
Melbourne
Branch—
W. WOOLLEY
and SON,
Equitable
Building.
Queensland
Branch—
H. J. DIDDAMS
AND CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do you believe in NEW IDEAS
tind NEW METHODS? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
They Cut down TIME and LABOR—does that
mean money to you ?
PRINCIPAL has “ grip ” and control of
affairs hitherto unknown.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent. '
Mr. S. B. SHARP, Bonaparte, lowa, January
19, 1899, writes: “My wife became very hoarse, and
ENTIRELY LOST HER VOICE. For two months I
tried all the doctors in the neighborhood, but they did
her no good. ONE BOTTLE OF JAYNE’S EXPECTOR-
ANT CURED HER.”*
The inflated draper-man, William M'Mil-
lan, wants a Parliament composed of “good
men possessed of a moderate income, or who had
made their money in early life.” Payment of
members is a small attempt to possess good men
with a moderate income, but that is not what
Mae. means. Mac.’s good men must get their
income without working, like Mac.’s friend
Kelly, or they must have made a fortune at trade.
The fortune to yield £BOO a year would mean
£20,000 invested at 4 per cent. The man who
makes £20,000 out of rag-importing or hat-selling
will be very little good the rest of his life except
for rag-importing or hat-selling. In fact, he is
likely, if he dodders into Parliament in his old age,
to fall asleep on the cushions and dream all night
of rags and hats. The Legislative Councils of
Australia show numerous specimens of such
“good men.” The way to assure capable poli-
ticians of a moderate income is to give it to them
by Act of Parliament
The beautifully consistent Carruthers,
leader of theN.S.W. Deform party, stepped out
of a conference, last week, whereat they had de-
nounced the awful extravagance of the Govern-
ment, and its wicked waste of public funds, and
explained that Arncliffe was a growing and populous
suburb, and so far had no public -building in which meet-
ings could be held, excepting at hotels. Mr. Barden, a
resident, had generously donated a block of land situated
in a central position, and suitable for the erection of a
School of Arts. The committee had for the past two
years been endeavoring to collect money to build tl e
premises, and had so far raised £li4. It was thought that
the Minister might grant them a special sum, say £lOO or
£2OO, to enable the committee to proceed with the erec-
tion of a building.
Does any other country in the world own a Reform
leader who comes straight from publicly denoun-
cing a Government’s extravagance, and enters a
Minister’s room to whine for £lOO or £2OO to
provide “a growing and populous suburb” in his
own constituencv with a hall to hold its weekly
winter “hops” .n?
Nicholas Sadleir, manager of Albemarle
station, on the Lower Darling, who died the
other day, aged 74, knew as much about the
early times of Far West N.S.W. as anybody.
He was an old hand, comparatively speaking,
when Burke and Wills made Menindie (which is
just on the edge of Albemarle) their depot; and
he used to tell how the back-country bushmen
saw them go, and wondered how they would find
their way out. Of all who did exploring in that
Eart, and of whom he saw or knew anything,
[‘Kinlay took his fancy most. Except for a
s P e h i n the South, Nicholas Sadleir had been on
the Lower Darling over 50 years, and kept his
6ft. 3in. or so of bushman straight and vigorous to
almost his last day.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise. perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and iwollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
•ion ? lr ao, under the «kin you have poison that defie* all
the remediea you have tried, which, it not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on lufTering till death reieaae*
you. Perhap* your knee* are swollen, the joint* being
ulcerated; the lame with the ankles, round which the ikin
may he discoloured, or there may be wound* ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospital* and had
medical advice, aud been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps | but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’B GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT hnd PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad I.cgs.
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
he. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lJd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : KLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper OD *
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
TYPEWRITERS
gsd
3 of the World’s Best
iaa7i^
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch —as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HedIey Button.
& B
Preservative Paint
la, without any exaggeration, one of the most wonderful discoveries
of the last hundred years. So remarkable are the qualities of
resistance to air and damp, etc., etc., in P & B Preservative Paint
that it might well be called “ MAGIC ” Paint. Its base is a valuable
mineral flux, virgin pure 100 per cent, hydro-carbon, and its solvent
is one of the heaviest and most penetrating liquids known.
P & B PRESERVATIVE PAINT
Is good for every purpose, in which a paint is required, to preserve
what it covers. It spreads easily and dries rapidly, it is impervious
to the heat of the sun and will neither crack nor peel off, and it is
equally indifferent to the wettest of wet seasons.
P & B PAINT may be used with every confidence for metal
or wood surfaces that are exposed to acid or fume attack, to moisture,
or to the extremes of heat and cold.
Send for Catalogue and further particulars.
W. S. FRIEND & CO., Sydney.
JAHES W. JACK, Wellington, N.Z.
JOHN BURNS & CO., Ltd.,
Auckland, N.Z.
Gr. L. DENNISTON,
Dunedin, N.Z.
EDWARD REECE & SONS,
Chkistchurch, N.Z.
THOMSON, BRIDGER& CO., Ltd.
Invercargill, N.Z.
OB,
The Paraffine Paint Company.
Willi am. Baldwin
Australasian Representative.
117 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.


The need of scientific medical treatment
for the whisky wreck was pathetically enough
illustrated in a case at Bendigo (Vic.) the other
day. The subject was picked up in the reserve,
bruised and bleeding from his attempts to escape
the devils that pursued him over the arid
plains of rum. They followed him into the lock-
up, and a constable spent a pleasant night knock-
ing rats and visions off his chest. The inevitable
“ court ” decided that all it was empowered to do
was to remand him for a week, and he was still
engaged brushing the green rats and blue cock-
roaches off himself and throwing imaginary snakes
at his Washup, when a prosaic sergeant hauled
him out of the sacred presence of the J.P. The
idea of hospital treatment in such cases seems
curiously slow to occur to the official mind.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAIi, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colllns-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.Q., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manages
£l,OOO for 1/- £l,OOO
A Fortune for Is. A Fortune for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
(FIRST 1
{GREATI
(.PRIZE J
£l,OOO fori 8.
£l,OOO for Is.
Or 12 months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all
Expenses paid, and £6OO in Cash tor one person, or
eight months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from
£1 to £l6O.
Eight Hours 48th Annual Great Art
Union.
48th—The Oldest and Most Popular—4Bth.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Charges.
A list of winning numbers will be posted to any person
sending an addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 23rd April, or
send direct to the Representative, 312 Flinders-street,
Melbourne, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
Tickets—ls. each, or II ior 10s.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the
date of drawing, 11th May, 190 U.
BE SURE AND TRY YOUR LUCK.
CHAS. HARRIS, Secretary.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Building, 312 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Do You Want a New Suit ?
For JB2 we will forward Post Fbee to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Ready-Made
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Price List of other goods on application.
Address: —
T. C. BEIRNE &CO.,
Th.e "Valley, Brisbane.
DEBILITATED
TAT'EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER- Letjw send you a
”' trial course of our OONUtXNTR ATEI > BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks'until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chamber*, .Etlzabeth-atreet, Sydney.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure Tor ECZEMA and other
SKIN DIBEABES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & GO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav*
mg for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight yon. Write to day for treatise, posted tvto
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, MACS., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbqobns.
Shipping.
IST. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday aft< ’ Sydney.
To EUROPE via SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 13th APRIL.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND. 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
FARES TO LONDON .. Ist. £77 ; 2nd. £5O.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Ouisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about 13th MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l7 17 0 to £25 4 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-*- the Cdlonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
QOBA.KTIO
STEAMS HIP
OOMPAHTY,
A. AND A. LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
•peola.l Rates, Including St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-^.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
Cs»
$5-
BILLS
discounted.
3NT.S.-W.
(Qoßt iepiete I. Co., Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
f SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—THE—'
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Mon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miij.kr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued9l,3o6-assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses-eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The Sank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, PhUp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reeerve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250. TOO ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Dfraotors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meekb, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
" They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the VVaverley Pea"
g
ma
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
% separately examined by experienced hands,
y and any found defective are discarded.
0T BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. Teg
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
aod birminqhah.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL —
April 18, May 16, June 13.
The New Twin Screw Steamer,
MANUKA,
SAILS ON MAY 16.
Salt and Fresh Water Bathe of All Kinds.
ROOMS LARGER, LOFTIER, BETTER FITTED
THAN ON OTHER STEAMERS.
A Tourist of many years and by all Routes says the
MANUKA
Is the Best Steamer upon whloh he has ever
Travelled.
NEXT SAILINGS—
JUNE 13, JULY 11, AUGUST 8.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sjdnejr.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,46 1
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62.00 C
£695,46?
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
ThrouQhout the, World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
T •' Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated In the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
ilodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution.- Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &«•» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS jl
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicineT should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMIT 130).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday, April
15, at 5 p.m. (Tranship-
ping at Melbourne.)
.S.S. Yon gala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday,April 23,
at 11 a.m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims
S.S. Koonoowarra, Friday,
April 15, at 5 D.m.
S. S. Allin °ra, Apr. 22, at 5 p. m.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., April 30,
at Noon.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other in ter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government;, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Inane, Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCBD'RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
tbe passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THI . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Gubina containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .
Through bookings at speoial rates to Europe van Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For’handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Managing Agents,
97 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Lincoln, Stuart's
IS
sdg
s
All over
Australia
JM
an*i
AS THE CHEAPEST HOUBE POR
MEN’S &
BOY’S
Clothing
Write for Patterns and Self fleasure
Forms
Lincoln, Stuart &Co„
Flinders Street, Helbcurne.
HERE’S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT
sd
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch
Pott Free.
3/
Black, Cream, or Black
Tipped with White.
Worth Twice the Money.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
Illustrated Price List sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swaneton Ste., Melbourne
Mention The Bulletin. _
TOOTH-AGHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prerenti Decay, S»*e»
Extraction, Sleeplen Night*
Prerented.
Neuralgic Head-aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NEB VINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
‘■As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hara
need it successfully for years.'’—Prof. W. Wilsox. M.d.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEIL'S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Sc
Of all Stores.


Morbid Months of Misery
“A DESPAIRING WRECK OF HUMANITY."
A Great Friend in Time of Need
The Case of IV|r. H. BARNETT,
(BT A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
It is worthy of note that the interviews
which have from time to time appeared in
these columns are singularly free from mere
theorising about the subjects dealt with,
and are entirely confined to practical, though
none the less interesting, details, an addition
to which is made by Henry Barnett, of No.
212 James-street, Leichhardt.
“To show what important events some
times arise from trivial causes,” said the
gentleman mentioned, “ s.must inform you
that one day I scratched my elbow with a
piece of zinc, which was hanging loosely in-
side a waggon. It was nothing to grow
alarmed about, I thought, aud 1 took no
notice of it until the next day, when my
arm appeared to be slightly innamed, but I
did not take any precaution to stop it get-
ting any worse. Nottillaweek afterwards
did I bother myself, and by that time my
arm was so much swollen, and the pain was
so intense, that I could not go any longer
without seeking some advice.”
“Where cjjd you go for it?” the repor-
ter enquired, t
“ To the hospital, and on three successive
visits my arm was operated upon. It was
then that I realised the great disaster which
had overtaken me, as the doctor said I had
just come in time to save losing my life from
blood poisoning, so by that you will know
that I was in a dreadful state.”
“ Were xpu able to attend to your busi-
ness ? ”
“ Work ol any description was beyond
my powers for nearly four months, for my
constitution was fairly broken up and I was
almost helpless. This being the first illness
I ever had, you may depend that I felt my
misfortune very keenly, and the thought
that I would never be able to use my arm
again nearly drove me frantic. I sat and
brooded over my troubles till my mind
lapsed into a chronic state of despondency,
and although the doctor said I had come
‘ just in time,’ I did not feel so sure about
it, as I felt so generally weak and wretched
tljat I doubted if I could survive t]ie terrible
calamity which had occurred.' For five
days and nights I did not eat a morsel of
food, although I tried hard enough to take
a little nourishment, but I could not swal-
low what I put to my mouth, and this, to-
gether with the agonising pains I was
suffering, made a thorough wreck of me.
My cruel tortures would not allow me to
sleep, neither did I know which way to lie
for ease, so that when daylight came I was
glad to get up in spite of having scarcely
sufficient strength to walk about, for if I
uld make an attempt my head turned so
giddy that I suun had to sit down again.
My wife was kept going psgbt and day bath-
ing and bandaging my arm, but even the
great care I received and the doctor’s medi-
cines combined could not succeed in elimi-
nating the poison which prevented the
wound from healing. I was completely at
the mercy of my original complaint, which in
time made my recovery more improbable,
because of the ruin it wrought on my in-
ternal organs, and as ailment after ailment
was piled up I saw that my prospects were
more gloomy than ever. My nerves were
always on the quiver, which showed that
the strain on my system was too great for
them, and I felt particularly nervous on
hearing any noises, which also grated on my
ears and made me extremely irritable. I
could see that it was no good taking any
more doctor’s medicines, as I was getting no
benefit from them and they made me feel
sick; besides, they did not help me in re-
gard to my appetite, so I decided on pur-
chasing some Clements Tonic.”
“ How did that idea originate ? ”
“Well, I had taken Clements Tonic to
give me an appetite once before when I was
feeling a bit jaded, and it made me eat like i
a horse; and now that I waß so feeble, and
run down as low as I could be, I thought
Clements Tonic might do the same again.
And, upon my word, it did ; but for a while
I was sorry that Clements Tonic made me
eat bo heartily, as my digestive organs were
m such a shockingly bad state that all food
disagreed with me. My stomach always
got filled with wind, and my chest pains
were so weighty that I could scarcely get
my breath, while the awful pains I had
hitherto been maddened with were added
to by something going wrong between my
shoulders. The taste in my mouth and the
furred condition of my tongue testified to
the disordered state of my liver, but the
aches in my limbs and across my loins told
the direful tale that my vitality was per-
fectly exhausted. When I come to look
back upon those weeks of abject torture and
misery, when I could not even read for the
swollen feeling in my eyes, with no anima-
tion in my body, and with no hope left, I
consider it a merciful interposition of
Providence which influenced me to perse-
vere with Clements Tonic, by the aid of
which came a delightful experience that
broke the morbid monotony of all those
months. When the first bottle of Clements
Tonic was finished I was sleeping more
soundly than I had done for some time past,
the reason being that there was a decrease
in the pains which had kept me awake so
consistently, and how thankful I was for
the rest, too ! To find that I could obtain
relief from Clements Tonic gave me a fresh
interest in life, although I did not antici-
pate throwing off iny afflictions altogether,
as they had held out so obstinately against
other medicines ; but I was grateful for all
mercies, and when the discomforts following
my meals were lessened you can imagine
my great surprise. Little by little my
strength returned, and the vitalizing pro-
perties of Clements Tonic came in evidence
by the gradual healing of the wound in my
arm, and now there is nothing but a scar to
show where it was opened. I had lost a
considerable amount of flesh during my
illness, but in a few weeks it was all re-
stored, so it is needless to say that Clements
Tonic put my digestive organs in thorough
order, besides infusing so much power to my
nervous system that you could not have got
a tremble out of my nerves no matter how
you might have tried. Before long I had
shaken off every pain that had tormented me,
and with the full complement of strength
which Clements Tonic restored to my sys-
tem, I went back to work none the woi’se
for the terrible trials I had undergone.”
“Are you sure you were quite cured ?”
“I have not had the least thing wrong
with me since, and I feel as hearty as though
my constitution were made of iron, so
Clements Tonic did its work well. I was
a despairing wreck of humanity when it
was called into requisition, and for saving
me as it did I owe my life—long thanks to
Clements Tonic—an admission which you
can publish in any way that may do good.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Henry Barnett, of 212 James-street, Leich-
hardt, in the State of New South Waite, Cem-
raonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting- of four folio 3, and consecu-
tively numbered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my
statements which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900.
Subscribed end declared at Leichhardt, this second
day of April, one thousand nine hundred end two,
btfore me,
H. R. STEWARD, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bofefela are universally acknowledged
uefy oo aa;r»E xxxx o jsr.
SPIRITS.
WINES Tht Best Brands Only of
<3e ~
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. SCO.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted is. id.
Pott Free.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for—
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
I’ll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasta or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOfjH AQKNTS.
Th» Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.s.w. Barber's Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
R’S
GOUT
FILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
telephone No. 10kS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Cat ered for
on Jlosfc
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
JJOTICE TO KHMLBOURNB VISITORS!,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sfc.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
gds
Acetylene
Gas
TABLE LAMPS.
OUR ADVANCE in
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
ACETYLENE QAB
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Large Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO
161 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
gds
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2-IQto £5-5-0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , A ccessories , Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
'Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE COm . Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, V.S.A. Hi UTBBTOOU UHUXD.
Shooters obtain the most satisfactory results by using
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
U.M.C. NITRO CLUB
gsd
BULK SMOKELESS POWDER
and U.M.C. AMMUNITION#
mp
gPpffi*
g
dg
ORDER
AND ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
BEAUTY 15 POWER.
DB. LYKUSKI'S
VALAZ E
RUSSIAN
SKIN FOOD
WILL MAKE YOU BEAUTIFUL.
*'Valaze" Eradicates Freckles, Wrinkles, Sallowness, Sunburn,
Blackheads, Acne, Pimples, Roughness, and all Blemishes and
Eruptions of the Skin, rendering it soft, white and transparent.
‘■Valaze" is guaranteed to improve the worst skin in one Month.
MISS NELLIE STEWART Says
d
"I have tried face preparations from all parts
of the world, and paid fabulous prices for
some, and nothing has proved half as good as
‘Valaze\ If 1 run short, and write you from
London or America, will you kindly forward
it immediately, as I would not be without it
no matter what cost. It is absolutely the
very best Skin Food I have ever used. I can
never praise it enough. It is simply marvellous.
Price 3/6 and 6/-, Posted, 6d. extra
HELENA RUBINSTEIN & CO., 343 Collins St, Melb.
Send Pour id. stamps tor Illustrated*' Guide to Beauty”.
MADAMOISELLE HELENA RUBINSTEIN may be consulted on the com-
plexion UNTIL riAY 7th, at WASHINGTON SOUL & CO., Chemists,
268 Pitt Street, Sydney.


Biliousness.
There are few complaints that go to make life
not worth living worse than biliousness. The
coated tongue, bad taste in the mouth, belching of
wind from the stomach, yellow complexion,
jaundiced eye, all testify to the disordered con-
dition of the stomach caused by the bile not being
properly carried away. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills touch the liver as no other remedy does,
cleansing the system of all impurities, making the
stomach clean and pure. They assist Nature in
the discharge of all her functions, increase the
appetite, produce sound sleep, and give elasticity
to the spirits. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a permanent and positive cure for all liver and
kidney ailments. Packed in amber bottles, and
sold throughout Australasia.*
More comic opera. The Russian com-
mander at Port Arthur has warned his forces
never for a moment to think of retreat from the
position, because, in the first place, he will never
give the order for such retreat, and because,
secondly, “ there is no place to retreat to.”
Cuts and bruises should receive immediate treat-
ment before the parts become swollen, which can
only be done when CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN
BALM is kept at hand.*
In a Cooma (N.S.W.) hotel-yard is a fox
chained up. An English tourist, travelling to
Kosciusko, came across this sight unexpectedly.
“Great heavens!” he gasped with a spasm of
horror, “what barbarians the, Australians
are ! ” and took the train back to Sydney to get
out of the uncivilised land where they despitefully
treat the smelly animal with the long tail.
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL.
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
15 St. Dunstan’s Hill,
London, E.C., England.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES-
|\/| ORRIS’S^
IMPERIAL."
NgS
Umperial
)£\>e * *
Ointment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet i >b!e
complete without it. Pots '- .
Cost 2/2 from Proprietary,Metb.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE »» LACER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Easter Stakes (7 fur.) at A. J.C. meet last week
attracted 7 starters. Positano colt Warroo (Bst., including’
71bs. allowance) was favorite at 5 to 2, while fours were
plentiful about the Grafton-Piecrust youngster Koopan
(8.7 and 141bs. penalty). Sarto ranked next in the betting
but the money seemed to come more from the general
public than the right quarter. Victorian rep. Boabdil
(8.6) and Jim Dorset were also backed at sixes. Koopan
and Jim Dorset had the lead to the half mile post where
Warroo and Boabdil passed them and the four were in a
heap to the distance ; then Koopan romped away—the
softest thing possible—from Boabdil who beat Warroo 4
lengths. Jim Dorset was a bad fourth with Sarto behind
him. Followers of form were completely muddled by this
event. In Champagne Stakes previous day Warroo, at a
difference of lOlbs., ran Koopan to 2 lengths, but on
Wednesday Koopan gave Warroo 211bs. and literally
cleared out from him. Punting is a fools’ game.
* * * *
Second Steeple (Saturday) saw Monday’s form
knocked endways. Seven started, and, spite of his fall
in the first ’chase, Victorian gelding Signet opened and
remained favorite—a point better than t’other lepper
(The African) from same quarter, who didn’t look able to
raise a gallop on Monday. Galtee More’s success in first
steeple sent him up 24lbs. Teamster and The African led
in turn, then Coal King took a hand and came a cropper
top of the hill, leaving Galtee More in charge. Signet
showed the way crossing the treble the second time with
Galtee More next, but the latter unseated his rider (much-
thrown and mangled Whalley) at the palings near the
mile post. Then The African, displaying marked improve-
ment on his jumping earlier in the week, ran level with the
leader (Signet) for a while, but, going into the straight,
the last-mentioned nag came away very easily and won
with something to spare.
* * * •
Public generally regarded Cumberland Stakes
as between Lord Cardigan and Sweet Nell—on latter’s
form against Gladsome. The Melbourne and Sydney Cups’
winner lined up 11 to 8 on, while 5 to 2 was obtainable
Sweet Nell, 7 to 1 Belah, and 20’s the only other starter
(Sir Leonard). Belah set the pace from “go,” and at this
sort of thing he seems to do best always. After the mile
post, pace livened up. Half-mile further on Sir Leonard,
who had been behind Belah, fell back, and Sweet Nell
worked into second position, with Lord Cardigan lying
third. At the distance, the favorite and second favorite
challenged Belah, and a great tussle ensued between Lord
Cardigan and the leader, while the crowd waxed wildly
excited. Right on the post Mr. Mayo’s colt got his nose
in front, and won a magnificent duel by a short head,
gained in the last two strides. Crack lightweight Smith
was up on Belah, and stable-boy M‘Gee, who had ridden
Lord Cardigan in work, rode the favorite. Sweet Nell
lost all chance by swerving from the whip towards the
judge’s box, and finished a length and a half behind
Belah. Sir Leonard tugged and wrenched for his head
over nearly three-fourths of the trip t and, even at that,
showed well into the straight
* * * *
Some A. J.C. meeting bits. Stake money paid
over totalled £14,407. Owner (Mr. John Mayo) of Lord
Cardigan got £3002 through that horse’s success. Mr. A.
Foley (owner of Doncaster winner, Chere Amie) came
next with £l4lB. Dr. Ewan Frazer (owner of Champagne
Stakes and Final Handicap winners) was third with.£ll4s;
then a big drop occurred to Mr. Rupert Clarke (fourth),
£6OB. Positano (and only through Lord Cardigan’s three
successes) tops the list of winning sires. Haut Brion,
Russley and Grafton only scored twice ; all are imported
horses. Bob Lewis (Vic.) led among winning jockeys
with three firsts; while N. Godby, F. Hickey, W. H.
Smith, J. Barden, J. McGee and H. Coffey credited them-
selves with two each.
* * * *
Bookmaker “Sam” Allen (before leavingMelb.
for recent A. J.C. meeting) dreamt brother Mo, “Jack”
Beales, of Sydney, had backed the winner of the Don-
caster. Immediately upon arriving Allen hunted Beales
up and found his money was on rank outsider Chere
Amie, whereupon Allen backed it to win a goodly pile, and
the dream duly came off. Beales is said to have collected
heavily through coin invested and through reserving the
gelding in his book, which he also did when the same nag
won a week or two previously at Rosehill. Another of
the odds layers (who turned backer for the time being) is
said to have scooped something in the neighborhood of
£2OOO on the same horse.
# * * *
Recent A.J.C. meeting was disastrous for
backers. The severest knock for punters was Diamonds’
success in the last race ; he went out at any price almost—
though some papers quoted him 16 to 1, hundreds to 3 and
2 were available for the asking. This scribe didn’t. see a
shilling paid out on him. One big Victorian punter re-
turned home (after only two days’ experience) £3500
poorer. Unluckiest horse owner was Mr. James Wilson,
junr., whose well-backed Nuncio ran second thrice,
Mallard third in St. Leger, and a close second (which with
a little luck would have been a win) in the Place Handi-
cap, and Boabdil second to Koopan in Easter Stakes.
Place money (£340) should, however, pay ex’s.
* * * *
At Randwick, t’other day, a Melbourne book-
maker approached another Mo. from the same State in a
confidential sort of manner while betting was brisk.
“ Back Chere Amie to win £lOO for the Mrs.,” he whis-
pered. “ Right, thanks,” replied the other. After Chere
Amie had won, Moses who made the bet sought the tip-
ster. “My word,” said he, “the Mrs. will be pleased
when I tell her about this windfall." “ Gam; whatcher
givin’ us ? ” remarked his friend. “ I meant my Mrs., not
yours.” And the money had to be unloaded.
♦ * * •
’Twas common property previous night that
neither F.J.A. (who has been “ queer” since his arrival at
Randwick), Emir, nor Sweet Nell would shape for A. J.C.
Plate (3m.), Saturday; Rumor proved correct; all three
were struck out, and race was left to Lord Cardigan,
Belah and Gladsome. For some reason, which her show-
ing in Autumn Stakes (l£m.), first day, didn’t at all justify,
Gladsome was made favorite at 6to 4 against, with Lord
Cardigan next in request (7 to 4), and Belah the outsider
(5 to 2) of the select trio. Judges generally agreed that a
strong run race would land Lord Cardigan in front at the
right end. Pace was fast always ; first Belah would
be in front, then Lord Cardigan, with never
better than a neck between them. At one stage
(in the early part of the race) Gladsome looked
fully a dozen lengths in the rear, but ere a mile had been
covered she made most of it up, and then remained close
behind. Beginning the last 10 furlongs Belah appeared
to crack a bit, and Lord Cardigan increased his advantage
to two lengths, but Belah came resolutely at him again,
and raced half a length to the bad, with Gladsome two
lengths in the rear. Here ail three were at their top.
The five furlong post saw Gladsome beaten, and she fell
further and further in the rear as the battle progressed.
Belah hung on as far as the three furlongs mark, but
never had a chance subsequently, despite Smith’s
sustained and vigorous efforts to drive the colt
along. Lord Cardigan’s beautiful sweeping move-
ment made him look to be winning without
an effort, and he secured the honors four lengths to
the good from Belah, with the M.L. champion over 100
yards further off. Time (5.26 J) was particularly fast; only
once before have better figures been put up, and then by
The Victory (5.25) last year. Lord Cardigan finished
Jsec. speedier than Carbine’s best performance (in 1901),
and that horse won the A. J.C. Plate three years in suc-
cession. Limit fixed for the race was 5.45, which the
winner beat by 18|sec. Race demonstrated undeniably
that Lord Cardigan is one of the greatest stayers this con-
tinent has known for a very long time.
* * * *
All Aged Stakes (lm.) proved the choicest of
good things for Gladsome, favorite at 6 to 4 on, with
Emir next at 2 to 1 and Air Motor 7 to 1, while fifteens
Sir Leonard found comparatively few takers. Ibex also
stripped. Race 'was very exciting. Emir moved last,
and first furlong saw him six lengths behind Gladsome, a
length in the rear of Ibex, who showed the way to the
half-mile post. There Gladsome passed him and had all
opposition tied up, scoring easily by three lengths from
Sir Leonard, who was in front of Emir. Air Motor
shaped well to the five furlongs post, but was com-
pletely left afterwards—w.f.a. events are not his game
apparently. Gladsome’s was a splendid exhibition of
galloping—as fine as anything ever seen in Australia,
and the crowd (losers and winners) applauded con-
tinuously while she literally streaked down the straight.
Gladsome, by Seaton Delaval, was Miss Gladys’ first foal.
Miss Gladys brought 740 gs. at the disposal of Sylvia Park
stud, and on the same occasion Seaton Delaval went for
1700 gs. It’s remarkable how Gladsome keeps going. She
has now been racing without a spell close on six months,
and, after her defeat by Sweet Nell in the Autumn Stakes
Saturday, many backers held off the speedy Maorilander
under the impression that she had had enough of it.
* * * *
Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey Club’s strenuous
efforts to keep the bookie off Riccarton course haven’t
been crowned with great success, and the big institution
has now pronounced for a ss. tote in order to collar the
loose change of the crowd that usually goes to the
“ walking-tote.” A good idea, because the punting
crowd knows from experience that the machine is safer
than the man possessed of fine sprinting powers. A
rather extraordinary innovation, however, which was to
be tried at the Easter meeting, after this note left, was
the “double event tote.” The machine undertook to lay
the double on the Easter and Autumn Handicaps, backers
making their own odds. And, unlike Ikey Mo, who starts
laying ’em before handicaps appear, the double is re-
stricted to the nags making the final payment. As few
are scratched subsequently the punter has a run for his
money. Money forwarded for horses that didn’t pay up is
returned without deduction. If winning couple isn’t
backed investors receive their coin back, less 10 per cent.
The machine is to be worked so that on the day inves-
tors can see at a glance what had been backed, and to
what extent. Tickets, £1 each. The idea should prove
popular when the crowd gets used to it.
* * * *
Moifaa, the Maoriland horse which annexed the
coveted Liverpool G.N. Steeple, won numerous big events
in the land of its birth and under heavy imposts, but when
it was bought by Spencer Gollan’s agent to go to the Cold
Country, the moke was thought to be unsound, and it
was reckoned that £5OO was a tall price, under the con-
ditions. Gollan, whose trainer, Jimmy Hickey, is also a
Maorilander, has had his eye on this event for years, and
his next dart will be the English Derby with a M.L. bred
horse.
* * * *
Wirrawa, about the best-known jumper in S.A.,
made a sensational ending at Oakbank the other day.
He lined up for the Great Eastern Steeplechase, took
part in a false start, and, returning to the mark, fell dead
at the post. Deceased chestnut had been at the jumping
game (mostly in Seth Perry’s hands) since he was a 3-
year-old.
* * » *
An Adelaide racehorse owner has got himself
into quite unnecessary trouble through seeking out the
handicapper and saying that his horse had a “ shameful
and damnable ” weight in an approaching hurdle race.
He might have waited a week, till the event came off.
The handicapper did wait, and when the horse had won
he reported the owner’s abusive language to the S.A. J.O.
* * * *
That nest of bookmakers, Sydney Tatts. Club,
in its financial statement shows £4530 invested in N.S.W.
Government securities and £l5OO at fixed deposit. Mort-
gage on the club premises reduced to £lB,OOO, and assets
totalling £44,000. Where the guileless punters’ coin goes 1
* * * *
“Dunedin”: On the Sunday prior to the
Dunedin Cup all the parsons here, by arrangement,
preached against gambling (especially in races). Immedi-
ately after the discourse in one of the churches the parson
gave out the hymn, “ Let us with a Gladsome Mind.”
This woke up two well-known punters, who winked at
each other, and agreed that it was better than a dream-
tip. They laid on Monday and fell in accordingly.
♦ * * *
Now definitely settled in M.L. that an
indentured apprentice does not require a jockey’s license
to ride in races, registration of the deed of apprentice-
ship granting him that permission. This was held in con-
nection with the protest against Gladsome, winner of the
Wellington Cup and other races, on the ground that she
was ridden by an unlicensed jock. Yet the regulations
are somewhat vague on the point, and the objector was so
sanguine that he offered to lay £5OO to £lOO he’d win.
• * * *
Sporting item: At one good-sized Vic. town the
local garbage is buried on the racecourse. It and the
steward’s decisions smell so exactly alike that the latter
ought to buried also.
* * * »
The coming of the Te Aute College football
team has exercised N.S.W. sporting scribes considerably,
and stress has been laid on the fact that the college has
captured Hawkes Bay premiership several times. Hawkes
Bay premiership practically means that of Napier. The
Bay is a district that does not take either football or
cricket seriously. Napier once produced a champion
full-back (Le Quesne), but that was a fluke. Napier is
only wildly interested in three forms of recreation—horse-
racing, rowing, and flirting with the other fellow’s wife
down on the black shingle of the Marine Parade since
some utilitarian vandal destroyed the wood and wold of
Sturm’s gully. The last sport Napier is enthusiastic over,
and everybody between the ages of 17 and 71 goes in for
it with heart and soul. The Te Aute College was a sort
of sin-offering by the “ twelve apostles”, who got the Govern,
ment to endow it to atone for the tremendous land steal
they (the “T.A.’s”) perpetrated on the Maoris under pre-
text of saving their dusky souls. A goodly proportion of the
youth trained there used to be half-castes. They play a
fast game—for the first half—but the Cornstalks should
down them easily. The Maori whoops and riots over
everything while he’s fresh, but he’s soft in the fibre, and
goes to the dogs in the second half. If the N.S.W. boys
old fast during the first spell, they will have things
mostly their own way the second. Te Aute is not an
average Maoriland team : it would crumble up like a weak
umbrella if Taranaki or Wairarapa or Otago fell upon it.
* * • *
To popularise the Australian game, the Mel-
bourne-Essendon and Geelong-Collingwood matches in
connection with the Victorian football supremacy will be
played in Sydney. The alleged advantage of the Australian
game over Rugby is that in the former the player hasn’t
the opportunity of slaying the other fellow that he has in
the latter. There are said to be really three kinds of
football; in the first you always kick the man ;in the
second you kick the ball first and the man is an after
consideration ; in the third you would as soon kick one as
the other. But this statement is more or less libellous.
* * * *
The Cold Country Rugby football team will
include many players who have earned international
honors, and should put up a good game. The first scrum
will be formed against N.S.W. in Sydney on June 22.
• * • •
“Nat.” : “E. Durst’a” statement in a recent
Bulletin that Wickham deflates his lungs, sinks, and,
without bending the legs, stoops till his hands touch the
bottom of the baths, and then runs, monkey-like, a dis-
tance of 15yds. at almost as great speed as when going
“ full burst ” on the surface, is absolute rot. Such a thing
is impossible. Writer has done the deflated lung business
more extensively than ever Wickham is likely to do it,
and knows from actual experience that the resistance of
the water, unless a heavy weight be carried, renders walk-
ing even a yard or impracticable.
Fremantle (W.A.) swimmer, W. D. Howson,
not yet 20, last month swam under water 110 yards in
Claremont baths. The English record was Finney’s 113
yards one foot, but according to J. J. Miller’s Sporting
Pamphlet the world’s record was put up by W. B.
Llewellin, in the Swan River, also in W.A., on Jan. 20,
1892, when that marvel swam 115 J yards under water,
and then swam six miles immediately afterwards. How-
son is just now in trouble with Westralian swimmers,
who object to his practice of swimming the first 50 yards
of ordinary races under water, and by a small majority
got him disqualified. Which seems a ridiculous pro-
ceeding on the part of Westralian swimmers.
» * * *
There are some hardy and venturesome charac-
ters among Sydney yachtsmen, judging by the report of
a camp held at Broken Bay during the holidays. Hired
experts Went ahead and risked up the camp. Then the
elub steamer carried members with their dingles and
gear along. Sad to say the awful weather prevented
several yachts venturing the 30-mile trip. The camp,
however, was a success, the catering being by Baumann,
and acetylene gas being laid on to all the tents. How
the rash chappies endured such hardships without
umbrellas, goloshes, and waterproof bathing suits is mar-
vellous.
* * * *
Champion sculler of the world Towns hasn’t yet
done anything definite with regard to meeting Tresidder.
Latest development was a cablegram, last week, from ex-
H.L. sculler Tom Sullivan, that all Towns’ stake would
be found if he arranged to row on the Thames. Has
Towns been unable to find a backer in Australia ? Any-
how, there is something ridiculous about the spectacle of
two Australian scullers, living within a few miles of each
other, having to go half-way round the world to decide
which is the better man. Tresidder says that, rather than
lose the match, he will go to England and row.
St. George (Sydney) Rowing Club has decided
to disband. It was found that there was a credit balance
of £lB 18s. 9d., and instead of voting the money for a
farewell drunk, the club divided it between St. George
Cottage Hospital, St. Vincent de Paul, and some Dorcas
societies. For a place which elects Carruthers, there
seems to be a lot of human kindness about St. George.
* * *
The brothers Amst—whom it was proposed
should be sent to France from M.L. to compete in a
mammoth road race, by the subscriptions of friends and
the help of the Seddon Government—will most likely have
to stay at home and nurse breakages, since during the
past couple of weeks each has had the misfortune to
have a collar-bone fractured.
* • * *
Interesting to note that Gillies, stroke of this
year’s Cambridge (Eng.) eight, was, while at Wanganui
(M.L.), tried out for a seat in his college four, but failed
to show any promise. He was then counted physically
“ weedy.”
* * * *
Australia’s top-notch ped., W. M‘Manus, evi-
dently finds bookmaking a better business than rushing
violently off back marks after men on the limit or there-
abouts. At the Stawell (Vic.) Easter meeting, being on
scratch for everything, he never stripped at all, but con-
tented himself with giving and taking a shade of odds.
* * * *
An ornate back-blocks invitation to fight:—
“ Come out where the bull dines, stack your drapery, and
get a few bars of ‘ You’ll Remember Mel’”
* * * •
A northern pro. got at the books badly the
other day. He was on a good mark, and won his heat
easily. The final was to be run the following week. He
got apparently very drunk after the win, and continued
so all the week. He would call on the books and say he
could run like Hades, and would win the (hie) crimson
final. Then he would pull out a pound or two and get
long odds. His trainer meanwhile swore and vainly tned
to get him away. The final came round, and so did the
runner, who won as he liked. The books parted about
£2OO, and the ped., being strict t.t., had a ginger ale.
Looking back on the gloomy past, some of the bookies
now remember that even in his drunkest moments the
runner didn’t smell of drink.
* * * *
Some of the cyclists recently disqualified over
the Sydney Thousand can squeal as well as they can ride.
Tremendous pressure is being brought to bear on the
League council to induce it to mitigate the punishment
inflicted. So far the council has stood firm, and if it
doesn’t want to wreck itself it will continue to do so.
* * * *
If A. E. O’Brien ever gets that £750, Sidney
Thousand first money, he will head the season’s winners
with £762 for two firsts and a third. After the “ Widow,”
the winners tail off as followsMacFarland, £561; F. H.
Scheps, £544 ; Ivor Lawson, £403 ; Major Taylor, £360
prize money (only Taylor and the Lord know how much
appearance money) ; Don Walker, £291; E. A. Pye, £250 ;
C. Carter, £145; W. Palmer, £129 ; B. Kett, £llO ; G. R.
Morgan, £lO4 ; F. Smith, £lO3 ; O. Gee, £lO3 ; and V.
Hawker, £95. Hardy Downing tails the list of principal
winners with £4l. These are mere paper items, of
course. Some of the pie-biters made three times
the amount by not winning ; and therein lies the true
modern science of cycling.
» * • *
E. H. Scheps seems to have learned the art of
“jumping,” and at the Druids’big Melbourne meeting
managed to beat Major Taylor in the one mile scratch
race. According to accounts received, he “ jumped ” even
better that Taylor and left that dusky wheeler overcome
with amazement. To “ jump ”is to attain full speed from
a comparatively slow rate in one sudden whirl of the wheel
as it were. It is a faculty which cannot be explained,
neither can it be imparted, nor can it be attained by the
man who trains alone. In the stress of competition there
seems to come a psychological moment when the in-
dividuality of the rider spreads to the machine, and then
there is just a long rent in the atmosphere, and a void
where the man ought to be, and an amazed look on the
faces of the people who thought he was alongside. The
world’s greatest bike-jumper is said to be Jacquelin, who is
alleged to fairly lift his back wheel off the ground and shoot
forward like a champagne cork. Said that he can in one
bound increase his speed from 11 to 20 miles an hour,
which is a pretty tall statement. As a “ jumper ” Major
Taylor ranks about next to this French kangaroo.
* * * *
At the present rate of progress Australia will
soon not have an unsuspended cyclist of any note left.
At Adelaide on Saturday the old pacing trouble cropped
up in the second heat of the Easter Wheel Race, when
Pye and Scheps refused to pace Major Taylor, who was
with them in the back bunch, and who is reported to have
done his share of the speed-making. Result: two more
promising young riders passed out for six months ; which,
considering the time of year, is not a severe penalty.
Truth of the matter seems to be that other riders will not
pace Taylor up to the front bunch for the pleasure of
seeing him win, in which case it is a mystery why they enter.
Why not say Major is too good for them and refuse to
race against him. At least that would be straightforward,
and not look as though their refusal to pace was in the
interests of someone in the front bunch and the men who
lay the odds. Twelve months’ disqualification would
have been more in proportion to the magnitude of the
offence. Take it all in all, the better way would seem to
be to allow teaming, so long as the teaming arrangement
was made public. That, and heavy sentences which will
make crooked riding unprofitable, seem to be the only
way of dealing with the pie-biting disease which threatens
to kill cycling.
• * * *
Major Taylor is having -wretched luck lately,
and the latter end of his tour is going to be remarkable
for the number of races he hasn’t won. At Adelaide, on
Saturday, he failed to win a solitary final, and but for his
appearance-money his trip would be a financial disaster.
* * * *
South Australia has a marvellous junior trundler
named Monck, who recently bagged 6 wickets for no runs.
During the season he has played in 17 matches and taken
78 wickets at an average of 3.75 !
* * * *
As mentioned herein (24/3/’O4) Burwood has won
the Sydney first-grade cricket premiership with 12 compe-
tition points. Glebe was then the nearest competitor
with four, but Sydney beat Glebe by 82 runs, which sent
Glebe back to two ; and North Sydney, by beating Uni-
versity, struggled into a bad second place with only four
points. Glebe* Redfern and Sydney all finish with two
points each, Waverley and Paddington wound up with a
round O, and Central Cumberland, University and Leich-
hardt-Balmain finished four, eight, and 10 points behind
respectively. Owing to international matches draining
away the cracks, the clubs which owned the best players
fared worst.
* * » *
N.S.W. bowler Grounds’ maiden effort in inter-
state cricket against Q., at Brisbane, promises greatly for
the future ; he sent down 19 overs (12 maidens) for 8 runs
and 6 wickets, and 14 of the overs were on a good pitch.
Inter-State bowling history tells of few feats equal to this
—consequently Grounds’ first appearance must be written
remarkable.
English cricket captain Warner has been throw-
ing dirt at the Sydney crowd that boo-hooed at the fourth
test match, and suggests facetiously that troops should be
employed to protect the next team of English cricketers
at Sydney. As a matter of fact, the crowd at the match
mentioned was not hostile to the Englishmen; its
wrath was directed against the umpires—both umpires—
who wouldn’t resume play on account of a drizzle, and
the worst demonstration was against a policeman who
started to unlimber his artillery when it wasn’t wanted.
Anyhow, Warner’s something of a hypocrite. When he
was leaving Australia he expressed his admiration for us
in language that suggested we were his long-lost brother,
and he almost wept as he expressed the hope that he
would see us again. And now he throws his broken
bottle at us by cable from a safe distance.
* * * *
The progress of H. Parker, the Maoriland lawn
tennis champion. At Launceston, Tasmania, he fell upon
J. L. M'Gough, and wrested from him the Singles Cham-
pionship of Tassy’s isle. He then joined L. Morgan, the
local man of might, and together they carried off the
Doubles premiership. Tasmanian lawn tennis is in a bad
way ; half its Doubles and all its Singles championships
are now in Seddon’s land, where they are liable to come
to sudden damage through earthquakes or an eruption of
Waimangu.
♦** * *
At Sydney Gaiety A.C.’s novice tourney
t’other night, after two-hours of bitter battling, Gibbs
and O’Brien dropped into their chairs for the minute’s
spell, limp and weary. Each (without being aware that
the other was at the same game) was seen beseeching his
seconds to throw the towel in, but unfortunately for him-
self, O’Brien prevailed first, and Gibbs was declared the
winner. \
• • * *
Hock Keys-Casey fight, at Sydney National
Sporting Club, was an enthusiastic scrap throughout.
Keys, pallid-pelted and spare, looked hopelessly over-
matched by the brown, bull-fronted Casey, but the
former’s remarkable skill pulled him through, though he
was roughed and hustled from rope to rope at times.
More than once he seemed on the point of breaking up
before Casey’s swinging right, but stabbed and jabbed
away with his penetrating left. From the 14th round
Keys weakened more and more. Casey, although he
had made the pace throughout, showed comparatively
strong, but failed to secure the lead at any time, and
Keys won well on points.
* * * »
Biggest bowling carnival Australia has ever
known began and ended in Sydney last week, when home
combinations squelched Victorians, Tasmanians and
Queenslanders easily. Waverley (Sydney) Club’s
single-handed championship of the continent, contested
by 76 representatives from Victoria, Queensland, Tas-
mania, M.L. and N.S.W., resulted in victory for Waverley
crack, E. E. Wahlberg, with Hyland (Victoria) runner
up, and Strong (Sydney) and Wright (Victoria) third and
fourth. Notable occurrences in this competition were the
defeat of Stephens, Victoria’s then only week-old “ cham-
pion of champions” at the hands of Hayes, of Too-
woomba, who won 21 to 5, and in the next (fourth) round
Stephens’ club fellow, Waxman, put Hayes down —21 to
6. Another happening was N.S.W. skipper Reader’s re-
markable “ pull up ” (in third match of the rub) against
Victorian Captain Neill, who at one period was 22 to his
opponent’s 3. Reader came strong (while Neill froze)
and notched 30 during the time occupied by Neill in get-
ting 2. Since Victorfa-N.S.W. Inter-State matches were
inaugurated (24 years ago) Victoria has won 18 and
N.S.W. 12.
* * * *
The healthy young Australians in petticoats
attending Melbourne’s three big ladies’ colleges—
Methodist, Presbyterian, and Anglican—lately met to
form a girls’ sports association, with a view to battling
for a challenge cup. The chief trouble they struck was
the fact that only one game is common to all three
schools—lawn tennis. Two of the establishments play
cricket, two rounders, one hockey, and one the placid,
weariful croquet. The damsels propose, however, to
teach each other all these games, and then wade in. This
writer will make a point of seeing the challenge hockey
match.


A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
THE
mm
LETTER BOOK
Hakes a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write e
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
August 18, 1902.
iw nae «»iiiii»»vu™ °
Two months' trial of thd Pn Oakbok Lmtkb Book obtained from you has satisfied us
that your
From 0. Plcmmrr,
Straw Hat Manufacturer.
lENI EN
roduce
reserve
revent
p
G
larbon
lean
opies
onfusion
L
ETTER
egible
asting
foss and
B
OOKS
ills
(right
ad Language
Yours faithfully, C. PLUMMER,
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
la a Trua and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria.— ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elizabeth St., Melbonme.
Continental Caoutchouc & Guttapercha Co
aaAWOVBR.
MAKERS OP
Wallace Continental Bicycle Tyres,
Wallace Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
AND
The Celebrated Continental Motor Tyree
(Winner* of Gordon Bennett Oup, 1903).
Total Ybably Output—over 600,000 Tybbs.
DEPOT AT—
WALLACE PNEUMATIC TYRE COY.,
274 FUNDERS ST., HELBOURNE.
Branches in all States.
'A
H
DIABETIC
Patients will hear of
something 1 to their ad-
vantage by writing to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C*
NOTHINC TO PAY.
gsd
gd
You can save Repair Bills
by buying a
RED BIRD
BICYCLE
The “All-Bed” Wheel
Branches Everywhere
in Australasia.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Rev. F. W. Cox; who died the other
day, .held the S. Australian record for long service
in one church ; he finished his 40th year with the
Hindmarsh Square (Adelaide) Congregationalists
in 1897. But the State has still one Presbyterian
parsOn who has watched the collection plate go
round in one church for 40 years, and never seen
it full]—R. A. Caldwell, of Mt. Gambier. Vic-
toria has at least one Scotchbyterian with a longer
record than that, and nobody can remember when
Archdeacon M'Cullagh wasn’t at Bendigo. N.S.
Wales’ most famous record-breaker —Dean Cowper
(45 years in the same billet)—died lately, and it is
hard to say who holds the top score now.
A pain in the side or chest can be speedily
relieved if CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM is
at once well rubbed Into the afflicted parts. First
application gives relief,*
DON’T GET THE GLOOMS!
If youjever get “ On the Tank" and need ft
Mental Bracer read
“MORE EX-TANK TALES”
(First published in the New York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable, American. Make a Corpse Laugh.
Tells the funny side of the booze business.
3s. 6d. post paid. American Book Agency, Box 457,
G.P.0., Sydney, or Dymock’s Book Arcade, Sydney.
* rTUIilf
ZEMATONE POWDER JrCIGARETTZS
W^TTTFEFI
The marvellous remedy for ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS end
2/6 per box. Trial box free from Coknford & Co.,
6 Coronation House, Uoyds’ Avenue, Londoa.l j
R. H. Bailey, the Methodist parson who
bearded Dowie in his den when he made an attack
on the Methodist clergy and was hustled out of
the meeting, came to a mysterious end during
Easter week. His horse and buggy were found in
a deep lagoon at Bomgilla, near Albury, and the
driver’s body was recovered shortly after in 10ft.
of water. It is surmised that he was watering his
horse, when it got beyond its depth, and both
were drowned. Is this to be taken as the first
manifestation of a Dowie curse—something akin
to the Deeming curse ?
a
i
fl
111
011
pr
T7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
r ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is "Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palaoe,” ~V3
situated at 60 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
OSes. Proprfattr—QllO. W. EItLXS.
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
u
Ei
E
N
5
T
It Stands to Reason
That a practical, up-to-date man who has always made a special
study of tailoring and men’s wear can give you better results
and better value than any departmental store.
You go to a doctor if you’re sick, not to a
veterinary surgeon, and on the same principle you must go
to a specialist in men’s wear if you expect the best results.
I want you to write for patterns and self-measurement
forms, and compare my selection and values in new winter
suitings.
From 355. 85s.
Suit to Measure,
With “Satisfaction guaranteed or money returned.”
Prize Competition closes April 30th. See The Bulletin,
March 17th, for particulars.
'is;*
■pizMoin-
SPECIALITIES
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
wm
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR.
g
JtSTEvery Bar
weighs 17
Honest English
Ounces, divided
into Six Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN
SLICES. 232
Clarence St.,
Sydney. Elliott
Bros. Ltd, Bris-
bane,sole ag’nts
for Queensland.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
SHARPSHOOTINg
sd
For Sport and V;
By W. W. CREENEft.
HITS THE MARK
180 Passs, 100 Illobtratioks, 1/- Narr.
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNB and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Oatalogues and all particulars on
application to—
O. W. BUCKLAND,
817 Collins Street, Melbourns.
(Greener’s Representative).
Editor Bonython’s eldest son is to be mar-
ried, in Adelaide, on Saturday (April 16), to the
only daughter of ex-Premier and ex-Agent-General
Bray, who died, 10 years ago, on his way back
from England. Bray was once Speaker of the
S.A. Assembly. By a strange coincidence, one of
his predecessors —Speaker Kingston, father of the
Federal member —also died at sea, and he and
Bray were buried in almost exactly the same spot
in the Indian Ocean. Possibly it was exactly the
same spot, and may be Bray’s coffin lies on top of
Kingston’s at the sea-bottom.
An octogenarian, known as “ Crayfish
Dan ” (his proper name seems to have been mis-
laid), died the other day in Warrnambool (Vic.)
Benevolent Asylum. He had lived alone in a
cave for over 30 years. The cave was on the sea
coast, and he had furnished it with a table, a
rough seat, bed, and a few cooking utensils; and
cut a small hole through the rock for the smoke
from his fire to escape. He was often visited by
sightseers, having become a curiosity in the
locality. He was removed to the asylum, much
against his will, when he became too feeble to
catch crayfish.
The State hotel idea is spreading in
Westralia. At the last quarterly licensing sittings
the Government applied for a provisional certifi-
cate for a State hotel at Goomalling. The appli-
cation was opposed on the ground that the appli-
cant, being Minister for Works, and, therefore, a
paid servant of the State, could not be granted a
publican’s license; and that the notices were posted
on a tree instead of a notice-board. The bench held
that a tree was not a notice-board within the
meaning of the Act, and, consequently, the appli-
cation was rejected.
The Age appeared on the Saturday follow-
ing the Melbourne election with a sub-leader
cleverly acceptive of Maloney’s success. Also, an
almost complete report of the doctor’s speech on
the declaration of the poll. But this much was
not reported : —“ And when I think of that grey-
haired old man (Syme), already standing far
within the vale of years, a genius, and author of a
book (Syme’s ‘ Principles of Government ’), the
writer of which I would rather be than ten times
a millionaire, I marvel greatly that such a man
should put his hand to such work ” (alluding to
the Aqb).
!*8
Of** 6,
-o#
5595
?«**
Sv* v
SfSS*.
oW
S*»
r*»T
u*»"
Mi**®
?(.'»-
0*“
\\
M«*!
I
Ds
1
fssfsi 1
1 ~uiv»*' r **®'*:
*W'». io '®r. t n'*-
?£Sgs#
s@ife?r
4w?
w»
03-£
81©
P
Ufc<***
'fcU
t»s»
ftfJ*
esc
ft©
sie»
»*
is!
tz
k«©
tntfr,
it\c»
Of^fv
•aiCS
A
Good
Trio
Sydney Depot
150 Clarence Street


Unswerving Fidelity to Ideals
HAS MADE
Capstan Navy-Cut
FAMOUS.
\
The ideal qualities of PURITY and FLAVOR are expressed in "CAPSTAN
NAVY CUT. Its Strength lies in its Parity—its Quality owes a subscription
to Purity —its Flavor is entirely due to Purity. All its matchless prerogatives
may be reduced to two —PERFECT LEAF and PERFECT MAKING.
“CAPSTAN" NAVY-CUT is
The PERFECT MANUFACTURE of PERFECT LEAF.
MILD, MEDIUM, and FULL. Sold Everywhere. 1, 2 and 4oz. tins.
An incident of Mr. Chamberlain’s recent
visit to Egypt (at Marseilles), showing that Joseph
doesn’t pass it off always :
As he and Mrs. Chamberlain traversed the quay to the
steamer Mongolia a flower-girl asked the statesman to buy
some violets. Mr. Chamberlain tendered a silver coin in
payment, but the flower-girl refused it, saying that it was
a damaged one, whereupon Mr. Chamberlain handed back
the flowers and passed on.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“ J.R.” writes :
The statement quoted (B. 10/3/4) that “ There are not
ten thousand natives of India who, unpaid, and uncoerced,
would hie in defence of British sovereignty,” is true
enough, and would probably be true of the people of any
other country on earth. How many people in Australia
or Canada would die in defence of British sovereignty ?
A great deal of nonsense is talked about the natives of
India, who are of so many different races and creeds that
any co-operation among them would be impossible. They
have never, during the last 900 years, known what it was
to have a native national government. Northern India
was conquered in the beginning of the 11th century by
Mahmud of Ghuzni, who was a Turk, and successive
waves of Turk and Mongol conquest swept over the coun-
try till Sultan Babar, sixth in descent from Tamerlane,
set up something like a stable government, which lasted
till 1857, when Babar’s descendents were removed from
Delhi. The Moslem and the Hindu would never live in
peace together. The former would want to suppress
idolatry, and the latter cow-killing. That, much more
than the British arms, caused the collapse of the Mutiny.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella
DOES NOT SHRINK.
gds
gds
DAY
Mm
IHOINI
gd
For Blouses,
Nightdresses
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
‘ ‘ Bengalla ” writes :
“Rolfe Boldrewood” having informed us that “Star-
light ” is identical with “ Midnight,” the Darling des-
perado, I wish to offer a few remarks about the latter
days of his hero. In the late ’7o’s a poundkeeper named
Kelly, living near Shearers’ Crossing, on the Warrego, was
accumulating young cattle and horses at as rapid a rate
as Jacob did sheep, when he was overseer for Laban. The
police at last arrested him and two others for stealing a
heifer from Hope, of Bemery. The real head of the gang
(“ Midnight ”) escaped, and was being quietly sought for
by the local police. Our camp was midway between the
Culgoa and the Warrego, and into it rode one day two
men whom I easily recognised as the two Murphys, ser-
geant and trooper, from Brewarrina. On their homeward
journey they turned up next day at Whitmarsh’s pub. on
the Bree, about dinner-time. Amongst the diners Ser-
geant Murphy fancied he saw the man he wanted, and,
walking in, quietly arrested him. “Midnight” took his
arrest very coolly, and rode between his captors over the
22 miles of open saltbush country to the banks of the
Darling in the easiest and most unconcerned manner.
They crossed the river on the punt, and, on landing,
Sergeant Murphy rode on into the town, leaving police-
man Murphy to follow with the prisoner. So much had
he ingratiated himself with his guard that his_ request
to be freed from his handcuffs as they rode into the
town was actually acceded to. As they passed out
of the cutting leading up from the punt, they were in the
main street of the town, down which they proceeded,
with the lockup in sight, as far as Cohen’s store. There
“ Midnight,” suddenly detaching his off stirrup leather,
dealt young Murphy a murderous blow behind the ear
with the iron, and dashing through the opening between
the store and newspaper office, galloped madly away along
the Bogan road. A clothes-line behind the paper office
nearly stopped his escape, but it being old, broke without
unseating him. In his next issue the editor expressed
his regret for having used an obsolete clothes-line, and
stated that a new one of wire had replaced it. For some
time the whereabouts of “ Midnight ” was unknown, until
the Dubbo police heard of him at Wonbobbie on the
Lower Macquarie. Sergeant Wallings and a trooper were
sent to arrest him. As they rode up he broke cover,
making down the paddock for his horses. He carried a
light Spencer rifle, and as Wallings closed on him he
stopped, raised the rifle to his hip, and fired. The ser-
geant fell from his horse dead, and “ Midnight” got away
with his horses. He ran the Bogan down to Bemery,
crossed the Darling there and headed up the Warrego,
closely pursued by the Bourke police and trackers. So
hotly was he followed that he had to drop his pack horse
at one camp, and at the next he was mortally wounded
and taken. He was carried to a station on Irrara Creek,
where he died.
The Times of Ceylon—one of the papers
published for the class which kicks our brown
fellow subject out of its path, and then audibly
wonders why Australia doesn’t treat that b.f.s. as
a man and a brother—tells its readers something
about Australian institutions: —
In Australia nearly every beggar and nearly every gaol-
bird have their vote. In addition to this, politics by a
large section of the community is looked upon as a thing
to be avoided, and many men refuse to have anything to
do with Australian politics. The majority, mind I cer-
tainly don’t say all, are quite willing to sell themselves to
the highest bidder. The ruler of Australia at the moment
is a poor creature. His horizon is bounded by the affairs
that interest himself most—the way to get the easiest
work and the most beer. The young Australian is a con-
temptible creature. He is boastful and vain when success-
ful, and howls like a baby if he is beaten. Witness the
test match in Sydney the other day. Could there be any
more pitiable display of national character ? The Austra-
lian is the most sporting people in the world, and the
most unsportsmanlike. The Turf is a fraternity of black-
legs. The Press, too, have a deal to answer for in the
educational line. Take, for instance the Sydney Bulletin,
read very largely by Young Australia. Budding Austra-
lian womanhood is, if there is anything to choose, even
more objectionable than its young male kind. For pure
unadulterated conceit, recommend the young Australian
woman.
Rhymes with
t
«V
3
&
X.
.u.
<
Cv
/
&
r
*>•*
and so does
PEARS


You miss a lot of valuable information if
you don’t read the S.M. Herald. For instance,
on a recent Wednesday :
A simple way of separating two dogs that are fighting
savagely is to give them a sniff of liquid ammonia applied
by means of a sponge or handkerchief to the nose.
Every nice dog will stop fighting while you put
your handkerchief to his nose, or run home to get
a sponge.
“Burglar Bill”: The exercise-yard ad-
joined the “separate” wing, and on Saturday
(“indulgence” day), No. 28, undergoing “sepa-
rate treatment,” threw a cotton line with a bent
pin attached out of his cell window, and fished up
many pieces of “weed,” gifts from prisoners on
tobacco indulgence. One Saturday, he fished per-
sistently, until the prisoners in the yard called
him a greedy hog. “Blime,” said the Spider, as
he put a piece of dirty rag on the line, which was
immediately drawn in, “he must have hooked
about three sticks to-day.” A few minutes after-
wards Warder Clancy appeared at the gate of the
exercise-yard, holding 17 pieces of tobacco in his
hand, and addressed the yard : “You’re not such
a cunning lot of beggars as you think. Some of
you will run short of weed before next Saturday.”
He had put No. 28 into an empty cell and had
fished for an hour himself. The remarks made by
the yard were something extra.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
Simples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
gurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
That old Bulletin contributor, Harry
Stockdale, removes
We were moving house, and having a number of articles
that were easily broken and too big to go in our own con-
veyance (besides a few hives of bees), I waited upon an
old acquaintance who kept horses for hire. He said he
had the very turn-out to suit me. I remarked that the
horse was rather light in condition. The owner said he
wasn’t a good eater, but you couldn’t match him for
pulling, and as it was pulling (not eating) I required of
him, I agreed to try him. We got safely home with the
empty cart, and gave the horse a good feed of crushed
maize and chaff. It wasn’t to his taste, so we let him out
on to a patch of lucerne. He at once showed his appre-
ciation by rolling, then diligently feeding, then again
rolling. Finally, he stretched himself out as if dead for a
little over three hours. If a poor feeder, he was
a great rester. At daybreak the following morning
I again gave him a feed of maize and chaff, but
he scorned it, preferring the green pastures and the
soft, tool ground for his apparently warm limbs.
After a hasty snack I hitched him up. The cart held six
beehives, weighing under 2001 b. ' got in and gave the
“puller” the word of command. He responded not. I
spoke sharply and shook the reins. It failed to move
him. I cracked (he whip, and he leant upon the
breeching;. 1 got out and took him by the head and
patted him, and he sat him gently down dog-fashion
and, looking me steadfastly in the face, proceeded
to extend himself at full length. The wife was looking
on, and suggested taking him out. I did so. (I have
found her advice more than once to be good, especially
when I have neglected to follow it.) As the straps were
undone he heaved a great sigh, but remained on the
ground until I began to think that the course of nature
was nearly run. Eventually he consented to get up,
heaved another great sigh, and slowly made his way to
the lucerne patch. I sent him home in the saddle, as he
positively refused to move the empty cart. His owner
could not make it out, and I assured him I couldn’t
either. Now I have to hire another horse to return the
conveyance, and this time will endeavor to get a good
eater, in the hope that he may at least take back the
empty that my old acquaintance, the “ puller,” left upon
my hands.
A USEFUL ARTICLE.
CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM is a general
family liniment, especially valuable as it cures
lame back, sprains, bruises, burns, and scalds.*
Apropos Rev. Jas. Colwell, who is prac-
tically a new chum, and his coming history of
Methodism in Australasia. The reverend gentle-
man, being a new chum, may not be fully informed
on all the points in the establishment of Wes-
leyanism hereabouts. Therefore he is hereby
informed that some good history might be written
about the days when Consul Pritchard ruled in
Fiji and when all the Methodies dealt much in
oil, did large and very remarkable deals in native
lands, and handed our brown brother a cheap
Bible worth about 4d.
Justice Simpson, of N.S.W. Divorce
Court, proses tiresomely over the practice of
registrars who marry people without exacting
from them a solemn profession of faith or no faith.
He says he has frequently referred the matter to
the “proper official authorities,” but has got no
satisfaction. Justice Simpson holds that regis-
trars can only legally marry when one or other of
the contracting parties solemnly declares a consci-
entious objection to be married by a minister of
religion. But there are any number of cases in
which both parties would prefer being married by
a preacher, only they are unable to agree about
the preacher, so they come to the registrar as a
compromise. In some other cases they have
no conscientious objections > to the preacher,
but the preacher has conscientious objections
to them, based on the fact that they can’t pay
him as much as he thinks a fair thing. To Justice
Simpson, with his large salary and his lofty con-
tempt for money, this may seem a matter of no
importance, but some people want the difference
between the two charges for sordid things like
tables and chairs. Of course, they might postpone
their marriage till they could better afford the
parsonical fee, but there is the birth-rate to be
considered. Apropos, Lord Rosebery married the
gilded daughter of the Rothschildren at a regis-
trar’s office. Neither had “conscientious objec-
tions,” but one objected to the parson and the
other to the rabbi, and they struck a middle
course. Justice Simpson, in his capacity as tout
for the parson, would probably have objected, but
as likely as not Rosebery never heard of Simpson
and has never realised how much he loses by not
hearing of Simpson.
“ Holdar M.” : Be par (B. 31/3/’O4) about
the dentist, his fair patient, and the latter’s sus-
{licious chaperone. A friend of mine who does a
trade in dental repairs asserts that the in-
terior of the human cavity acts as a most effective
chaperone. An inspection of the inside of the
loveliest girl’s mouth suffices to destroy romance
at one fell look.
The fine, free, open-handed traditions of
Australian hospitality have not yet departed.
The Bulletin was invited the other day, by gilt-
edged card, to go up to an undertaker’s to see his
fine new hearse; to drink of sparkling wine in its
honor, wish it success, and promise to patronise it
at the earliest possible opportunity.
BABY SMILES
when washed with
WRIGHT’S w, SOAP
“ Skin soft and comfy, and
no Measles,” he chuckles.
THE NURSERY SOAP
GOOD WATCHES
A Man's Fourteen Carat, Gold Filled.
Keyless, Hunting Cased
Lever Watch for
£6 10s.
And we guarantee the Cases to wear
and look as well as a Solid Gold Case,
for Twenty-five Years.
IN “AS GOOD AS GOLD” CASES
Our 48-Page
Watch Book
is Sent Free
on Request,
THE fIEANING OF THE TERM—
“GOLD=FILLED.”
FEW people correctly understand the meaning of the term “ Gold-filled ” as
applied to our watch cases. Some seem to regard “ Gold-filled ” as a
form of electro-plating—from which it is entirely different. Gold-filled
Watch Cases are intended as a substitute for solid gold, not only in
appearance, but in wear. A Solid Gold Watch Case is valued for its beauty—
for the gold look about it. The beauty and the gold-look are entirely on the
surface. The gold hidden away in the thickness of the case adds nothing
to its beauty, but does add greatly to its cost. To make a gold-filled
watch case an ingot of metal is placed between two ingots of solid 14-carat
gold, and the three are then rolled flat, forming a solid sheet with a thick out-
side of solid gold and a centre of metal. This centre adds strength and lessens
cost, but its presence cannot be detected unless the gold is cut away. It will
be seen that gold-filled has nothing in common with gilding or plating; the
former implying a substantial layer of solid gold, the latter meaning gold
deposited on the base metal article after it is made. Men who cannot afford to
buy a solid gold watch, and men who can afford to, but do not care to run the
risk of losing such a valuable article, are recommended to consider the advan-
tages attached to buying one of these Gold-filled Watches.
8
tlNi];.
THIS IS THE WATCH.
The movement (or works) was made specially for us by the
Waltham Watch Co., and is guaranteed to be a correct
timekeeper. It is a f-plate—jewelled in all the required
actions—has a finely-designed and finished compensation
balance wheel—Brequet hair-spring to counteract the effects
of sudden jars caused through riding on horseback or violent
exercise of any description. We send this Watch free and
safe by post to any part of Australia or New Zealand on
receipt of remittance.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger's Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible ■
Bpqger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere,
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little bcfy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
fcj find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benge: s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


THE
WORLD’S REMEDY
Good Digestion is the founda-
tion of sound health. Indi-
gestion means physical weak-
ness, pain, languor, depression,
and shattered health. To both
cure and prevent it take
HOTHER
Stiai)
&YRUP
“I suffered terribly from indiges-
tion," writes Mr. George Collier,
of 56, Baronia Street, Redfern,
Sydney, N.S.W. " Whatever I
ate seemed to stick in my throat
and caused frightful pains in my
chest. Now, thanks to Mother
i Seigel’s Syrup, I am as well as
\ ever before in my life.”
FOR
INDIGESTION,
CURING
COUGHS, COLDS
If you have a cough or cold do not treat it
with contempt! If you do it will most
certainly get the better of you and lead to
more trouble and illness than you will like to
fight. Always fight small troubles as if they
were big ones. The quickest and surest
method in all cases of coughs and colds is to
take Scott’s Emulsion, which throws
coughs and colds out of the system with a
rapidity that seems almost miraculous!
Scott’s Emulsion is made of pure cod liver
oil than which nothing has ever been found
or invented to have so perfect and curative an
effect upon all diseases of the lungs and blood.
In Scott’s Emulsion cod liver oil is perfectly
palatable. You may think we say this be-
cause we are interested, but read this letter
and see if it does not bear us out :
500 City Road, South Melbourne, Vic.
13th J une, 1903.
Dear Sir,—l am glad to add my testimony
to the efficacy of Scott’s Emulsion. I have
g
dg
had much trouble
with my lungs,
especially in cold,
foggy weather,
and have found
Scott’s Emulsion
wonderfully
beneficial to me,
it having given
strength and
tone to my
system. Its being
so very palatable
and free from all
trace of oil makes
it a great improve •
Mr. Walter Smeatok. ™ ent ?? the pla a
oil, which I was
quite unable to take. Yours sincerely,
Walteb Smbaton.
Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.
If you want perfect Health yourself
or desire it for your children, write
to Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
send -Id. (for postage), name this
paper, and you will receive a free
sample bottle. _ Note this Trade
Mark when buying. Of all chemists.
M
(h
A.
W. H. Browne, Queensland’s trusted
Labor leader, ended his hard battle on Tuesday
morning, when he died in a Brisbane private
hospital from the asthma which had tortured him
for years. Few men have struggled more bravely,
and fewer have made such headway. Bom m
London 58 years ago, he had absolutely no early
advantages. At 11 he was at sea, and presently
passed into the navy. At 21 he began his wander-
ings of the goldfields of Australia—Araluen,
Grenfell, Gulgong, and Hill End ; then on to the
Queensland fields, with a spell in Tasmania—
through Gympie, the Towers, the Palmer,
and finally at Croydon;. never strong, yet
never giving in. An accident in a Croy-
don mine, in which he lost an eye, still fur-
ther reduced his reserves of strength. But he
was full of grit; and in 1893 the Croydon miners
dragged him out, of his local obscurity and sent
him to Parliament, and at every election since
then returned him with increasing majorities. In
Parliament everybody liked him. He never
flinched, but he was always courteous, and
transparently honest and self-sacrificing. On
Anderson Dawson’s retirement he stepped natur-
aily into the leadership; and when Morgan
formed his Ministry, as naturally into a place
there. But a hard, unsparing life had worn him
out, and during most of his six months of office he
was so ill that a man with less heart would have
given in a dozen times. Few men would be more
missed in Queensland politics.
Diarrhoea, in its first stages, can be cured by a
few doses of that pleasant, reliable, and
effective medicine, CHAMBERLAIN’S COLIC,
CHOLERA, AND DIARRHOEA REMEDY.*
Indigestion and Constipation.
A Noksb Pbaises Bile Beans.
Next to advice direct from a physician is that of
a thoroughly qualified nurse. Not infrequently,
indeed, based as it is, on long and careful observa-
tion of innumerable cases, the nurse’s advice is
equally to be relied upon. Nurse Baldwin,
residing at 106 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo,
Sydney, writes : —“You have my heartfelt thanks
for the benefit I have derived from Bile Beans.
About seven years ago my health began to break
up through over-work and worry. My liver was
sluggish in its action, and I suffered with constipa-
tion and indigestion, and finally decline. Several
doctors prescribed for me, but strange to say I
derived no benefit from their treatment. I also
tried several medicines advertised as a cure for my
complaints, but still failed to improve in health.
Bile Beans were recommended by a friend, and
although I had little faith in their doing me any
good, after all others had failed, still, I determined
to give them a trial, and purchased a box. Their
effect was marvellous from the first few doses, and,
continuing the course, I was quickly restored to
health. Since that time I have never been with-
out Bile Beans in the house, and have recommended
them to scores of my patients, and in each case
they have derived great benefit. As for myself I
cannot speak too highly of them.” Bile Beans are
a safe and speedy cure for biliousness, headache,
indigestion, constipation, piles, debility, female
weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood, bad breath,
anaemia, disturbed sleep, loss of appetite, rheuma-
tism, and, in fact, aU ailments that owe their
origin to defective bile flow, assimilation or diges-
tion. At this trying season no home should be
without a box. Bile Beans are obtainable
generally at Is. or 2s. 9d., family size, con-
taining three times the quantity.*
Amusements.
ST. JAMES' HALL, SYDNEY
(CORNER of KINO & PHILLIP STREETS).
SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 16, 1904,
ERNEST TOY, L.R.A.M.,
AUSTRALIA’S EMINENT VIOLINIST,
will give a Violin Recital assisted by
Miss BERTHA DICKENS, Mr. EMILE SUSOMILCH, Mr.
ERNEST TRUMAN, F.R.C.0., & Mr. J. EDWARD SYKES.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES —35., 2s.
Amusements.
CITZCERALD BROTHER S'
CIRCUS. MENAGERIE, HORSE FAIR,
and the OSAKA TEAM of
JAPANESE WRESTLERS.
bblm; o r e f* ark:.
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS I
SUCCESS I SUCCESS 1 SUCCESS!
of
The Team of Wrestlers,
DIRECT FROM OSAKA, JAPAN.
CHEERED NIGHTLY BY THOUSANDS
THEY NIGHTLY CREATE A FURORE.
Another Great Attraction,
DOCTOR GORDON,
STRONG MAN, a Splendid Specimen of Manly Vigor,
who Lilts Great Weights, Breaks Chains by Muscular
Expansion, Carries a Horse up a Ladder, and Lifts the
same quadruped with his teeth.
The Splendid Band led by HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Paling & Co.’s.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, and ALL
HOLIDAYS.
Theatre
T,
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING, TO-NIGHT,
BLAND HOLT
and his
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATION OP DRAMATIC
FAVORITES,
in the Mastodan Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
HAWTREY’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
THE TWO MR. WETHERBYS.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 16. Grand Revival of
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
PRICES—6s., 35., 25., Is. (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
J. M. Barrie’s Bewitching Romance in 4 acts,
THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON,
Interpreted by the
WILLIAMSON DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including
MR. OUYLER HASTINGB.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE,
3YD N E Y
pALACE
Under the Sole Management of
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and EDWIN GEAOH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.
SATURDAY, APRIL 16, also MONDAY & TUESDAY,
WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
WEDNESDAY NIGHT, and THURSDAY and FRIDAY
Only, THE WRONG MR. WRICHT.
§sr PRICES AS USUAL. "@3l Plan at Paling a.
THE MU T OSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
and
OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels.
lAdmission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Great Success of Mr. FRED. RUSSELL & COSTER JOE.
A Success of Enthusiasm, THE TWO BELLS.
Also, THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS.
Splendid Reception of Mr. JULES C RAH AM I and his
World-Astounding Educated MONKEY, DARWIN.
Mr. TOM DAWSON and Mr. JOHNNY JOHNSTON.
Miss FREDA MAHER, Mr. HARRY LEGGETT,
Miss RAY JONES, Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Mr. SAM WILSON.
OPERA HOUSE, MEL BO UR N E
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE MARVELLOUS UESSEMS
and
NAT CLIFFORD.
JENNY CRAY, MAGGIE FRASER, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Miss MAUD BEATTIE.
COONS IN TIIE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD FANIM-.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURN2.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
The Famous Japanese Play,
The Darling of the Gods,
will be presented by Mr. BEERBOHM TREE S
COMPANY, including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT.
-|*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.,
headed by
Miss EUGENE DUGGAN.
in
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
and Until Further Notice,
Mr. CEORCE STEPHENSON presents his
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY
in the Funniest Play Since Time Began,
Mama’s New Husband
One Great Scream, of Laughter.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., and Is.
JUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Price Is. Id. Poi
Post Free.
STEYNE COURT, MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 V-™. *aUy.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES -» TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
Now Attraction*—BlJOU THBATRB, “ BIOTINT,” PERCY A MDLLM. VKRTO.
Island Eureka, Lake Austin (W.A.), having
pretty well knocked the bottom out of its P r ?P
recently hoped to save a collapse by pegging out a new
lease. Unfortunately, the ground pegged was being
worked by alluvial fossickers, who naturaHy objected to
being: fired out; and, as the warden sided with them, the
Eureka must look for salvation elsewhere.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) is levelling the ground pre-
paratory to the extension of its treatment plant to the
capacity of 7500 tons a month. The published reports
from the mine continue to be most optimistic, but, for
some obscure reason, the action of the management
entirely belies the optimism. A wholesale re-sampling of
the mine is taking place, and is being feverishly and
secretly pushed ahead. Whether this is because the
present manager has no confidence in a former one, or
merely wants to satisfy himself that everything 13 right,
or whether he has found that the results from certain
stopes do not confirm the assay results, it is impossible to
say. The Kalgurli has always been a patchy mine. and
the jewel shop of the early days was blown out by one
shot, after being battened up for months. It proved a
complete frost. It is, as has often been reported, very
dangerous to estimate ° ra reserves, except very conser-
Y&tively, in mines of this sort. Under existing circum
stances buyers must beware.
* * * *
Peak Hill Gold Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), out of
which Darlington Simpson made a pot, having long since
exhausted the rich surface deposits of red cement, white
kaolin, and blue quartz leaders, is now crushing stone
from a 15dwt. reef. When Darlington Simpson bought
out the original leaseholders of “the Patch,” as it was
known all over the Murchison, one old fellow, “Tom the
Rager,” who had a third interest in one of the smallest
but richest claims of the lot, stood out and would not sign
the transfer. Simpson cajoled and pleaded; but the Rager
was obdurate. The price originally fixed was £3OOO cash,
and, although Simpson sprang another £7OOO, the
Rager refused to do anything. The co. was floated, and
shares forced up to a big premium. Then “Toppy”
Longden, formerly a smart Melbourne footballer, happened
along. He hunted up the Rager, who was having a
high time in Perth, and got him to sign the transfer in
return for an open cheque for £15,000; so that the old
chap made a clear £12,000 by standing out. Then Long-
den went back to London, and the Darlington Simpson
crowd capitulated and parted with £40,000. Now it
transpires that the co. will have to pay dearly for a couple
of leases just outside its north-west boundary. Murphy’s
pub stood on one corner, and the ground was
never considered valuable, being just off “the Patch.”
Latterly, however, the only reef in that part of the co.’s
property has been traced right into the leases, and nego-
tiations are pending for their purchase. A year or two
ago they might have been got for a song, but with the ex-
perience of Tom the Rager before them the leaseholders
are opening their mouths wide.
* * * *
Princess Royal Central, Norseman (W.A.),
under charge of Henderson, late of Queen Margaret, is
going in for quick development. To hasten things a
10-drill air compressor, previously on the Bank of England
portion of the North Boulder, has been purchased from
that co. The size of the shaft is 14ft. x sft. in the clear,
and it is expected to cut the reef at 600 ft. If this
anticipation is realised, the outlook for the Princess Royal
will be very poor, and shareholders of that co. will be
very lucky if they get back their capital without any
interest.
* * * *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is being
inspected by Hewitson and director Uren, and will be no
better or worse for it. It is reported that the manage
ment has been offered to Hewitson, but it is hardly
likely he will risk the reputation the Ivanhoe
gave him, and the Associated nearly robbed him of,
to take on such a one-horse show as the Junction,
which, as Tub Bulletin has all along said, is a duffer. It
may be remembered that early in 1902 the capital of the co.
was increased by 30,000 shares, which were handed oyer
as fully paid to Dwyer for his leases. Recently the paids
have changed hands at a considerably less price than the
cons., which seems to show that Dwyer hasn’t much
faith in the property.
* * * *
Fraser’s South Extended, Southern Cross
(W.A.), which increased its capital by £25,000 only a year
or so ago, has closed down with a deficit of £4200. The
co. has been working for eight years, and paid one div. of
3d., or £1250, some years ago. Like all Cross mines the
ore is very low grade, and is very poor, indeed, when the
sulphide zone is reached. In fact, no Cross mine has
proved payable beyond the oxidised zone, and Fraser’s
itself was bowled out at that point. It seems unlikely
that work will be resumed.
* * * *
The irrepressible Bewick, Moreing and Co. have
taken over Merton’s Reward (W.A.), the show over which
Charlie Kaufmann and his friend Rothschild made a bad
deal with the canny Fred Merton, ex-counter hand, of
Sydney. A good deal of development has been done
lately ; in fact, quite enough stone is exposed to produce
a few good returns and give the scrip a boost, and let the
Cohens out. Probably the mill will not be re-started until
the market improves, which, judging from the probable
protraction of the Russo-Japanese war, will be in the
distant future. The property contains no proved lode,
but merely a wedge-shaped ore body, which gradually
pinches out.
* * * *
Lancefield, Laverton (W.A.), appears to have
been a remarkably cheap purchase for Bewick, Moreing
and Co. At least Algernon Moreing told a recent meeting
in London that, taking the ore to be worth 30s. a ton, and
the costs at 205., which could probably be reduced to 155.,
the ore in sight showed a profit of £90,000. This is not
bad for a property which was bought for £50,000, includ-
ing equipment. Then Moreing further stated that, if the
lode goes down only as far as the bore-holes, there will be
over 650,000 tons available, which will yield a profit of at
least £325,000. About a year ago 8., M. and Co. took a
six months option of this property, and abandoned the
option after testing the lode by diamond-drilling.
Naturally the vendors, and the publio generally, came to
the erroneous conclusion that the lode was no good at a
depth, and 8., M. and Co. eventually secured the show at
their own price. The mine is equipped with a 20-head
mill, but will shortly have 60-head, as the 40-head mill
from the Euro is being erected on the property. This is a
first-class, up-to-date mill, and will treat some 8000 tons a
month for about 30000 z., and an estimated profit of at
least £4OOO. Up to date the mine has been producing
about 700 oz. monthly, but the new stampers are much
heavier tban the old, and are expected to quadruple the
output.
* * * *
A man from the N.S.W. South Coast writes :
“ Your correspondent, ‘ W.S.T.’(I7/3/’O4), remarks upon
the ‘ small and variable supply ’ of first-class fish in the
markets. He includes garfish. For some weeks past my
agent has been sending me low returns for my consign-
ments, accounting for the same by stating the market is
glutted. For instance, for 11 baskets of garfish, freshly
caught, and packed in ice for market 12 hours later, I
netted the sum of 9s. 3d. For two cases of fine schnapper
I received £1 10s. 6d., and on those two cases paid in
expenses 10s. 6d. —a little more than a fourth of the total
amount they sold for. Surely ‘ W.S.T.’ can’t allude to
the Sydney fish markets ?”
* * # *
Paddington Consola (W. A.) will probably shortly
be abandoned, as the prospecting at 700 ft. has proved the
lode there to be quite as barren as at 500 ft. The mill has
been closed down since November, and, since then, all the
gold won has been from old tailings and slimes. These
are now practically exhausted, and no more returns need
be expected after this month. Possibly the mine may be
let on tribute, as patches of pay ore are still said to exist
in the upper levels, but the mine was so pig-rooted under
a former regime that it is positively dangerous, in places,
to try and get out any ore. The closing down of this
mine will end the troubles of Whitaker Wright’s Standard
Exploration Co.
AT POVERTY POINT.
By the way, the Mutoseope, which was fined for alleged
indecency at Melbourne the other day, advertises that it
is “ under the patronage of the late Pope,” who certainly
had his picture taken for the machine which lets a curtain
of darkness fall just when you are about to find out why
Marie blew the light out. A man should never be photo-
graphed in anybody’s company or for anybody’s machine.
A Pope should never be photographed at all.
The unhumorous songsters of a M.L. choral society
chose “ St. Paul ” as their theme, and an awful barrel of
notes as their tenor. With perfect seriousness they
rendered “Stone him ! Stone him !” after his first song,
and came wearily after the second with “ Take him
Away.” Finally they followed his third solo with
“ Father, Forgive Him.”
Miss Lloyd Hassall, the Maoriland soprano with a
Leipsic training who was brought out by R. S. Smythe at
the Alwyn Ewen kailyard recitals, has been engaged for
several “at homes ” during the Parliamentary session at
Wellington.
Mr. H. R. Goyder sends the playbill of an amateur per-
formance at the School of Arts, Sydney, July 5, 1890,
when Mr. Oscar Asche, now winning his way in London,
played Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Macbeth and Othello in suc-
cession—the programme being made up of scenes from
those plays.
S. Australia’s most brilliant pianist of late years,
Marguerite King, daughter of a former Advertiser pro-
prietor and Minister of Education, has given up her
concert career in London —“ on medical advice ” —and
drifted out to the Cape as a teacher.
A few weeks ago Miss Alice Crawford was reported to
be lying dangerously ill in London. Pneumonia super-
vening on typhoid fever, threatened to rob Bendigo of its
best dramatic daughter and cut short a career. But at
latest dates Miss Crawford was out of danger, and will
shortly resume her place in Wilson Barrett’s co.—
England’s inglorious climate permitting.
Melbourne’s Board of Health has been sniffing round the
local theatres, and drastic alterations are to be made
before their licenses will be renewed. The only one not
interfered with is Harry Rickards’ Opera House. Her
Majesty’s is to have a fireproof curtain, new escapes,
alterations to dressing rooms, and the “ winding” gallery
stairs abolished. Princess Theatre ditto. In the Royal
the alterations are so comprehensive that practically only
the outer walls will remain, and even these will have to
be pierced for new escapes. As to the Bijou and the little
Gaiety Hall, the improvements demanded would mean
re-planning and re-building the whole block of which they
form part. Whether the Board will insist on its require-
ments being carried out to the very end remains to be
seen.
United States theatrical managers have hitherto brought
in ballet dancers under the law which allows people
to be imported under contract provided there is nobody
in the country available to do their class of work ; but the
American Immigration Commissioner, having been to see
some of them do their high kick, now decides that there
are plenty of idle home-grown girls who can kick just as
well, and announces that for the future his department is
going to distinguish between artists and mere high-
kickers, and will shut the latter out. At latest the
’Murkan managers were trying to convince the commis-
sioner that, though the home-grown girl may kick as well,
she hasn’t as much limb to kick with. And the American
Spruce Myths, especially the Myths with bald-heads, who
talk of the infamy of “ exclusive legislation,” were saying
it was a shame, and generally seemed to be hinting that
the law ought to provide for a leg as well as a language
test.
Just to encourage the birth-rate, why does not the
modern ■ melodrama occasionally wind up with a chris-
tening scene ? Wedding bells have ushered the curtain
down in many a play, but never, so far, has the heroine
in the last act appeared with a bouncing baby whilst
the comic relief cracked jokes as he brought up the
christening mug. In very few dramas indeed has the
heroine any children, and when she has they are quite
insufficient. Nellie Denver, in “Silver King,” has two,
which is above the average. There are goodness knows
how many plays in which the heavy agricultural father
throws out his only daughter because she “ went wrong ”
—it is almost always an only daughter. And
the rich squirearchal father of modern drama has only one
son (generally Baker) and consequently the wicked cousin
(generally Albert Norman) is next heir to the muddy acres
and the loot. In comedy the married lady is usually
childless, though there are exceptions. Mrs. Posket in
“ The Magistrate ” had been twice married and has one
offspring. The mother in “ The Amazons ”is the wildly
reckless possessor of a trio, and so is the “ Mother of
Three.” But these are astonishing exceptions. In fact,
Mrs. Posket is above the average. A law that the middle-
aged married lady of the stage must have at least five
children might help to popularise the miserable, dodgasted
birth-rate business.
Apropos actor Samuel Poole, recently deceased. When
the new style of acting pushed Poole and others from
their stools, Sam philosophically went to work as a painter
and paperhanger, and made ends meet thereby.


Specialists for m
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.,
Vhijn i clan-in- Chi cf.
MEN ! REMEMBER THIS!
Ninety per cent, of those
peculiar cases afflicting the
Male Sex, and which threaten Premature Decay of the Nerve System,
followed speedily by Early Death, are cured radically and permanently
by the famous Medical Experts associated with the Professional Staff of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute.
Many Australian men are within Coo-ee of the Grave to-day and are
ignorant of it. Their Vital Strength is fast ebbing away, a continuous
drain upon the Vital Power,
sapping and undermining the
once stout constitution, goes on.
They grow weaker each day,
restless, dispirited, strengthless
and hopeless. “WHAT IS THE
MATTER WITH ME?” the
victim asks. He is in the throes
of an insidious disease as his
Lack-lustre eyes, his Cadaverous expression, his Thin Body and Muscleless
limbs attest. He is but a Burlesque upon Robust Manhood, a Shadow
of a Man afraid of the Society of Either Sex, Lacking Energy and Power
to dll the Mission in Life for which Nature intended him.
When in this condition any man should call or write on the above
famous Specialists, who are Medical Experts in this class of disease, and
who rarely take a case in hand which they do not cure completely. Their
opinions or advice are given FREE, either personally or by letter. Do not
discard your chances. Life is at all times uncertain and disease is an enemy.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institute.
the FREEMAN & WALLACE medical INSTITUTE
One of the greatest Medical Institutes in the World, famous for the great cures it has
effected throughout Australia to suffering mankind, is The Freeman & Wallace Institute,
Sydney, a large Branch of which has been opened at BOTJRKE and ELIZABETH STREETS,
MELBOURNE, opposite G.P.O. Associated with either of these great Health Centres are
Medical Experts of international renown in the treatment of grave Nerve and Blood
Diseases. Each Specialist is under a Bond of £lOOO for the completion of all medical con-
tracts undertaken between Physician and Patient. Cases classed as ‘‘INCURABLE” by
the average medical man, of Insomnia, Hysteria, Epilepsy, Bad Back, Weak Digestive
Powers, Mental Impairment, Dyspepsia, Kidney Trouble, Bladder Inflammation or
Weakness, Varicocele, etc., have been cured in three months. Any man suffering should
send in particulars of his case, A prompt reply will be received in a few days, and all letters
treated with professional secrecy. The Specialists’ Home Treatment System is invaluable.
Over £lOO,OOO bas been
expended upon this Institute
In making it the
Most Scientific in Australia.
The Physician-in-Chief,
DR. R. WALLACE, M.D.,
IS Registered by the
Medical Boards
ot
Australia, England,
and America.
m
fAlit
J
Patients residing in Southern
and Western States
of the Commonwealth
can consult the Specialists
at the
Melbourne Branch,
Corner of Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne,
Opp. Q.P.O.
All Letters are at once
professionally replied to.
The Freeman and Wallace Institute, Sydney.
Some of the Literature Published by the Medical Staff,
ces
Gene
Dise
m
CI MAN kffMAMMi
CONSULTING tffkfffu ll
KIITION. t/fijim ft I i
ms
One Shilling Only.
SUBJECTS TREATED IN THIS BOOH.
Insomnia
Epilepsy
Hysteria
Kidney Disease
Rheumatism
Neuralgia
Sciatica
Paralysis
Heart Disease
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Sunstroke
Apoplexy
Burns & Scalds
Liver Diseases
Throat Complaints
Ear Ailments
Inva'id3 & Care
Wounds & Treatment
Fevers
THIS BOOK CONTAINS 750 pages of instructive
letterpress, 150 graphic anatomical medical plates, 31
chapters upon General Diseases. It is described by the
Australian Press (comprising 200 leading Australian
journals) as “A WELCOME ADDITION TO AUSTRALIAN
LITERATURE.” Anyone desirous of possessing a first-
class medical work, graphic and instructive in every
detail, full of interesting matter for the house and home,
should call on the Specialists at their Melbourne or
Sydney address and secure one. Special chapters on
Fevers, Management of the Sick Room and In-
valids, Sunstroke, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite, Rescuing
Apparently Drowned, Brain Affections, etc., make it
invaluable to country residents where medical men are
few. It may be obtained Post Free on receipt of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch: Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts. copp g.p.0.)
Rev. Dill Macky brought a gleam of Easter
peace to Sydney with the public remark that the
“Roman Catholics were as idolatrous as the
Pagans of the South Seas.” But what about,ihe
Mackyites who worship those hosen calves ?
They know a thing or two in Thibet, after
all.' A Miss Taylor, sister of a missionary who
has been there, states that one day she timorously
attempted to take a snapshot of a “ jogi,” or holy
man. To her surprise the saint at once struck a
pose of complacent piety and “looked pleasant.”
“Jimmy S ” : Be that bulwark of Austral
Slanguage—" Bonster.” It is possibly a corrup-
tion of “ born star.” There are several additions,
one contortion and one abbreviation, the usage of
which is, however, all governed by arbitrary de-
finitions. A “ fair bonus ”is a real trier, a fair
goer, or a bit of a don ; a bonser or bonster is
comparatively superior to a bons; and a bon-
tosher is a real slasher, a fair hummer, virtually a
Cast master. A bonsterina is a female bonster,
ut no female has yet achieved the dignity of a
bontosherina.
“Demos”: “J. A. C.” is wrong in ascrib-
ing old cross-roads burial of a suicide, with a stake
driven through the body, to “barbarism”
(B. 3/3/’O4). The custom was the result of instinc-
tive protest against accepted superstition. Popu-
lar religion taught that a suicide would be resur-
rected to eternal torment, and to baffle the
resurrection angel, suicides were buried in the
place where Gabriel of the Trumpet would be
least likely to seek them. As the corpse might
even then hear the last trump sounded in the
nearest churchyard, a stake was used to pin the
body down. Everyone in those days expected the
resurrection would arrive per schedule.
The cutting up and sale of the Yaucluse
(Sydney) estate revives memories of the insatiable
earth-hunger of W. C. Wentworth, to whose family
the property has for many years belonged. Active
as he was as a politician, a lawyer, and in a sense a
literary man, his wildest energy was shown in the
pursuit of bargains in land. He even went beyond
. Australia. He originated the first great Maori-
land land grab, and only for the firmness of
Governor Gipps the whole of Seddon’s territory
would have been tacked on to Yaucluse. Went-
worth solemnly professed to have bought the lot.
As it was, he had 20,000,000 acres of Maoriland
transferred to him, having, as he declared, on
affidavit, bought it from the Maoris. He paid at
the rate of 3d. per 100 acres But Gipps spoilt
that game also.
.There are a few parsons who, unlike
Bevan, are not sold, body and soul, to the Rich.
Rev. H. Kelly seems to be one of them. At a
meeting in Melbourne to form a clerks’ union,
Kelly had something to say about “business”—
that wonderful Joss of the Fatman—in this
fashion
The olerks were agitating to be treated like human
Deinn. The phrase “ business is business ” was used as if
it settled all difficulties once and for ever, but sometimes
business was crime. To those who took the view that
there was no room in it for humanity he felt inclined to
say, Your business is not business ;it is slow murder, it
is immorality. You are grinding the faces of the poor.”
A great deal had been heard of the decline of the birth-
rate and the tremendous loss of population that had
occurred. Sometimes the business-man was to be held
responsible for the undesirable social conditions with
which everyone was familiar, and the treatment some
business-men meted out to their employees drove them to
immorality and a form of life which was not desirable.
Uusinesß must be conducted in the financial, social, and
moral interests of man.
It is full time Parliament interfered with
the testimonialising of top-notch public servants
on their retirement from duty. It may be difficult
to get at the beneficiary—if he has retired it may
he impossible ; but it should be possible to frame
a clause that would rap the knuckles of toadies
who circularise the members of the beneficiary’s
department. The toady should be subject to
penalty making him walk a certain distance on
all-tours along the tram-line might do—and the
subscribers should also suffer. The latter should
be compelled three days running to eat their
lunch sitting on the edge of the pavement opposite
their offices, with the subscription list which was
the source of their offence hung on the adjacent
humbug to maintain that because
iNabob M. is retiring, or has just retired, his influ-
ence for reward or punishment is over. It isn’t.
A word from him is still powerful. And even
though he died when the testimonial was handed
W> L. who succeeds him has a list of the
loyal men before him, and sees in a dense
background the irreverent radioals who refused to
bow down before the seat of the mighty. And he
may hanker after a similar testimonial himself in
due time. Parliament alone oan kill the rank
imposture.
Burglar Bill . The movements of a gaol
governor are more closely watched than those of a
hrst-grade anarchist. The moment he sneaks out
ot nis office with a dim idea of catching a warder
w 66 ?’ °™ a £ an £ prisoners playing leap frog,
Warder Clancy, on “Number One” post, signals
he information to Warder Hooligan, on “ Num-
ber Iwo, and the news flies round the gaol like a
Marconigram under full steam. The whole gaol
straightens itself up with a bang, and the governor
nds the screws ” waiting to receive him, while
tne prisoners are working like circular saws. Then
e goes back and in the silence of his office asks
himself if he is a greater fool than he looks, or
wnat, while the gaol slackens speed and calls the
governor De Wet and other nicknames that
express contempt for his surprise tactics.
“ C.” from Maoriland :
a A P ers . on ° f dismasted mind, from Scotland or some
sucn foreign-tongued place, dodged the Maoriland undesir-
al?,ts la , w a cou P le of months back, and has
“yea Wlth reluctant relatives in the place which I
. ? r Wlt lm 7 presence. The particular rat in the visi-
-8 arret 18 the bequest by England’s monarch of a
anTtw.i money, a golden sword, the crown jewels,
d K he c fc ! e of ord High Porkchop or something, and
sits daily u P° n the doorstep of the local
name of M.L in expectation of arrival of the different
? ne da / badgered manager sent the royal
t ?u the newly-opened rival bank, with an
w ™ ce t bat the money and sundries would be paid
•tvhnu, ” e ret, ’rned with a sufficient written authority,
ch" ; l";f. 0n ! y " btainab,e across the way. The man in
ban . k f °,- 2 > appalled at the situation, wrote an
h nva i to Promptly deliver to the lunatic the
f a , nd ? em s aforementioned, signed it with a
his hieroglyphic, and sent the accursed one back to
£IP-™ .Manager of bank No. 1 in vain in-
£2* if 2' vard ' n - 8 Pal that the authority was insuffi-
bis £ ave^ he official three minutes to produce
rffvw lu semaphore and his silver gridiron-with hor-
w e £ natlve - .fortunately, the local barber
i fc h , e^ e >, an .d interested the maniac in a proposal
wh h, CtnClty in his fowl-house-fowls to wear red-
U»le»for » Ie » f o r the double purpose of pro-
color with 6 tht yeSl?h * and of P rovl ding eggs of patriotic
s i morning coffee. The demented one left
and Parritnh J or , the n eareB t port, en route to Sydney,
anH n< th an i d th p. two bank managers, the local
hands At ton nf h ?h lUnatlC 8 rela «ves solemnly shook
bethought hf™ P ? f ,. th ?. r ange, however, the King's friend
sceptre anH rhPf P' S dl f lmond baton and his electroplated
cider in the escort > who were engrossed with
the return ° f re f resh ment room, jumped into
town ThP hf a l ’ and restored himself to this afflicted
when J^ nag ?v fell overhis enemy in the P°rch
zzs&uzsggzsr**- H ' <th,


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having' imposed a tax
on every r .ve Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
of One Fenny
and after Ist
for each ss.
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 11,50,000 at 5/1 each.
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE or WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tiokets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY" CO, or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING t REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA 06 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
y
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Sweep, 6tC.
For all information regarding Hates, Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OTP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A .Lady in London,
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
BELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
"■Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
vours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I wed your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.— P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Tour Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another boule in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD. Trinkev. via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I hare used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com*
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I *m very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales." •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
look made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
'* The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchit'l
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr.. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony- .
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 39
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose ouc
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quits
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.'*
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result tha'j
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely lefi
me. We are now never without the medicine in tha
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of you|
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEAR ME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
BRANCH ° E ", : - Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size. 2s 6d I Larare. 4s 6d. Sold bv Chemists and Medicine Vendors Forwarded bv Post to anv Address when not obtainable Locally*


k.jm
Clean your Homes, Wash your Clothes.
You can make every article white and clean with Sunlight Soap.
This soap gives better satisfaction than any other soap because it
is pure and possesses a cleansing power that ordinary laundry soap
does not and can not.
Clean home, clean clothes, are indispensable. You can make
everything in the home spotlessly clean with
ShnughtSqsp
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white aud won't injure the hands.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY.
A.
ing from uric poisoning? 1 ” 1 ! shall be°gkdif' b? my d ° ctor that lam suffer-
Berious matter ? & y 1 tell me just what uric poisoning means. Is it a
blood °f vsrious substance. which should
tion of the kidnevs Whpn th» virinour these substances is due to a diseased or inactive condi-
of the average individual about three P erfe ° tl y■ they filter and extract from the blood
dissolved vafious v»steJXi, pZSd bv "he wear Ind Tekr S ‘l™ 9"““? » f “™» should be
dead matter, and its presence in the Mood S™, T ,« , , *’ S ,” eS ot ‘ he b ° d ?- This is
tain about ten grains in weight of urio acid i * hre ® Pints of normal urine should con-
matter v.ryin/from . thirTof an Sc“c to’ntarij an ounce”' tofrett " “ h °‘ h " *““>■ “ d
complaints mentioned could trouble us a, the poisrs r woSd KL‘i” OU ® hl^, • n °° 6 **"
that^he„ h l”oM“ tfferiu7from 9 S£mXra he <£t e °irr tio ? ° f “? “”?*• 1 »W
Gravel, Stone, Bladder T?oublea An»!£k V B "’- Liunbavo, Sciatica,
kid d „is“ ,I ° n ' ‘ he ““ mBthod ° f ™ld “.o y dir^r"‘a. n a.e H ptfe»lfor th”
Th.Kd„ E 4»mL£™“^‘^A w St^tw^St" d r m T,”s oor »““ b » eff “^-
production of poison, in the body, or the patient mjit “ to remove the daily
* w de>i *» *> *.
disorders from which we suffer? ‘ the kldne y a are the chief cause of most of the
work done by the kidney 7 when anythin^iV^ie°m u S ?- loselj f associated with the
always directly affected, and the contrary is likewise t™« Tnll r lth fche . llver tke kidneys are almost
made from the blood. Two or three noiL<, nf Kfnf® *?* 1 i Ilver various substances are actually
from the blood, converts ™into and s^orefif ® Very d^' u The Kver takes sugar
the blood, gradually, as the latter requires ’enrichment fc ° J 3 ® able to . a S alu supply it to
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble andTh«'l,vl. h i 1 j* , chan .&® s ? nc acid . which is
which have lived their life and areleful no longer. 1V r also deals Wltk tk e blood corpuscles
reason to suspect thatlither*organs Tot doing* its"lVkTfficf 7 t 1 d ’ 1 ffather that if there is
employed which would act equally upon the kidneys ancTSver ?® 7 ’ * curatlve a * ent should be
covery of that faCb whicb lead to the dis -
men, knowing that if they could find a medicine whfeh wo?,M t hirt y years ago, certain medical
hver they could control most of the common borders devoid 7 aff + ect alike the kidneys and
wTr ed7 '> After many disappointments, their efforts were rewarded S?! ■' Search f , or such a
>V arner s Safe Cure was Droved fr* nnucouo ft n • j “warcieci, and a medicine now known aa
Safe Cure has a marvellously stimSn j pr °£ ert ! es in fullest degree. Warner's
by restoring those vital organs 7 to health and activity b ° th th ® kldn «y s and liver, and
retention m the blood of urinary and bilia^poisons^such^ > J cures all disorders due to the
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
Eve,, Briffht'a Diaeaae, probably tho most fatal of all do***™, yfeld. to treatmeat by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
thovl.rlSS" 0 ' U ‘ h “ °“ r “ aff “ ,9d * Waruar’a Sate Coro ara pormaaeot .haply beoauso
In My Garden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE in my garden I both serve and rule—
And in this my school
The plants do grow as well-trained
blossoms should,
And bud me payments from their swelling wood.
My service to the canna and the sunflowers sold,
Is paid in gladiate purple and in gibbous gold ;
The generant sap pursues the bud from out the
trees—
And the bees give thanks to the gardener, and the
gardener blesses the bees.
The brown boronia’s scent strikes memory as some
old tune—
I tended them in June—
And now their chevroned stalks do bow and bless
me,
Their cylinders grow pathward to caress me ;
Though death comes to them soon.
Ere yet the Summer is, their bloom is gone,
And dead their demi-tint and semi-tone.
Hark to the thrush’s chant-royal, the bees’ sestina
and the bell and blow,
And here the world’s as old as it has taken these,
my flowers, to grow ;
All the bouvardias roll their waxen seas—
And the bees give thanks to the gardener, and the
gardener blesses the bees !
The brown good bee flies o’er the failing gate,
In fear that he’s too late
lo take the pollen from one gorgeous blossom,
And carry it into another’s bosom—
That each ingerminate;
The clamant flowers and the accordant bee,
As I bless them so do they honor me ;
And the seed’s rostel in the dark earth set,
Doth bless me for its chance, and deeper yet
It strikes into the clay and doth it seize—
And the bees give thanks to the gardener, and
the gardener blesses the bees.
And all the flowers bloom their best that I may
praise;
The jewelled cups they raise*
Craving applause, though with a sweet pretence
That they would bloom as fine had they no audience
through the September days.
Dear poets these, whose careless rhymes are flung,
Alike men’s verse, to them whose hearts are young.
iear the courtships of the grasses and the order
U 1 all their captains in the serried border ;
The grading of each blade full green-full true-
Ihat I, their emperor, may their ranks review;
And I do know the dependent gratitude of all my
trees—
The bees giving thanks to the gardener, and the
gardener blessing the bees.
And my good guest, the Spring Wind, sings and
calls,
And ruffles on the gardener’s virginals,
ike some swart Florentine who uses song
lo bring him unto her he loves for long.
A .flash of butterfly is on the walls—
The daisies round the rounded plot are set
lo give my garden a white carcanet;
looming as if they*d never bloom again—
lving, like love, their all, and suffering pain
Because they have not more to give beside,
oommg again, like love, and never satisfied.
Here is all Cosmos in the grasses’ sheaf
And many systems on one sessile leaf,
;d er ® “ ' tbe hei ff ht of worlds—the depth of seas !
".the bees give thanks to the gardener, and
the gardener blesses the bees.)
Challenging to war of color the clear sky
Are my transilient convolvuli.
Not mere pen-fancies these—’tis truth that flows—
l read it in the rubric of the rose
And the anemone.
As I believe their tales they compliment me,
. n ' v ien b Praise a bud another’s sent me—
Another flower is born to the applause
to prove my garden’s interdependent laws ;
And tho I die like them, Spring shall come soon
And call on us to glow again at noon !
sbab come the flowers and me to
And bid us break our hulls and refloresce !
And thus new energies upon the garden seize—
J-he bees givmg thanks to the gardener, and the
gardener blessing the bees.
no.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Beer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~ArTOBODY had spoken for five minutes.
X 1 “That reminds me,” said Bill, “of a
*• ‘f re 6 l had in town once -” He gazed
reflectively at the camp fire. “ Landed in the city
with a fat cheque, and had a fair go-in for a week,
tmt away with my swag one mornin’, stone broke.
wTV gC V fewmiles ou t, stopped to have a
_ „ , at “ y foot ’ that was hurtin’ me. When I
pulled off my sock, found a quid-note stickin’ to
L S'? W3 f a P ub ‘ “ si^ht ‘ 1 think that was
the most loveliest beer ever I tasted.”
Like me and my cobber,” said Jim. “ We’d
fairmisrm? *he pub. for hours one night,
£ as Pin for a tiddly. There were a, Inf nf
'longside the ZntTfed Tom
feLd the W* " 1 °? 0 among ’em? w"
through straws fiit\ and suck ? d . some hquor
Went back te iV,o b * wa f aw ful slow work.
Made un our ndrX mp and a kerosene-tin.
beer when the d i-T* would have lashins of
If 61 wnen tne pub. lights went out We lav in
mrlor^n& ld O,? e K 4 JSeTtfi
ff was a frostv nie-hf bai J el was right underneath,
hourf Soon Iftc? iL r d v.T e dld a P erish for two
uptoth^ramhdi the hght went out we sneaked
but the full one wee gone! ffoSgS ™ e there '
..IhtZ h 6 6" fv er ” began Jack.
We ve put m poor time this month. Won’t
be much left for beer after the tucker bill is paid,’
said Tom, with a sigh.
A painful silence followed this ill-placed remark,
* * *
Two or three days after pay-day, when the bush
contractor inquired after his men at the shanty,
he was informed that Bill was shickered ; Jim had
got the toddles; Jack was blind paralytic; Ned
had the blue rabbits; Andy was beer-pinked;
lom was rotten, blue-mouldy, crawling drunk;
Sam had got the white ants; Mick was painfully
sober; and Charlie was dead to the world.
R.S.A.
Johnny Rooney’s Stockade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FEAT on his back, long legs extended and
hands clasped beneath his head, Johnny
Rooney basked in the sun, and expostu-
lated with his Uncle Tommy,
“ Phwat should Oi be worukin’ forr? Sure,
the wash is clane cut out. What wud Oi be doin’
till the wather comes ? Regor ! Uncle Tommy,
it’s a dale foiner to be sthretchin’ in the sunloight
here than to be beltin’ cemint below in the droive.”
Tommy Rooney leaned on his shovel and sur-
veyed the new-chum’s long, ungainly limbs ; then
sniffed contemptuously,
. A few paces from Rooney’s shaft was the daily-
increasing dirt-stack of the ‘ ‘ sailors’ ” claim. The
“sailors” were four men, strangers in the district
who had pegged-out the adjacent block and
bottomed on gold. A dispute as to whether
Rooney’s party had transgressed their boundary
led to a fight before it was settled. Rooney met
the sailors’ champion in a five-round mill, and
triumphed. Relations had remained hostile since.
Rooney’s mates, Wilson and Granger—the wash
having cut out—had gone prospecting until the
rain should come. Rooney watched the wash
with judicious care, and let it be understood that
he considered it unsafe while the sailors remained
m the neighborhood.
Besides sustaining his part in the feud Tommy
Rooney found relief from combating the indolence
of his nephew. What could he find for the
omadhaun to do ? A thought struck him.
“Johnny,” he said, solemnly, “do ye want to
be rabbed iv yere hard arnings ? ”
~ “ Augh ! thin Oi do not,” yawned Johnny in-
differently.
“An’ what’s to prevint thim sailors beyant
there, now an’ agin, whin we’re aslape, thrans-
f errin’ a little now, an* a little agen. an so an ”
“ Divil a thing ! ”
“There’s only wan thing that’ll check ’em—if
ye’ll do ut, Johnny !”
“ Ov coorse Oi will, Uncle Tommy.”
R\ a barruclcade we must build, Johnny,
loxke , °bomemen makes about their camps.
We 11 hoide timptation frum the sight ov um.”
k or the next three days Johnny was kept busy
constructing a huge brush-and-sapling fence about
the precious heap, and then was able to contem*
plate the finished work with satisfaction.
- That night, on being awakened “to go an’ take
a squint at the hape,” Johnny remonstrated
„ “What are ye talkin’ of ?” asked his uncle;
sure the barruckade was o’ny to kape ye from
doyin’ o’ dhry rot.”
Johnny went out with the old single-barrelled
fowling-piece. His uncle turned over and was
going to sleep, when he was startled by a shot
ihen Johnny rushed in. He had dropped the
gun in abject funk.
“ Oh ! me God ! Oi’ve kilt a man !—Oi’ve kilt a
man ! ”
“Fwhat did ye do ? ” said Tommy.
“Oi saw something white pullin’ at the bar-
ruckade; an’, ses Oi, ‘lf ye’re a man, spake ! ’ an’
then it kem at me, an’, thinks Oi, it’s a sperrit
an let droive, an’ he fell, groanin’ terrible, agin
the barruckade.”
Tommy got out of bed, put on his clothes, and
made his way to the fence, followed by the new-
chum. .Two men with a light were stooping over
something on the ground.
«> wI S i* xi at /, ou > If oone y ? ” asked one of them.
W hat the blazes have you been up to now ’ ”
“Praise God ! ” said Johnny, “ It’s only 'a cow
afther all.”
“R’s old Cleary’s best cow—isn’t that bad
enough . What did you think it was ? ”
“Oi thaht it wuz a goahst firsht—an’ thin
whin it went down, groanin’ horrible, Oi thaht
twas wan o’ ye sailor min.”
“ Howld yer whisht! ” said his uncle. “ You’re
roight, Brownwell; ut’s wan o’ Cleary’s cows.
It n mean foive or six pounds, Johnny.”
“All on account o’ this ’ere stockade,” said the
other sailor.
“ Raith, but Oi’m glad ’twasn’t wan o’ ye,
alther ahl; aven if ye wor thryin’ to break the
nnce and stale the wash.”
“So the fence was built for our benefit?” said
Brownwell.
“ Och, take no notice of the omadhaun,” said
iommy.
“’Dade thin, uncle”
“Go to bed!” roared Tommy. “An’ moind
me, Brownwell, if ye want to be conthrairy, Oi’m
not the man to howld off ”
<l m h l well, no matter >” said Brownwell. “But
fence’’ SOITy GnoUgil yet that y° u built that
~ j. later the sailors announced
that their dirt had cut out, and that they were
going to wash. As no rain had come meanwhile
they had to cart the stuff to Bailey’s washing-
plant, about half a mile away, and pay for the
water Magnanimously they gave the job of cart-
ing to Tommy Rooney. “YVe might as well be
fnends, now that we re going away,” said Brown-
well. Thrue for ye,” said Tommy. But to
J ohnny he sneered at; the sailors’ want of foresight
m not waiting for rain. °
A week after the sailors had washed-up and
departed the rain came down in a deluge. The
dam was full in no time, and the prospectors, Wil-
son and Grainger, came back.
“ What silly business is this, Rooney?” asked
Grainger, when he saw the big fence.
“ Faith,” said Tommy, “Oi had to kape the
byemplyed. Grainger laughed. “Is that it?
X ’ th , e s °oner we get to work the better.
Johnny, knock down that fortification of yours.
Rooney, you and I had better have a look at the
washing plant. Wilson sent Johnny for an axe,
sfmitht’n Just T>?1 U start . on this Eureka stockade
straightaway. 111 superintend. ”
n teS lat ® r > linger and Rooney down
at the dam heard Johnny’s voice “Och ' nob i
Uncle Tommy ! Uncle Tommy ! Ws WffSn
knockin’the head uv me !” vviison
What’s that!” said Rooney, and, followed bv
Grainger, he ran to the stockade. Johnny was
sitting on the ground with the blood running fS
Wilson was standing in front of lfim
» f f d r f °? nd -f' S To , mmy Rooney rushed at him
m a fury of family indignation, and in a moment
thev were rolling over and over in the m U £
Grainger pulled them apart with difficulty.
‘‘What’s up with all of you?” he shouted to
J ohnny.
• “ Lo ° k tkere >” said Wilson, indicating the hole
m the barricade. Some dirt had fallen since the
fighting began. Wilson took the axe and pushed
“ fP ar k Underneath was a shell of timber.
rv The h ® a P>” Wilson, “is hollow.
U yer see ? Them bloomin’ sailors made a tunnel
mider it. No wonder they were in a hurry to wash
Do you see it?”
Tommy Rooney stared at it blankly : “An’Oi
Ca f??r m ® OWII durt for. them blaggards to wash !”
Yer did, yer bloomin’ numskull! Yer picked
a row with them in the first place, so yer couldn’t
go near their shaft or know what they were up to.
1 hen yer built this here stockade to help ’em keep
tne heap from caving in ; an’ then yer carted yer
own dirt and helped ’em wash it! What in crea-
tion have yer to say for yourself ? ”
Without reply ftooney walked away. There
were no words equal to his disgust.
G.R.


PEOPLE WHO WORK
It is the constant strain
of everyday duties that
makes backache and lame
back for both men and
women. The salespeople,
standing on their feet for
hours at a time, reaching to
high shelves, and lifting
heavy rolls of goods; the
housekeepers in the house
with their thousand-and-
one duties crowding upon
them; the woman in the
rush and bustle of business
life— is it any wonder that
they get tired ? Is it any
wonder that aching backs
tell the story of sick
kidneys ?
The kidneys were never
intended to stand hard
strains. When they have
more work forced on them
than they can take care of,
backache comes, and lame
back, headaches, rheuma-
tism, irritable, nervous
“Every Picture
tells a Story.”
m
s
/
*^s
feelings, and urinary troubles. And after a while, if help
isn’t sent to the suffering kidneys, Diabetes, Dropsy, or the
dreaded Bright’s Disease develops.
But there is a cure for every form of kidney trouble,
a sure, never-failing cure—
DOM'S Back* Buy A
—the one remedy that is absolutely certain; and there is
plenty of proof of this here in our own city.
SYDNEY MAN CURED.
He suffered from Weak and Diseased Kidneys.
Cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Mr. James Higgins, Epsom-road, North Botany, this city, says:
“ Sometime ago I was taken badly with kidney trouble. I don’t know
what caused it, unless several accidents were to blame. I consulted three
doctors, and underwent treatment, and each one failing to do me good
advised me to go into the hospital to undergo an operation. They said my
case was almost hopeless, and that the operation was my only chance of
recovery, as one of my kidneys was in a thoroughly diseased condition.
Up to this I had taken medicines of all sorts, the empty bottles alone being
worth a considerable amount. I was in such pain and misery at the time
that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in the back, giddi-
ness, and headache, and scalding urine. I was completely done up, and
scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the operation,
and I actually came to the day it was to be performed, when a friend of
mine asked me had I yet used Doan’s Backache Kidney. Pills. He told me
of the case of a friend of his who was in as bad a condition as I was when
he started using this medicine, and these Pills cured him thoroughly—and
for good. I postponed the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned to work, and the men
there could not believe that the change they saw in me would ever have
been possible. There is no doubt it was wonderful. I was not then quite
cured, but was as fit for work as a man could be. I continued taking the
pills, and have been splendid ever since. I am now quite recovered, and
advise all kidney sufferers to use this medicine.”
Be sure you get
the genuine
DOAN’S,
like your neigh-
bor had.
d
ill
gd
They are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s.
9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Poster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure they are Doan’s.
ITCHING PILES CURED.
Mr. J. J. Gannon, 108 Denison-street,
Newtown, says:—“ I have been bad with
itching piles for a good many years. It was
only itching piles at first, but after a time an
itchiness of the skin seemed to come from it,
and I had an itchiness to bear in more parts
than one. Between the two my torture was
terrible at times. I tried everything to get
rid of it; was treated by doctors and
chemists, and tried everything obtainable
that was recommended for itching skin
troubles. Some time ago I resolved to try
the remedy which cured Mr. Gilliver —I
knew Mr. Gilliver, and knew that he was
not the man to make a false statement, and
if he recommended a thing it must be good—
so I got the remedy which cured him, Doan’s
Ointment. It did me good soon after I
started using it; and by the time I had used
six pots I was quite cured. It is now three
months since I used the ointment, and I’ve
not had any signs of the piles and the skin
trouble since. It is my opinion that Doan’s
Ointment will cure anybody of Itching
Piles.”
Mrs. Gannon confirms the above:—“ It is
two years ago since my husband made the
above statement. lam pleased to say that
he has remained free of the piles and itching
of the skin ever since. It is wonderful the
way the Ointment acted. We have had let-
ters from different parts of the State asking
if it is correct, and we have replied to each
letter advising the use of Doan’s Ointment.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will cure
them absolutely. But don’t take the manu-
facturer’s word for this, ask Mr. Gannon.
He knows, for it cured him, and he lives here
in Sydney. Is not that the best possible
kind of proof ? Could there be better ?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
The Last Heathen of Aneityum.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Island of Aneityum
Is in the Southern Seas ;
There dwelt of old the natives
In naked Pagan ease.
Small need had they to labor
In order to be fed j
The soil grew yams and taro,
The trees bore fancy bread.
No bell rang in the morning
To summon them to toil;
No sound of early traffic
Their beauty-sleep did spoil;
But, light of heart and careless
They lived from day to day ;
They had no debts to settle,
No tailors’ bills to pay.
And, when they felt the need of
Variety of food,
They briskly seized their weapons
And went into the wood.
Their dinner might be dining
Himself, or gone to bed ;
They stole upon him softly,
And clubbed him on the head.
For empty Fame and Glory
Be sure they battled not —
They fought for Home and Larder,
For Oven and for Pot.
Their appetite was healthy,
Their palates were not cloyed ;
Without the aid of sauces
Their foemen they enjoyed.
Then came the Missionary
To spread the Tidings Glad,
And soon those careless Pagans
Were saved, and very sad.
The hands that wielded war-clubs,
And gathered in the loot,
Were kept at planting taro
And digging arrowroot.
They scraped it, and they washed it,
And drained is into jars;
And it was sent to England
For sale at church bazaars.
The pious folk in England
They gazed on it with glee,
As proof of the diffusion
Of Christianity.
“ Behold,” they said, “ these Heathens,
Who neither toiled nor spun,
Have felt the noble rapture
That springs from labor done.
“ They’ve learnt the blessed lesson
That life is not a play,
But just a time of trial
Wherein to work and pray.
“ They’ve learnt to live and labor
In peace, and so to die;
They’ve learnt to love their neighbor
Not only in a pie.”
Of old, in that fair Island,
One scarce could throw a clod
Without the risk of giving
A black eye to a god.
For gods were then as thick as
Bananas on a tree;
The Missionary chivvied
Them all into the sea.
Yet there is one old Heathen
Still faithful to the last
To all the grim traditions
And legends of the past.
To his old gods dethroned
He will not say good-bye ;
He eyes the toiling Christians,
And scorn is in his eye.
For he is well provided
With Kai-Kai of the best;
Six days he does no work, and
The seventh takes for rest.
The Missionary labors
With zeal, and pious art,
And rice, and cabin biscuit,
In hope to change his heart;
And dear old British ladies
The Lord would fain cajole,
And humbly crave that He will save
This poor old savage soul.
And still that grim old Heathen
Lives at his wicked ease
In the Island of Aneityum,
All in the Southern Seas.
N.S.W.
CBEEVE ROE.
Carlton (Melb.) possesses a Layabout
Club, which meets at the Apple Tree Hotel,
Faraday-street. It sounds like an off-shoot of
the Waddy Push, but, judging by the fact that
it lately farewelled a departing member with a
valuable present, it may be a harmless but
eccentric combination of persons with a stake in
the country.
Maoriland prohibs. are exercising their
power for all they are worth. When Judge Chap-
man visited Invercargill for the first time recently
the local wigged fraternity gave him a banquet,
and Bung applied to the licensing committee for
•an extension of the closing hour for banquet pur-
poses only. Committee, however, refused point
blank, and Chapman was a very angry Judge
when he appeared in the papers as a person who
wanted to drink after hours. When Premier
Seddon was dined at “no-license” Balclutha,
same week, he made friends of the mammon of
Cold Tea by declining to allow any grog on the
table. And the sight of the jovial crowd which
had assembled for a “ right good time ” once in a
way, drinking the local water supply and other
; adulterated matter, was remembersome.
Redberg's Mate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Redbkrg was the best tree-climber in Ngatapu,
where grow the biggest kauris in the whole of
Auckland, and he got more gum than any other
man in that great bush. But Redberg was a
brute —so Alice, his wife, declared to Jarkins, his
mate, and Alice ought to know.
Redberg’s hut was set at the foot of a gully that
opened to an arm of Rerewai Harbor. A clear
creek tumbled over boulders crimson with scented
lichen, and over rocky ledges golden green with
mosses. It ran under arches of ferns and screens
of trailing munga munga, and within a stone’s
throw of the hut leaped 20ft. or more sheer into
the salt tide, where Redberg’s boat swung and
sheered continually with the swirl of fresh and
salt water currents. This hut, save for the Maori
whares down by the Heads, was the only habita-
tion in many square miles of Northern Maori -
land; and besides Redberg and his wife Alice
there was only Jarkins, Redberg’s mate.
Redberg had chosen Jarkins for a mate because
it requires two for tree-climbing, and because
Jarkins could tell stories and play divinely on the
concertina, and he loved these things as much as
Alice his wife loved them. But Jarkins had told
stories to Alice which Redberg had never heard ;
and Alice—well, Alice had confided in return that
Redberg was a brute. Women are free of speech
on the gumfields, and Alice was not so gentle as
her name. Without Jarkins’ music and Jarkins’
stories the place would have been dull enough to
send a woman mad— especially such a woman as
Alice.
A trading cutter was the only store and the
only communication with the outer world. Once a
month it brought them tinned meats, tea, sugar,
whisky, and such like necessaries, and took away
their gum, and whenever the cutter came Redberg
got drunk, and continued drunk for many days.
And whilst he was drunk Alice raged and called
him a brute, and Jarkins consoled her with tales
and music. One day, when Redberg was not so
drunk as he appeared, he heard Jarkins tell a
story which seemed to bear an air of truth. It was
of a sum of money accumulated by Jarkins, of a
little farm down by Auckland city, and of some
one who would make that farm a rural paradise
if only a certain brute was out of the way.
Redberg laughed with low cunning when he
heard this story, and planned a surprise.
The next time the two went out together,
Redberg’s tomahawk fell nigh a hundred feet, and
whizzed by Jarkins’ head as he stooped to spear in
the pukau. Another time a fifty pound lump of
gum, falling nearly as far, actually bruised his
shoulder. And Jarkins told Alice that he believed
Redberg meant to kill him.
A week later Alice whispered to Jarkins: “He
has taken your money; it is in his pocket now.
Watch him. If he killed you he would leave me
here alone. Oh, if only he would fall! ” and she
looked Jarkins full in the eyes.
• • * •
Jarkins and Redberg pushed out along a narrow
ridge, the apex of the coastal hills, thickly clad
with dense forest. In the green gloom of the
undergrowth, they came suddenly upon the bole
of a giant kauri—a veritable giant among kauris.
“That tree has never been climbed,” said
Jarkins.
“ It has not,” said Redberg.
“ And,” continued Jarkins, looking from the
ridge into the olive depths of the gully, “ I don’t
think you can climb it.”
Redberg’s vanity was touched. “Climb it!”
he spluttered ; “I’ll climb any tree that you can
rope.”
The lowest branch of the tree, 80ft. up the
smooth grey trunk, reached, like a gigantio arm,
over the gully, whose depths were lost in the
gloom of foliage.
Jarkins took the stout fishing-line, fixed a new
toggle about 2ft. above the leaden weight, swung
the weight a few times round his head, then
hurled it upwards. The skilfully-coiled line went
off in spirals from his left hand and the leaden
weight shot over the great bough and swung like
a pendulum as Jarkins lowered away. He had to
go far down the steep gully to reach the weight,
then he attached the line to the climbing-rope, a
splendid piece of Manila, and hauled it over the
Hmfcb
“That was a good throw of yours,” said Red-
berg.
“And it will be a good climb of yours,”
answered Jarkins in a tone which fired Redberg’s
pride. Redberg was lightly clad in singlet and
trousers. He stuck the tomahawk used for cutting
out gum into his belt and stepped into the bow-
line. Then, by pulling on the fall of the rope,
and, with Jarkins’ help, he hauled himself upward
toward the great branch swinging sheer over the
terrific abyss of the ravine. Jarkins watched him,
and fire surged through his veins. There was a
moment when Redberg must climb from the bow-
line on to the branch —a moment of peril, as all
climbers know ; and then a sudden slackening of
the rope, and the brute would be out of the way.
His face burned and the sweat ran into his sock-
less boots. He gripped the rope tenaciously, and
Redberg neared the branch. Another moment,
and the time would come. Redberg must
leave his grip on the fall of the rope to
reach the branch, and then —he would go
whirling down into those awful depths where
never man had been before or was likely to go
again, and Alice would be free. The time came.
He let go—and Redberg didn’t fall. Apparently
Redberg had been expecting just that move, and
was ready. And then there was a blank in the
mind of Jarkins.
When he awoke Redberg was standing by his
side. “ There isn’t an ounce of gum on the whole
damned tree, and I’ve had my climb for nothing,”
he said cheerfully. “I thought you were going
to have a fit when I was up there, and, by Jove, it
would have been the last climb for me if you had.
You’re not well, old man ; we’ll go home; the
cutter ought to be in by now, and Alice will have
a feed for us.”
But there was no Alice, and no feed ; the cutter
had come and gone. So had Alice. So had
the store of gum.
“I always thought the woman had a
fancy for that skipper,” said Redberg.
“ Did she know where your money was, Jarkins?”
“She did,” said Jarkins. “She told me you—
I told her where it was.”
“ The more fool you. I knew she was fishing
for it. She hinted as much. She’ll have the
skipper’s money, too, and then ”
“ And then ? ” queried Jarkins,
“She’ll go back to where I took her from.”
“ Wasn’t she your wife?” asked Jarkins.
Redberg laughed. “Only for a time,” he
replied.
F. ROLLETT.


All Bushmen Use It
Loss of Appetite and General Exhaustion Quickly Corrected. Even
Scurvy is Quickly Cured. A Great Blood-Purifier.
.v
Mr. Granger Ward, of Ferndale
Estate, Brisbane, Queensland, sends
us bis photograph, and gives this
very strong testimonial:
“ Some years ago while in America
I had fever and ague, which left me
in a most weak state and quite done
up. I took some of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla and it soon put me to rights,
and my strength returned. I can
safely recommend it to others. I
also in this country had, while in
the bush, an attack df scurvy, and
I soon got rid of this complaint
through using the same remedy.
For cleansing the blood, and for
eruptions of the skin, I do not think
it can be beat. All bushmen use it.”
Of course you know very well that the way to cure a disease is first to
reprove the cauke. Hence, you say, there is no sense in using ointments and
washes for rashes and eruptions. Neither is there any sense in taking
stimulants for weak nerves. First of all, go down deep to the cause of all
the trouble. You will, find it in the blood. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out
all the impurities from the blood and makes it rich and red. Then good
health returns.
No other Sarsaparilla is like “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. Do not forget that.
Look out for imitations. They are everywhere. Carefully avoid them.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies, Enriches, Strengthens, Builds Up.
Take Ayer's Pills with Ayer's Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER CO.. Lowell. Mass., U. S. A.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
9
PILLS
| OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
t Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Tremblimr Sensations, &c. THE FIRS I DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GITIhTUA A BOX.” _
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, an
arousing with the Rosebud od' Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, thes
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to
Nervous and Debilitated is that Jieerham’s Pills have the Largest Sale oj any Patent Medieme i
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IEOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Kveryvvhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and tis 9d each.
I
Consults by Letter, £l-
- COIiLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
7 tlb BKOWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
“ Captain Cuttle ” : Re “ Prooshan ” and
the country teacher. I have been a country
teacher for a dozen years in S.A., and beg to differ
from him. You are stranded amongst people who
regard you as a natural enemy in urging them to
send children to school during busy seasons. It is
awkward if a summons is issued by you for
irregular attendance. This work is done by
special officials in the city. As for free gifts, etc.,
I never had any, and no man of much stamina
would encourage them.
Miss Helen Hart, the vigorous lady who
delivers lectures, thus complains in a Melbourne
suburban paper:—
My name has been hounded down as though I were a
common pickpocket. Halls are shut against me, lodgings/
refused, and in some cases I am ordered out as if I were a
common woman. Even the police are set to witness again/t
me. I even suspect my letters have been interfered with.
J do not know to what extent I have been injured.
" omen have been repeatedly sent to private houses to
scandalise my name in my absence. I have threatened
what I would do if I caught them, but the trick has been
too cunning while the police have dogged my footsteps.
Am I a criminal or need watching ? lam told that it all
Gomes from the Government—lovely darlings ! I wish
some of the community would be honest enough to speak
out. If I could only get a straw to work on I know how
to spell law. I would make a try for the sneaks who
have robbed me of the honorable reward of niy 24 years'
work, and have been persistently hounding me down. I
have been suffering so severely with my nerves that the
doctors have told me they will not answer for the conse-
ffuenees. I have heaps of information from), all branches
of the civil service in all the States. Unfortunately, I
have nothing that I can lay hold of or the exposure would
only be eclipsed by the Dreyfus trial in Paris, which most
readers are familiar with. Should anything' serious hap-
pen to me my record will be that I have belsn slowly mur-
dered by underhand persecution while being robbed of
my just reward by others. Not beaten—S have travelled
some thousands of miles since I last sp/oke to you. I
could have given some useful lectures,/ but—and there
ends the tale. I remain, yours respectfully, the Unfor-
tunate Founder of. Woman’s Suffrage, H/elen Hart,
FURNITURE
The Greatest Purni
in the Coj&in
Warehouse
th.
UP-
Tn'n doubfc the and Moat
TO-DATE FURNITURE WAREHOUSEM.n Australasia.
OUR TERMS are the LOWEST IN SYDNEY. At the
SonVn” 6 '!. e u t raDtee all ° ur Goods Perfectly NEW,
SOUND, and of the LATEST DESIGNS. ,
Every Household Requisite Kept. \
All Goods Marked in PLAIN FIGURES."
£ s. d.
To 7 10 0
12 10 0
17 10 o
22 10
30
40
50
60
70
SO
90
100
-TERMS.
Deposit.
.. 7/6 ■
.. 10y-
... 12/6
« 15-
£1
£2
... £5
£6
.. ,£7
.. £8
£9
£lO
PIANOS, £2 DEPOSIT, and 5/-
Should the above Terms not suit you
ments can be made at the Warehouse
Weekly
Instalments.
2/6
4/-
51-
6/6
8/-
10/- "
12/6
15/-
17/6
20/-
22/6
25/
PER WEEK.
Special ABrange-
Marcus Clark & C 0.4* 1
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTORS,
NEWTOWN.
Brandies: North Sydney, Waverley & Newcastle.
UPOt
CO-OPERATIVE COUPONS
GIVEN FREELY
Oo all CASH Purchases.
•’ V;:
m
m
■
m
gd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
THE POPULAR “ PLAISM HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ghromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECH NIC At, TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. 1-ltrre are answered,, in plain language, a thou-
sand#questions that occur to the minds of young - and old, but about
which they leel a delicacy in consul ti uir their physician. Chapters
are devoted to -innumerable interesting: subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married hfe in its
fullest sense, con afford in dßpeiiv " ith the mfonnation embraced
in its covers. The new T 903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this, great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHIELINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-To-Date, East . Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, "illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donblly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 8s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Gd each; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
la 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(slmple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional*
Is Gd posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How TO Mesmerise. Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette. Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5a 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Evkriy Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
LFp-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is.3d.
Inquirer's Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §PF“ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OP MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT PROM THIS ADVT.
Write for tny
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
-• How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Cloo
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History CouitT of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, Cd & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather hound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. Tiie
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Par
NOTICE
!j£o sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
t Jcmbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The b ,d Reliable English Remedy.
Pfll ERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Preparer*' Poingbkstkk & Tbuman, of
71 Old Ken fc Road » London.
Renowned for OV6r a centur y for <l uick
efficacv as roved by testimonials from all
25T5 theV 7°rld. Is sold by all Chem>sts
in the Austral; lan Colonies.
Trumans vNURSERY LOTION,
By one applicat* °? destroys
all Parasites of F l<ead or Bod - v '
sold rs t4 vo SIZBS > 9d> * ls - 6d ‘
N.B.—lnsist Bv'Pf. n hav . h, S TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and nol disappointment can occur.
Prenared bv f.’OINGDKSTBB & TItUMAN,
71 Old Kent Ros> ld < London, and sold by all
Chemist# in the A,' usfcrahan CpUmies.
A CARD.
Dr.MARTIN.
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P.,E., L.R.G.5.,E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Gryat Britain,
Nevy. South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ ELM LEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases May be eonsuaed pereonaUy
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skm Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatic, Liver
and Kidney Complaints,^'etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate., ...
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price., by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
alWparts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, arid all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice d a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of i_i_erate charges, and rapid*and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARf IN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 152 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper, when writing


Macintosh
Weather is coming i
And if you’re wise you’ll
prepare. No yetting
wet with one of these
Macs. They’re abso-
lutely waterproof not
merely rainproof.
PRICES—in the Fashionable GREY'S,. etc. —
355, 425, 50s.
PERDRIAU & CO., "CL,,
ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
-270 George St., Sydney.
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
r HE most charming and stylish'
' Transformations and semi-
* Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Compound Jet Condensing Pumping Engine.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. u*don«*r
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd.
Warren Webster & Co. now jersey.
ENQUIRIES INVITED EOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Every
Length
gd
and Size
BENNIE, TEARE & CO
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers,
SYDNEY
PERTH,
MELBOURNE,
COOI.GrAB.DIE.
AND REPRESENTING IN AUSTRALIA
~ -.1 . ■,
TANGYES, LIMITED.
WIRE
ROPES
g
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St. Sydney.
Steam Engines* Boilers* Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rolls and Crushers.
dg
Record SHAFT SINKING in Australia
The shaft of the Queen Central Block Co., Charters Towers, was sunk a distance of 386 feet in thirteen weeks ; or, at the rate
of 26 feet per w r eek. A depth of 140 feet (from 404 to 544 feet) was put down in four weeks and 31 feet timbered (slabbed) in
addition. The size of the shaft is 15 feet by 4 feet 6 inches, and the formation granite. This performance constitutes a record in
shaft sinking in Australia.
FOUR SIMGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILLS of the D 9 TYPE were used in sinking this shaft, and the men
worked three shifts, each shift doing 42 hours per week.
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT ROCK DRILLS AND AIR COMPRESSORS hold the highest 'average records throughout
the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain
their reputation for doing the most work at the least expense. \
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILL CO., NEW YORK.
_A.<3-:E!:KrTs- ~ \
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd., 60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Mining and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery
dg
T. M. GOODALL & CO., ™ hay st., Sydney
have ■« stock and to arrive- p or table, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
ds
igation and
and Mining:
Plants a Specialty.
O
Saw Mill Machinery, Belting,
New and Second-Hand Machinery alvy&ys available.
Etc.
m
saga
Bin, 5J* x 3J" x 5*
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
SHOW DUPLIX PUMPS
(all size*
■for alt
purpose*)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining P roprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLA.RBWCB STREET V
SITOISTEir.
NOTHING EQUALS
METAL
POLISH
For CLEANING GOLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER NICKEL, TIN, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and,j LESS MATERIAL THAN ANY OTHER POLISH
ON THE MARKET. Tins on a^niication.
Sole Agents:
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
771 Clarence Street, Sydney i
i 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
