

McEWAN’S ALE.
PIG STOUT.
The Bulletin
Vol. 25.—N0. 1259. ]
[Thursday, March 31, 1904.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
R. G. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
_ ' —FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS ah® GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
290
PRIZE
MEDALS
AMD
ORAND
PRIX
PARIS
1900.
s
26,000 Steam Engines Sold
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
atid blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Oonjunncr Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tncks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard's Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
ir. et Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
Inis splendid packet posted to anv address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L< HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
7lO Genree Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY
HAVE IN STOCK AM> TO ARRIVE—PGRT ABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
OIL ENGINES, BOILERS and PUMPS.
Xliraalains Maclaines, Saw Benobea. &(
STEAM and
trio Motion Tlxmelains Maob.in.es,
Send for Pri«
Sfl
Benobea
&a« &o.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. • WHISKY.
POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
" v*
Bd.
i
BOBART.
——
Ijadley’s Orient fiotel.
pioneer
LEATHER
BELTINCH
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
tOalMv "(Red
1i TO 1000 H.P. UNITS.
PT Our Engineer, Mr. C. A. Lowe, is now with Messrs. Briscos, 56 York Street, Sydney. *S3
HIGH CLASS, LOW PRICE.
Electric Light—Mining:
Gas—Oil—Fixed—Portable
—Traction—Air Compres-
sors—Th ras hers—Pu mps
Ja». McEwan & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
Brisco* & Co., Ltd.
Sydney.
Porwood Down & Go., Ltd.
Adelaida.
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smelll* Jk Co.,
Brigham.
Tho National Mortgage & Agency Co., Ltd. I LINCOLN,
Dunedin. j ENGLAND.
yitJfiOißa'ifiKjs-jj.,
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
MO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
A. G. LUMSDEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD.
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
HERVEYS
TZiZ- n
RACKAROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
years dyeing
FOB THE LADIES.
~. C. & GO
DYERS & CLEANERS, 3
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
. opp. Centenary Hall).
onntry Orders by the colonies promptly
KtftrtMctx' throughout Great Britain and
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
•*t, sleep andstand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Astbn.a and Hnv Fever pat'ents Es-
tablished 1883 Expla r.atory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Adtiress: De. P. Harold Hayes’asthmatio Institute.
buffalo, N. Y.. O. S. A.
; 'U
13
GENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
A like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
ilge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
t heir merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. fid.
“ RAZOLEO ” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, fid. cake.
Prick / Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. fid.; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Frbb to any Part or thb World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
GHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
' SS«
wv;
>Vi
\
A Gold or Silver Watch Free!
SEND NO MONEY.
TITE hereby undertake to
” give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man. Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading- of the following: PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if vonr answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
’ and addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have
, . ; won the Watch. We are making
t“ ls °“ e L, solely with the object of introducing- and advertising our
goods. Forward your letter to our address [or Box 865 G.P.O.]
D**T M**S T**S C****E
D2NTVMT
F2RTHIS
Capilla
Hair
Tonic
is a medicinal—curative—refresh-
ing scalp treatment, and possesses
all the elements that go to produce
a good head of hair. Its powerful
stimulating qualities go straight
to the hair roots, giving them a
life and vigor they never knew
before—and life and vigor to the
hair roots mean more hair—
stronger hair—better hair. Re-
member, there is no “ fragrant
aroma” in Capilla: Perfumes
don’t make the hair grow —they
don't even help.
Capilla Hair Tonic
will do for you what a perfumed
preparation will not do, it wih
GIVE YOU BACK YOUR HAIR,
Sold by all Chemists and Stores—
-2/6 a 3attle ; fall course,
posted direct. 17/3
W. O. RICHARDS, Pronrietar,
164 Pitt Street. Sydney. A
MEMO. FOR 1904:
' v v <r v v —sy —v - v
AUT HELIDON AUT NULLUS.”


THE RED PAGE.
Steele Rudd's Magazine improves upon its first
number and grows more interesting with better
variety of goods in the window. Here is really an
honest attempt to found an original Australian
magazine. Incidentally, one notices that “F.D.”
contributes to the March number these taking
stanzas, first printed over the same signature in
The Boomerang of 1891—
BETWEEN A SLEEP AND A SLEEP.
(For “Steele Rudd’s Magazine.” )
[An undertaker, in a small way of business, who is also
a cabinet-maker, exhibits—or used to exhibit— in his
window near Five ways, Woolloongabba, a pretty cradle
alongside a richly-upholstered coffin.]
Here is the haven of Sleep,
Here may the anchor he cast—
Eyes that are weary or weep
Here find their solace at last—
. Clew up the tails to the mast.
Shelter for age that is cold,
Warmth for the bird in the nest,
Caskets of death for the mould,
Caskets of life for the breast—
The East interblent with the West.
Gateway of darkness and fear !
Portal of gladness and day !
The tide of humanity here
Is ebbing and flo wing alway—
New barques putting out on the bay,
Old hulls cast adrift on the deep,
Frail cockle-boats hugging the pier,
And the voyage begins in a sleep.
Hushed are the wayfarers here,
Rocked in the cradle and bier.
F.D.
These verses may be compared with the following
by Frank Dempster Sherman, a clever American
rhymer, reprinted in Lyrics for a Lute (Boston;
Houghton, Mifflin and Co., 1890) —
THE HARBOUR OF DREAMS.
Only a whispering gale
Flutters the wings of the boat ;
Only a bird in the vale
Lends to the silence a note,
Mellow, subdued, and remote :
This is the twilight of peace,
This is the hour of release.
Free of all worry and fret.
Clean of all care and regret,
■When like a bird in its nest
Fancy lies folded to rest.
This is the margin of sleep ;
Here let the anchor be cast ;
Here in forgetfulness deep,
Now that the journey is past,
Lo wer the sails from the mast.
Here is the bay of c^gitent,
Heaven and earth interblent ;
Here is the haven that lies
Close to the gates of surprise ;
Here all like Paradise seems —
Here is the harbour of dreams.
Frank Dempstkr Sherman.
Algernon Casterton, a newly-published story by
J. A. Sykes, has only the merit of a picture of
the Eng. aristocracy, so-called. As the wife of a
baronet, the lady may be supposed to know what
she is talking about; and sne depicts contem-
porary Eng. society as a sty occupied by
titled people with the instinots of swine,
tumbling over one another in their eagerness to
reach the swill poured by wealthy German Jews,
Exceptions in the shape of two or three characters
with decent instincts, two or three members of the
old blood who will not bow to Judah, are given
to confirm the author’s rule. The interloping
American, heiress or not, is denounced as an ally
of Judah’s in the work of corrupting “ the finest
nobility of the world. ” High-born lords and ladies
are snown engaged in swindling on the turf or
swindling at cards, prostituting themselves body
and spirit to the Hebrew satyr in exchange for
gold. The convenience of Australia is made clear
at the end of the volume, when Lady Longfield,
Baron Wolfgang’s mistress, after being convicted
of tempting a fashionable jockey to pull his horse
for the St. Leger - in order to get money to pay
her gaming debts and dressmaker’s bill, is advised
by a steward of the Jockey Club to disappear for
the next three months.
Is not the husband of one of her sisters'Governor in
Australia or New Zealand ? Let her go there on a visit.
No newspaper reporters will get at her, and she will be
out of the way.
We can see her coming, of course; we can read
the report of the Government House ball given in
her honour, and the description of the dress she
wore at Melb. Cup meeting. And we are indebted
to Lady Sykes for telling us what some of our aris-
tocratic visitors are worth, and why they visit us.
J*
Lady Sykes makes no secret of her impressions
of' the English “ smart set. ” One hereditary
duke
was sulky, ill-tempered, and a drunken sot from his
boyhood. He had to leave Eton and Harrow—the first
school because he was detected in a particularly mean
theft, and the latter for a serious offence against morals ;
but both these scandals were hushed up, and never
became public property, though everyone in London
society knew all about them
“ Everyone does it,” is the excuse made by all. Our
public standard of morality, our code of honour, our
national pride, seem to be gradually wiped out.
Says one of Lady Sykes’s characters —
/ Of the two evils I believe the American adventuress—
for she is an adventuress whether she be a pauper or
brings a million for her dowry—is the most dangerous to
our nationality. The Jew comes and he goes, and some
day I feel convinced, and perhaps at no very distant
date, the two strata of our society which he infests and
contaminates the most —the highest and the lowest—will
in a moment of indignation free our country from his
yoke ; but these American women, who come here and
who marry Englishmen, become part of our country, and
their children are of our race. They bring their desul-
tory, pleasure-loving natures here—thejr love of hotel
life, the craze for dress, the desire never to grow old, but
to go on being pampered, beautiful dolls to the end of
their day*. American women are not companions or
helpmates for Englishmen. In their own country they
those, I mean, of the wealthy and idle class—are left
alone together all day, while the husband and father is
toiling in some small office on the thirteenth or four-
teenth storey of a colossal building in the commercial
part of the town. His frivolous womankind, who
only value him for the wealth he supplies to
them, often leave him for months and years
while they are amusing themselves in London,
Paris, or Rome. The children are spoiled, petted,
and ruined; the boys have to work sooner or
later, whatever their father’s riches may be. But the
girl#! Selfishness and vanity are the predominant
qualities of the American woman; social ambition is
her god, and by social ambition she means going
wherever she finds it difficult to procure an invitation#
She is cold, hard, and unaffectionate ; believe me, these
women, however beautiful, however witty (and their
wit is usually sheer impudence), however rich, are not
fit to be the mothers of English men and women.”
Algernon Casterton and Pigs in Clover may be
readtogether for their pictures of English social
decadence.
The Eng. publishing firm of Cassell and Co.
issues Australasia : the Britains of the South,
by Philip H. Gibbs—one of the most foolish of
the numerous blundering books devoted to our
country. This despite the fact that the firm
has had for years a branch in Melbourne. P. H.
Gibbs is apparently an Eng. compiler who knows
nothing of Australia except what can be gathered
from Govt, publications and travellers’ accounts.
His small volume of 196 pp., published at the end
of last year, contrives to sketch the early history
and . present conditions of the Commonwealth
without a reference to the fact that there is a
Commonwealth; and the States are de-
scribed one after the other as they were
before Federation. Often he quotes his
authorities without reference to date or locality ;
and he applies the description of many years ago to
the facts of to-day, the description of a part of
Australia as if it referred to the whole. Yet
the hotch-potoh that would in parts have been
out-of-date ten years ago, evep twenty years ago,
is embellished with reproductions of many excel-
lent local photographs that might have been taken
in 1903, when the book was published. One does
not remember seeing a book of the kind that re-
flected greater discredit upon the publishers. A
few casual gems may be given in evidence.
The Bush Horse.
The bush horse is as cunning as a fox, and instantly
detects a raw hand. It waits for the novice with a head
cocked on one side and a wicked gleam in the eye that
means mischief. The soothing words of the would-be
rider have no conciliatory effect, and no sooner has he
approached than the animal gives a terrifying snort and
plunges off like a flash of lightning, rolling the man over
in the dust with a vicious kick out behind that would
break every rib in his body if he came within range.
There is no more appalling sight to watch than a
buck-jumping performance.. . When once a horse has
acquired the gentle art of bucking it never loses its
proficiency, and curiously enough there is hardly a horse
in Australia that does not buck, which shows again how
** evil communications corrupt good manners.”
When a man can ride one of these animals he is in a
fair way to make himself useful on a cattle station... !
[Pp. 40, 42.]
This looks like Finch-Haitton’s account of one
particular set of impressions, at one particular
place, written twenty years ago, and applied
generally in 1903 ! But the author is sufficiently
precise about bush fires,
Bush Fires.
Among the incidents of life in the bush are the great
bush fires which take place every year, begipning in July.
[so]
As enacted by Parliamentary statute, of course.
Thb Sports op Australia.
A more exciting sport, however, is “pig-sticking,;’
when the wild pigs are hunted on the Blue Mountains.
. . . The Australian horses are not trained in the game
of “ pig-sticking ” like those in India, and are so terrified
when the boar turns upon them that they begin bucking
in the manner I have previously described. To spear a
pig at the same time that one sits a horse, jumping and
twisting like a piece of live indiarubber, is not the easiest
thing in the world. [5O, 51J
It is not; and only the brave Australians can
do it. Why, at Mount Piggington, a peak of the
Blue Mountains (locally corrupted to “ Pidding-
ton ”) we have seen a horse buck right over the
picnic shed —the rider all the time holding a wild
boar transfixed on his spear.
Alligators.
The banks of the creeks, lagoons, and water-holes of
the Australian bush swarm with crocodiles, or alligators,
as they are more generally called. ..
Here, then, are some of the sights and scenes of life in
the bush by which we learn how hard and healthy is the
work, and how full of interest and adventure, is the
career of those men who make the wealth and greatness
of Australia. [5l, 52.]
Our blooming Colonial!
In Sybney Streets.
The streets of Sydney are crowded with people from all
parts of the earth. Round the harbour may be seen
many Chinese shops, with their curious signboards hang-
ing outside like a street in Hong Kong, and in other
parts of the town are quarters where Japanese, Afghans,
Hindus, French, and Italians are to be found, as well as
large numbers of Jews (!) [sB]
The Blue Mountains.
A railway leaves Sydney to a small, old-fashioned town
called Penrith, and from this place a sturdy little train
climbs up the steep mountain sides by a track called the
Little Zigzag or by another called the Great Zigzag .. .
Three thousand feet up is the station of Mount Vic-
toria, where a fine modern hotel has been built.
Here the railway ends (!) and after this the road to the
summit becomes very steep (!!). To the right the hills
are covered with the golden bloom of the mimosa, and
to the left the ground slopes down to green Talleys (11 '•)
[6O, 61]
Thb Shearers.
The most exciting time of the year is at the “ shearing **•••
It is a thoroughly good time for the men while the work
lasts. While riding from station to station they sleep out
underthe gum-trees in a little tent called a “ matilda"; and
it is a picturesque scene to watch them sitting round the
camp-fire at night boiling their tea in “ billy-cans" while
the horses roam about the grass finding their own supper.
The smoke from the shearers’ pipes curls up into the
still, warm air, and generally one of them sings song after
song with a good chorus at the end of each, or tells a
story of adventure which is listened to in silence until
“ turning-in time,” when the men creep beneath the
shelter of the friendly “ matildas.” [68,70.]
J* .
One would think that even Cassell and Co., ot
“London, Paris, New York, and Melbov/me,”
would know that the “little tent called_ a
‘ matilda ’ ” is never used by the noble Australian
shearer nowadays. One would think that even
Philip H. Gibbs, “ author of Founders of the
Empire, etc.”, would be aware that the well-
known ravages of the rabbits have for at least ten
years past been turned to profitable account, and
that the burrows found all over Australia have
been enlarged so as to make convenient
cave-shelters called “louisas,” into which the
shearers creep at “turning-in time.” But
no; the combined intelligence of Cassell and
Gibbs is ignorant that the Tasmanian Govern-
ment—at the instance of 0. W. E. Sullivan, the
sculptor whose statue of “Australia Facing the
Dun ” is famous, borrowed no less than
£1,000,000,000 to construct these shelters—become
of national importance because the crocodiles
swarming in the creeks, lagoons, and water-holes
of the bush used to come and eat the shearers
in their little tents called “matildas.” The
ignorance of Gibbs and Cassell would pass belief
—if it had not already surpassed imagination. It
is true that when they come to Victoria, where
the firm is established in Melbourne, their infor-
mation is sounder.
Little Bourkk Street.
One of the most interesting parts of Melbourne is the
Chinese quarter, of which Little Bourke Street is the
chief highway. An evening walk in this neighbourhood
is the strangest experience anyone may have, but no one
should venture upon it without being guarded by two
policemen at least... [76].
In the same district as these opium dens are the
Chinese gambling houses, or fan tans, as they are
called.'.. [79.]
The Miners.
A large number of the miners are Cornishmen, and the
rest are nearly all Irish. The former keep strictly to.
themselves in little “ cliques,” or clans, having as little
to do as possible with anybody who does not hail from
Cornwall, which they think is the finest place on the
face of the earth. They are nicknamed “Cousin Jacks"
by the Australians, because they all seem related to one
another. [Bs.]
J*
Space will not permit us to follow the author
through Queensland, though he says that
The northern part of Queensland, which, as I have
said, does not possess the same rich soil as the south,
was for a long time considered unsuitable for cultivation
on aocount of its small and uncertain water supply—
a passage which may be debated at GeraM-
ton and Cairns, when the tropical “ wet season ”
begins; or to quote for Sunday schools the
remarks about Westralian “Mining Experts.”
The book was actually published four months ago,
and is now on sale in neat cloth binding with gilt
edges in “Our Empire ” series. As an example of
English humour, “the real humour,” it is hard to
beat.
MEMO It A NDA
Auberon Herbert tells The Contemporary how
fascinating it is to collect chuckie-stanes in gravel
quarries ; and how, if vou turn over a few tons, you
will find a few stones which look as if they might have
been carved into human semblance by primeval man.
Then he classifies his picture-stones into representations
of primeval orders of society—soldiers, civilians, and holy
men. Then he asks (and this is where we like him) :
“Am I justified in creating this class of holy men ? I
can only reply : in the first place, no one but a holy man
would wear a head-jfear of such mountainous altitude ,
and if they were not holy men, how did they get the holy
fccc& ? **
Accordingly to a writer in Feb, Pall Mall Maga.,
cancer has been found in horses, in cattle, in dogs and
cats—and recently even in fishes. “ This means, then,
that cancer is not the result of some particular condition
of human life”—it isn’t caused by tobacco, or tomatoes,
or corsets ; since fish don’t smoke or corset.
Although in France they take such an interest in poetry
that, not long ago, the Minister for Instruction commis-
sioned Oatulle Mendfes —that versatile old warrior-to
prepare a report on the French poetic movement from
1867 to 1900 (duly presented and printed at the Govern-
ment printing-office), times are still evil for young French
poets. There is such a tribe of them—every day a new
one is born in print!—and they are so hungry, poor
fellows. La Plume, a magazine which prides itself on
encouraging les plus jeunes, holds nowand again a banquet
at which the youngest appear like so many wolves : it is
said that the'caterer lifts pitying hands (for himself) at
the disappearing viands —“ Ils out vraiment la bete
dans l’estomac, ces jeunes! ” One young poet called
Martel Hullet, left the other day with “ the key of the
street,” found refuge in the studio of a fnendlv sculptor.
But despair took him in the night, and he hanged himself
by a cord from the neck of a gigantic marble Venus.
“ He had found an end to his troubles in the arms of
eternal Beauty.”
Our Art Galleries should take advantage of the new
Bontempi sculpturing machine to get copies of good
statuary as soon as made available by the Lond. com-
pany. This invention produces in a few hours copies
which hare hitherto taken months of labour. The
method is to use a cutting tool which works in corres-
pondence with a guide that traces the contour of the
work to be copied ; and the result is an absolute simili-
tude that needs only t® be smoothed and finished by
hand.
There is a “just word " in N.Y. Reader re^\ r *
Tennyson, many of us are now probably m what has been
"•ailed the second cycle, the phase in which unreasonable
disaffection succeeds unreasonable adulation, and from
which we shall emerge to a true judgment. But what-
ever may be one’s personal predilections about Tennjson,
one admits his importance as the acknowledged Eng
poet of the later nineteenth century, and one adni
sheer musical beauty in his manner and many excellences
in his matter.’’
A.[?].
In pure joy of her young Australian heart, and
with a yearning for experience and copy, Miles
Franklin, the girl who wrote My Brilliant Career,
vowed a year ago to become for twelve months
“ Mary Ann,!!, the slavey. The year is just up;
and the dashing housemaid who has been flitting
through the mansions of Potts Point and Toorak
is busy writing up her diary. She says:
It took not a little agitation on my part before I wa»
permitted to carry out my long-cherished scheme. There
are such appalling stories in circulation concerning the
fate of the inexperienced country girl who goes to look
for work in the city, and 1 was such a very unbusiness-
like and addlepated “ waybacker,” that my mother and
father were in some trepidation regarding my safety.
However, after some rebuffs, I timidly confessed the
“ nonsensical idea” to a lady who acted fairy, and with
one stroke of her wand dispersed all my difficulties. She
acted “reference" with sufficient diplomacy to entitle
her to the topmost seat in the Labour Party.
I began as “general,” which situation my happy ignor-
ance regarding service enabled me to tackle with forti-
tude. The first six months were dreadful: I got so hot
on the trials-of Mary Ann that one friend spent much of
her time in soothing me, and I grew so thin that another
friend fed me on beef-tea between the acts. When they
had got me through the teething stage, as it were, the
last six months became an indescribable joke.
The folk I served are all eminently respectable citizens
—some of our “ nicest ’’—therefore what I shall say of the
hardships of Maryanning should be all the more con-
vincing. Only one mistress was harsh. In school-boy
slang, she might be designated a “hummer”; and, to
cap all, she called me a liar because I said there were
such instruments as washing machines. With this ex-
ception, I had some trouble to get away from my mis-
tresses, as I grew attached to the homes and their
inmates.
I had an uproarious time in Toorak, and could never
enjoy myself more than I have done looking on at
some of the “smart set” shivoos there. The intoxica-
tion others arrived at through champagne, I accom-
plished per medium of laughter.
In the capacity of nurse-girl, my “get-up ” finished by
a pair of gloves with holes at the finger-tips, I’ve taken
children out in the parks and on the sea-beach. Opening
the door at a doctor’s house was vastly diverting, as the
patients mostly consulted me previously to the doctor,
and the regular ones dropped into a habit of having their
smile ready to meet mine when the door should open.
I have waited on people while they discussed “ Miles
Franklin,” and on some who have written most fervently
desiring the pleasure of my acquaintance. Strange! they
did not gush at all when little Mary Ann was hanging up
their hats and doing for them still more ignominious
tasks. From any of my masters I did not receive
even a frown; but the only one who was truly a gentle-
man to all the women in the house, and who would not
calmly watch a “maid” straining herself lifting heavy
weights though he would rush to open the door for a
“ lady,” was a young American, who, with his wife, was
staying at a first-class boarding house. An Australian,
in the person of a Melbourne doctor, ran him closely.
The latter thought it worth while not only to choose
books for, but also to discuss them with, his little Mary
Ann. [Aha!—Ed.]
As for the working men, they were gentlemen all, and
, though pushed themselves, always had time to oblige a
girl ; while for the “ maids,” I hope I may be privileged
to retain some of them as permanent friends. The
dangers liable to wreck a girl not knowing the city did
not come in my way, though twice I got out of my bear-
ings in Sydney after nightfall. On one of these occa-
sions, in bush style attempting to take a bridle track, I
got into some funny streets, strong odours, and a stable.
The only individual to be seen was a “ Strike-me-pink-
Lizer ’’-looking lad leaning against a lamp-post. He wore
an aggressive belt, a small felt hat, and round his neck a
red silk handkerchief. On explaining that I was “ clean
bushed,” he gallantly escorted me a street or two till I
found out where I was. He referred to himself as a
“ bloke,” and lectured me upon the inadvisability of such
a newchum going about the streets alone at that hour of
the night.
In conclusion, I think it ’s nearly time that the big
part we working girls play in life was better recognised.
There's a great fuss made over singers, writers, painters,
players, dancers and jockeys—a pretty state all these
would be in were there no workers to clean their rooms,
cook their meals, etc., etc. These people have had the
run of illustrated papers and social and dramatic columns
long enough. If there were more justly-earned commen
dation given the woman who cooks a wholesome dinner
for a man, and less 6clat accorded the one who, after it,
entertains him by placing her heels above her head, it
would be better for the moral and physical health of the
community at large—Straight! In the hope that our
day of public adulation may be near at hand, I intend to
be photographed shining boots, plucking fowls, washing
pots, and hanging out the clothes.
When the heavy and ill-fittingyoke borne by the servant
girl first chafed my unaccustomed shoulders, the set
twelve months seemed to reach away into eternity ; but,
though disguised as a most unpretentious Mary Ann, I
found on all hands such kindness and so much more good
in the city than one pictures when reared in the 'sim-
plicity of the bush, and forming hazy ideas from the
horrors collected in the newspapers, that now lam sorry
my time is nearly up. I approach with unfeigned regret
the hour of laying down the uniform of Mary Ann Smith
and the worry of taking up once more the irritating
mantle of
M.F.
SOME RECENT BOOKS.
The Life and Teachings of Leo Tolstoy : A Book of
Extracts, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Rider Haggard, Stella Fregelms, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Whyte Melville, Tilbury Nogo, 6d. p. 2d.
Clodd Story of Creation, Rationalist Press Series, 6d,p. 2d
Australasian Poultry Guide, by J. J. McCue, 3rd Edition,
enlarged, Is, p. 3d.
Fraser, The Real Siberia, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Fraser, America at Work, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Pears, Cyclopaedia, 6th Edition, Containing Three New
Sections, Is 3d, p. 4d.
Wallace, A. R., The Wonderful Century : The Age of New
Ideas in Science and Invention, new ed., 3s 6d, p. Bd.
Scouller, The Law of Evolution, 4s, p. 6d.
Send to us for any Book you• want. We are always pleased to answer inquiries.
Q. EO . ROBBRXSOWT & CO. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doora South of King St.) k at Melbourne, Adelaida, Brisbane & London.
m>
■ j *W§ik
m
»
■m.
SUM
m
G*
': ,;.<»
fm
of Great Service in Affections’
of the Voice. iThroat
>«•
Sold by Chemists, tins, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia, post fre*° w*"
■tamps. Sydney Depdt: 5 & 7Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States &X.Z.,.*«d at 320 Begrent-s*., ■


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen
m SYDNEY. ’
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOIEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO
ABE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale. Offices : 48 BRIDGE SL,
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
IN EVER RAILS.
((
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book •
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
The Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
I. Hollis
& Sons’
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
/=*
n
/v?
„ Gun ’ l 2 Ga «f e. Top Lever, Bar Action, Real Twist or Steel
Anri' ohomw!?# 1 * r i? ss solfc»5 olfc » Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-
, ambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
E ’°E!tJ? *. SON ®’ “ KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
lpfr plmiro ° •’ ®* tenc |edrib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2|in. cartridges,
fm-P ..nrl ’/'ff' cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap
POWT)FT? haIf 4K PIS i to i , wa nu , t stock > GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
lu w JJER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price
£5
HC GU3? 7 THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
’ t ? plever ’ genu - ineDamaacusor “Siernen’s” steel barrels, both
fore a -M 10 + u’ aatomatlc safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent
cartr!dffes fitt PTTA-R^Ar^^?. boIt ’ neatly graved, chambered for 2|in.
-Ses SMOKELESS POWDERa ’ “ d
w, SSSS| 1 ” lr “™ RIPLB> 1903 fire<
£l2 12s
AMMUNITION.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB
E. B. SMOKELESS „
AMBERITE
E.C. ”
WINCHESTER 22 short ..
„ 22 long
~ 22 ex. long
„ 22 long shot
„ 22 s. smokeless
~ 22 b.
~ 22 automatic
Per 100. Per 1000
3/3
10/6
1/5
12/6
2/“
18/-
2/6
23/6
1/6
14/-
1/9
16/
2/6
21/-
Remittance and freight must accompany order.
Folding
Collector Gun
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel j C
barrel, case-hardened locks ... Jt;l TO
WINCHESTER S.S. 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or sights, scroll g%
trigger guard, steel heelplate, weight 2|lbs. ... ... ... S ... .. 0
11 ” S ' S ' R ‘ fleS ’ neW modeI > 22 Calibre R.F., 20in. barrel,
4iogr.
.
0
18 6
0 0
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifles, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine Round barrel, 555.; Octagon barrel,
3 BAYARD ’ S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weight
lbs •• 13s. 6d.
2 17 6
i fi 6
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES-
GUARANTEED
I*] G\ir\e”h^tfl
Rifie Ap &r/
PERFECTLY
ACCURATfend
RELIABLE.
22 (Short or Long, S?/m f/or, 80/rAction
ft o and O/oect Sheet/a inch Barret, Jb
fitted mtfjptoin /or St/ding Back 3/ghrs
(SuarrentSec/for3oo Yds). PotishectUatnor
ofoch. Postage onft/f/e. hBo ex/ha.
MCK SIMMONS,
H&Yn<3rker, QYoney.
with plain sights 15/6
SLIDING SIGHTS TO 300YDS 1 5/ 6
C<rr/r/dgez Can Onfyße Delivered My Rail or Boat
Swollen
Painful Sprains or Aches of the Arms,
Legrs, or Body, Backache, Sciatica,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, &c.
THERE is no class of Disease in which Treatment by Electricity
has achieved more marked success than the various affections above
described. Whether they are acute or chronic, Electricity is alike
efficacious in effecting not only relief from pain, but a permanent cure. We
have had cases where the patient could not walk, but after a couple of
ays application of the Belt and Attachments to the weak parts they were
walking about as well as ever. Other cases, we have had under treatment,
ave een using Lotions, Ointment, and Drugs for years but without
relief, who have been positively restored by us within a week or two.
In ere are innumerable cases of Stiffened Joints, painful and enlarged as
e resu tof Chronic Rheumatism. This is exceedingly common among
6 a^ e / i°T man y are there whose declining years from fifty upwards
&
rm*
I |f;l 1111
ph\
Wllillli
k
mi
■smr,
#:%
111 I I I
r
‘l' -M.
in
thir hT^^ 0118 nt;s ‘ Some cannot walk without pain and inconvenience, because their knees and ankles are the
the utter * sir finsera - and the most d “ ni ”« th; "* * **«- “
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
With Free
Attachments
and Elcetrieity is recognised by the leading psychologists of the old world as the only true Remedy for Diseases of this nahiro f +1 .
brilliant men of the day recently remarked before the Members of the Psychological Institute of Paris thaT Electricltv t
roVaM V affl>t«ri n n t | h | at ltS Skm Diseases and all Functional and Nervous Disorders was most powerful. Sound AfcV CO
IQU ar„ aff] cted call or send lor our Advice, and if you can’t be cured by Electricity noth ng will cirra you ! I V ° B ‘ *
see the Great Benefits that have been Given to Sufferers. Thousands of Letters of a Similar Kind can be seen on application.
diarrhcea.
CARARA, CURLEWIS, N.S.W.
U ea r Sir-8,- 1 am very thankful for the good
jour Belt has done for me. After about three.
eeks use I have not a pain about me, or the
slightest sign of diarrhoea. I have not taken one
«ose of medicine since I have been using the
Belt and I consider I am as well as ever I was in
my life, Vours truly,
DUNCAN McLEOD.
INDIGESTION.
MOLONG, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—l am greatly pleased with the Belt.
The Indigestion left me entirely after I wore the
Belt the third time. I now feel grand, and can-
not express my thanks in this small letter.
Wishing your firm a long life of happiness and
prosperity, and thanking you for past favors,
I beg to remain, yours faithfully,
JAMES PEDEN.
CONSTIPATION.
EDWAR STON, VIC.
Dear Sirs,—l received your letter last week,
and am pleased to state that, since I wrote last,
I have received great benefit from wearing one
of your Belts. The Constipation and other
complaints from which I suffered have disap-
peared, and I feel completely cured. Wishing you
every success, and thanking'you for your kindness,
I remain, yours faithfully, J. D. EDWARDS.
BAD BACK.
23 Argo-street,
SOUTH YARRA, VIO.
Dear Sirs—l am glad to tell you that my
troubles have left me, and I haven’t felt better
for years. My chief trouble was stricture—and
bad at that; also sciatica, and my back was very
bad. Constipation has been a thing of the past
since wearing your Belt, and I have put on over
a stone in weight. Yours truly, A. D. GRANT?.
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TMENf) MlflßF nmifis
For the benefit of all sufferers we issue an Illustrated
Book, which deals exhaustively with the use of
Electricity as a Curative Agent. It tells of our 25
years Study of the Wonders that can be accomplished
by its aid for most ailments, with which it deals in
detail. It is also full of Engravings showing how the
Belt is worn for various ailments. Everyone should
read it. It explains the only way to Health and
Strength. It costs you nothing. We will send it to
you, postage paid and closely sealed, to any address
on receipt of a post-card or letter.
CALL AND LET US MAKE YOU A FREE TEST, AND EXPLAIN
THE WORKING OF THE BELT. t
the McLaughlin co.,
IOOW. Miarlsot Street, Sydney.
Melba Office 1678. Swanston Street
3XT.2E. Office-54 'Willis St., Weilington.
William Charles Crawford.


GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
i'S HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and 00., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s; 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. tor 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Oct. Gold-filled Round Wire Broocheo, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. BIMB, Gold Wire Kin*, Cole’s
Book Arcade. Melbourne. Vie.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
S OFFERERS, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELEOTRO-GALYANIO
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and other
DISEASES in all STAGES
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTlCE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
I/ANISHED YICOR,
■■ Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vinegar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., ENG.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair..
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cutlcura Soap, to
Cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cutlcura Ointment
freely, to allay Itching, irritation, and Inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cutlcura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else falls*
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalled head; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin,,
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticuba Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns A Co., Sydney. Britisn
Depot; 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot; 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Foxier Dbuq as» CheM.
Cobp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
m
m
m
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Origin 4/
CELLULAR.
tk* floallkltlt end molt Comfortable Underwear tor Mao, Women to<
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aerte* Cellula; Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as "just as good as Aerte*"
eg
m
m
saass
mm
#•»
MB
SOLE AGENTS
Illustrated Cataloguss
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 78 King Street.
The TJnirersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’t
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDf
MAGNESIA
WILL ANDRADE’S
LIST OF
m
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Datb Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, ’3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels. 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post,’ Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How TO Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Snow,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l>y Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Caros, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Opr New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3« 6d 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. W annan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANja ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters. Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
IAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST COUGHS.
ITHAT REFRESHING FEELING I
of thorough purification given by
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect biles, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND.
NERYOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENIRGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
EL Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a BIMPLB MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Oharge, to anyone Interested.
Address 1 A. MINER, G.P.0.. BYDNBY.
Free to Men.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mons. Armand Gouraud, 82Little Flinders St.,Melbourne.
DEM
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to th*
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourns.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYnifJGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Clenses Instantly.
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWAROED-
Diploma of Honor and Cold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de Prance, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MARVEL CO.,
284 George St., Sydney. N.S.W*
POSTAL ADDRESS, BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by using
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, StrengTn
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 36a. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. __ „ _.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., Queen St.,
Melbourne; iY.&IF.-Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a. simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. lilb., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
THREE BY POST.—a reliable
J- recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. Ap< sitive CURE
for the WEAK and NEK\ OUS.
Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereaglust., Sydney.
FITS CURED
From the first close of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11-•
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTED, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.


Beautiful hair! Long, rich,
heavy hair! Soft and silky
hair! No roughness, no splitting at
the ends! Have you such hair? If
not, would you like it ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
It feeds the hair, makes the hair
grow, keeps it soft and beautiful.
For sixty years Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has given perfect satisfaction to thou-
sands of people in all parts of the
world. Give it a fair trial and we are
sure it will satisfy you.
If your hair is turning gray and
you wish all the deep, rich color of
earlier life restored to it, use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
TTfriTT ~ iiM- —ti
SPOONER’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
Fer Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc,, Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
PJOTICK TO MHCXiSOURNB VISITORS!,
V ,^ IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
GOLDEN FRUTEX
T
m npii r ° r
ULULIf CONSTIPATION,
INOICESTION.
mm i6 BO ,
A Purely Vegetable Compound.
CONTAINS NO MINERAL.
SIMPLY EATEN AS A CONFECTION.
Two Tablets a Dose, taken first thins? in tht
Morning, will make you Bright all day.
Obtained all Chemists.
Distributing Agknts-
: auldins & Go., O’Connell St., Sydney
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The World’s Highway.
Adown the narrow highway of the world
The grey-haired nations shamble ever on ;
The way is lined with Shapes of every age—
The spirits of the peoples that have gone.
For them has passed the shock of human fear ;
They see the writhing flames—the smoke arise,
Their hearts within their breasts of stone are dead,
The flame finds answer only in their eyes.
E’en as the stealthy moonbeams glance within
The blackened ruins of some sacred place,
So does the living fire find its response
Within the ghostly eyes of each dead face.
For ever stand the Shapes, apart, alone,
Like wearied guards who long for their release ;
So shall we stand through ages yet to come,
Awaiting the dread day when all shall cease.
It is the punishment on them decreed
By gods of every age, since Baal and Thor;
Thus earn the waiting Shapes eternal rest
By Witnessing The Show They’ve Seen Before
via
KODAK.
Illawarra.
In thy garden, Illawarra, where the giant lilies
grow,
And the brightly blooming coral-trees expend
their ruddy glow,
Where the tendrils of the lawyer bush affection-
ately cling,
And the strong and graceful supple-jacks from
lofty branches swing,
Where the hills are always smiling, and the valleys
wondrous fair,
Where the stately eucalyptus spreads a fragrance
through the air,
Where breaking seas on golden sands their crested
billows roll ;
’Twas there I first saw bonny Kate, the lode-star
of my soul.
In thy garden, Illawarra, from the mountains to
the sea,
In thy gorgeous wealth of blossoms, there was
none so fair as she.
Her form was supple as thy vines that cluster
overhead;
Thy coral bloom grew pale beside her lips of
ruddy red.
Her mind was pure and guileless as thy sea-swept
golden sands;
Her voice was like a magic harp touched by celestial
hands;
Her very presence formed a link twixt earth and
heaven above,
And thy fragrant air grew greater with the perfume
of her love.
In thy garden, Illawarra, where the giant lilies
wave
’Mid the tangled ferns and flannel-flowers, there
lies a lonely grave.
For Death came riding by, and plucked my blossom
in his flight,
And all thy gorgeous Paradise grew barren in a
night.
For me thy flowers no longer bloom, thy valleys
smile no more,
And thou art Desolation, from the mountain to
the shore;
There’s a dirge among the supple-jacks, a requiem
by the sea,
For thy garden is a sepulchre, where all is Death
tome.
N.S.W.
THOMAS E. SPENCER.
When We Were Young.
Sunrise touched the tree-tops olden.
Folded flowers the dew-drops kept,
On the hills the light was golden,
Shadow in the valley slept.
Voice of bird and wave was tender,
Sweeter songs were never sung,
All the world was full of splendor
Long ago when we were young.
All the air was warm and golden,
All the hills were shadow blue,
All the future years beholden
Stretched a dream before us two.
Oh, the bright days spent together
Over life Love-sunshine flung,
In the golden Summer weather
Long ago when we were young.
Perfect days (forgotten never)
Of that Summer, long and bright,
Ere the blue eyes closed for ever
Like the flowers that close at night.
Streams where black swans floated dreaming,
Hills where hazes ever hung,
Come to me like sunlight gleaming
From the days when we were young.
Shattered is the dream-creation,
And the mist-veil shrouds the blue,
Hope and noble aspiration
Where she sleeps lie buried, too.
Ah ! the golden mists have faded,
Lies the past a harp unstrung,
Days will come no more as they did
Long ago when we were young.
Thirty Springs have died in splendor,
Thirty Summers passed away,
Since the blue eyes, ever tender,
Closed one gloomy Autumn day ;
Yet the past comes up before me
Fresh as when the wild birds sung,
And the dawnlight rose in glory
O’er the hills when we were young.
N.S.W.
NELLIE AND MABEL EVANS.
WILL CURL, THAT
Hacking Cough.
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza.
Asfhma. Bronchi MsXonsumphon
LARGE & SMALL BOTTLES Vbl&'ti.
II
I
Convincing Proof
Gunned&h,
N.S. Wale*.
Reoeived Solid Silver Keyles*
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order; it keep* perfect time and ie
splendid value—beet in Austral*
aela.
Tours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part ol
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
. Queensland Leading Jeweller.
‘HJLIIAIS *d 'H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH , and TOjpWOOMpA.
mcmsm
RIFLE AND PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
“ It’s the shots that hit that count.” Winches-
ter Rifle and Pistol Cartridges hit, that is,
shoot accurately, and strike a good, hard, pen-
etrating blow. They are loaded with great
care and precision, and made in calibers
suitable for all kinds of game, from rabbits,
to grizzly bears. If you want reliable ammu-,
nition, buy the time-tried Winchester make.
F<Q>R SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd..
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUFIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
e
Concerning Elgin Watches^
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PBICES :
GENTS.’—4OB, Silver Ca.se, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Bilver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANa
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
yood Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
; i the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any One. _ . . .. VIW q liriß .
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman'» „ p *
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ,F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., • .
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F - s s - s«cretarr
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
vio.'T aivH aooo
juak,
$s
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If vour Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 5s Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
#s?r F or ECZEMA, RINGAVORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
g®- For RESTORING GREY lIAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
ALL!
c^s
X
Wabiiinqton H. Soul & Go.«
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
flnM bv All Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92. Georg«
001 1 Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coliins-street, MELBOURNE
ailing There’s SECURITY in
Carter's
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE,
; INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prloii
Carter's
PUHE LIME-FRUIT JUICE
DO yOU DRJNK LIME JUICE ?
aa
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Atents— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell &Co Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle
FREE TRIAL for 60 DAYS.
-3
1
\
7,
W/
We will send the Dr. Austin Electric Belt on
this basis to Men and Women everywhere.
Not to be paid for until the cure is complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only
remedy in the world which can bo sold on such
a plan. It is the only never-failing cure for
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back and
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and
Stomach troubles ; in fact, all chronic diseases
of Men and Women. It cures after all other
remedies have failed. Why ? Because it
restores nerve life, animal vitality, warmth
and vigour to all the weakened parts.
The Best Belt.-New Non-Vinegar Belt.
All who have used another belt will realise the great advantage of having a powerful up-to-
date improved Belt that don’t need soaking in vinegar each time before using. Most other
belts sold in Australia use vinegar to produoe a current. Our improved Belt does away with
this trouble, is guaranteed for three years, and never burns. We are so positive of the
wonderful curative power of our Belt, that we have decided to make this special offer, and
each person writing us will receive
ABSOLUTELY FREE
a handsome copy of the latest edition of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book. Write at
once and we will send by return post, closely sealed, this valuable work. Remember you
don’t pay for our Belt unless it cures you. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co. (Dept. M),
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Niv Ziuud Branch— l 9 PRINCES STREET, DUNEDIN.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Vexsss.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RBNAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
GRAMOPHONES
The “ MONARCH ” Gramophone is the “ King ” of Talking Machines.
The “DE LUXE” Gramophone is the “Queen” of Talking Machines.
The “MONARCH Junr.” Gramophone is the “ Prince ” of Talking Machines.
WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT ?
Or will you take the whole “ROYAL FAMILY”?
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Oollins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania —
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand —
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. . •
The‘MONARCH*
Triple Spring
Gramophone,
Fitted with
Tapering Army
complete—
£ls 10s.
Send for Price Lists
and Catalogues of
Records.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Wasted Vitality.
Totally Incapacitated.
“A Cheerful Mind and a Vigorous Body.**
The Case of Mr. C. W. HACK.
(fob the “times.”)
With the view of obtaining some idea as
to his opinions on the general trend of events
in which he was once the principal party
concerned, Mr. Charles William Hack, of
23 Eveleigh-street, Redfern, courteously
granted an interview to our representative.
Ihe Reporter: “If you will carry your
memory back to three years ago I would
like you to tell me exactly how you stood
from a physical standpoint.”
Mr. Hack : “If it will render a service
to anybody else, I will tell you with plea-
sure, although the subject recalls such a
wretchtd period of my existence that I
would like to forget it altogether. My
trade is a carpenter, and I am glad to say
that I could always get plenty of work ; but
three years back I was so thoroughly run
down that I could not do it. I had been
m an indifferent state of health for
some month< previously, being generally
out of sorts,’ as people term it, and
1 thought I had caught a chill aud re-
quired a rest. On the Monday morning
I lelt so fatigued that I dropped a note
to my employer, stating that I was not
well, and that I hoped to be able to go to
work at the commencement of the following
week, but when the time came do you think
1 was able ? No. I had less energy then
than ever. If I thought about my work
it distressed me, for I knew that my
vitality had wasted away to such an extent
that 1 was powerless to perform it. My
condition fluctuated a little, as some days I
fancied I was slightly better, and that I
would start next Monday, but when the
day came I could not get up steam. Occa-
sumally I did a little about the house,
and then I was so prostrated with ex-
haustion that I, had to go to bed for three
or four days. This went on for three
months, by which time you may be sure I
was very downhearted.”
nl w? p “' t . er : “ Were you away from work
all that time ? ”
e , r Mr V. Hack J : ./‘ Ever y da y of it; . aud if
ery nng did not go straight I became
exceedingly irritable. The least thing ex-
cited me, and as I could do nothin® but
brood over the helplessness of my condi-
tion the unhappiness of my life can be
easily understood. I resorted to medicines,
but what good were they to me ? None at
b lra k one kind and then another I tried,
till I gave them up in despair. I then
visited a hospital, but the medicines dis-
pensed to me from that institution were
ot no more assistance than if I had never
seen them Those disappointments made
me more low-spirited than ever, and at
last my mind was harassed by the awful
conviction that I would never get strong
again My body was drained of all its
vital force, and there were no means of
repiemshing it, because the medicines did
not help me, and my appetite had turned
traitor altogether. Some days I fancied
1 could relish something nice, but when I
got it I could not eat. At other meals I
waa more successful in taking a little food,
but when it was down then the misery
began. My stomach filled with wind and
made me very uncomfortable, while the
feeling of heaviness in my chest was almost
unbearable. The shoulder were also the
sea of much trouble, as between them
there came a pain which was very dis-
agreeable ; and as for aches—well, those
fn r r S fu the J Small of m y back were so acute
tnat they depressed me with their intensity.
Life was getting more bitter and more un-
desirable every day, as up to that time I
used to keep a diary and take great
interest in most matters, but now all happi-
ness was gone, and I could not apply my
mind to anything. My head ached to dis-
traction, so no wonder I was suffering
from loss of memory. There was a dull!
misty feeling about my eyes as if they had
swollen, but, rightly or wrongly, I put that
down to having so many sleepless nights.
The coating on my tongue and the bitter
taste in my mouth were most disagreeable,
though perhaps not such a serious matter
as having my nervous system in such a
shattered condition. Noises set my nerves
shaking at once, while even the conversa-
tion of people was annoying, so I had no
desire to mix in company, My brain was
so unsettled that one minute I would make
up my mind to do a thing and the next
minute I could see no necessity for it ;
but, losing weight and strength so rapidly,
caused more anxiety than anything else,
especially as nothing could check my infir-
mities. ”
Reporter : “But you are not an invalid
now ? ”
Mr. Hack : “Thank Heaven, I am not !
I am also grateful to Clements Tonic, for it
was the only medicine which restored my
lost energy. I was anxious to get better,
and did not care what I tried, but I can
safely say that Clements Tonic did me an
immense amount of good from the start.
Its invigorating effects shed a brightness
over my gloomy surroundings, and gave me
hope when everything seemed lost. From the
first couple of bottles of Clements Tonic my
appetite improved greatly, and what pleased
me more still w r as to observe that the same
medicine was putting my digestive organs
in good working order. Before taking
Clements Tonic I remember one morning in
particular getting up as usual, and shortly
afterwards I fell senseless on the floor
through experiencing violent and over-
powering pains in the stomach ; but a few
weeks’ use of Clements Tonic drove all
pains and flatulence away, and about my
chest and shoulders the freedom from tor-
ture was equally marked. So distinctly
did Clements Tonic strengthen my worn-out
system that I felt its beneficial influence
with each dose, my nerves in the meantime
getting as steady and true as they had ever
been. To know that I was no longer a
slave to an incurable complaint was a fact
which Clements Tonic alone could set at
rest, for my headaches and backaches simply
drifted away, and in course of time there
was not an ache in any part of me.”
Reporter: “ Were you sleeping better,
too?”
Air. Hack: “That was one of the prin-
cipal features of Clements Tonic. It made
me sleep splendidly, and its toning effect on
my brain was so grand that I did not
dream at nights, and I have not since been
inconvenienced with a bad memory. The
flesh I had lost was regained, aud nobody
could have been more thankful than I was
at again being able to go back to work with
the cheerful mind and vigorous body which
nothing but Clements Tonic could restore.”
“ Reporter: “Can your statements appear
in the press ? ”
Mr. Hack: “You can publish them as
you please, because Clements Tonic made a
thoroughly healthy man of me, and to all
delicate people its true worth should be
made known.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Charlbs William Hack, of 23 Hveleigh-street,
Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1500.
day of April, one thousand nine hundred "and two
before me, ’
T. D. P. HOLDEN, J.p.
Subscribed ind declared at Redfern. tin* tw.mi
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
EtEFY COMPJE3TITIOW.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, Sea.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Post Free,
Engineman’s Master Key
Second, Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages over 100 illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
1 elephon* No. IO6S.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
■elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most .complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Til Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLB AGENTS.
/•■x
Tht RuuU.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM.'NS •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust ; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
* c
to/IOUM§
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severs
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withou
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
f NOTICE
* To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
| Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
► Limbs.
I Tho Old Reliable English Remedy.
\ PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
' Prepared by Poingukstke & Truman, of
! 71 Old Kent Road, London.
1 Renowned for over a century for quick
l efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
t parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY lotion,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasite* of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZKS, 9d. <fc Is. 6<l.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinudicstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Bards of the Backbloeks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Travellers’ Hut.
Unwatched and unkempt in the bend of the creek,
It stands, like a dead-house, alone,
Unpainted, unfurnished, and gaping and bleak,
With a fire-place rough circled with stone;
Though none call it home, it is evidence plain
Of the goodness of Squatter M’Nutt,
Who, pained at the thought of tramps camped in
the rain,
Erected the “Travellers’ Hut.”
They come from all parts of the civilised globe,
All sorts and conditions of men,
And each, with the stoical patience of Job,
Makes room in the limited den ;
And they wash and they cook, and stop gaps in
their togs,
And blow of the tallies they’ve cut,
Of horses they’ve ridden, of wonderful dogs
That have camped in the Travellers’ Hut.
According to treatment they scribble their views
Of Squatter M'Nutt on the slabs ;
And they read on the wall a budget of news
Pertaining to bosses and scabs ;
While raddled and charcoaled, and cut out with
knives,
On the ricketty door that won’t shut,
Are legends denoting the want of good wives
By men in the Travellers’ Hut.
It has sheltered the artist who favors the nude—
His creations unsettle the mind ;
And the budding bush bard whose effusions,
though crude,
Are of a delectable kind ;
Unhampered by aught in Morality’s code,
He follows no comtnonplace rut,
And produces a hair-raising, soul-stirring ode
That staggers the Travellers’ Hut.
’T is a club where the wandering geniuses meet,
With the cream of bush liars in tow,
And they hold a smoke concert, or musical treat,
While the mopokes are calling below ;
And they register all their cognomens ornate,
Which a sample is “ Billy-the-Nut,”
With poetic allusions to loves out of date,
On the walls of the Travellers’ Hut.
Their language is forceful, their manners superb,
Their modesty’s really sublime ;
There’s little their feelings will hurt or disturb,
But to “ mister” a man is a crime.
I hey sleep on the floor, and they fidget and snore,
These talented students of Smut,
And at morn with Matilda they’re padding once
more
From the door of the Travellers’ Hut.
N.s.w.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Two by the Creek.
Oh, to remember the cool deep creek,
The clear still pool where the banks rose steeply !
Oh, to remember the day I gave
My heart, with its love, you held so cheaply.
The dipping willows above the bend,
The dull grey plain and the blue hills rising;
And two of us, one with an hour to spend
On a poor little love there was no disguising.
And oh, to remember your careless smile,
The idle word as you turned away !
And oh, to forget and not grieve awhile,
For the poor little fool by the creek that day !
Q.
K. SMYTH.
The Man Behind.
Bill Jones, an honest grafter, on the track in
search of work.
He has done the Lachlan country and is tramping
out to Bourke,
When he meets a man on horseback whose
appearance makes him stare;
For he’s mostly “mo” and whiskers, with a
fearsome shock of hair.
With teeth the length and color of a horse’s twelve
months old
Sticking out quite unprotected, not afraid of
catching cold;
And lots of other tokens, no way hard to under-
stand,
That identify the rider as a man “ upon the
land.”
Just a splinter off the backbone of the country, as
it were,
Knocking round in search of milkers, or, perhaps,
in quest of bear;
When he ran against the trackman, whom he
answered with a smile,
“You may have a contract ringing at a place from
here a mile.”
Jones was born and bred a toiler—had been graft-
ing all his time;
Learned to swing an axe in boyhood, grew a
champion in his prime;
Knew the value, too, of ringing; never liked to
have to strike ; f
So when the terms were stated he said, “ What’s
the timber like ? ”
Peering round the cocky answered, “Well, I can’t
see very far,
Still, somehow, I should reckon just about like
where we are.
Of course it’s pretty heavy, but you know the
days are long;
Besides it’s clear at night-time when the moon i*
shining strong.”
“No,” replied the man in tatters ; “but if you
wouldn’t mind,
There’s a chap I think will take it —he’s a-coming
on behind.”
“ Very good,” the cocky answered ; “but however
can you tell ? ”
“ ’Cause,” said Jones, “he works for nothing, and
he finds himself as well! ”
N.S.W,
TOSCO.


lEMSSI'S
ItllDT.
The Standard
of Purity
throughout
the World.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has solved the problem of how to LIVE LIKE A LORD on a SMALL INCOME.
This is how it is done—
First Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY POR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE. -Thus they
will only be charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER from Is. per meal.
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Engage Rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
Beg to inform their Country and City Clients that in a few weeks they will withdraw from their
Retail business and continue in the wholesale only, owing to its enormous expansion.
In order to effect a speedy clearance, they will offer thousands of lines at prices that can
never be repeated. Their
“<SIVIN<S-UP RETAIL SALE”
will commence on MARCH 28th, and continue UNTIL EVERY LINE IS CLEAEEP.
Clients are specially advised to call during EASTER SHOW WEEK, when it will be found
that One Sovereign will go as far as two in their GLASS, CHIN AW ARE and ELECTROPLATE,
while in every other department Reductions will be made that will almost amount to giving the goods
away.
REMEfIBER —What we say we do, we do do and do it well.
NOLPSWORTN, MACPHERSON & CO.,
252 GEORGE STREET (Between Bond and Bridge Streets), SYDNEY.,
o
n
w • V m
CAMEO CIGARETTES
i
r
V v4l
f
3?
m-
is
fsio
5^
By Permission of The Sydney Bulletin.
If I hear much more about how good
that there RUBEROID ROOF-
ING is, I’ll be buying a couple
o’ rolls myself. Jack Smith
says it’s so easy, the
Missus could lay
it. Joe, go over
and ask Andy
how much he
paid for his
Ruberoid
Roofing.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vou 25.—N0, 1259.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31. 1 i)Q4-
Pbioe 6d.
KNOCKED OFF HIS PERCH,
The Bill Lj ne-Sydney D.T. controversy is suddenly ended by Lyne throwing back at the paper its frequently-expressed admiration of him in
1901—when he had billets to give away to D.T. officials and directors.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
••Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by Wilt.tam Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOT I on.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents o.r this number , is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 5000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiib Bulletin. will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But toe
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Itlaclc and irhife.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
-—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Trip Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <Ss Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Ilout Street, Capetown; H.
R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia; and others.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
llono Koua.—Breiver and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 1904.
Protected and Democratic Maoriland.
A deputation representing, it was said, 7000 men in the
metropolis who were in absolute want, waited on the
Acting-Premier, Mr. Wise, yesterday.
Mr. Kelly, M.L.A., who introduced the deputation,
said that, unless something was immediately done to
relieve the unemployed, “ he would not be responsible
for what might be done.”
While so many are unemployed in Sydney, the Maori-
land Government complainsthat.it is unable to obtain
men, for whom plenty of work is waiting at 7s. a day.
—Extracts from Sydney Tory Freetrade paper.
Twelve or sixteen years ago Maoriland was the
most unfortunate and most dead-broke of the
Australasian States. Between 1886 and 1891 the
rush of departures from Premier Atkinson’s
islands was large and continuous, and it would
have been much larger if it had not been that a
great part of Maoriland was too dead-broke to raise
its fare to the Promised Land of Australia, and its
efforts to stow itself away on the Union boat had
been frustrated. In those days Maoriland had all
the natural advantages it has now. Its rainfall was
the same; so was its fertility. It had the outward
and visible blessings which make for prosperity
in the same degree as to-day. The wheat crop in
1887 wa» more than twice as large as that of
1902, and far larger than the average of the last
dozen years—also, it fetched far more per
bushel. There were almost as many sheep and
cattle then as there are now—in proportion to
population quite as many. The gold yield was
not very much less per inhabitant than it is at
present, and there was far more land for each
inhabitant, and consequently each person’s share
of the “magnificent natural resources of the
country” was much greater. Maoriland, in the
bad old days, when people fled from it and
Premier Atkinson as if pach of them had a
pestilence, had almost everything it has
now—except socialistic government and a
vigorous, uncompromising Protective tariff.
It lacked the present intense resolve to
build up its own industries, and the present policy
of forcibly breaking up the big estates in order to
create a mass of small independent landholders or
State leaseholders each farming his own bit of
soil. It hadn’t discovered that the absentee is a
curse. In the days when Maoriland was stone-
broke it was still walking in the old Tory path
which the Argus and the Sydney Telegraph and
Grandmother Herald recommend Australia to
follow as the sure road to greatness. It had yet
to enter upon that career of “experimental legis-
lation ” which was to lead it to ruin, and which
instead, somehow, dragged it out of the slough.
But the “splendid natural resources” —to quote
the babble of the daily paper—were all there, and
if Tory government and the possession of “in-
exhaustible natural resources ’’ can save a country,
Maoriland should have been a very much saved
country about the glad year 1886.
* * * *
Things have changed since then. Maoriland
threw Freetrade and revenue tariffism and
Toryism overboard, and went in for almost the
most advanced Socialism on earth, and for the
ino3t aggressive Protection that Australasia has
ever seen. It dropped the mouldy text-books of
the Manchester school of politics into the ash-
barrel, and started to do things which made the
liair of Toryism stand on end. And then Maori-
land a mere speck of a country which would go
into any one of a dozen odd corners of Australia
and never be noticed-—began to attract immigrants
on such a scale that in the ten years from 1891 to
1900 it gained more people by excess of arrivals
over departures than all the six Australian States
put together. In the next two years, 1901-2, it
gained twice as, many immigrants as all the six Aus-
tralian States put together. It is now 15 years since
Maoriland had a deficit, while this side of the Tas-
*»**&» the annual shortage is almost as regular
as. the daily sunrise. There has been no great
mineral boom worth mentioning to account for
i(his —no Kalgoorlie, nor Broken Hill, nor Mount
Morgan. The “ splendid natural resources of the
country ” haven’t asserted themselves to any
unusual extent. . There is no great visible cause
for the resurrec f, on of Maoriland save heavy Pro-
tection and that “socialistic legislation ” which is
the pet curse and anathema of Australian Tory
politicians, house agents, sharebrokers, and such-
like excrescences. The Maorilander is bigoted,
inflated, intolerant, and (as instanced in the Boer
war time) has a capacity for being a fierce and
savage persecutor of all who won’t think as he
does whicli almost puts the Russian in the shade;
but he has a hard Presbyterian business capacity
which calls for imitation.
• • * •
The rise of manufactures in Maoriland has done
more than anything else to provide work for the
people and when work is provided immigration
follows as a matter of course, and national prosperity
arrives automatically. The Ballance and
Seddon Governments certainly did an immense
amount of work, and also spent an immense
amount of money, in developing Maoriland’s
“natural resources,” and the work was well-
applied, and the money was, on the whole, well
spent; but the process of development was a
purely socialistic process, and therefore accursed
by the Argus and its friends. Yet, with it all,
the manufacturing industry, which required very
little expenditure, in road, railway, and bridge
building, which involved no heavy borrowing,
and no big bonuses ; which required nothing save
a Protective tariff (and the Protective tariff
actually yielded the revenue which enabled the
State to “coddle ” the boasted primary producer)—
the cheap, unobtrusive manufacturing industry
did most of all. to lift Maoriland out of the ruck of
failure. This is the record of employment in the
principal industries of Seddon’s country between
1891, the last year of the old regime, and 1901,
the latest date for which statistics are available :
Employees Employees In-
. in 1891. in 1901. crease.
Agricultural .. .. 59,477 67,812 8,336
Pastoral 10,056 16,872 6,816
Mining 16,877 17,816 939
All Primary Producers 90,546 111,921 21,375
Manufactures .. .. 25,633 48,718 23,085
Maoriland, by reason of its good soil and reliable
rainfall, has more permanent natural resources
than any State this side of the Tasman Sea,
bar Tasmania, and in the development of those
resources the Seddon Government has toiled un-
ceasingly. It has borrowed money for roads,
bridges, railways, and all manner of improvements.
It has bought up big estates and re-sold them to
the small farmer on the easiest possible terms. It
has lent money to the agriculturist and the
pastoralist at specially low rates. It has negoti-
ated extra cheap freights for the export of the
produce of the man on the land, and has supplied
him with expert instructors, agricultural schools,
cool storage, bonuses, and all manner of large and
small aids. Yet manufactures, as a means of
finding work for the new immigrant and for the
son of the old inhabitant, have beaten all the
“magnificent natural resources” of the best
favored State of Australasia put together.
* * * •
The great influx of population with which
Maoriland has been blessed during the past dozen
years was only made possible by the policy of
supplying work for the people. Assisted immi-
gration won’t bring people, or at least won’t make
them stay when they have arrived, unless there
is work for them ; nor will advertising, lecturing,
lying, the despatch of commercial agents, the cir-
culation of boom literature, the holding of exhi-
bitions, nor any other of the stock dodges of the
mere showman. But where there is decently-paid
work, all the snows of Klondike, and all the lying
of the Tory press about the imaginary exclusion of
Six Hatters, and all the warnings of the Argus
and the Telegraph about the horrors of socialistic
legislation, won’t keep people out. The question
to be considered, therefore, is how best to supply
the work; when that is done, other considera-
tions look after themselves. The experience of
Maoriland proves that a vigorous socialistic policy
for the abolition of big estates and the settlement
of 5m..1l working landholders on the soil is good,
and that vigorous encouragement of manu-
factures by Protection is even a shade better,
and that merely trusting to “our magnificent
natural resources ” to assert themselves isn’t worth
twopence. The only State in Australasia which
is a striking example of prosperity, which has no
deficits, and which attracts large numbers of
immigrants, is also the o e which has the largest
proportion of its popu!.. '.on engaged in manu-
factures. And its resurr tion commenced about
the time when it decided :o create manufactures
by heavy Protection and socialistic legislation ;
before that it was a place without hope and
seemed to be fast sinking into the grave. Its
growth, judging from the employment statistics,
in recent years is owing to various causes in
about these proportions :
Heavy Protection and Socialistic Legisla-
tion (Manufactures) 62 per cent.
Protection, Socialistic Legislation, and the
“ splendid natural resources of the coun-
try ” (agriculture, &c.) 46 „
The “splendid natural resources of the
country ” pure and simple (mining) ..2 „
A good deal of the new prosperity of the Maon-
land farmer arises fro n the growth of a manufac-
turing population right aj his door to buy his
produce. When the primary producer can sell his
stuff to the artisan in Christchurch l:e naturally
settles on the Canterbury Plains to be near his
market.. If he has to depend on selling it to
the artisan in England he probably settles in
Canada, as being much nearer to his market,
and leaves Canterbury Plains a howling Freetrade
waste. But even taking no account of this aspect
of the case, and leaving the percentages as they
are, the outlook for Australia, if it doesn’t adopt
vigorous socialistic legislation and adhere to and
improve its Protective tariff, is very poor. Only
2 per cent, of Maoriland’s increased employment
can be traced directly to the country’s “magni-
ficent natural resources” as apart from its fiscal
and socialistic policy. And Australia hasn’t
anything like Maoriland’s luck in the way of
natural resources.
The Present Financial Aspect.
The latest issue (that for 1904) of the Year Book
of Australia contains some blighting informa-
tion about the more recent aspects of Australian
finance —a matter whose last aspect always seems
a shade worse than the aspect before. For a good
many years now, Australia has been, in the matter
of its public accounts, the boss fool, spendthrift,
prodigal and incapable of the earth, but exactly
how far ahead of other countries it lias contrived
to get in this respect is a matter which very few
have realised. As a matter of fact, it is difficult
to get the average Australian to understand,
except in a very vague and general way, that
there is anything wrong with the finances of his
wonderful country. He has three hazy and com-
forting delusions on the subject, which are, in a
general way, as impervious as Gibraltar; and
even if he is convinced for the moment that they
are delusions, they are so old and familiar, and so
much a part of himself, that he returns to them
automatically as soon as the argument is over.
They may be summarised thus :
(1) That though Australia has the biggest debt on
earth in proportion to population, still it is fully covered
by reproductive public works. “Look at our railways,”
is" the Australian’s general answer to everything. Though
he is vaguely conscious that large sums of loan money
have been expended quite unproductively—though he
hears of this daily—it makes no permanent impression on
him. Sometimes he even has an idea that the State rail-
ways of Australia would sell for sufficient to cover the
whole public debt, whereas they certainly wouldn’t realise
half of it.
(2) He has a vague and absurd idea that other countries
don’t possess State railways or other reproductive assets,
and alludes to their liabilities in a large, general way as
“ war debts.”
(3) He has a promiscuous conviction that any difficulty
or discrepancy which isn’t sufficiently covered by calling
other countries' liabilities —most of them much more
efficiently represented by reproductive assets than ours—
“war debts,” or by saying “look at our railways" is
brushed away by the general remark that “ this is a new
country. Sometimes, also, there is an allusion to our
“ magnificent natural resources,” and occasionally a
mention of the Southern Cross.
* * * *
It is best to get away from these comforting
generalities and look the situation in the face.
The burden of a public debt lies, after all, not in
the amount of the debt, but in the amount
of interest which has to be paid on the debt, and
especially the amount of interest which is not
covered by revenue from public works, and
which, consequently, has to be provided by taxa-
tion. In the following table the Australian figures
are mostly taken from the Year Book of Aus-
tralia; the others from the Statesman’s Year
Book (Maoriland is omitted for lack of informa-
tion, and as regards Westralia, information is
from Westralian official publications):—
Interest on Public Debt per Inhabitant ter Annum.
Interest not covered
by revenue from
Total Public Works (to be
Interest. made good by
Taxation).
Queensland .. £2 17 10 .. £1 16 6
Tasmania.. .. 116 11 .. 1 S 10
S.A. and Northern
Territory .. 2 14 4 .. 13 0
N. S. Wales .. 1 18 5 .. 17 4
Victoria .. .. 1 11 10 .. 10 6
Westralia .. .. 2 6 9 .. 12 0
Commonwealth .. 2 0 11 ~ 18 6
France .. .. 14 6
S;>ain .. .. 17 S
Portugal .. .. 17 6
Belgium .. .. 17 1
Italy .. .. 14 3
Britain .. .. 12 10
Roumania .. .. 11 8
Holland .. .. 10 10
Greece .. .. 6 8
Servia .. .. 63
Russia .. .. 5 8
All the other countries (the list is too long to print
in full) have a smaller interest-burden than Russia;
they taper down till they come to the United
States, with a total interest bill of Is. 7d. per
inhabitant per annum.
* * • •
The amazing circumstance, therefore, which
Australia has to face is that the burden of its
unproductive debt—the debt, interest on which
has to be raised by taxation —is greater in pro-
portion to population than the total debt burden,
productive and unproductive combined, of any
country in the world, France only excepted. Yet
almost all the foreign countries in the above list
have reproductive public works—railways, tele-
graphs, telephones, State lands and forests —just
as we have. If the revenue from these sources
were deducted from the respective interest bills,
the burden of the unproductive debt of almost all
these foreign countries would be much smaller
even than the above list shows. When Australia,
with its great land revenue to spend, and with no
wars and no very costly army or navy, has con-
trived in half a century to build up an unproduc-
tive debt which amounts to more per head than
the whole debt (war debt, debt incurred for rail-
ways and telegraphs, and every other kind of
debt) of almost every other country, it is indeed
the prize shocking example of the globe.
* * * *
There is no satisfaction to be gained, by way of
set-off to this lamentable exhibition, out of the
well-worn remark that Australia “is a new coun-
try.” There are only 20s. in the £ in a
new country as in an old one, and unless the
country is very differently administered its new-
ness wouldn’t save it even if it were as new as the
first chapter of Genesis. There is less than no
satisfaction to be derived from a contemplation
of our still magnificent, though fast dwindling,
land revenues—they make the position worse in-
stead of better. When Australia has got into so
incredible a position while selling its land whole-
sale, and spending the money, the only possible
inference is that, as this source of income
diminishes, things will grow worse—unless some
radical reform sets in—and they can’t grow much
worse without coming to blank insolvency. And
there is no joy or satisfaction or compensation in
any vague maunderings about our “ magnificent
natural resources.” We know these too well.
Australia’s “ natural resources ” up to date con-
sist mostly of minerals, wool, and wheat. We
have dug up and sold and spent .£560,000,000
worth of minerals, and these resources will never
be seen again. Our sheep have diminished in
number, and our wool and wheat fetch about half
the price they did. If Australia got into its pre-
sent incredible monetary bog when its mineral
resources were at their richest and the prices of
its agricultural and pastoral produce at their
highest, there is no hope—apart from a radical
reformation on the part of its people—that its
mere “ natural resources ” will lift it out of the
slough now.
* * * *
The whole story of Australia’s ruin and financial
degradation can be told in a few words. For
many years the people of this country, for some
inscrutable reason, regarded themselves as some
kind of a Chosen Race who shouldn’t be expected
to pay taxes and hump burdens and face respon-
sibilities as other communities have to do. For
many years it was an article of general faith
that there should be really no need of taxa-
tion “in a new country,” there being a vague
impression that though a shilling might only
contain twelve coppers in an old coun-
try, it should somehow consist of at least
thirty-six “browns” here. The weary wheeze
about “our immense natural resources” did the
rest of the evil—that and a general tendency to
use large, unprofitable, and purposeless remarks
about the Southern Cross or some other non-
financial constellation. There was hardly such a
tiling as an income-tax or a land-tax in Australia
so long as land could be sold and money borrowed
(though there was a great deal of cricket and a fair
amount of poetry). Even now both land and in-
come taxes are very low; there is practically no such
thing as a graduated land-tax or an absentee-tax;
the average local government or municipal rate is
about one-fifth (if the real value of property is
taken into consideration) the English average;
and frantic aldermen denounce the Govern-
ment if it doesn’t make their local roads and
grant subsidies in addition. Local bodies
that borrow from the State still reckon
they shouldn’t be expected to pay up on account
of our “great natural resources.” Farmers are
shocked, because this is a new country, at the
idea of being required to meet their seed wheat
liabilities to the Treasury. Any attempt to pay
for even one bridge out of revenue would be
regarded as an outrage on the blessed liberty
which exists under that inferior and sidelong
constellation, the Southern Cross. No Govern-
ment, even yet, dreams of doing a single work
which will be in the smallest degree reproductive,
except out of loans, and hardly any of them
dream of doing unproductive works either, except
out of loans. The idea that the Australians are a
Special People, who shouldn’t be expected to pay
taxes like other people, is still rampant. Yet the
sorrowful fact is that Australia, just because it
has accumulated so monumental a debt, needs to
pay more taxes per head than almost any other
community on earth in order to make up leeway.
There is interest to be paid on the debt which
was accumulated so that our lazy and incom-
petent fathers might dodge their fair share of
taxation for half a century, and there is the old
dead-horse itself to be worked off. That is a
problem which must be reckoned with. Austra-
lia still borrows enough to pay the interest and
thus staves off the problem, but that is getting to
be a very precarious device nowadays. The
almost indecent joy of the present day Treasurer
when he makes a very temporary “rise” of
£250,000 at something over 4 per cept. shows
clearly how precarious it is.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Shiver of Bill Dyne.
There are two men in the House of Reps, whose
views on the question of a Federal capital site
are worth less than those of any other two in
Parliament. One is Austin Chapman, who sits
for Bombala ; the other Bill Lyne, who sits for
Tumut. No member’s opposition to Bombala is
worth so little as Bill Lyne’s. There is none in
which persona] interest is so clearly indicated.
There is none in which prejudice is more humanly
certain to have played a part. Why, therefore,
Bill Lyne should be listened to in such a matter
Heaven only knows. And yet it seems he is lis-
tened to, and to some extent followed. Probably no
card he has played so far, in the interests of
Tumut, has had more weight than his personal
assurance that Bombala is swept by blizzards,
and. is so bitterly cold that life there is next door
to impossible. Queenslanders, who find Mel-
bourne trying enough, shiver at the thought of it.
They remember how the cold of the first session
in the southern capital rushed W. H. Groom to
his end, and sent two or three others of them to
bed. The Queenslanders gained also the sym-
pathy of others in fighting against a capital so
climatically unsuited to them ; and Lyne, seeing
how the card scored, plays it now at every chance,
until, on the mere say-so of a man who is a
less credible witness on the point than any
other single man in Parliament, Bombala and
blizzards are almost synonymous. So far as
the Queenslanders are concerned, it is well
known that, if they made their own choice of a
capital site, it would pretty certainly be Armi-
dale—for the same reason that W. J. Lyne says
Tumut. Yet, so far from Bombala being a place
above all others where they would perish of cold,
Armidale, to which they gave their first votes, has
absolutely more striking cold records. In the five
years covered by the last “N.S.W. Statistical
Register ” issued, Armidale’s minimum record was
15’2 degrees; Bombala’s was 15’5. Carcoar, to
which district the Queenslanders have also been
encouraged to look, has a minimum record of
15’4. Even Albury, the other string to
W. J. Lyne’s bow, but rejected as too hot for
one thing, gets down to 21—only 5J degrees
higher than Boinbala’s minimum. But whereas
in Albury, in Bill Lyne’s district, the ther-
mometer reading soars to 112'8 one day, and is
down to 21 a few days after, the official records
show that Bombala’s extreme variation for five
years was between 991 and 15’5. The “Statis-
tical Register” does not furnish figures for Tumut;
but Queanbeyan, in that district, gets down to
15"8, and Kiandra, out of which Tumut gets its
biting winds, touches 10 below zero —25J points
below Bombala’s worst record. If Bombala is,
therefore, to be ruled out on account of Bill
Lyne having shivered there in the interests of
Tumut, so must Armidale and Carcoar; and
if he asked the House to put them aside
on that ground he would probably be laughed
at. If Bombala, with its minimum of 15'5, is un-
inhabitable, then it must be sudden death to live
in London, which has a record of 16 degrees below
zero, or 31£ degrees worse than Bombala; and
Paris, with 13 degrees below zero, is obviously
doomed to desolation ; and Washington, where
30 degrees below zero has been reached, is a place
which W. J. Lyne ought to carefully avoid ; like-
wise Turin (Italy), which has been down to o.
Yet somehow all these places seem to be doing
pretty well and making some progress; and we
don’t hear of any great mortality at Washington
among Southern Senators who come from a climate
a good deal warmer than most of Queensland is.
»
Th.s Victorian Charities Problem.
Premier Bent, who is a doubtful authority,
though possibly better than none has declared
that under the existing system 58 per cent, of the
amount collected for Victorian charities goes in
costs of collection. The statement looks surpris-
ing, yet, on the whole, there seems little reason to
doubt its accuracy. The facts probably are as
stated, even though Premier Bent says they are,
and it is a pretty hard fact that is capable of bear-
ing up against Bent’s support. But thefactin ques-
tion isn’t a charge against the hospitals and miscel-
laneous charities, though it certainly is a blighting
indictment of the ways of the Bent-Irvine Minis-
try. Through the scarcity of Government support
the hospitals, &c., have always had to rely to a
considerable extent on promiscuous public charity.
Through the heartless foolishness of the Bent-


Irvine Government in cutting down the already
miserable State subsidy to zero, they have lately
had to depend even more than usual on pro-
miscuous public charity. Public charity is very
promiscuous. It has to be drummed up by
collectors, cadgers, and touts, by advertising, by
all manner of means. The collectors have to be
paid sufficient to keep body and soul together, for
the sufficient reason that a corpse can’t collect.
When the hired cadger makes a dozen or two
dozen calls, and the result is, as often happens, a
solitary half-crown, a good deal of that humble
coin must go in expenses. The State can
gather in the general revenue at an expendi-
ture of about 5 per cent, for collection ; therefore
if the same amount which Victoria now pays
promiscuously were raised by taxation, the
hard-up charities would get twice as much as
they do, and Victoria wouldn’t pay one solitary
copper more. As an additional advantage, a
small army of collectors and such like—a purely
non-productive class —might then “go on the
land ’ and become producers, and add to the
aggregate wealth of the State, If Premier Bent
would impose an adequate charities tax, he could
put every hospital and every other really useful
and well-managed charity on a sound footing
without increasing the charge on the public
in the slightest degree. It is merely a question of
raising the money by a compulsory process which
costs about 5 per cent, in expenses instead of a
“ voluntary ” one which costs 58 per cent. The
Bulletin doesn’t seriously expect the dunder-
headed Bent to see the point ; still it throws out
the suggestion. There is no more reason why hos-
pitals and such like should be supported by the
costly and inefficient “voluntary subscription’’plan
tha'i there is why gaols or lunatic asylums should
be similarly supported. In fact Bent might just
as logically depend on passing round the hat to
raise the Governor’s salary—much more logically,
for hospitals and benevolent asylums are essential
and Governors certainly are not.
Nearing 1 the Crisis.
Premier Deaktn’s second-reading speech on the
Australian Arbitration Bill was a painful exhibi-
tion of apologetic weakness and courteous flabbi-
ness. Over the proposed inclusion of State civil
servants his great trouble seemed to be lest the
“independence ” of the States should be threat-
ened—“their independence would be for ever
lost; they would be reduced to mere delegates,
mere subordinates, of the central Government.”
The too urbane Prime Minister doesn’t yet seem
to have grasped the possibilities of his position,
rhe “independence” of the States (such inde-
pendence as they ever had) is lost; it was intended
to be lost; it can’t be too much lost; it ought
to be a great deal more lost than it is. It ought
to go where the unlamented independence of the
kingdoms of Mercia and Wessex and East Anglia
and the others went when they were wiped out,
and England was made out of the ruins. The
- rj Ple of England is a good enough one to
follow in this respect. Australia doesn’t aim at
having a weak, flabby, dish-rag central Govern-
ment bossed by six bounceable underlings—it wants
a real Government. Premier Dfakin’s great idea
of cherishing a Henpecked Commonwealth doesn’t
appeal to the people of this country. They fede-
rated to get as far away as possible from the
Eolitical chaos of their six petty Governments ;
•eakin’s idea is to preserve as much of the old
chaos as possible. The people’s Convention gave
the Commonwealth power to make arbitration
laws which would apply, in certain circumstances,
to all Australians; also, it gave the Common-
wealth many other powers, such as the authority
to levy direct taxation, which are not used. It
presumably meant those powers to be used;
Premier Deakin holds that they were only
intended for purposes of ornament, and shouldn’t
be used for fear of annoying Bent. The Consti-
tution says nothing about it being the duty of
the Australian Premier to be a mild old
woman living in chronic terror of Bent,
but Premier Deakin, apparently, thinks it
more his duty to do things that are not in the
Constitution than those that are in it, and regards
his responsibility to Bent as greater than his
responsibility to the people who made him what
he is—and have felt sorry ever since. He appears
to have a vague idea that he was made Premier of
United Australia in order to keep Australia as
Disunited as possible. There can’t be a United
Australia consisting of independent States, and
every time Premier Deakin talks of independent
States he is a traitor to United Australia. It is
well-known that the Barton-Deakin Govern-
ment, m its original draft of the Arbitration
rjill, made it apply to all Australians, but
changed its views, and decided to put a large
number of Australians under a special disability
by excluding them from the benefits of the law
at the bidding of Irvine, then Premier of Victoria,
himself a rejected candidate for a seat in the
Australian Parliament. Yet there is nothingin the
Constitution which authorises the Australian Min-
istry to take instruction from any State Premier, or
any rejected candidate, nor from any extraneous
football club, parsons’ conference, Chinese vege-
tableman, or other outsider. That miserable crawl
and backdown will never be forgotten or forgiven
by Australian Democrats. It was a gross insult
to the Australian Legislature, and all the silvery
wash of Premier Deakin’s eloquence won’t
obliterate the recollection. The most probable
inscription on his political tomb consists of the
few brief words : “ Here lies not quite a Man and
a good deal of an Old Woman. He died through
being afraid of Bent.”
*
Tlie Tobacco Monopoly«
In this Parliament, Senator Pearce ought to have
more hope than he had in the last of getting a
majority for his motion in favor of nationalising
the tobacco business of Australia. Even in the
last Parliament, the House was equally divided —
13 were for and 13 against. Since then, however,
the competition which more or less guaranteed
for the public fair treatment has been superseded
a private monopoly. The very thing for
which the mover then pleaded has come about,
with this most important difference, that,
whereas Senator Pearce wanted the people
to get the profits (his own idea was that
they might form the nucleus of a Federal
old age pension fund), a few private co-operating
firms, largely absentees, now take them. Pearce
proposed then and now proposes again, a Federal
monopoly under which not only would the Com-
monwealth get probably half-a-million a year or
more of revenue, but would guarantee to the
public the quality of the tobacco supplied The
private monopoly, which has been estab-
lished by means of a trust, has, on the
other hand, no object but the making of money
—for its mostly absentee self. If it sells
good tobacco, it will only be because it pays it
best to sell that sorU The chances are that, on
the whole, the quality will be better than it was
hitherto when half-a-dozen big companies were
cutting one another’s throats in the struggle for
business. But if a private monopoly, which is
only interested in making profits, has the de-
sirable result of improving the quality, exactly
the same result, only in a still greater degree,
might be expected to follow if the monopoly
were held by the Commonwealth, inasmuch as it
would have some thought for the people’s health as
well as for the revenue. When the Senate last dis-
cussed Pearce’s motion it was said that there was
a healthy competition in the business which it was
not in the public interest to disturb. The fact
was that the “healthy competition” took the
form of a frightful waste in twenty directions,
with the result that a good deal of the
public’s shilling went back to it in other
shapes than tobacco —girl in tights, posters,
an army of travellers and other sundries.
Now the tobacco trusts of Freetrade England
and Protectionist United States have combined
so far as Australia is concerned, and both in in-
creasing prices to the consumer and in reducing
expenses the combination has already made itself
felt. Practically, therefore, there is no “healthy
competition ” any longer; so that the one more
or less solid argument formerly used against the
monopoly proposal has disappeared. Certainly it
was also said that, even from the commercial
point of view, monopoly was not desirable. Well,
whether it is desirable or not, the monopoly now
exists; and, moreover, it has been brought into
being by an organisation which looks at the
matter from a commercial view point solely—
the best of proof that, from that point of view,
monopoly is the best policy. It is too late to
argue now whether a monopoly should be insti-
tuted or not ; a monopoly has been instituted,
and the only question which remains is whether
the right people hold it. Previously, com-
petition was supposed to give the public some
protection ; now they have none. It is doubt-
ful whether so much as one sane person
could be found in the whole country to say that
that is a desirable thing. When the public are
compelled to trade with one corporation, it
ceases to be trade in the ordinary sense ; for
the buyer is bound and helpless. For the
public’s complete protection only one thing is
possible in such a case : The public must be
the seller as well as the buyer; in other
words, it must hold the monopoly itself.
Under no other conditions can a monopoly be
justified; under no other conditions can the
public be safe from extortion. And it is not simply
a question of getting a fair deal for the public.
There is the big question of revenue as well. A
half-million at least can be made out of the busi-
ness, and a half million, and especially a half-
million representing no extra tax whatever, would
come in very handy just now. In fact, there
probably never will be a time when it won’t
come in handy. Later on, with proper
management of the business, it will certainly
yield more than half a million. France, which
has had a tobacco monopoly for pretty well
100 years, derived £17,500,000 last year from it.
Italy gets £8,300,000 from the same source.
Austria, Turkey, Spain, Portugal—all these and
others draw large revenues from it. Japan, ever
ready to copy the most popular methods of
Europe, lately adopted it, and already is making
an annual profit of £1,170,000 out of the business.
This is no new experiment, then, that the Senate
is urged to adopt. So strenuous an anti-Socialist
as Bismarck urged it upon Germany for its mere
revenue-producing uses. Even Victoria’s Biel
might therefore vote for it without offending
precedent.
- —»
The Victorian Elections.
Now that the Peacock has gone, has folded up a
horrid laugh and stolen silently away, it is w. rth
while for the Labor party in Victoria to cons der
whether, as a matter of tactics, it would not be
an advantage to come to some form of agreement
with the Opposition. The destruction of the
Bent Government is the pressing task in hand.
To effect that end a certain amount of compro-
mise and concession would be more than justified.
It is not necessary that the Labor party and the
Opposition party should sink their individual entity
and combine on a common platform. But to a
certain extent they are working towards the same
end and they should at least be able to agree
between themselves not to hamper one another’s
efforts. There are certain seats to which the
Labor party has the best claim; certain other
seats which would probably be won by an Opposi-
tion candidate but not by a Labor man; yet
others in which the Tory cause might be seriously
threatened if there were a united challenge, but
which, in the case of disunion between opponents,
would be quite safe for Toryism. The sensible
course is for the Labor and Opposition parties to
agree to a treaty of union during the elections,
one not running candidates against the other, both
agreeing to let the man who is most likely to
succeed attack the Bent candidate. After the
elections the agreement might end or it might
not. The two parties could pursue different aims
if they chose, or could continue in unison to form an
Administration. The object would be achieved to
which both are devoted—the downfall of the
clownish Tory Cabinet which now, after a career
marked by scandal and outrage, drags its shame
to the electors under the banner of the unspeak-
able Bent. There would follow, perhaps, a
Cabinet drawn from the present Opposition,
perhaps one controlled wholly or in part by
the Labor party. The event of the elections
would decide that, and it is a point which need
not enter into the issue now. What is needed
for the moment is union against the Cabinet
which once included M'Kenzie, Robert Reid
and Irvine, and which still includes Bent; the
Cabinet of the land scandals, of the outrageous
Strike Suppression Bill, and of that epitome
of all scandals, Bent. That stain on Victoria
has to be scoured away as a first matters- It
would be to the utmost extent unpatriotic for
Labor advocates or Oppositionists to wrangle on
the threshold of such a task.
■ ♦
The N.S.W. Electoral Shuffle.
After all, something was lost—from the demo-
cratic viewpoint, perhaps a good deal—by carry-
ing through the reduction of members of N.S.W.
Parliament and the redistribution of seats before
the local government system was extended. If
the latter had been done first (though if Parlia-
ment had waited for it to be done, heaven knows
when the other necessary thing would have
happened !), there might have been less disposi-
tion to give the country more representation than
the city. As things are, with no decent local
government system in force, and with the State
authority in Sydney doing dozens of things that
municipal authority ought to do, the commissioners
followed the old plan of giving the back country
more members than it is entitled to on the basis
of cold figures. (The theory is that the city’s
wants are always under Parliament’s nose and
can’t be lost sight of, while the country’s remote
culvert is not remembered, unless it is the
subject of constant representation; and this
theoi'y isn’t altogether hollow.) The result, so
far as the present division is concerned, is that,
th ° u ? h far West Joses half its members (five
out of 10) while the balance of the State loses only
about one-fourth (30 out of 115), the Far West is
still on the cold-figure basis, over-represented.
In the matter of present voting strength the eight
westernmost districts compare with eight in the
metropolitan area in this way :
Westernmost. Metropolitan.
Urana-Conwa .. 5871 Sydney (Flinders) .. 7990
Condobolin .. .. 5901 Waverley .. 7933
w° ba / .. " •• 6059 Sydney (Gipps-Lang) 7969
Wentworth.. .. 6037 Sydney (Central) .. 7961
Demliquin .. .. 6203 Sydney (Fitzroy-Bligh) 7949
Sturt... .. .. 6626 Paddington .. .. 7930
Wilcannia-Bourke.. 6231 Sydney (Belmore) .. 7895
Broken Hill.. .. 7034 Pyrmont .. .. 7859
49 > 962 63,536
Farwon (6060) and the Narrandera district
(6580), the next most westerly districts, might
be added to the back-country eight, making
ten, and even then the total of the eight
metropolitan districts would not be reached
by about a thousand. And if 49,962 in the
country have for a start as many members as
63,536 m the metropolitan area, what will the dis-
parity be like in 10 years ? Between the general
elections of 1895 and 1901 the voters in five typical
western electorates Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Bourke, Sturt, and Condobolin—increased 22 per
cent.; in five typical metropolitan districts, by 58
per cent., or 36 per cent. more. With the franchise
given to women, the disparity will now grow
much more rapidly; wherefore it seems fairly
safe to conclude that, even though the present
division may be the best that could be made
under present circumstances, within much less
than 10 years N.S.W. will again have one elector
m one part the equal in voting power of two
electors in another part. Then there will pre-
sumably be another re-arrangement; and already,
if all the successive electorate systems of N.S.W.
were laid down in red lines on a map, it would
look like a Jap nightmare of the defeat of the
Russian army.
“Old *Red.”
It is about time the State did something a little
more thorough for the protection of Australian
drinkers of Australian wines. S. Australia, the
principal grower, takes quite a lot of interest in
seeing that the foreign person is not poisoned.
Every shipment of wine is tested ; most of it is
sent through the Produce Depot, and is not
only tested both ends of the voyage, but is sold
with the State’s guarantee of purity. The home
consumer, however, is allowed to look after him-
self; and he can’t do it. It used to be
said that there was no need to protect him
—that he knew the names of the reputable
makers, and could, by buying only their stuff,
protect himself. But, apart from the fact that the
unknown man in a little way of wine-making may
be quite reputable, and a system of self-defence
which is built on the theory that no new maker
should be allowed to make headway is unfair, this
idea has been exploded again and again. Take,
for instance, the case in which a woman was, the
other day, found burned to death with half a bottle
of “ Old Red ” beside her—stuff which the Gov-
ernment Analyst said contained a maddening 33'79
per cent, of proof spirit. This was not rubbish
turned out anonymously; it bore, instead, the
name of one of the oldest firms in the S. Australian
trade, if not the oldest - the name which
would probably be suggested by six out of
every eight people who might be asked to
mention a representative and reliable firm in
the wine-making business. The firm says there
must have been a mistake somewhere in the
analysing—that the “ Old Red ” does not contain
more than 28 or 29 per cent, of proof spirit. But
the difference between 29 and 33 per cent, is
hardly worth worrying over. The fact remains
that the burnt lady was found with half a bottle
of the stuff by her side, also that 29 per cent,
is pretty well twice too much, anyway. The
public isn’t, therefore, protected by any highly
respectable private name on the bottle. It
can be killed just as dead when there
is a halo round the cork as when there
is nothing there at all. If the 29 per cent,
which the highly respectable firm owns up
to, is too much, in the opinion of the State’s
health authorities, the fact should be stated
on the bottle. Both the actual percentage
of proof spirit, and the quantity above what is
reckoned a fair thing, ought to go alongside the
firm’s name—assuming that any Sim ought to be
permitted to send out anything at all with more
than the safe maximum of proof spirit in it,
which is doubtful. At any rate, something should
be done by the State, private enterprise having
once more proved itself untrustworthy in such
matters.
The Westralian Union Squabble.
W-' J Vi;
The Bulletin gets this letter—a pathetic one
under the circumstances—from a miner at Mount
Morgans (Westralia): —
Enclosed is clipping from Kalgoorlie Miner, showing
speech made bv George Taylor, M.L.A., at Kalgoorlie,
denouncing the James Government and the Labor party.
Taylor is hacked up by the Kalgoorlie Miner, the gold-
fields Foreign-trade daily. It ran Kirwan against
Charley Frazer for the House of Reps., and Foreign-
trader Martin against De Largib. It has taken Taylor
up now because he is throwing mud at the Labor party
and the Government. VVe have two strong unions on the
goldfields, the Amalgamated Miners’ Association and
the Amalgamated Workers’ Association. Labor member
Johnson is secretary for the A.M. A. and
George Taylor is vice-president of the A.W.A.
They are fighting one against the other. The general
elections are close at hand, and we are divided amongst
ourselves. The most of us believe that the Government
and the Labor party in coalition have battled hard anil
got five planks on the Statute Book. Taylor tells 11s to
throw the Government out, and the old Labor part), too.
Some say Taylor has ratted on his own party ; others
say he was quite right to do so. What we want to know
is this : Will we vote for the old Government and the old
Labor party, or for a new Ministry and new Labor
members ?
Both the big unions are losing members. Of course,
some of the men only want an excuse to get out of pay-
ing the Is. a week union rate. They say we are doing-
nothing but fighting. That’s their excuse for leaving
the unions. Democracy and Unionism are getting hard
knocks on these fields at the present time.
Most of us here have been reading The Bulletin for
the last 15 years, some of us longer, all over Australia.
So we now ask for your advice. We are determined to
be guided by it.
In answer to which :
It is clear that George Taylor is net working for the
Labor party ; the success of that party must depend on
its solidarity at the polls.
There is a heavy responsibility resting on the leaders of
labor in Westralia— all the leaders—that a position is
created in which faithful unionists and democrats are
unable to see a clear path ahead. The disunion between
the A.W.A. and the A.M.A. is a disgraceful circumstance.
Have not the officials of the unions enough common-
sense and respect for the interests of the workers to come
of themselves to a peaceful agreement? If not, why
should they not commit their differences to an umpire
for settlement, say to Federal Labor Leader Watson, or
some other trustworthy person ? The Bulletin would
suggest to its correspondent to take counsel with his
mates and see if they cannot insist on that being clone.
The row between the unions is evidently one of officials,
not of members.
Probably the best solution of the difficulty would be if
the unions could agree to drop the old names Cwhich are
o?d g nffi^ 8 y r aS,SoCiated with the old rows), to drop the
' d n °® lf l° P f S P , eacefu "-V out of existence, and to
tmisfer both sets of members bodilv to a new union
eleetion c . ome * on before anything
n be done, every umonist should vote solidly
seems to h ß ab ° r ™ ember ?- The new Labor movement
Taylor. b ty an lm P orte ™’ game, and Gkorgb
♦-
Sydney Telegraph’s financial editor on March 25:
~? b fre would be an enormous expenditure to-day
f a S 01 1 Australia if there were no such thing as a
Labor party to paralyse enterprise.
Of this weary old lie The Bulletin is so heartily
sick that it will offer £25 to any person who can
disprove the contention that the facts, so far as
can be ascertained, are exactly the reverse. Aus-
tralian progress received a severe set-back from
i ® incompetence of the Tory politicians,
land-boomers and bankers a decade ago. Since
then, with the advent of the Labor party and of
socialistic legislation, there has been a steady
movement for the better, as shown in the immi-
gratmn returns, the factory figures, the exports,
and the bank balance-sheets. The Bulletin can
prove that much, and if that much is true the yarn
that, if there were no Labor party there would be
an enormous expenditure, is palpably a lie.
Wtatt - env °y to these parts of the
British Navy League, has been explaining to a
Sydney audience that he is all broken up at the
“huge, astonishing and blind apathy” of Aus-
tralia on the question of the British navy. Aus-
tralians certainly are tolerably apathetic at times,
and as regards that end of his shriek Wyatt may
be right. But their blindness isn’t nearly so bad as
this shockingly patronising person represents.
In fact, Wyatt’s own strabismus is the worst
sample of the two. The great difficulty in the
way of this country taking any real interest in
the British navy is the bumptious attitude of
Britain itself. That country doesn’t pledge itself
in any way to defend “ the colonies.” Australia
pays something towards a British squadron, and is
distinctly informed that there is no guarantee that
the squadron will be here, or anywhere near here,
when it is needed. When a considerable party in
this country sought to found an Australian navy
which would be an addition to the defences of the
empire, and to rear its own sailors and officers
just as Britain does, it was howled at by indignant
British authorities, who laid it down that the
power, glory, salary, bumptiousness and fuss and
feathers of naval glory were not for all Britons,
but only for the superior variety of Briton who
inhabits England. The general theory is that
that section of the British empire which is called
England is to hold all the dignified naval billets,
is to have sole control of the navy and the em-
pire’s naval policy, is to be shocked at any attempt
on the part of any Briton outside the United
Kingdom to be a Boy of the Bulldog Breed, and
is to demand naval subsidies from the rest of the
empire, and supply such defence as it thinks fit,
and tell the rest of the empire how grateful it
ought to be. And there are times when the rest
of the empire feels like putting the patronising
Wyatt under the pump.
A Sydney Calico Jimmy importer pays this
eloquent, if unconscious, tribute to the blessed
tariff of the Commonwealth:—
For the last six years my imports have been as follows :
1898, £7280 ; 1899, £10,300 ; 1900, £11,900; 1901, £11,780 :
1902, £8040; 1903, £7450. Note the drop and the
inevitable loss to the State generally, and I am one out
of thousands.
The Calico Jimmy is impressed with the idea that
he is the State, and that his bale of imported
rubbish is Australia. The goods we import
represent the factories and the employment we
haven’t got, and the progress we haven’t made,
and the things we don’t know. Under even
the very attenuated Protection of the Australian
tariff we are already able to make rather more
than we did, which means more employment and
more progress. And Calico Jimmy, in his simple-
minded belief that he is the whole show, and that
Lis tawdry little importing job is the only thing
of importance in Australia, calls this “ the inevi-
table loss to the State generally.” He thinks he
is the “ State generally.”
" ■
“C.C.” ON “Christian Canvassing ”:—
A wild, whirling Dervish, named Gainford, is just now
humping his carpet-bag around the backblocks in the
interests of the Watchman— a much-taiked-of-but-seldom-
seen rag which, according to this Dervish, is the only
protection the inoffensive Protestants have against being
burnt at the stake. The Dervish struck Goulburn a few
days ago, and delivered a “ lecture” to a very small but
ferocious audience. After reading several apologies from
reverend gentlemen who begged to be excused from
giving him their moral support in the chair, the Dervish
stated that “ he addressed the audience in a threefold
capacity, but principally as agent for the Watchman.”
The other two capacities were not mentioned. The
lecture consisted of a series of short barks, such as
these:—
A Cardinal of the Roman Church had said, ■lt was
not contrary to the spirit of Christianity to burn heretics
with fire.*
Another priest, in Scotland, recently said, ‘I would
rather Catholics would read the most immoral literature
in the world than the Bible.’
Another Roman Catholic authority had said, ‘The
Bible is the book of the devil circulated by the Fire King.’
This was in Ireland.
Another Roman Catholic authority had said, ‘Those
who practised reading the Bible would fall into everlast-
ing punishment, and he urged his hearers, by the love
they had for the Virgin Mary and the dear priests, not to
allow the Bible men near their houses, but, when they
saw them approaching, to hold their hands up to Heaven
and ask to be delivered from the infectious pestilfence of
the Bible, which would lead them to ruin.’
Catholic lands were centuries behind the others in
arts and sciences.
Referring to the Confessional, Mr. Gainford said that
he believed the ends of justice to have been defeated by
it. There was ho doubt in his mind that the Gattoii
murderer was known to a young priest, who was bound
not to reveal what he had been told at the Confessional.
The priest’s hair became white a week after the murder,
and he was removed, without warning, to a distant
parish.
According to the book on “Modern Theology” any
employee working, say, for £2 per week who considered
himself to be worth £3 could, from his master’s goods,
make up the difference.
With regard to the recent elections, the lecturer said
that a magistrate who was a friend of his had shown him
a letter sent by a priest to a young married woman, who
was about to be confined, warning her to vote fora Roman
Catholic candidate, in default of which her child would
be refused baptism.
A “vote of thanks” was accorded the Dervish
when his supply of “facts” ran out, but, as the
audience made tracks for the door, he replied in
a hard, yellow tone of voice that “ the best vote
of thanks he could receive was a subscription to
the Watchman from some of them.” But the
audience was in a hurry to look up the Dervish s
authorities before the reference library at the
pub. closed. Next day both priests and parsons
were busy writing severe things about the Dervish
to the local press. One of the former indignantly
denies the Gatton anecdote, and states that the
young priest mentioned by the Dervish was never
removed, and his hair remains of its usual color.
Alsu there was a great demand for the names and


addresses of the persons vaguely described as “a
cardinal,” or “a priest,” or “another Roman
Catholic authority,” or “a Roman Catholic candi-
date.” None of those particulars were forth-
coming.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s... “The Admirable Crichton."
Theatre Royal “ Great Millionaire.”
Criterion “ Two Mr. Wetherbys.”
Palace, ...' “A Stranger in a Strange Land.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Bklmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
St. James’ Hall The Pierrots.
Steyne Court, Manly... Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK-
Princess’s .. “ Mama’s New Husband.”
Her. Majesty’s “ The Darling of the Gods.”
Theatre Royal “ The Face at the Window."
Orera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
: +
Last week The Bulletin had an idea that
if it ran a circus it xvould make its strong man
carry a coxv or George Reid’s reputation up the
ladder, instead of the horse which every circus
strong man seems to think is the proper thing to
struggle with. But, on second thoughts, and
having since spent a damp evening at Fitzgeralds’
and noted who got the most applause, it isn’t sure
that it wouldn’t let its Samson carry the same
beasts as all the other Samsons. Novelty in the
ring is all well enough in strict moderation ; but,
after all, the world provides most of the novelty
itself in the shape of the infant who wasn’t quite
old enough to wriggle on the seats the last time
the Fitzes were here, but is given a night out
now ; wherefore the clown who finds the frog in
the horse’s hoof becomes a novelty all over again,
and the “dummy” who isn’t mesmerised and
changes the smoked plate so that the talkative
clown falls into the soup, so to speak, is as brand
new a humorist as he was on that first night
when Shem, Ham, and Japhet ate peanuts in the
front seats and threw the shells at the monkey.
If it weren’t that some old patron has to go to
take care of the new' infant, it would probably
pay brothers Tom and Dan to save the money
they spend now in raking the world for novelties,
and, taking over part of the business of the late
Victoria, scatter the coin in prizes for triplets.
Unhappily, something being called for in the
interests of the blast person who rather thinks he
has heard about the horse’s frog before, the Fitzes
are kept on the move trying to find somebody
who can tie himself into a shape never previously
attempted, or a flea who is a different sort of flea ;
and it’s pretty hard work. For this season a team
of Jap wrestlers was relied upon; but, owing to
the fact that on the way from Japan just at
present a wrestler is liable at any time to have to
get out and pick a torpedo from his path,
which takes time, this part of the circus
isn’t here yet. It is expected on Satur-
day. Meantime, the fort is being held by “Dr.”
Gordon, the strong man, who does what the other
strong men do, but does more of it with his teeth.
He isn’t a graceful performer—perhaps it is too
much to expect a man who swings 4cwt. from his
jaw to be graceful into the bargain. In size, he is
something between Pagel and Atlas, and of the
professional strong men who have shown in
Sydney he is the only one who is swarthy and
heavy-jawed. When the strong man isn’t holding
the fort, nobody holds it so well as a team of dogs,
whose education has been carried further than that
of any others shown in these parts. A somer-
saulting terrier deserves the biggest salary. An-
other person who extracts music from early spring
cabbages, late autumn ducks, and other weird
instruments, is sandwiched between clown and
horse, and wire-rope lady and horizontal bar, all
of which are up to the Fitzgerald reputation.
And over all Van der Mehden still waves his
familiar cornet, and nightly draws attention to
the fact that the tents are pitched in the neigh-
borhood of the Owe’Sullivan’s new station in
Bel more Park.
** * *
J. C. Williamson re-opens Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Saturday, when Cuyler Hastings—
he of the impassive countenance and the half-
burnt cigar on the mantelpiece—will appear in a
new character. The person who gives the name
to the “Admirable Crichton” is a butler in the
family of a “ noble earl” (if he buttles up to the
standard of the best English flunkeys he will say
“ hearl ”), and with the peer and his high-
bred daughters is cast away on a desolate
(or is it dissolute) island. Crichton soon drops the
role of Man Friday and acts that of earl. At this
stage the posters are really startling, for they
show the aristocrat’s high-stepping daughter in a
sliort ballet skirt of what is apparently sea-weed
making love to the now haughty butler. The rest
of the lady’s costume will be revealed in good
time for next issue.
** * *
The Willoughby-Geach co. will come back
to Sydney and the Palace on Saturday, bringing
with it this time three Indians who are partly
genuine Red Indian, partly a detective disguised
as Red Indian for professional purposes, and
partly an innocent third person fixed up to do
duty as Red Indian on the supposition that the
real Indian hadn’t turned up. Out of this jumble
“ A Stranger in a Strange Land ” is built, and
the resulting farce-comedy goes with a roar and a
swish which ought to suit the holiday-maker.
** * #
W. F. Hawtrey, at Sydney Cri., is now
well into the second week of his Great Moral
. Lesson, that it is best to seem to be what you are,
even if you are not what you ought to be. Haw-
trey himself, who is one of “The Txvo Mr.
Wetherbys,” adopted that plan, and enjoyed his
five meals a day regular, and his sleep, and his
life ; while Gregan McMahon, who is the other
Wetherby, was presented by his wife and her
maiden aunt and the rest of her family with a pair
of angel’s wings—and the disastrous consequences
of trying to look as though the wings were a good
fit make a three-act comedy which has pleased big
audiences all the week.
* * *• *
On Saturday, to mark the close of this
season of Lent, xvhich has been a lean Lent in
Australia as Cohen wouldn’t lend to anything
like the old extent, Bland Holt stages ' ‘ The
Great Millionaire” at Sydney Royal. This
opulent play is reported to be full of scenic glory
and mechanical ingenuity, besides having a dra-
matic merit above the usual run of melodrama.
#* * *
“ The Face at the Window ” has departed
from Sydney Lyceum, and has gone to cheer up
Melbourne and show that city there are worse
things than Bent. To finish William Anderson’s
season at the Lyceum, “ The Ladder of Life ” has
been staged with a practically new company, in
which Harry Plimmer supplants Robert Inman
as the virtuous hero, and the other principals are
Miss Rosa Conroy, Miss Ada Lawrence, John
Ennis and Edmund Duggan. Not that,
on the whole, these principals matter much,
whilst the old original acrobats form “the
ladder of life” to save the heroine from being
crushed to death by a Nasmyth hammer which
the villain carries about with him for doing small
jobs in the murder line. “The Ladder of Life”
was well received on Saturday, and should keep
the gallery of the Lyceum properly vociferous
until the close of the season.
# * *
As previously intimated on this page, the
Pierrots will open in St. James’s Hall, next Paris
House, in Phillip-street, Sydney, this (Wednes-
day) night. The programme is said to be light,
humorous and varied; and variety is the spice
of life. »
** * *
“ The notes drop off the strings like tears
trickling down the beard of a weeping god.” A
violin enthusiast by the Thames wrote that of
some fiddle music recently. It recurred to the
writer on hearing, for the second time, Miss Lilian
Foulis play the Moscow Souvenir at her last Syd-
ney concert. She certainly drops golden and
silvern notes, but happily the Scotch lassie’s
fiddling did not realize the idea of a hairy old
man crying and unprovided with a hanky. Mr.
Charles Rosenthal, who is also in the show, ought
certainly to get over to Santley or some one as
good, and have that rare, low baritone of his cul-
tivated. Sydney has not heard for these many
years a male voice of greater promise.
** * *
Entertainer Mel. B. Spurr re-appears at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday. Also, there
will be the usual “sacred” concerts on Friday,
the night of the Hot Bun, at the Criterion, the
Town Hall, the Centenary Hall, and elsewhere.
** * *
Everything at the Tivoli that isn’t fresh
already is going to be fresh before the end of this
week, even down to the paint and the carpets.
There hasn’t been such a transformation for a
year, and if you strike on an old familiar face or
gag it is one that has been overlooked in the
general packing up and moving on. Two lots of
the new-comers have got to business already—the
Bells and the Empire girls (a pair of the former,
six of the latter), whose business it is to sintr and
dance and look beautiful, and who do all three.
Clarke and Hamilton are filling the last nights of
their engagement; Frank Yorke, Miss Ray Jones,
and a crowd of others have taken the empty
places ; and Graham and his monkey give a spice
of variety to a strong holiday bill.
#* * *
Obit. : Sam Poole, actor (real name Lloyd),
aged 65 years. His line xvas low comedy. In
Garnet Walch’s panto, of 1871-2 he made a hit as
an aborigine. His first wife, a soubrette, named
Patty Holt, was in the company. His second
wife is a daughter of the octogenarian
James Hasker. Lewis Scott, in S.M. Herald a
few months ago, reported Sam Poole dead, but
the comedian threw himself headlong into the
Herald office, and demonstrated to the manager
that he was very much alive.
** * *
The “Ma Mie Rosette ” revival, which
closed the opera season at Her Majesty’s (Melb.),
on Monday last, was an unsatisfactory produc-
tion, insofar that Haigh Jackson, the new bari-
tone, couldn’t sing up to the requirements of his
gaudy character. Nobody expected Jackson to
rule the Kingdom of Navarre as the royal
Brownlow ruled it. Brownlow, in his bogus
beard and commanding boots, was every inch
a stage king. He posed as one to the manner
born, and walked like a hero of Family
Herald romance. The actor who follows
the Brownlow of Navarre is expected to
suffer greatly by comparison. Haigh Jackson’s
performance bettered expectation as regards the
acting, but his voice was too weak and thin to be
true. Presumably it is out of condition, and needs
rest and encouragement, likewise change of air.
Miss Florence Young, as Rosette, seemed more
out of place than she appeared last year in the
part. Miss Ghiloni, on the other hand, xvas a
greatly improved Corisandre, and Arthur Hunter
gave some droll touches of novelty to the extrava-
gant character of Colonel Cognac.
** * *
“The Darling of the Gods,” a new and
startling departure in spectacular drama, will be
staged at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday,
if nothing happens to upset the elaborate pre-
parations in the meantime. Miss Jeffries, Julius
Knight, and co. are to re-appear in this much-
talked-of play, and it is understood that the
leading lady and Julius will meet upon the out-
skirts of a Japanese Heaven in the last act
At the Princess’s the American Comedy
Co., which struck Sydney at Xmas time, is about
to strike Melbourne at Easter. It will sing and
be joyful together in the frivolous story of
“Mama’s New Husband.”
** * #
At Melbourne Royal a re-appearance of
Anderson’s dramatic co. falls due on Saturday.
A whole year has been disposed of since the
Anderson co. was- last seen in Melbourne, but it
has not faded from public memory during the long
absence. There are some weird, peculiar points
about the Andersonian dramas which stick in
one’s recollection for evermore, and the forthcom-
ing tale of horror, entitled “The Face at the
Window,” sounds as though it were bristling with
peculiarities.
** # *
Nat Clifford, a comic songster who shakes
a loose, eccentric leg, is for the moment the
latest arrival at the Opera House, but the Easter
bill will include some later arrivals than nimble
Nathaniel. Meanwhile, the feast of the Indented
Bun is to be solemnised at Rickards’ by a
“Sacred and classical concert,” whereat Mrs.
Sims Reeves will sing “The Requital.”
** * *
There are other and even sacreder concerts
brewing. The Philharmonic Society, with Miss
Davies and Horace Stevens among the soloists, will
give Gounod’s “Redemption” at the Town Hall
on Good Friday night. At the Royal a Holy Pop.
concert (including tableaux-vivants) is announced
for the same holiday occasion ; also the Ancient
Druids are arranging something similar for the
Exhibition Building, and probably the Companion-
able Indians or the Foreign Foresters will en-
deavor to turn a sacred shilling at the Bijou. By
the way, there was some talk of an Easter pro-
duction of “ Henx-y V.” at the Bijou, but the
statements on this subject have drifted away into
silence.
** * *
Adelaide Royal is to start its winter
season on Saturday with “The Marriage of
Kitty,” a new London success produced by
Williamson’s new comedy co. Various men and
ladies have arrived from London to support Rose
Musgrove, and the “ Marriage ” has been ingeni-
ously advertised, by the posting to all likely
patrons of a regulation box containing a frag-
ment of wedding-cake, and a formal invitation
from Lord and Lady Belsize to be present
at the ceremony. The Tivoli is closed, but is, to
be reopened at the end of the week by the John
F. Sheridan co. Meanwhile, Dowie has been
entirely without opposition. After a single even-
ing performance he announced his intention of
giving matinees only, as being less unhealthy.
Then he spoke unkindly about Edward VII., and
fell in. In a wild moment Dowie said that when
the Lord came to personally rule over the world
Edward would have to take a back seat. This
statement that Edward was less important than
the Lord roused Adelaide to such anger that
Dowie was refused the further use of the Town
Hall. The Profit, it is understood, will shortly
depart for Westralia to curse the ’Gropers.
* * *- *
A Maoriland pressman writes :
Olga Nethersole’s idea of “The Light that Failed”
happened for the first time in the Southern Hemisphere
at Dunedin (M.L.) early in the present year. Since then
it has been happening at intervals in various parts of
Maoriland. The prologue shows the special correspon-
dents in the Soudan ; and the four scenes of the three
acts that follow are in England and France! They con-
sist chiefly of Dick, Maisie, Torpenhow, a picture, and
the dog Binkie. Also, there is a girl called Bessie, who
frankly admits her excessive badness, and w’hen asked
why she doesn’t go to service, exclaims: “Once!
My Gawd, no more!” The play, save for the
happy ending, clings tenaciously to the book. Bessie
mends Torpenhow’s sox, and considers she has a
mortgage on his soul until such time as Miss Right
should come along. “ It’s not as if I were a askin’ yer
ter marry me,” she explains. Cuyler Hastings here
forecasts the weather with great brilliancy ; and observes
to the dog, “None of our sox mended, eh, Binkie?”
Next Cuyler interrupts Bessie’s passionate proposal, just
as Torpenhow’ has decided to take her for the meantime ;
and then Bessie gets mixed up with Cuyler’s great
picture. The picture has a bad time. This happens,
and Bessie departs with her cheque about 10.10 p.m.
every evening. Cuyler goes to sleep complaining of the
grey muslin veiling with which the room is draped ;
and, having slept for minutes, w'akes up blind.
Then, unknown to Cuyler, Torpenhow goes over to
France in search of Maisie. The last scene shows May
Chevalier and Cuyler Hastings alone. May, who wouldn’t
marry Dick when he had his sight, wants to be tied up to
the blind Cuyler. He sends her away, but she comes
back with her hair down, and says she is just the little
Maisie of old come back to him across the years. And,
presumably because he can’t see, and doesn’t know any
better, and can’t, therefore, call her a liar, Cuyler takes
her, and the curtain falls with May Chevalier clinging to
his knees. This about 10.45 p.m., what time the
tearful audience is groping for its hat. Dick
Heldar is Cuyler Hastings’ masterpiece. You see him
first in the desert with a bandage across his eyes after
he has been cut over the head, the brilliant, short-tem-
pered, dare-devil, confident genius of the book. You see
him in London, drunk with success and filled with a
boundless egotism, talking wildly of art and sneering at
Maisie’s efforts. Then he stands before you a broken
man, blind (and he looks blind), groping his way about
his study, and telling his ruined picture that it is what
he has lived his whole life for. Up to within tw'o
minutes of the curtain Cuyler is Kipling’s Dick and May
Chevalier is Kipling’s Maisie. Then May goes back to
Cuyler, and Kipling and Art leave hurriedly. Those last
two minutes wreck a brilliant, though miserable, play,
ifc * * *
“ 0.K.” writes :
Walter Baker, as the hero of “ The Flood Tide,” fires
off some popular denunciations of that British (and
foreign) Army system which almost confines the fat billets
to men who have never served an apprenticeship in the
ranks. The speech is too much of a bid for gallery
applause. It proclaims experience in the ranks as the
best of all educations for a colonel, whereas the
first purpose of every military' system should be
the advancement of level-headed students of tactics
to positions where they could live comfortably on
their pay, unmolested by “high-born” nincompoops
and purse-proud snobs. The Army and, in a less
degree, the Navy are the only business concerns, public
or private, in which officers of modest means are exposed
to outrageous social persecution by wealthy worthless
subordinates and arrogant bosses. The reason is that
they have to live together pretty well all the time. They
can’t “get away from the office” after business hours
any more than boys can get away from boarding-school,
and the office is a club. This club would attract
steady' .voting men of brains, rather than flippant fools
of fashion, if extravagant personal expenditure and
the malicious monkey-tricks known as practical jokes
were forbidden to members. Under a reformed code of
rules the influential empty-headed “rotters” who now
constitute an immense majority of the subalterns and
officials in most armies would find the life too slow for
their degenerate minds. The way would be cleared for
the advance of merit. But it doesn’t follow that Tommy
Atkins from the ranks would prove to have a monopoly
of the merit. In Britain, anyhow, the army is in many
cases the last resort of a scamp, or a convenient refuge
for the able-bodied helpless one.
The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, 1903.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
ASSETS ..
SURPLUS
The New Business EXCEEDED that oh 1902 by
£289,738,301
... £78,341,950
... £15,053,725
£8,383,994
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor
The Wild Cat Column.
Before N.S. Wales has even made a start with
a sinking fund for the reduction of its appalling debt,
S.M. Herald begins to lecture it upon the danger of
“ running from one extreme to the ottyer.” “ Whatever
justification there may be,” it says, “ to get rid as quickly
as possible of the debt, that has been incurred for _
powder and smoke, and is otherwise not represented
by tangible assets, the conditions are different where
there are railways or waterworks,” &c. This fear
that New South Wales will “ run to the other
extreme” and pay off its debt too suddenly, is very
touching. Also, seeing that N.S.W. is still running in
the same old direction, and hasn’t shown any inclination
to stop, it is very absurd. Even the S.M. Herald might
have been expected to spare the drunkard the pain of a
severe lecture upon the evils of cold tea arid the dangers of
great quantities of water, until, at any rate, the drunkard
had left off making a beast of himself with the stronger
stuff. With regard to N.S. W., the position is that, in the
last 10 years its revenue has been £98,518,463, and its ex-
penditure on revenue account 1100,592,478. So far from
giving any ground for the suspicion that it will rush into
any extravagance in the matter of paying off its debts, it
has thus just drifted into debt in a perfectly casual way
to the extent of 11,774,015 In addition to that, it has
deliberately gone into debt to the extent of £10,331,741
inside two years—between July Ist, 1901, and June 30th,
1903. It has not only not paid off anything of the old
debt, but it has actually, after paying for other things,
been £413,684 short in its interest, and has had to borrow
more in order to make up the shortage. far
from improving, N.S. Wales borrowed more in o lust
two completed financial years than it did in the eVflit
that preceded them ; in other words, it deliberately went
into debt four times faster than previously. And this
is the country to which the S.M. Herald goes down
on its poor oid knees, imploring it not to lie too self-
sacrificing, and not to tax itself to pay off its debts more
than it can really' afford ! If the Herald had seen Shad-
rach, Meshach, and Abednego in the burning fiery
furnace, the dear old soul would have suddenly remem-
bered that it was a frightful thing to die of cold, and
would have implored them always to wear flannel next
the skin.
* * * *
For the most part, Treasurer Propsting put
Tasmania’s financial position fairly enough, as far as he
went, in his budget speech. Briefly, it is this
Accumulated deficit, Jan. Ist, 1903 .. £212,856
Expenditure, 1903 879,219
Revenue, 1903 .. 857,668
Deficit for year 21,551
Total accumulated deficit .. .. 234,407
By raising an extra £25,500 from new sources, and by
cutting down the expenditure by about £20,000 a year,
he expects to be able to show a surplus of £12,556, l>‘ -
withstanding his proposed remission of £36,000 a year in
taxes on income derived from personal exertion. The
new sources of revenue he proposes to tap are : —Absentee
land tax, £1500; occupancy tax (3d. in the £), £13,000;
probate duties, £lO,OOO ; totalisator (through an amend-
ment of the Lotteries Act), £lOOO. The land-tax remains,
but for the trifling increase as to absentees, just as it
was. What Tasmania wants worse than almost any-
thing else is a tax on non-occupiers ; Propsting proposes,
instead, one on occupiers. Instead of taxing the man
and the syndicate that will not use their land, he pro-
poses to tax those that do use it. The more it is occu-
pied, the bigger the tax. This may produce revenue for
a while, but it is a fool of a way' to set about producing
prosperity. Propsting, in short, proposes to fine a
man for doing the very thing that he ought to be fined
for not doing. Though Tasmania wants revenue badly
enough, it doesn’t want it as badly as that. And if it
wanted it five times more than it does, it would still not
be justified in adopting this plan of getting it while so
much honest land-taxation is dodged through the present
iniquitous system of assessment, under which some layid
is returned as of less capital value than is actually de-
manded as annual rent for it.
But though Treasurer Propsting shows a surplus
for the next eighteen months (he presents estimates for six
months to June 30 and then for 12 months, in order to bring
the Flyspeck’s financial year into line with the Common-
wealth’s and those of the other States), he only does it by
including as revenue the proceeds of land sales. 1 rom
this source, £41,143 was derived last year, and £24,000 is
expected in the first half of this current year. Of course
this is not revenue ; if a man treated it as such, and sub-
sequently got into the bankruptcy court (as he would be
pretty sure to get sooner or later) he would be lucKy
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
once.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O
for this?
Nl
Write for our Illustrated Booklet, mailed Free on application. Ask for Catalog 8.,
explaining what can be done with the Pianola.
AH Records supplied from our immense Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BERGE
323 George St., SYDNEY ; 185=7 Co!lins St
&
IMP! ROIIRNP
CO.,
Sole Agrents for
, Australasia,
JC. nt CSnnor Iclac & C,f\ RPISRANE


if he wasn’t sent to gaol, and luckier still if he was
granted a certificate. Why should there be one code of
morals for private finance and another for public finance ?
Tasmania’s position is, however, more ghastly
than its Premier shows it —and even as he shows it, it is
bad enough. Of every £lOO of its debt only £46 19s. 6d.
has been spent upon railways and tramways, water-
works, telegraphs and telephones, as against over £B7 per
cent, in Victoria and £Bl per cent; in N.S.W. In this
respect Tasmania occupies by far the worst position in
Australia. And not only is less than half the debt repre-
sented by these revenue-producing works, but the rail-
ways, the most profitable of such works as there are, last
year earned only 2 - 09 per cent, towards the interest, and
that was the best they had ever done 1 Last year the
interest bill was £339,910, and if all the railways and
other “ public services ” had been run for nothing—if
nobody had been paid any wages, and the coal cost
nothing; if nobody, in fact, but Oohen had been paid
anything—Cohen would still have been short £25,399.
Yet, in spite of these figures, Treasurer Propsting
repeated in his Budget speech the silly fiction that the
debt is represented by permanent and reproductive works
—“ the debts pf these States are really investments, and,
it may be said, profitable investments.” Consider the
matter from the investor’s point of view for the past two
years
Mean total amount invested .. .. £9,085,000
Return from investments 141,247
Interest return on money invested, per an. 15s. lid. p.c.
Less than 1 per cent, return—less than 1 per cent, even if
Savings Bank profits are included—and the Treasurer
still has the gall to talk about “ profitable investments ”!
* • * *
An interesting point noted by Goldsbrough,
Mortand Co., Ltd., in the firm’s annual review of the wool
season, just issued, is that at the end of 1902 the Aus-
tralian mainland had almost exactly half as many sheep
as it had in 1891, when high-water mark was reached ;
the decrease was from 104,756,950 to 52,325,758. Of
course, the actual losses would be much greater than 52
millions; for the natural increase in ten years, under
favorable conditions, and starting with 104 millions,
would probably be about 70 millions. In the matter of
wool exports Queensland last season showed the greatest
falling-off; in bales, the shipments were only 55 per cent,
of those of the previous year, and less than 40 per cent,
of those of 1898-9. N.S.W.’s export was 74 per cent, of
that of the previous year, and 73 per cent, of that of
1898-9. The total for all Australia and Tasmania was
983,303 bales as against 1,272,09 S bales in 1901-2, which,
however, was the best yield for five years. One satisfac-
tory' feature is the fairly steady increase in the percent-
age of sales in Australia; last season it was 73j per cent,
of total exports, while to the end of February of this
year it was 761£ per cent. In 1895 it was 50 per cent., in
1896 56 per cent., and in 1897 52 per cent. ; so that recent
growth has been rapid. But Australian consumption is
still very small. Of all wool sold last season the destina-
tions were:—
. Bales. Percentage.
Great Britain .. .. .. 173,000 23J
Continent of Europe .. .. 488,200 65%
Australian Manufacturers and
Scourers 51,100 6|
America 28,100 3§
Japan and India .. .. .. 7,500 1
These percentages have remained fairly steady for some
years past. Prices have not been as good.as might have
been expected in view of the shortage of supplies of
merino wool, crossbred wool having, to some extent, taken
its place; and Goldsbrough, Mort think that for the
ensuing year the outlook “is somewhat doubtful, and
does not at present appear to be particularly en-
couraging.”
« * * *
Tne Owe’See’s latest scheme for raising the
wind is to sell the land which will not be immediately
wanted for the new' Sydney railway station. Having
borrowed money to acquire the land, the Owe’See now
proposes to sell it without, apparently, paying - off any' of
the loan. Some similar transaction was inquired into at
a Sydney - court the other day. A woman, starting house-
keeping, borrowed money to buy the furniture. Bad
times struck her, and she sold some of it. The magistrate
said it was a crime and sent her to gaol. Nobody, how-
ever, proposes to send the Owe’See to gaol. The Owe’See
can’t even wait till the station is up, and the value of the
land is consequently enhanced, which is a pretty good
indication of what the State finances are like, in
spite of the Treasury assurance that things
haven t been so comfortable there for a long
time. And in any case it is highly probable that
the land which it is now proposed to sell will be wanted
for public purposes some day ; when that happens no
doubt another loan will be floated to buy it back at an
enormously increased price, which will be another way
of double-banking the bill of sale. As inventors of ways
of double-banking the bill and deferring the evil day,
and of borrowing heavily’ w’ithout appearing to do it
(the hire-purchase from the Citizens’ Co. was a former
case), the present N.S.W. Government would take a lot
of beating.
* * * *
The Malting Co. of New South Walks
(Sydney)
Dividends Written Carried Pre-
per off to Re- lim.
j une Annum. Goodwill, serves. Ex’s.
'99 ’} - ~ - - £741
June, 1 Loss. Deficit.
’OO / £735 ~ ~ ~ 14 ' 6
June, \ Profit. „„„„ „ r „
'Ol j 720 ““ £720 756
Nominal
June, \ / Paid 2| p.c. = £BB 1 lr , of , :Reser^
’O2 J 1859 \Ord. 4 „ ~675/ 1096 „ 840
Feb 1 '
■} ««{oSf ?;; ;; erf} 240 » «*»
The capital is £21,050, £17,550 of which is represented
by 27,000 contributing shares paid to 13s. The divi-
dend is a level sixpence on all shares alike. “Land,
building, plant, machinery, and goodwill ” are bunched
as the chief asset. At the beginning, apparently,
goodwill stood for £3OOO, and as £lOOO of it is now writ-
ten off, the companv’s true position (disregarding the
paper item of goodwill as an asset) is that it has a deficit
of £921. Less than five years ago the deficit was £3741,
so that fair progress has been made meantime. Unlike
most companies with a smell of hops about them, this
one is working entirely on its own capital; after paying
the present dividend it will have a small cash balance,
besides £3OOO at call. Profits are not what they were,
general depression being the old enemy upon whom the
blame is cast. Nothing appears to have been written
off building, plant, &c.; and even without any such
deduction, profits only work out at £4 14s. per cent, on
the capital.
Under the methods of modern commercialism
there seems to be swindling in all trades. Latest trick
which the public has been informed of in Australia is
the practice of loading up leather with chloride of
barium. This mineral is quickly absorbed by the leather,
and adds enormously to its weight. As hides are sold by
weight the gain is great.
* * * *
The Westralian goldfieldsand Broken Hill keep
the S. Australian hen pretty busy. In the last two
years she has laid £224,000 for export—over £lO,OOO more
than the value of all the mutton and lamb exports. There
is a deal of talk about the export of rabbits and hares ;
but the plain, dusty chookey-fowl does 20 times more for
the trade figures than they do.
»*« ■ *
The recent issuing of writs against old original
debtors of Melbourne Premier Permanent Building
Society will serve, perhaps, to give the present generation
an idea of the madness of land-boomery. Philip Corkill,
figuring just now as a resurrected debtor of the
M.P.P.8.5., doesn’t seem to understand why he should
be bothered about his little liability of £161,377 12s. lid.
All he remembers of the old trouble is that he grew from
a small builder into a large builder by means of enormous
loans The loans were practically forced upon him by
the officers of the association, he says, and he continued
to build until he had borrowed all the money his kind
patrons could supply him with. Then he abandoned his
liabilities to their fate, and relapsed into his previous
minor sphere of minor operations. A few streets of
unprofitable houses remain as tokens of his extraordinary
borrowing resources.
* •
The Australian Mutual Live Stock In-
surance Society, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Deficit
Carried (goodwill
Profit. Dividend. to not reckon-
jan Reserves, ed an asset.)
1899 £471 £471 £1750
1900 492 492 1258
1901 519 619 739
Reserves.
1902 758 758 19
1903 771 771 790
1904 839 839 1629
The co., whose whole paid capital is only £3089, of which
but £348 was actually put up in cash, the balance being
represented by the business of a parent concern, thinks
it can do with more capital, and has a scheme in hand to
raise it. Its earnings last year were at the rate of £21135.
per cent, on shareholders’ funds; and if more capital
can earn at that rate, it certainly would seem to be a
good scheme to increase it.
* * * *
By way of hitting back at the Tasmanian
brewers who cut in for the Victorian trade after the
Melbourne brewers had fixed up their combine, the latter
people have opened premises in Hobart and issued a price
list lower than that which ruled in Melbourne even before
the combine was established.
* * • *
Returns compiled by the Chief Inspector of
Distilleries show something of the cold time that Vic.
breweries are having. The estimated quantity of malt
and hop beer brewed was less than in any year since 1893,
and, of all beers, less than in any year since 1897. In
1901, the total was 16,615,656 gallons ; last year, 15,131,735
gallons. Since the boom days 1900 seems to have been
Victoria’s boss year in the matter of consumption of
tanglefoot of all brands ; the' population then got away
with 13 - 4 gallons per stomach. Last year, it had a mouth
for only 12 gallons.
* • • *
S.A. is making quite a good export trade in
donkeys. Introduced by the late veteran Thomas Elder
in 1866, they have proved their value in dry country over
and over again, and particularly during the late drought,
when all other live stock had to be removed. In drawing
loads three donkeys will just about do the work of two
horses, and the feed question hardly needs considering.
The Beltana Pastoral 00. (which does all its own work
with them) breeds them freely, and exports about 100 a
year to Westralia. The record shipment, however, was
made last week —125 in one lot for Mauritius.
* • * •
Broken Hill stocks jumped smartly of late.
B.H. Prop., 29/9 at the beginning of the month, to 34/-;
Block 10 22/3 to 33/, Junction 2/6 to 3/-, Junction North
2/6 to 3/1, North 8/3 to 9/10, Souths (paid) 22/3 to 26/- and
con. 15/- to 18/3. Sulphide Corporation and Block 14
alone remained practically unchanged. It is doubtful
whether the movement is justified. Lead is a trifle
firmer, and a little more is known about zinc extraction ;
but the profits from the latter so far in view are very
small. Through all the months—years, in fact—during
which the smaller mines have been idle, they have kept a
market— the North especially. In other words, this re-
covery and this improvement have been expected all
along, and have been allowed for; if they hadn’t been,
shares in these companies would have been worth
nothing at all. South contributing shares have still a
liability of 10/6, being now 9/6 paid ; and it is pretty cer-
tain that the directors are going to get that 10/6 out of
the contributors to buy machinery, &c., before they
pocket much in the shape of divs.
* . * * *
White Cliffs Opal Mines, Ltd., has had awful
luck. It paid £45,000 in cash and 85,000 £1 shares (in a
co. of 140,000) for the show, which takes in most of what
were reckoned the best claims at White Cliffs opal field
(outback N.S.W.). No dividend was ever paid ; several
years there was an actual loss on the business. It never
had the faintest chance, in fact, of earning a decent
return on such a capital. At first it tried to work the
claims on wages. That failed. Then it tried tributes.
Ditto. For some time past it has issued a sort
of diggers’ right, and this a little more than pays
the co.’s working expenses. It has naturally never
been satisfied, and neither have the diggers. The
Mines Department long ago admitted that the ground
should never have been leased, but should have
been treated like an alluvial goldfield. Three years or so
ago, in consequence of the constant rows on the field, a
Commission was appointed to try and smoothe out the
trouble. It saw that the Department had blundered,
and recommended that, as the easiest way out, the State
should buy the claims back for £B4oo—about one-fifth of
what the co. had paid in cash. The Department made
an offer on these terms later on, and the co. (head office
in London) could not bring itself to rush in an
acceptance. Apparently in the hope that some-
body would strike a bonanza of opal, it only
cabled its acceptance on June 30, 1902; and the
wire didn’t arrive at the Mines Department till July Ist—
the day after the last day on which the offer was open.
Then things got worse at the N.S.W. Treasury, £B4OO
began to look a lot more than it used to, and the Govern-
ment would not pay, holding that its offer had expired
before the acceptance reached the State. The co. then
tried to force the sale, brought an action in Equity, and
has now gone down. The costs will run into as much as
the leases could be sold for if they were put up at
auction.
* * •
Crowl Creek (N.S.W.) second half-yearly report
(to Jan. 31st) shows a loss (including £l3l depreciation) of
£BOB. Development and other work have, however, been
constant throughout the six months, while the first of
the four reverberatories only got to work in September
and the last at the end of December. General manager
Armstrong’s estimate is that for the last month’s work
costs (for 54J tons copper) amounted to £29 Bs. 3d. per ton
of rough copper (97 per cent, metal), which, notwithstand-
ing the usual heavy refinery charges and freight, would
give a splendid profit—equal to about £lO,OOO in the half-
year on the present output and at present prices. The
manager’s advice to build a refinery has been adopted ;
he figures it out that he can produce refined
copper on the mine for £3O. This part of the plant
should be ready in about three months more. His
advice is not to add to the re verbs., but to wait a while
and see if it will not be better to build a blast-furnace to
handle the more basic ore at the deeper levels. Present
policy is to develop the sulphide bodies; the lode at
330 ft. is now being explored, though to work it economi-
cally another shaft will be necessary. Mr. Armstrong
doesn’t see why, “ according to the worth of the ore body
at the deepest level,” “ the ore should not carry on to
any depth.” Though the rich ore (all oxidised) from
the 170 ft. upwards has been pretty well beaten out, so
far as it is known, there is enough of this class stacked
(mostly on surface) to last for a couple of years, and
there are thousands of tons of second grade, which could
be dressed to 12 or 14 per cent. The stopes above the
270 ft. are in sulphide (11 to 12 per cent, and higher). !
* * * sic
New Hillgrove Proprietary (N.S.W.) started
its mill on March 18 with an air of mystery. There has
been no mention of it in the papers. Air-compressor
from Roberts, of Bendigo, is not yet erected ; there is a
tired feeling about parts of the mine. Official reports
would lead the public to believe that work underground
is in full swing. This is bunkum. Only a few men are
employed underground, opening up two stopes and doing
a bit of driving. Shares have lately been easier, from 11s.
9d. to 9s. ; apart from the steady “ bear ” operations, the
death of W. L. Nathan, one of the largest holders, is
responsible for this. It will suit some books if the weaker
holders can be either squeezed or scared out.
* * * *
The Wallaroo and Moonta Mining and
Smelting Co. (S. Aus.) —last two years only :
Written Re-
trofit. Dividen Is. off. serves.
1902 .. £29,957 N 1. £24,793 £11,652
1903 .. 62,999 2$ p.c. = £BOOO 22,469 44,182
The profit on the cementation process, which is getting
out the metal from the old dumps, and is only a matter
of a very few years, was £26,247 in 1902 and £23,081 last
year; on mine operations in 1902 it was£B27B, and in
1903, £36,558. After heavy writings-off on mine-plant
account, this leaves little profit from the mine. The
price obtained for copper was £6O ss. sd. per ton ; the
output was 4978 tons. The profit, without any deduction
for depreciation, was, therefore, at the rate of £l2 13s.
per ton. At the recent rate of production, the co. can
therefore produce copper at £47 12s. per ton. The profit
from the very cheap cementation process is, however,
diminishing; so that the market price at which the
metal can be produced is moving upwards.
* » • *
Charters Towers (N.Q.): Day Dawn line is
still under a cloud. The D.D.P.C. has knocked off all
but machine-drill hands, and is confining itself to ex-
ploring the Macleay reef, which is proving a puzzle.
Wallis’s Day Dawn, on extreme west, has stopped
exploring, and is beating out stone left in old workings.
A large trial crushing failed to touch the half-ounce, and
exemption threatens. South E.D.D. has reconstructed,
after exhausting old capital, with a capital of £9ooo—
enough to go far with. Day Dawn Gold Mines
deep ground is not looking too promising, and pay-ore in
upper levels is being rapidly depleted. D.D. Consoli-
dated is pegging away, and, like its neighbor, Mills D.D.,
remains a stringer. Vesuvius is diamond-drilling, and has
already got a prospect. East Mexican shaft has cork-
screwed and mine is in hands of tributors. A corkscrew
is no unlikely happening in two other mines which bulk
largely. Both of their straight shafts have a kink which
should be remedied, or consequences may prove disas-
trous. M'Leod (late of School of Mines) takes over the
management of Brilliant Extended. If he pursues a
policy of keeping men on pay stone only and vigorous
exploring, (instead of crushing everything in the
shape of stone, a policy which fattens the mill owner
at the expense of the mine, this co. should soon
be a regular div-.-payer. Phoebe, the mine which
makes calls practically to pay fees, has had a
good crushing, and talks of maintaining a 100-ton
output of lloz. stuff per week. Bocal speculators and
investors, however, are waiting ; they have had too much
bad luck with this scrip. Victory, after being compelled
by objectors to exemption to get to work, has a new reef
crushing over two ounces. Queen Central and Queen
Central Block are two most promising shows at present,
and Ruby and Ruby United promise an odd div.
* ♦ * *
Queen Cross (C. Towers), with improved
battery accommodation, railway to same, and rock-
breaker on brace, should be able to increase tonnage
treated, provided the output can be secured. Question
is, though, can development work be pushed on pro-
perly and an increased output be secured with available
power and the present shaft, which is only a two-
chamber one? Writer is doubtful, and wants to see a
lot more country proved to warrant present scrip
values.
• * * *
Star of the East (Vic.) had a bad half-year.
Began with a credit balance of £Bl4 ; ended with a debit
of £3461. Calls and gold brought in £5943, so tb-t all
round the old show retrogressed seriously. Cause:
poverty of the mineral lode where struck at the 660 ft.
level, plus the ruinous outlay in keeping the mine dry.
Central Plateau, it is claimed, oughtto bear a portion of
the pump costs, but it is fighting against this in the
courts. The mere fact that when the Plateau was pump-
ing the water was kept under easily in the Star,
and that when it stopped the water beat the Star pumps,
shows a connection between the two claims. Star shares
popped up to 10s. during the week as the mineral lode
was cut at 1000 ft., but they bobbed back again almost as
smartly. Easy to judge why. Bits of mineral at 660 ft.
level assayed high, but crushed low. When driven on,
the lode was cut off by a slide, beyond which only a
streak of ore seems to be making. This slide and the
cross-course above upset all chairman Edwards’calcula-
tions as to the stone in sight in the mine.
* * * *
Herbert J. Daly, ex-mining reporter of Melb.
Argus, now announces himself as a full-fledged M. Inst.
M.M. He flew this title in London. The Financial
Times, in a reprint of a series of articles on Kalgoorlie, by
Daly, flashed out the initials with meteoric brilliancy.
What a fascination there seems to be about two-guinea-a-
year mutual admiration semi-scientific letter adorn-
ments 1 A.R.S.M. means that a man has had to earn his
letters by undergoing a scientific training. Same with
B.Sc. or B.M.E. But M.I.M.M. ; why, F.U.D.G.E. !
* * * *
The best mining news in Victoria for a long
time is of the bigger yields at the Great Southern,
Rutherglen. Berry Extended (Creßwick) is the most
extensive worked alluvial property in the State, but it
has taken out a great block of the Berry lead. On the
other hand, Great Southern has only really begun. J. A.
Wallace had a lot to do with the show in the old boom
days, but it is due to E. J. Hartley that the claim has
revived so much. Last yield was 490J0z., which
topped that for previous week by 2300 z. ; but it
looks as if that return was better than reported. As the
directors have wiped out a “reserve” of 1900 z.,
it may be deduced that the mine all round is doing well.
The board ought to state plainly whether it intends to
abolish “ reserve” altogether, for the public doesn’t like
a mine where the reported yields do not tell the truth.
* * * *
Chiltern (Vic.) people object to the throwing of
the Consols mine on to the miners. But the yields only
meant paying wages and making calls, so the share-
holders decided £o let the men have a go on their own.
The ultimate fate of the venture does not seem very diffi-
cult to guess.
* * * *
Potter’s zinc process (Vic.) people are applying
to the public for more capital. This is not astonishing,
in view of the fight with the Broken Hill Proprietary-
Delprat-Dickenson combine. Some of the slabs from the
Potter advertisement are pretty tall: “ Potter’s valuable
process (the patent rights for which the company has
secured) is admittedly the most important discovery,
metallurgically, of recent years, affecting not alone the
future of the whole Broken Hill field, but tending to
completely revolutionise sulphide ore-mining throughout
Australasia and the world abroad. The process is already
in active operation on a substantial scale at the Barrier
with marked success. By Potter’s process over 95 per
cent, of the metallic constituents are recovered.” Set
against this John Brandon’s denial that Block 10 has
entered into any agreement to use the process : “Nor
would my company pay over to the Potter company
any royalty until that company has legally established
its patent rights (if any), and has also satisfied my
directors as to the efficiency of treatment in
regard to the material in question.” This is more
than a hint; it is a challenge to prove the validity of the
patent, and it comes out awkwardly at a time when the
Potter co. is asking for extra cash.
* » * *
After a lapse of years, Russell’s Reef, Lauriston
(Vic.), has hit gold. The property has had a good past,
and as the co. is only down to just about 1000 ft., it may
pick up a fair shoot in the saddle on which it is driving.
As shareholders are exemplary call-payers, they deserve
luck.
* * * *
Castlemaine (Vic.) quartz mining is a weary
thing of the past. Quartz is in plenty, but gold isn’t.
The shows that are saving the district in' a mining sense
are the dredging claims. Bucket dredgers say that they
could do better than the hydraulic pumps, but Camp-
bell’s Creek has not shown it yet. Clay seems to be the
trouble, just as it is anywhere with the buckets.
* * * *
North Jubilee (Vic.) share sale is excused by the
mining man of the Argus. There can be no excuse.
Shareholders must pay calls or lose shares on the due
date. The Companies Act fixes that. When shares are
forfeited for a call, how can they be sold for later calls?
The thing does not gee, and every legal manager ought
to know it. The man who has his shares held when
others are call-paying gets the advantage, if anything is
struck, by his neglect to part up. The Companies Act
never meant that. If men know scrip will go to the
hammer if they do not pay they will learn to meet their
calls at the moment.
* * * *
Jennings Pump No. 1 at Bright (Vic.) is to
amalgamate with the Buckland River Dredge Co., for
5000 reserve shares fully paid up. The deal will give the
Buckland River a good block of ground and will allow
the Pump people to get some divs.
* * * *
Arrino Associated, a Melbourne pup of the
Arrino Proprietary (W. A.) is todie. Pity it waseverborn :
ditto with regard to its poor parent., Lewis, of North
Lyell smelter, is supposed to be in London trying to raise
funds to go on with the Proprietary. Bull is not likely
to be tempted. If so,' Baxter and Saddler will have to
shoulder the baby.
» * * *
“ Slag-pot ” presents another view of Mt. Lyell:
In Bulletin 11/3/’O4, “ Cobarite ” tapped the wrong fur-
nace. Living is not dearer at Mt. Lyell than at Cobar,
even if it is as dear, and the climate is better. Men’s
wages have not been reduced since the absorption of the
outrageously mismanaged North Lyell concern by the
parent company. A commotion was caused by a few
North favorites, instigated by the foes of true unionism,
when mines manager Batchelor, who is an able organiser
and administrator, put his sturdy hoof hard down
on the neck of the loafing, happy-go-lucky conditions he
found prevailing at the North. Manager Muir, who con-
trolled the North mines under the displaced regime,
was. a good man ; but he had to submit to undesir-
ables being foisted upon him by a higher power.
The Mt. Lyell co. pays well for work faithfully and
loyally performed, and has never kept an employee
waiting for his money when it was earned. There is no
company in Australasia more considerate for its workmen.
The biggest “ bloomer ” made by “Cobarite” is where
he says that Robert Sticht is “ a good general manager in
his office and no more—outside of his office he is lost.”
Now, Sticht not only designed, but personally directed
and superintended the construction of the reduction
works, and is responsible for all the improvements
which have made the Lyell smelters the most
efficient and economic copper smelters in the world.
Sticht is the recognised leading scientific and
practical authority on pyritic smelting; he is an
exceptionally able chemist, as w T ell as a thorough expert
in furnace management. If he is a success in his office,
he is a much greater success in the region of the smelters
and the converters. He has enabled his Board to
pay to the shareholders about a million pounds sterling
in dividends out of ore of an average grade of 3 per cent,
copper—an achievement unparalleled in the history of
copper. And by further perfecting his process of
smelting, he is now making ore of a still lower grade pay
well. He has had a good staff, certainly ; but everyone
in the metallurgical department was trained by him.
Beardsley learned all that he knows about pyritic
smelting from Sticht, and is candid enough to admit it.
His merit was that he did as he was told ; the initiative
force was always Sticht. Primarily, Beardsley had just
about as much to do with the winning of dividends as
one of the furnace-tappers, slag-wheelers, or plumbers.
Sticht, from the jump, has retained the control of all
operations, in spite of the immense strain of working as
long as 16 hours per day, and to him is undoubtedly due
the almost entire credit for the handsome divs. He has
made £1,000,000 profit for his company, and probably
has one or two more millions up his sleeve to be panned
out gradually, rumors to the contrary notwithstanding.
(Continued on page SO.)
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES._
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Xramway, with suitable rolling- stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining-Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS. Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
&3T Our CATALOGUE is pours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter Sr., SYDNEY. A. E. LEP LAS TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orkxsteix and KorrEL, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903 :
“ When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
* * • *
The Bulletin has just received from Golds-
brough Mort and Co, Limited, a copy of their Review of
the season just ended, and commend it for perusal by
sheep owners, and the wool trade generally. Remarks
contained therein appear on page 21 of this week’s issue.
It is satisfactory to note the dimensions which the
Australian sales have attained, the proportion of the total
clip of theOommonwealth sold in Australia having reached
76| per cent., as compared with 49J per cent, in 1893.
This is as it should be, “Australia to support its own
markets,” and to Goldsbrough Mort and Co. Ltd., the
pioneers of the wool trade in Australia, much credit is
due for the present position of this industry.*
* * * *
Ore without sulphides in which the gold values
are finely disseminated throughout the gangue, is one
amenable to cyanidation or chlorination. Should this ore
contain sulphides it could not be so simply treated. It is
now recognised to be good practice to first concentrate
out the sulphurets on Wilfley Tables, and to treat the
tailings thus cleaned by the proper lixiviation process
Should the ore be a telluride that would require previous
roasting, the tendency to “bead” or “shot” in the
roasting is surmounted hy passing the leached pulp over
Wilfley tables, by which the values too coarse to be dis-
solved hy the lixiviation process are concentrated,
together with any unroasted ore, sulphides or foreign
matter. The Austral Otis Engineering Company of South
Melbourne are the Sole Agents and Manufacturers of the
Wilfley Concentrator.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • • »
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney** '
» * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager. *
* * • *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners’of gold, silver; lead, copper ores,
niatte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to36inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are bei’ng erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.* .
* » * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
» * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Mt. Lyell (Tas.) did not strike it rich in the 300
drive near the Blocks boundary. It is significant that
some buying went on before any word came to hand
about the strike.
CYANIDE
GUA 1 lANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDEv OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.


SOCIETY
THE JESTER.
VISITOR (to comic arti[?]) : “ Why, you seem to treat life as one
huge joke.” C.A.: “ Got to.”
A very lodger-like lodger turned up in
Melbourne City Court last week—Mark B.
Gompers, whose middle initial and twang showed
him « v.„i Q tt , , , , .
him to be a Yankee. He had been dwelling in
the house of Eliza Bird for 12 months, and,
thW di Wh!£ had never paid her any
thing. When she asked him to settle up he mostiv
abused her, and when the exasperated woman
told him to clear out he assured her he was very
comfortable where he was. He didn’t appear to
her Ü but possibly he
thought it might be as well to have someone to
uLt r oom, and as she did that all
lght he let her stop. Perhaps the fact that this
6nn i g bad an 18-years-old
daughter, who was fond—too fond—of the lodger
had something to do with his persistence. About
all that the Court could do (a charge of larceny
against Mark B. Gompers breaking down) was
to recommend the harassed Eliza Bird to throw
Gompers out into the street. It didn t even offer
to provide a constable for the job, and seeing that
ifWf e f rli Tivr a f e li y r , f ailed s° badly Hi her
efforts to eject Mark B, Gompers, that lady got
very small satisfaction.
Maoriland police are at present greatly
exercised over the murder of a bushman named
Collinson on Te Awaite station, 77 miles over the
Rimutakas from Wellington. Collinson was shot
dead from behind, as he sat on the side of a gully
lighting his pipe, and an alleged enemy of his,
one Ellis, who was seen in the vicinity on the
morning of the _ murder, is badly wanted on
suspicion. Ellis is a bush Ishmael, like one of the
dukes of Edom mentioned in Scripture, and is the
best bushman and the truest shot on the Waira-
rapa. He has entirely disappeared, which may
mean that he is avoiding the police, or that he is
just Ishmaeling and doesn't know that the police
are after him. Inspector Ellison, of Wellington,
transplanted from the fairly level pavements of
Lambton Quay to the bush backblocks and rugged
mountains, 16 constables, whose weight averaged
2241 b. These myrmidons were let loose, clad in
neat suits and patent-leather or tan shoes, and all
wore felt hats. Dampier had just finished a
Wellington season of “Robbery Under Arms,”
and each peeler went out looking as much like
Starlight as possible. After a month’s search the
force is a disorganised collection of shambling and
sore-footed constables who are tired of pursuing
grass up and down hill, and running after trees
and puddles. They are armed with old revolvers
and a large quantity of soaked clothes and mud,
and they are tired of the very name of Ellis, and
almost feel as if they didn’t care whether Collinson
is dead or not. The worst time they had was
when the inspector and his mobilised forces
stealthily surrounded a hut in the Forty Mile
Bush and gazed at it in the pouring rain for three
hours. Then as the wind moved the door of the
shanty they rushed it and found nothing but an
army of large fleas.
* * * •
N.S.W. Equity Court had a small hard nut
to ci’ack the other day. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment made an offer to the representative of a
London co. which was open until June 30 inclu-
sive. The company cabled its acceptance on June
30, but the acceptance did not reach N.S.W. till
July 1. The company claimed London time
should be observed ; in other words, that it had
accepted the offer in time. The Court eventually
held that, when the company accepted the offer
in London, it was past the time for which the
offer was open in N.S.W., Sydney being 10 hours
ahead of London. Something well over £lO,OOO
hung on the small point, which was argued by
about a dozen lawyers, and at the great length of
nearly a week. Now that the law has decided
that all the time in the world isn’t in London, it
might also decide that all the points of the com-
pass aren’t there either, and that China isn’t the
Far East of Australia merely because it is Far
East of Fogtown.
“T.D.”: Never met so
many colonels in my life
before as I found the other
day at the Commonwealth
offices in Melbourne.
Nearly everybody in the
Federal service is a colonel.
Also, they are very parti-
cular about the observance
of their rank. I made the
mistake of asking for Mr.
Smith or somebody at the
Home Affairs Office, and
was tqld that there wasn’t
anybody of that name in
the service. Told the boy
that the man I wanted
was Secretary for Waste
Paper, or something like
that. “Yes, sir,” he re-
plied, “ you mean Colonel
Smith, sir, don’t you,
sir?” laying special stress
on the “Colonel.” When
I saw the Secretary for
Waste Paper, he called in
his chief clerk, who was
also a colonel, and told
him to take me round to
Colonel de Jersey Tomp-
kins, who said the proper
man to go to was Colonel
Lacey de Watkins, but
that he would consult Colonel Fitz Thompson on
my behalf. When I called again, I made a point
of saluting the messenger as “ Colonel,” but he
informed me that he wasn’t a colonel as yet, being
only a captain in the Collingwood cadets.
* • • •
Now that somewhat reliable mail news is
supplementing the cable lies as to the Bear and
Monkey war, a rather different complexion is put
on some happenings. The sinking of the Yariag
and the Koreitz by the Japanese at Cbemulpho
is shown to have been, as the Russians claimed, a
mere massacre, against which the British admiral
in port at the time protested. A whole Japanese
fleet waylaid two small Russian boats in harbor,
after intercepting a warning sent to them of the
outbreak of war, and pounded them to pieces.
In the first Port Arthur fight, too—from which
the Japanese, according to their own accounts,
came unscathed—their loss, says the London
Daily Mail, was one battleship, one cruiser put
out of action, and one smaller boat sunk. Evi-
dently there is one branch of modern mili-
tary strategy in which the Japs are adepts, and
that is composing the despatch after the battle.
MACCARONI.
EBRIOSUS : "Look here, waiter , jist bile this ’ere soup a little more. These
bloomin’ grubs ain’t dead yet.”
At a banquet t’other night, the Owe’-
Sullivan, in the fullness of a good dinner, threw
out a hint of “a magnificent swimming bath
somewhere near the new Redfern railway station,”
and promised that it would not be less than 100
yards long, “even if it cost £10,000.” From his
tone, the Owe’ seemed to think that this would be
another “finest this side of the line” order. It
isn’t. Melbourne’s new city baths in Swanston-
street, erected by the City Council—not per Owe’-
Sullivanism—at a cost of £lB,OOO, and opened last
week, have women’s and men’s basins (the latter
100 by 32 yards), Turkish baths heated by steam,
and “Kosher” baths for people named Cohen.
If Sydney wishes an establishment like that it
should be made to pay for it through the City
Council, not get it through a bit of Owe’Sullivan-
ism, which would lay part of the burden on the
dusty person out Hungerford way, to whom a
raindrop is a curiosity.
The usual Sikh or Pathan has been
found guilty of murder at Kalgoorlie (W.A.)—
practically all the murders in Wes-
tralia are the work of our colored
fellow-subject. It was the old
story. Meer was conversing with
Goolam, Esmal and Shakour,
Mimeer chanced along that
way and quarrelled with
Goolam. Then Mimeer
shot promiscuously, and
hit Meer, Goolam and
Esmal. Meer died, and
Goolam and Esmal
are in a bad way ;
Shakour appears to
have hid himself
behind something
and escaped. Mi-
meer takes his
prospective hang-
ing in quite an
affable spirit,
and reckons he
would like to be
buried at Kalgoor-
lie. The Pathan
is very affable about
being hanged ; ti e
last office of the law
doesn’t appear to worry
him in the least.
N.S.W, Comptroller-General Neitenstein’s
heroics on music as an antidote to crime are
merely big-letter expressions of ancient sayings—
that pass because ancient. Tolstoy’s “ Sonata ”is
another hysteric on the other side—as old, and
let pass for the same reason. Music—love of it,
dislike of it —has nothing to do with morals.
Most great teachers are defective in musical ear.
The troops of larrikins and larrikinesses that chase
through the Sydney streets nightly after blaring
German bands are partly made the class they are
by such bands. Music for such as like it is a re-
creation, but as a preventive of crime it is as
powerless as wind whistling through a keyhole.
The worst criminals are nearly always drafted
into the prison choir, they love music so much.
A recent
letter about tile
birth-rate, in
S.M. Herald,
is worth quot-
ing as about the
best contribu-
tion to the de-
bate so far: —
Re declining
birth-rate. I have
swo children, and
3an only regret
they were ever
born. Being a
tradesman and
earningon an ave-
rage 30s. weekly
all the year round,
I cannot possibly
keep two children
properly, leave
alone more. A
married man re-
ceives less con-
sideration in the
hands of employ-
ers than a single
man ; even land-
lords stipulate to
intending tenant 0 ,
“ no children.”
They are a hind-
rance to yo u
everywhere in the
struggle for bread.
My wife would
rather face death
than further in-
crease the family,
and far bitter for
the little ones
themselves, far
better had they
never been born
than see the light
in this country, s"
blessed by God
with all resources
and so cursed by
man with bad
management.
Make the land fit
to live in for
people that will
and can work, and
children will be as
plentiful as p. fa-
bles by the sea.
Dies Dy tne sea.
And while the process of making the land fit to
live in is in progress, Potts Point and Rand wide
and Vaueluse, and the other haunts of the almost
childless rich, might get a hustle on them, and
have a baby occasionally.
• . * •
N.S.W. Alliance the other day announced
that its comminatory orators were to speak of
“The Three Worst Publicans in Sydney,” and
those who turned up in the hope of hearing a fine
outburst of personalities were treated to a tame
disquisition of law-breaking publicans as a class.
There should be a provision in the Health > at
against parsons labelling their sermons decep-
tively. Many a poor sinner gives up a Sunday
fishing party to attend an advertised sermon with
a red-hot title, only to be treated to the same old
cold pap of commonplace.
SHOWING THE NEED OF BIBLE-TEACH-
ING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
REV. GENT : “ Why did not Adam return to the
Garden of Eden?”
LITERAL SMALL BOY (speaking from experience):
“I s'pose there was a dorg!”
to importing »
GJi " blsho P for Brisbane is to find a man who
can ride and swim. The selecting committee in
London can name numbers of learned and able
men, but very few of these can ride, and fewer
still can swim. The impression is that a Brisbane
bishop takes his life in his hand daily as i e
traverses the howling wastes of his diocese, and is
liable to be slain by aborigines into the bargain.
STILL WHT E.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yielding to the pressure of public opinion, the Com-
missioner of Police in Johannesburg has prohibited
colored persons, including coolies, from using the foot-
paths.—Cable, March 13.
The streets of Johannesburg are crowded with unem-
ployed white men.— Daily paper.
England is mistress still. —Frequent remark.
We have kept the brave flag flying, we have gained
what we have sought,
And England i§ the mistress, as of old.
Though the road was red and rough, we never faltered as
we fought
For the blessed freedom that we now behold.
So, in gaunt and grim battalions, we are stalking up ai d
down
On the flagstones that shall brook no alien feet—
An unpolluted boulevard of famine and renown
For the Empire’s pauper patrols of the street.
Oh, the warm wide homes we dreamt of! Oh, forget
them ; let them go 1
They were banjo-builded visions of the night.
So, we tighten up our belts a bit—it’s easy when we
know
That we’ve conquered, and we’ve kept the pavement
white.
Let the alien take the corn and oil and honey that we
lost;
We are grateful and contented with our wage ;
And famine lends our lives a zest, exulting in our post
As the warders of the white man’s heritage.
A most exclusive privilege upon us is bestowed.
(Ye have missed it, brothers, dreaming ’neath the sward !)
Though our promised prize is given to the alien in the
road,
The pavement is our Arm and sure reward.
M.L.
M. CORMAU.
PAVIP JONES AKP COMPANY,
The “DJ* Orient" Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
Si
r i»n t , tn r hti t*»
NARROW
oa
ROUND TOES.
Special )
Value.. J
16/6
Carriage Free to any P.O. in the States.
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney.
n
o'z
Uo
<£
v tfEsr


All the novelty having departed from the
angora-goat-like locks of poor old parson Bevan,
of -Melbourne, lie has been searching in vain for a
long time past for something new with which to
start,e a weary public. Whenever anything great
or small happens on sea or land, Be van shakes
his shaggy head and goes around on a lecturing
tour. Just now he is firing off a lot of Japanese
war lubbish on innocent Christian Endeavor
audiences. Generally he tops up the heap
u* \i7i°- me , s H ec * a l. blend of rubbish respecting
the W hite Australia policy. At Ballarat lately
he remarked that, in dealing with the yellow
races, we were treating with people who, in point
ot civilisation, stood upon the same level as
ourselves. Bevan had a different tale to tell
when a horde of Chinese some time ago hacked
several unimportant missionaries to pieces. Also,
it is the custom for Bevan and his parsonic crowd
to refer to the Chinese as “poor heathens”
(which doesn t sound like a synonym for “ civilised
people ), and to send missionaries to them, as
if they were inferior characters who required
enlightenment. Bevan also declared that it was
owing only to the insignificance of Australia
that we had escaped the notice of China, but it
would not always be so; for a day of retribution
must surely come.” This is terrible. Perhaps
we had better repent while it is yet time, and
make friends with the pigtail of Mammon, and
import Chinese preachers, and let Bevan hawk
\ ere tallies. If the yellow races are quite equal to
us m civilisation, a Chow or Jap preacher would
do as well as Bevan, and save a good part of that
fr-rafcgy one s outrageous and wholly un-Chinese
salary.
• * • *
N.S.W. Supreme Court, it is stated, is
feeling very sore at the Federal High Court up-
setting its unanimous decisions. N.S.W. Court
committed itself, the otherday, to the Chadbandish
view that a guest at an hotel had no right to ask
a barmaid where the lavatory was, because it
wasn t proper to mention such a place to a
woman. The High Court ruled that the lavatory
nngnt be mentioned in the presence of a woman.
A large question of damages hinged, curiously
enough, on the question whether it was proper to
ask a barmaid the way to the lavatory,
• * • »
The practice of the British press in duti-
fully drawing, verbally and otherwise, the elderly
King i\ed and his nearly-as-elderly wife as
always young and blooming, and quite un-
affected by time, _ has reached such ridiculous
depths that it is said the royal people themselves
have hinted that the silliness ought to be discon-
tinued within reasonable bounds, that is—in
A DOW IE CONVERT.
MRS. SMITH (vmregenerate hut practical): “Now, look here,
Hezekiah Smith, you’ve prayed the knees out of yer pants,
the baby into convulsions, the cat on to the roof, me to
distraction, and yerself into a drivelling idiot; what I
want to know is, are yer gain' out to work for a hit o’ tucker?”
future. The London Daily Chronicle takes the
hint and describes the King and Queen at the
opening of Parliament:—
It is customary to say how well the Sovereign and his
Consort look. Age, you would think, had no power upon
them. It seems to the writer kinder to allow that since
the King’s accession their Majesties have come to look
°'der, and to say, what is the fact, that the marks of age
add dignity to the mien of both. But the Queen is won-
derfully young when she smiles, and the King has a
masterly, firm port.
Having at last to allow that they aren’t as young
as they were 40 years ago, the loyal press says
they are old, but not quite old, and that, anyhow,
they look all the better for being old.
* * *
As a result of press criticisms of the short
hours worked by Judges, Victorian Chief Justice
is just now putting in time on the bench from 9.30
to 5.30, and making much song about it. The
C.J. is bemoaning his industry so strenuously
that it has an unreal and advertising air. Sen-
sible people, of course, know that a Judge’s work
doesn’t end on the bench—that five hours in court
hiaymeanlO hours’ workaday. But they also
know that a huge amount of time is wasted
through Judges allowing counsel to spin out cases
and waste time in low comedy and silly clowning.
Also, iu criminal cases, a lot of time is wasted by
the Judge in delivering long harangues and oceans
of flabby moral precepts at the prisoner before
telling him that he will be “scragged” by the
neck till he is wholly defunct.
* * * *
St. James’ Church, Sydney, lately robbed
under peculiar circumstances, contains most valu-
able Australian antiquities. Several times the
authorities were urged to establish a regular
watch over them, as many of them are of great
rarity. As it happens, no robber so far has been
a connoisseur.
SAVED—FROM SOMETHING.
RANTING CONVERT : “O, dear frens, 1 will tell you wot the Army ’as dun fer me. Before I
got saved I used ter drink, fight, steal, and blaspheme; and O, dear, kind frens, ’ow I
used ter fight with me pore wife was awful to see.”
UNREGENERATE 14ST. WIFE (interrupting): “An’ lucky for you, yer dhirty crawlin' little liar,
that the Army did save yer from foightin' wid me.”
The purchase by a syndicate some time ago
of “Rippon Lea,” Sargood’s Melbourne mansion,
was a cause of much comment by land agents and
property owners. Several agents, being asked
where they thought the shindykit would obtain
an advance on the purchase money, £20,000,
scoffed at the idea of sub-division, as there are
hundreds of blocks unsaleable in the immediate
vicinity. But when asked to explain the syndi-
cate’s game they mostly said “dunno.” Perhaps
Vic.’s State Governor will hang out his shingle
at “Rippon Lea ” before many moons are over.
“Kaylee”: There is a
mild Adelaide identity who
somehow lives by selling
woollen flowers. Have never
seen him sell one on the merits
of his wares, but his tact is
marvellous. To the child he
says : “ A pretty little gift
for grandmamma ”; to the
matronly female : “ A beauti-
ful ornament for the home”;
and to the giddy and Pana-
ma’d youth : “ A nice present
for a barmaid.”
* * *
When Chief Justice Dar-
ley (N.S.W.) went on his holi-
day nearly two years ago, an
effort was made to allow his
son, Captain H. S. Darley, to
retain the post of associate,
though there was no Judge to
associate with. Objection
being made, the captain was
retired for the time being.
The “ Chief ” having resumed
duty, Captain Darley has been
re-appointed associate. It is
usual to have these positions
filled by lawyers, either full-
fledged or with their tail-
feathers partly grown, but
seldom has a semi-demi-mili-
tary man been giv e n the
position.
An advertisement in the Brisbane
Courier, of March 1.7, called for a “ Lady Artist’s
Model ’’—salary £2 per week. This should bring
a whole shipload of models from the Cold Country
where thesalarvismuch lower than that, and where
a much colder draught blows on the lady in tie
altogether and makes her blue and goose-fleshtd
while she is trying to look like Mary of Scotland
after execution, or Xerxes invading Greece with
five million men, or the fall of Babylon, or some
thing.
The public grows just a trifle weary of
hearing about the case of William Jones of Foots-
cray, which is almost daily cast up by the tide of
Costs on the steps of the Victorian law courts, as
if it wereadead body persistentlycomingashoreto
see if there was any decent burial on the premises.
Jones died intestate and left £37,000, and every
bird of prey within reach has been having a bite at
it ever since. Even in the days when Jones doesn’t
actually wash ashore he is generally seen floating
in the offing, so to speak, with a large number of
birds in pursuit. Yet the fortune is still per-
sistently alluded to as Jones’s £37,000, and that is
where the monotony comes in. If the bite was
deducted every time, and the fortune was des-
cribed to-day as Jones’s £36,372 and next week as
Jones’s £35,927, the public would have at least the
satisfaction of studying the diminution of things.
It could watch the decreasing Jones being washed
up on the steps of Law or stranded on the shoal
of Litigation, and could see him float off again a
little smaller for the visit, and could speculate as
to the date when a Jones only two inches long
would wash up for the last time and financially
evaporate on the shore. There would be some
interest in that process; the present arrangement
is merely a matter of dreary repetition.
* * * *
Close upon 500 officers, chiefly in the
Owe’Sullivan’s department, are to be sacked.
Some day N.S.W. public servants will probably
have sense enough to be the strongest opponents
of the borrow and boom policy ; that will be when
they see that every boom is followed by a Black
Thursday. The public service is supposed to be
a permanency; yet the number of men who get
crowded out, or who step out when they feel the
pressure coming, is amazing. Of all the under-
secretaries in office ten years ago only one—
Kirkpatrick, of the Treasury—is left now. In
ART AS ECONOMIST.
“Your daughter goes in for painting, I see.”
“ Yes; it’s such a saving — doesn’t cost us a cent for pictures, you know."
most of the higher-salaried offices there have also
been changes. The greater number of the men
who had the billets are not dead; they saw, in
most cases, that something was going to fall, and
they pleaded ill-health and got from under before
they were pushed out. Once the Public Service
was recognised as a place where, if you did not get
high pay, you had a safe billet, and it attracted
good men accordingly. Now, with neither safety
nor good pay to offer, it is coming to be recognised
as a good service to avoid.
“ Sally B.” gives a hint of
the sorrows of the barmaid (the
barmaid, like the cabby and the
hawker, must have a rich store
of expei-iences, bub very rarely
tells of them): —
Anyone can have my position. Cus-
tomers seem to be too much alike ;
thej’ get on your nerves. A man comes
in. I say, “What will you have?”
“Oh ! I’ll have you”; or else “ A beer,
and smile in it, please.” If he happens
to want a second, and you ask “ will
he have the same again,” he invariably
says “ No, something similar.” I gen-
erally get that in first now. If it’s
a hot day, nine out of ten men want a
“ beer in a bucket,” or a “ long pint,”
or “one with the froth at the bot-
tom”; p’r’aps they want it “drawn
thick, they’re hungry.” The most
annoying cuss is the one who wants
“ as much as you can afford for three-
pence ” —there are hundreds of him.
I hope some of them see these remarks
and take them to heart.
* • »
A Sydney lady-palmist dis-
played a dozen signed testimonials
from departing cohentingenters,
who were “supprised” at her
truthful readings. After three of
the signatures the palmist has
written in pencil the word “ re-
turned.” The others have evidently
nob reported their arrival, or perhaps
their names have not yet figured in the
olice news.
Some 130 paintings in oils and water-color
by veteran J. C. Waite have been hung around
Glen’s Concert Hall, Melbourne, with a view to
disposing of them on the art union system (2s. fid.
per ticket) for the joint benefit of Melbourne
Hospital and the artist. Waite, who came from
England to Melbourne about 17 years ago, when
the land boom was in full blast, has painted all
sorts of pictures—mostly of the domestic-story
class—that appeal to the general public taste. If
the exhibition could be run as a theatrical fete,
with a band of actresses to sell half-crown chances
in the raffle, it would not take them long to bring
the affair to a head. Waite’s art is essentially
sane and unpretentious. A capable, painstaking
worker, he makes his ideas clear to the meanest
understanding, which many painters of less ability
don’t condescend to do.
* * * *
Brisbane daily press went into hysterics
over the Aramac affair, and each paper piled on
the “purple patches” and the agony in double-
leaded type, and the anti-climax was cruel. Only
one old man missing, and they anticipated dead
bodies and plenty of them. Even the old
man was found, too, and then the crippled
steamer crawled in—the last anti-climax of all,
after the daily papers had performed like the
sea-bottom in Clarence’s dream,
A man who looked over all the testi
monials in an establishment where they sell a
popular tonic, couldn’t find that one Jew had
been cured of the tired feeling. Did any Jew
ever possess the tired feeling ?
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Destroy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or Injury
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits, but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DRUG CO., 8 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS.
BIBLE PICTURES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(A correspondent to the Argus suggests that the Bible
should be taught in State schools by means of pictures.)
If certain pictures were displayed,
Culled out with proper care and patience,
The Bible would at once be made
A novel Book of Revelations.
Though even David’s little slips
Seem venial vices to the preachers,
This latter-day Apocalypse
Would horrify the very teachers.
In towns where lady teachers rule,
A blush or two a man might pardon
If they were asked to show the school
Our parents in the sinless Garden.
But Pharaoh’s wife could weave her smiles ;
And, while they sat their little hams on,
The ten-year-olds could learn the wiles
That bold Delilah used on Samson.
What finer sight could youngsters have
Than Pharaoh in the water splashing ?
Or to behold, while banners wave,
The walls of Jericho go crashing?
But it would hardly do, I think,
For little Fred or tender Charlotte
To see in all its primal pink
The house that hung the thread of scarlet.
No, if into the infant heart
The Word is brought by illustrations,
It must be done with careful art
And very stringent limitations.
For though the Bible’s food for us
(Made used to scenes and stories risqu4),
’Tis not at all “ virginibus,”
And very little “ puerisque.”
VIC.
P.N.
THE LONGEST DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pray, do not chide us, gentle friends.
In that our hearts are gay,
We recognise that sunset ends
The longest summer’s day.
Now he who laughs and takes his fill,
And he who sad doth be,
When all the game is ended, will
Both low and equal be.
So our advice to you, good friends—
Be I appy when you may,
Ren ember that the sunset ends
The longest summer’s day.
N.I.V
E. J. BRADY.
At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, SO Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from (xeorsre-street to Kinsr-st.*
THE BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
cy? i
iM
oU SNESS iL
ANP •
V-


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 29, 1904.
My Dear Arini. —
Mr. Mitchell, whose name is always before the
public as the giver of a splendid library to the
public, though a partial invalid, is still a keen
collector and an avid reader of books. It must
be a consolation—a tardy one—that his bequest
has at last a prospective resting-place. Some-
thing over two acres of the Domain, near the main
gate, have been set apart for a new public library
building, and into this will also go the Mitchell
volumes. Mr. Mitchell is an uncle of Miss Rose
Scott, who has also a craving after black-letter
volumes and first editions.
Count “Narcissus” Peretti de la Rocca, the
romantic-looking Vice-Consul for France, goes by
the Oceanien this week on a six months holiday
to the pleasant land of France. Another serious
loss to Sydney girls ! The Count is a good small-
talker, rider and dancer. He will be paying this
over-girled community a poor compliment if he
returns with a Countess.
Mrs. Maybrick has gone to New York. The
greatest privacy was observed in regard to her
removal from prison, and she was met by her
mother, the Baroness von Roques, and a lawyer
who held a watching brief at her long-ago trial.
The freed woman is, says this lawyer, even more
beautiful than on the day of her arrest. She will
live quietly with her mother and, report says, will
not be joined by her two children—the girl must
be now nearly 20 years of age—who, at time of her
disgrace, were sent to foreign schools under assumed
names and told that their mother was dead- They
still have no idea of her real identity. Since this
fact was published many a romantic school-miss,
who would rather have a crime in the family than
nothing at all, will have begun to wonder if she is
herself the mysterious Maybrick daughter, and
' to look askance at her stout ordinary guardian as
the possible repository of a dark secret.
Australians abroad are getting audiences for a
word or two either with the King or his dismal
son. Anderson Stuart has “been received by the
latter, and as the Prof, and the Prince were quite
chummy when the Yorks were here, they could
talk without the attendant minions hearing the
conversational wheels creak and grind. Professor
Stuart (who, by the way, has a Hebrew double in
Sydney ; only yesterday I saw one balance up to
the double with “How do, Professor?”) went to
London by the barque that carried the Tennysons,
to look for a title, a matron for the Alfred
Hospital, and other small goods. Now, would
you think it necessary to go out of Australia to
vaid a competent hospital matron ? Not until you
were told of the quality and quantity of com-
petence demanded. The matron wanted must
know housekeeping, and nursing from a long way
before Ato several paces after Z. She must know
antiseptic surgery and the comminatory clauses
of the Athanasian creed, be a good Protestant,
born Scotch, very obsequious to the medical staff,
and able to sing “Abide with me” to dying
patients without killing those on the mend. If
there is a rivet loose in the hospital tower or a
badly-darned patch in a basement towel, she must
know of them. She must be a first-rate organiser,
with a knowledge of how every 7 hospital of note in
Europe is conducted. She must have passed 144
examinations, be in perfect health, and under 35
years. Probably the prof, reckons on getting his
title long before he runs across that ideal matron.
The wide, billowy skirt has not found grace, I
notice, in the eyes of the well-dressed actress.
Mabel Lane, playing lead in the Hawtrey
co., ,is the best-dressed artiste we have
had" amongst us for sometime. In “The Two
Mr. Wetherbvs” Miss Lane wears a striking
dress of white serge with some delicate tracery in
black and a lot of little mandarin yellow velvet
bows down the front of the vest. The skirt fits
closely down to near the foot, then flares. The
hat that helps the gown to strike is a big white
beaver with more 12th of July velvet and some
black wings. Another gown is an explosion in
black and white, beautifully cut and fitted, yet
aggressive-looking and really helping the effect of
the actress’s sharp, trenchant utterances whilst
she is making hubby Wetherby’s life a wasted
place and a bombarded desert.
Mrs. Cecily McQuade is what Hie Seventeenth
of Ireland people call “a warm woman”—mean-
ing that she owns considerable property. When
the old Her Majesty’s Theatre was burned down,
Mrs. McQuade figured with Mr. J. C. Williamson
as co-loser. Baumann’s new cafe, in Pitt-street,
is erected on her property, where formerly stood
Compagnoni’s cafe. Baumann’s was officially
opened last week by Mayor Lees, full bands,
banquets, G. H. Reid, and corkscrews. On a
second day Mrs. Baumann received some 400
guests for afternoon tea and inspection of the
premises. The uniform of the serving damsels is
of a quiet grey that harmonises with the golden
scone and silver grill, and agreeably contrasts with
“Bagasse” ceilings and the dull crimson and
smoky amber of stained glass.
Same afternoon Chancelloress MacLaurin had
a reception in the Winter Garden of the Australia
Hotel in honor of violinist Miss Foulis. A large
number of guests stared steadily up at Julius
Knight in the smoking balcony, and audibly
wondered, saying “Doesn’t he look different.”
Talking of actors ! Cuyler Hastings returns this
week. So crowded are all Sydney hotels for
Agricultural Show and races that a devoted friend
of the mummer, after vainly trying 14 “best
places” for lodgings, had to accept a division of
him between a hotel and a private house. In the
first he will eat himself, in the second he will
sleep himself.
Scientific societies and societies of arts are use-
ful things to have about a city, if only as
speaking tubes for educated ladies who travel or
go to live at the back of some beyond, and then
wish to read a paper on, say, the Phenomena of
the Remote. We would lose track of our one
time visitor, Miss Flora Shaw, now Lady Lu-
gard, were it not that she turns up in London
from Nigeria to read papers before societies on
the dusky region where her husband keeps the
flag flying. Miss Shaw “did ” Australia and M.L.
for the Times; also she went to Klondyke, and an
awful fuss was made about the hazards of
that journey. A lady now living in Sydney who
did the Klondyke journey rig-lit in Flora Shaw’s
tracks, and who had previously journeyed from
Coolgardie to Perth, describes the Westralian
effort as being quite as adventurous and more
marked by hardship. By the way, this same
narrator, now married, went again to Dawson
City last year, taking with her very much the
same kind of clothes that she Dawsoned in during
the Flora Shaw visit. And she put up at an hotel
on the site of the old lambing-down shanty at
which she had previously stopped. But she did
not remain, for it was full of men and women who
dined in evening dress and gave a diamond show
nightly. The menu was in French and as varied
as that of a first-class New York restaurant.
True, most of the food had arrived in tins, but you
would hardly know that, so fine was the chefs
work.
A S’African paper speaks of Percy Grainger, of
the Ada _ Crossley Co., as “the Byronic-faced
solo pianist.’’ On the trip over in the Wakool
Percy was allowed to do an hour’s coal-heaving
in the bunkers daily. Whitlows broke out on
both hands, and only got better in time for the
first concert.
Visitors returning from London tell of the
magnificence of the Tooths. These absentees are
quite in the habit of entertaining small sprigs of
royalty and German semi-royalty, and keep differ-
ent “sets” of afternoon tea-ware for different
brands of guest. The first cousin of the Grand
Duke of Brax-Bogs-and-Gutta drinks from a set
of pure gold. Titled persons of lower rank get
their Bohea from a silver pot. As for casual
Australians who drop in, they take theirs on the
mat outside.
Committee of the Consumptive Sanitaria charity
might get a hint from the following : A while ago
the Austral Salon (Melb.) was asked, from Boston,
to contribute a native doll to the “ Great Inter-
national Doll Collection ” which is lent without
charge to raise money for all Children’s Charities
throughout U.S. of America. The Salon (with
Max Kreitmeyer’s help) sent a perfect wax model
of an Australian piccaninny, about 2ft. 6in. high,
with opossum-rug and boomerang complete. Per-
haps the Q.V.C.H. people might materialise such
a doll show as a draw.
The Howard Chandler Christy girl is holding a
perpetual “at home” at Angus and Robertson’s.
Young men and women—especially women—are in
thrall to her, golfing, at the opera, at the dance, in
society, on horseback. Her long, slender figure
with its faintly accentuated curves, its rather
thin arms and shoulders and long neck, her small-
featured passionless face, and towering pile of
back-swept hair make for a fascinating spiritual
type of damsel in colored pastels, but she hardly
explains the attention or admiration she
excites. Perhaps it is the “story” suggested
by each picture, that holds the gazer. Even
when the Christy girl has no second person near
her to help on the romance-weaving, she has
romantic possibilities for a “past” or a future.
Her face is never empty nor insipid.
Six months hard land travel and seafaring has
taken down the facade which Mr. J. C. William-
son’s figure had when he left Sydney. He is
heartily glad to be back and able to breathe
atmosphere. Whilst in London he ate it—in great
sooty chunks. A portrait of Miss Elizabeth
Parkina, the American soprano of the concert com-
pany he has engaged, shows a plump, round-faced
girl, beautifully-dressed, her eyes downcast and her
head turned coyly over her shoulder, as if she were
murmuring to Algy, “ This is so sudden.” Beauty
and style and perfect dressing are the three
requisites, says J.C.W., for a successful actress on
the London stage of to-day. Talent comes fourth.
Our friend, Nance O’Neil, was drawing packed
houses in Boston when the manager went through.
All Australians will be glad to hear that it is
probable Mr. Brough will return to Australia
to manage Mr. Williamson’s new comedy co.
Baronet Rupert Clarke is here in his new yacht
—made in M.L.—a craft that looks as if it would
run up the skull and crossbones as soon as it got
out of sight of land.
Names of mourners at funeral of Premier See’s
wife read like the whole of Govt. House list.
Close upon 2000 wreaths and other floral figures
were forwarded, and about a thousand messages
of condolence. The interment took place at Long
Bay, in a grave adjoining a vault, the monument
over which bore this inscription : “ Sacred to the
memory of Samuel Mathews, died Nov. 28, 1856,
aged 52 years.” Mr. Mathews was the father of
Mrs. See, and was born just 100 years ago, Mrs.
See’s mother being nearly 30 years her husband’s
junior.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Lord Hindlip, the small, mild-eyed young
man with a feeble chin who dwelt a while in
Melbourne as aide to Lord Fall-off Brassey, is
about to marry Miss Agatha Thynne, said to be
tall, golden-haired and altogether lovely. Hindlip
belongs to the British Beerage—he is head of the
Allsop family. He looks it. A pale, ailing boy
in appearance.
“The Clement Vallanges are stated to be
diverting the people of Berkshire—or such of the
county as lies within social distance of ‘ Hartley
Court ’ (ahem !)—with amateur theatricals. ‘ A
Breezy Morning’ is a favorite dissipation of
theirs. Memory recalls the time this tame
comedietta was submitted to a large audience at
‘Cliveden,’ the simulated joy of the victims
encouraging the stage-struck pair to repeat their
performance at other houses. They even tried it
on a charity-matinee gathering at the Princess’s,
where the amphitheatre behaved admirably, under
the circumstances. That was years ago—five or
six—and the Waxcellency’s daughter and son-in-
law are not cured yet.
“ The Banks Divorce in Sydney last week, set
Melbourne reminiscing. Mrs. Banks is remem-
bered as the prettiest brunette that ever stood
under the wedding-bell of the Anglican church at
Essendon. The whole sporty district turned out
to gaze on the knot-tying and it heaved a
collective sigh of envy as the bridegroom bore the
prize off to Sydney. She was the younger
daughter of the late J. E. McCarron, the little
beau who dropped dead in a Melbourne ballroom
some four years ago.
“Tourists in the Big Smoke write of Maie
Saqui’s marriage to a man who keeps a herd of
motor cars and a whole grove of family trees. As
the fact isn’t cabled, it’s probably true. A younger
sister —Gladys—is tripping it now on the London
boards and getting her poses reproduced in the
weeklies. From the latest portraits she seems a
big, well-made, taking girl. Also from Mel-
bournians abroad comes news of Miss Ruth
Mackay making a success of Donna Roma in
‘ The Eternal City ’ and looking fine in the scene
of chisel and bust.
“If one doubts the stage-struck condition of
the Melbourne girl, let him go to Her Majesty’s
any time when a new show is advertised. Vacan-
cies never have to be advertised. With the an-
nouncement of a fresh attraction girls turn up in
battalions. If it’s comic opera, elevators and tall
heels help to effect a presence. Now it’s a Jap
call, and the stage-struck girl sheds the elevators,
releases the pad, lowers her heel, shortens her
mast, and generally gathers herself in a handful.
“Senator Dobson (the dear Dobbie of the handy
Di vorce Act) said good-bye to his wife and only
chick last week, on their return to foreign parts.
Mrs. Dobson is booked to be in Berlin for June,
when the International Council of Women rallies
there. She is a much better speaker than her
husband.
“Nuttall’s * Test Match ’ picture was unveiled
the other day in an atmosphere largely of John
Forrest and smoke. Braund, Foster, and Hay-
ward satisfied their barrackers in the grouping.
Among the 80 or so figures stationed in the fore-
ground, the Gov.-General seems to have had a
cubit (more or less) added to his stature, and
Malcolm M'Eacharn is found to be wearing that
seductive expression that will probably fade away
when he sees the result of the Melbourne election.
Big Dick Rowe is a true figure, but the dandified
Jack Fisken is deprived of a foot in measurement.
“Startling side-shows are reported by the
passengers of a recently-arrived liner. Swimming
contests took the cake for ingenuity. These were
held only when the captain had marked all the
feminines a-board on the credit side of the conduct
log-book and as steady adherents to the ship’s
time-table—especially as to the retiring limit.
At such time the skipper would order a sail to be
slung over the lower deck, secured, and filled to
a depth of four or five feet with sea water. This
made, I’m told, a spacious bath. Bathing suits
being out of the female travelling stock, the dear
obliging officers supplied silk pyjamas. Even
then difficulty was not done with. There was a
great stretch of deck to traverse, so the invaluable
officers lent their oil-skins. Then came the revels,
while the original owners of the bathing kits
barracked for their colors, or the other fellow’s,
impartially, from bridge and upper decks. One
girl states she got quite in the way of taking this
pyjamaed plunge unblushingly.
“ An interesting crowd of ancients assembled at
the Exhibition Building, t’other afternoon, to
partake of tea and extras. The ‘ Old Folks at
Home’ are practical testimonies to the glorious
climate of Victoria, and announcements of the
ages of the oldest specimens are received with
every sign of approval by the gracious ladies and
clergymen who run the show. Rev. Edgar, as
president, drew attention to the presence of a
Mrs. Lancaster, now in her 102nd year, and still
sufficiently strong to take a chair on the platform.
Another venerable lady was instanced as the
grandmother of a grandmother ; also four brothers
who have scored 343 years among them, were
quoted as arguments in favor of early marriage.
Each of them has celebrated a golden wedding.
One miraculous dame brought a certificate to
prove she was married 69 years ago. Her conduct
was rewarded with a tea-service. Many other
cases met with similar acknowledgments of
merit. Everything—from a teapot down to a
toasting-fork—comes to them who can wait.
“Mrs. T. S. Hall is passing her widowhood—
that is the heavy crape stage—in a quiet English
country district at Wheating Hall. The Tom
Hall estate cuts up into a large slice of wealth for
the widow.; One son is at Eton.
“‘Superb’ villas are, on the authority of the
house-agents, going for a song in Melbourne.
Just now cooing couples prefer lazy life in
lodgings to house responsibilities. Matter here
for a moralist. The villa habit is one favorable
to the family instinct. If Suburbia takes gener-
ally to lodgings, the birth-rate has to go into a
further decline.
“A smart importation in the theatrical line is
Miss Florence Hamer, who has a rather short figure
with a waist and hips of pronounced Frenchiness.
She came to hand— i.e., to land—in a wonderful
blue-and-green effect and no end of turquoise gems.
A great chatelaine jingled at her side. Coal-black
Egyptian eyes—the kind the Pharaoh beauties
must have had—looked the more singular for so
much turquoise surrounding. The gems in curious
shapes and freakish mounts were all over the cor-
sage ; big hoops of them hung from the ears, and
large slices showed in the back hair. Miss Hamer
passed on to Adelaide at the week end to get into
rehearsal for ‘The Marriage of Kitty.’
“Mrs. Bland Holt has been giving the fare-
well junkets that mark her every anchor-weighing
from this port. With more patience and zest
than any other ladies of her profession show
does she keep up social duties. So there’s a
general regret that the snug little villa on the
Wellington Parade is to be without the Sunday
Party Holts for a whole year.
“It was given out last week that the mourning
the Waxcellency dame sprang on the Yarra-bank
regatta was due to the demise of the Duke of
Cambridge. What touching loyalty in grief!
“The Alexandra Club, the other day, sat in
judgment on a Voice, and the verdict was praise.
The voice belongs to Miss Orgill, of Dandenong,
a district that already has a murder-story and a
reputation for apples.
“It was a good man who died, the other day,
in the person of Robert Lindsay Greig, father of
three of the cleverest lassies known to Melbourne.
A little more than twelve months ago the family
went into mourning for Mrs. Greig, and the
widower goes now before his 60th year. The two
elder Greig girls are doctors, and the younger is
in the last lap of the law course.
“Smart people are calculating the board-ship
touring chances of a beauty at present voyaging
to Europe. Poverty kept her matrimonial
chances poor for years in this sordid city,
but as relatives came forward to help furnish the
travelling kit—well, poverty will not express
itself in laundered gossamers and darned gloves
for a while, and the blue-eyed siren should land a
valuable catch.
“ Society turned out to farewell Lady Margaret
Knowles, the other day, when shipping back her
youthful self (23 summers all told) to Edward
VIPs capital. The widow took one or two mas-
sive wedding souvenirs (she remarries at her
journey’s end), and any number of farewell
trophies from Melbourne gushers. In her place,
Mrs. Bulky-Johnson plays the companionable
part to the vice-regal dame.
“Recent opening of those old graves nil Sydney
disclosed the fact that one of the coffins was empty
—had never been occupied. Seems as if there
may have been something to hide in the long-ago, #
but by this time the old secret has shrivelled into
a shred of ancient mystery too sere to bear raking-
up. No need, anyway, to delve into the past for
coffin sensations. Numbers of people firmly be-
lieve that there was a thrilling case of corpse-
substitution in an Australian ‘lnner Circle'
just the other year. The man died, and
was duly buried with pomp and ceremony.
Then the strange story went the rounds that not
the personage but a pauper from a hospital-
morgue occupied the oaken casket with the leaden
lining, and was buried in the rich man’s family
tomb. The magnate himself, so runs the rumor,
still lives in retirement, having died to the world
to save scandal. This drastic course was alleged
to have been adopted simultaneously with the re-
appearance of a lawful wife, whom her re-marriedl
husband had, in all good faith, represented as-
dead. Lovers of sensation brace up this romance
by citing the sudden break-up of deceased’s estab-
lishment, the dismissal of his old servants, and
the hurried departure of the mourners for foreign
parts. ' c
“A less thrilling explanation of these circum-
stances is that the magnate is really and truly
dead, but, since his death, there has been a little-
trouble, as is often the case when a rich man dies.
Deceased had been married twice. In the interval
between the death of his first wife and his union,
with her successor (now his widow), he became
engaged to another lady but afterwards broke off
the engagement. His ex-fiancee, ’tis said, came-
to terms and accepted a sum of money to solace
the pain of parting. Also, in addition to the
cash-consolation agreed upon, it is alleged that;
a sum was borrowed from the rich man, and at-
his death the administrator demanded repayment..
The alleged borrower disputed the claim on the
ground that the money was a gift, and threat-
ened to rake up the past with its love affairs in
open court. At this point, so ’tis said, the trus-
tees hastily shipped the chief mourners abroad.
This I believe to be the true version of the much-
canvassed reasons, ‘Why the So-and-So’s left
home.’
“ An orchard town, shortly to be favored v ; a:
a prolonged visit from an ex-Governor in his
capacity of fruitgrower, bears up bravely against
the fact that, this time, the distinguished sojourner-
will not be accompanied by his wife and daughter.
When the ladies in question were there las., alll
went merry as a marriage bell at first, but towards
the end there was a crumpled roseleaf, the result
of a ‘ moonlight garden-party,’ to which farmer-
dom (male and female) was hospitably bidden by
the important visitors. Garden-partie3 are not
common in orchard communities, where the fruits
of the season are synonymous with the ‘shop,’
and love amongst the roses must keep jumping
over runnels and channels, and remembering not
to sit down on trays of dried apricots. Hence,
there was much discussion as to toilettes for the-
revel, but the debate ended in the she-
section of the invited (men don’t count
in a grave costume crisis of this kind)
running the whole gamut of sartorial nocturm-
emotion from ball-toilette to theatre-blouse.
Alighting under the deodars, or ribstone pip-
pins, or whatever they were, the guests found
themselves awaited by hostesses in tweed skirts,,
cutty jackets, and sailor hats ! Not one of the
betrayed ladies moved a muscle, but an ac-
companying husband, who cynically watched the
scene, declares that if hearts could have been laid
bare at the moment of meeting, they would have-
shown as much cursing as a Dowie religious-
service. < ,
“ A Melbourne warbler, one of the many storm-
ing the Big Smoke, writes out that the only short
way of securing a footing on the London platform-
is by getting a helping hand from a valuable man-
friend. She cites two instances in which the-
musical cause has been advanced in this manner.
‘ I am waiting for a good, faithful, and influential
Achates (must be influential) to come along, when
fat cables will tell of my carrying the day. Mean-
while the fog lies heavily on the spirits.’
“Treasurer Turner’s modest brass plate no*
longer blinks at the St. Kilda pedestrians, the
household goods and the family having been re-
moved to a more imposing house out Hawthorn-
way.
Yours affectionately, AKENEHI.
GORDON’S
Dry Gin & Old T° m
SWIFT & CO., 32 O'Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
FACILE PRINCEPS
| SEMPER IDEM. ~[
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
There is little peace even for the dead. A
gentleman who had drowned himself in Darling
Harbor, Sydney, was found last Monday by a
diver, and fished out of his repose for identifica-
tion. Yet one would fancy that there was rest in
the harbor, and that the identifying busybody
would cease from troubling down there.
Miss Nellie Stewart writes : “ ‘ Valaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion'
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “ Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
\SfQ-‘
s
(B& 6
® 6i Q K/y^ENETTE£>
11 sK Are the Ideal Fabrics
R/\l IN COATS.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Fire-low ” Price, son of the noted Com-
mandant of Norfolk Island in the bad days, retires
from the command of the Queensland army.
Two Adelaide journalists—one from each
daily— have been offered positions in Zion by
Elijah Dowie, the terms in each case being a
guarantee of £5 a week, with a promise of £lO if
they suit the inflammable Elijah.
Every man has his double. G. H. Reid
is an alderman in a Sydney suburban council ;
Deakin is a shopwalker in a George-street drapery;
Salisbury until recently sold flowers in Pitt-street;
and C. C. Kingston drives a cab.
Stead’s Daily Paper, was dropped after
two issues, and the holy man, who must have lost
a mint of money over the experiment, was, at
latest, suffering from a complete breakdown,
which made a health trip to S’Africa necessary.
Recently at Windsor, near Melbourne,
there died, at the age of 74 years, James Moran,
one of Peter Lalor’s men of the Eureka Stockade
fight. Moran was the first to give the alarm to
Lalor, half-an-hour before the latter received the
shot which cost him his arm.
’Lije Dowie at Adelaide :
When God gave a man a message He stood by him in
the delivery of it, and every editor in Chicago who had
attacked him had, with one exception, died. Lhe re-
maining one had given up newspaper work.
Names and dates, please, Elijah. Has anyone
heard of any special mortality among journalists
in U.S.A. ?
Now a wicked correspondent sends this
from Victoria: —
Dill Macky’s calves were Deautifal at his Melbourne
Exhibition fizzle ; but one calf was too forward (for a
calf). Not oontent to stay behind the scenes, as calves
should, this calf worked round to the front of Dill Macky’s
•hin, and produced a peculiar yes-no appearance. Dill’s
attention was drawn to the unruly calf and he quickly
hitched it into position.
Stipendiary Isaacs, of Sydney, who goes
to England, preparatory, it is said, to quitting the
police courts for good, has had 36 years of public
service. He “read law” for a couple of years,
and bank-clerked for a while. His father, Robert
Macintosh Isaacs (a name that is suggestive of
Donald Moses), was once Solicitor-General under
Martin.
DANIEL O’CONNOR, OF AUSTRALIA.
A political aspirant who once unsuccess-
fully opposed George Reid has gone into the
palmistry business, and advertises past, present
and future revealed at moderate rates. He in-
tends to stand against George next election, and
has probably taken 2s. 6d. worth of his own
prophecy on the subject and assured himself that
the game is worth while.
There is something of a coincidence in the
election of William Higgs to the Chairmanship of
Committees of the Australian Senate, and that of
John Rigg to a similar position in M.L. Upper
House. Both men went into Parliament as Labor
members, both are compositors, and both are
Australian-born. In fact the chief difference
between them is that one is Rigg and the other i>
Higgs.
Labor leader Watson’s motion objecting
to the introduction of Chinese to the Transvaal
was carried in the Representatives by 53 votes to
five. The five pro-Chow members were Cameron
(Tas.), R. Edwards (Q.), Wilson (Vic.), Skene
(Vic.), and Gibb (Vic.) It is worthy of notice
that Victoria, the land of Irvine and Bent and of
the Kyabram deformer, provided three out of the
five pro-Chows.
Sydney City Council has just raised Town
Clerk Nesbitt’s salary to £l2OO a year This
makes his billet superior to that of even
the Under-Secretaries in the State Public Service.
The City Council does not share the opinions or
most of the critics of public expenditure, who
seem to take it as a personal grievance if a State
servant is allowed over £5OO a year. The enlight-
ened opinion is that it is far better to pay a tew
hundreds extra on a salary in order to save
thousands by superior efficiency.
Lord Wolseley is president of an associa-
tion for the suppression of bad language in the
army. On one occasion he was inspecting an
Irish garrison, whose commander bad a conspicu-
ous gift of idiom. The commander ordered a
bugler to sound the “ charge,” but, by some mis-
apprehension, he blew the “retreat instead.
Tlie commanding officer turned sharply round,
Prepared to launch a volley of imprecations at the
delinquent—“Oh, you”—then he caught the
general’s eye fixed on him; you naughty,
haughty trumpeter ! ”
“ H.P.” writes :
A bleary old female wreok made her 134th appearance
at the Dunedin (M.L.) police court the other day. While
pleading guilty, between hiccoughs, to the usual charge
of beer, she asked for another chance on the ground that
she had been “ working for the Bishop.” The sub-
inspector stated that she was the record-holder. His
Worship, recognising the great performance she had put
up in finding much liquor in a district that was mostly
prohibited, discharged the champion pewter-drainer.
The morganatic sons of the late Duke of
Cambridge, Augustus and Adolphus Fitz George.
have been knighted simply. The illegitimate sons
of King William IV. were raised to the peerage.
“ Mrs.” Cambridge was Miss Farebrother, a
handsome columbine; “Mrs.” William IV. was
Mrs. Jordan, the well known actress. Cambridge
clung to his wife while she lived. William IV.
neglected his mistress, who died literally of star-
vation in France.
From the religious column of Sydney
Telegraph (19/3/’O4)
At St. John’s Anglican Church, Forbes (N.S.W.), on
Sunday week, both the morning and evening services
were conducted by his Honor Judge Docker. Large con-
gregations were present on each occasion.
In a sense that is even better than sitting on the
bench. On the bench his Honor can only sen-
tence people to death, but in the pulpit Sheol can
be thrown in as an extra.
The father ot the New South Wales Bar,
Salomons, K.C., who, at the opening in Sydney
of the Federal High Court, said that the door of
another world was opening on its hinges to admit
him, appears to have recovered health. He has
recently been studying the procedure of the
American law courts and dined and wined with
President Roosevelt. A good many people will
be glad to know that the gate which the perky
little Hebrew pathetically alluded to has banged
again, leaving him on the outside.
“Melbourne”: Can’t Sydney send us
something worth using ? She has lent us Conroy,
of the Gap ; Reid, of the Yes-No ; Dill Macky, of
the calves, and now we’ve got Harry Foran. At
the December elections Foran lost his deposit
whilst fighting recognised Labor (in Matthews)
and Protection (in Mauger); and now he has the
unspeakable gall to ask for the Labor nomination
for the West Melbourne seat, against Laborite
Tunnecliffe ; and professes he can’t see why he
should be barred. We don’t want people suffer-
ing from fatty degeneration of the head. We’ve
got Bent—and sufficient unto the day is the Bent
thereof.
Apropos that “eccentric woman”
(8., 10/3/’O4). On the Newtown-road
(Sydney), in years gone by, there lived an
eccentric lady, Miss Donnithorne, daughter
of an Indian Judge. She was wealthy, and
in her youth was engaged to be married.
The day was fixed, the banquet spread,
the lady was dressed for church, but the
groom never came. He was a royal navy
man, and was to have reached Sydney on
the morning of the wedding. It was said
that he was seen on board the steamer as it
Eassed through the Heads ; but no trace of
im was afterwards found. The breakfast
table and its decorations remained as set
until the lady’s death ; also, she wore at in-
tervals her bridal costume. She shut her-
self up in the house on the Newtown-road
(it still stands), the only males ever allowed
inside being her solicitor and a clergyman.
The door was always on the chain, trades-
people being answered by an elderly
serving woman. The writer, on business
bent, once saw Miss Donnithorne, through
the opening left by the chain—a tall, gaunt
woman, with a mild and extremely sad
face. She had on some of her bridal finery ;
the business was transacted through the
serving woman, and was accomplished in
record time.
Bishop Wilson, of Melanesia, who
manages to say an occasional fresh thing
during his periodic tours of Australia, was
a prominent cricketer twenty or thirty years
ago. In the county match between Kent
and Australia in 1884 he made top score for
the English side. He thinks the game a
civiliser, and pitches wickets on the islands
in intervals between prayers.
Dr. Ross, the Molong (N.S.W.)
veteran whose seat under the re-distribution
is looked on as shaky, had several stiff
Parliamentary contests, but was run closest
by earth-hungry John Smith, afterwards
M.L.C. Smith came within six votes of the
seat, and it is thought would have secured
it had he had courage to return. Iron-pot
Jack, as he was called, went to the Council,
however, whither hia son Fergus Jago dutifully
followed him. -
Died recently in London, A. C. Garrick,
Sydney native and brother of the Queensland
ex-Agent-General. The father was J. F. Garrick,
a Sydney merchant, who owned a lot of Sydney
property, notably a number of houses in and off
Castlereagh-street, known as Garrick’s Buildings.
On this site was built the Garrick Theatre, now
tl e Tivoli.
Chief Justice Samuel Way, who
is an official of the S.A. Methodist
Conference, and a most assiduous at-
tendant at its meetings, has to get a
kind of dispensation to enable him to
attend official balls, theatre parties,
and such-like worldly functions.
Jimmy Isdell, member for Pil-
barra in the Westralian Assembly, is a
fine hardy specimen of the wayback
prospector. He came out in the old
warship Nelson to Victoria. After
much knocking around, he put up the
first house at Broome (W.A.), and
tried to get a pub. license, but the
warden thought the place too remote
to be controlled by the police, and
Jimmy’s application was not enter-
tained. Then he wandered off inland
to Hall’s Creek, and did some gold-
hunting on the Kimberley. With
three mates and a couple of native
boys he organised an expedition, and
travelled through the desert from
Christmas Creek to Joanna Springs.
They were in the desert for neatly
six months, and had to reduce t eir
menu to a little cornflour, with snakes,
lizards and the big luscious bardies
so highly prized by niggers and old
prospectors. One of the party was
Jim Carey, who afterwards accom-
panied Alick Forrest on his memor-
able journey. On the discovery of
gold at Marble Bar, Isdell made his
way there, and drove in his pegs with
the foremost. He got into several good
shows, and to-day sits behind a tidy pile.
One of purple-languaged Dowie’s
paper publications is called “The Little
White Dove ’ —the humor of it !
A. W. tlowitt, late Vic. Secretary for
Mines and Commissioner of Audit, shortly con-
templates a trip to Fogtown, the capital of Bull’s
country, accompanied by his daughter. His main
object is the publication of his work on the
aborigines, the outcome of over 40 years’ close
experience of the black man and his ways. Few
meii know as much of the natives as Howitt, and
not one is so popular with them throughout Vic-
toria and New South Wales. The forthcoming
book will be extensively illustrated with photo-
graphs taken by himself and his daughter, who
has been his coadjutor in the preparation of the
work.
Mail-Guard “ Jim ” Conroy, who received
the long-service medal from the Australian Govern-
ment per Supt. Unwin, Postal Department, a f6w
nights ago, claims, with some show of reason, to
have put up a world’s long-distance travelling
record. During his 30 years service, Conroy has
travelled alternately between Sydney and Goul-
burn, and Sydney and Marulan, making seven
journeys a fortnight. This is equal to 276,080
miles railway travelling altogether. And he is
still going strong and well. Previous to entering
the postal service, Conroy was engaged driving
Cobb & Co.’s night mail-coach from Campbelltown
to Goulburn, in which capacity he drove his teams
over 100,000 miles.
“ Buttonhole ” Smith, who died in Hobart
week before last, was in the Tasmanian civil ser-
vice for half a century, through the reigns of
many Governors, and kept a diary all the time.
There would be nice reading in it, because part of
his time he worked at Government House, and
for years he was Under-Secretary, and still in
touch with all the Excellencies. He was un-
married, and able to keep his secrets. Forty
years ago H. E. Smith was an officer in the Buck-
ingham Rifles, and when the corps broke up,
H.E. kept its silver bugle. When the first
contingenters were going from Tasmania to
S Africa, Smith took out the bugle, and dusted it,
and blew through it, and gave it to Commander
Cameron to talk to “ the boys ” with. The bugle
was brought back from the war, and Sandy
Morton has it now in his museum. The people
of two generations never knew Smith to appear
once in public without a buttonhole.
“The Prooshan ” : Deafest man I ever
struck was a Chinese storekeeper and tobacco-
grower, near Adelong. Have discharged a gun
behind his ear while he was squatting among his
tobacco plants, without attracting his notice, but
the slightest tap at his window fetched him out of
bed with a jump. When a customer came he
fired off his stock-in-trade after this fashion:
“You likee soogar, tea, cullanshie, kelloshene,
chewbacco, matchee, licee,” &c. If the customer
shook his head he fired away with “Sardine,
fishee, cornflooie, baken powder ” till he fetched
a nod and made a deal. He had a rare intelli-
gence, and, assisted by the village school children
and his Cliino-Anglo books, he had learned to
make out his bills quite legibly. A born actor,
his descriptions of the Chinko-Jappy tights, some
time ago, were worth going miles to hear, or
rather see. He is the best natured man in the
place, and often lends his horse when he considers
it too poor to use himself. He has been robbed
about nine times, and, I think, lives chiefly on the
bad debts he can’t collect. He never indulges in
onium or alcohol, and is a great reader.
ENCOURAGING.
MR.: “ Cat seems quite jealous oJ me.
MISS: “ Yes, silly old th ing; you’d think even a
cat would know better than that."
If Shiels remains to the fore in Victorian
politics, he and Ewen Cameron, of Portland, are
to submit to arbitration their claims to contest the
Glenelg seat in the interests of Bent. This is the
result of a long correspondence, which is, of
course, published. Shiels dearly loves the publi-
cation of all his political letters. When he was
invited to-join the M‘Lean Ministry he insisted
upon the invitation being put in writing, and for
a whole day he and Allan M'Lean sat in the same
hotel at St. Kilda writing letters to, and receiving
letters from, each other. The Shiels-Cameron
correspondence is marked with concluding sen-
tences like “Very kindest regards to Mrs.
Cameron,” “My best regards to Mrs. Shiels,”
etc. What was wrong with the opening “I am
writing you these few lines hopping they will find
you well as they leave me at present ”
+
More N.S.W. politicians have been team-
ing their fate as the maps of the new divisions,
involving a reduction of 35 members, have been
issued. Labor-Leader M ‘Gowen s Redfern dis-
trict is made up to the required size at the ex-
pense of Darlington, another Labor sear. Dar-
lington is carved up among three or four new
districts, which will not be good for P. H.
Sullivan, its present member. Andy Kelly’s
district is also sliced up, most of it going
to other Labor districts. Minister Owe’-
Sullivan’s Queanbeyan district is cut up and
disappears ; the same with Wood’s Eden-
Bombala, part of it going to Monaro and
part to Bega. Speaker McCourt’s district (Bowral)
is left intact, parts of three other districts being
added to it—which is just the sort of division the
sitting member loves. The four Labor members
from the Central division bump one another—
Holman (Grenfell), Clara (Condoblin), Burgess
(Young), and Neilson (Boorowa). One of these will
have to go. Wullie Affleck is squeezed between
Boorowa and the new Queanbeyan - Braidwood
district. John Norton’s Northumberland has
been remodelled in a way which the Laborites
say won’t make it any easier for John to win it
from them. Either Rose or Ashton will be
crowded out of the Goulburn-Crookwell district.
Either W. W. Davis or Sleath must be crowded
out of Bourke-Wilcannia; either Williams or
Ferguson out of Alma-Sturt; either Scobie or
Carroll out of Wentworth-Lachlan ; either Flem-
ing or Fitzpatrick out of Robertson-Ry Is tone.
Gunnedah (Labor member Hall) is also cut up.
Curiously, there are four legal members of the
Labor party—Holman, Hall, Daley and Sullivan
—and their electorates all disappear.
TOO WEAK TO WALK.
Thin, watery blood is the cause of fifty different diseases. In fact, it is a disease in itself—it is
Anaemia. Now, Anaemia is just the medical word for Bloodlessness, so there could not possibly be any surer
cure for it than Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—for they actually make new blood. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cure Anaemia just like food cures hunger. There is absolutely no doubt about it. These blood-
building pills can do as much for every ailing pale-faced young woman as they did for Miss Elizabeth
Ford, of 23 King-street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
“ When I was 15,” said Miss Ford, “ my blood became
very poor. I~ lost all appetite and never slept soundly.
Every morning I felt weak and weary, and too tired to get
out of bed. I had nasty sick headaches, and suffered a lot
from dizziness. I was dreadfully thin, and the least
exertion knocked me up. Sometimes my face was a pale
yellow—at other times I was a ghastly white. Sharp
neuralgic pains shot through my head and across my
temples. Everyone remarked how ill I looked. I seemed
to be in a slow decline. I was wretchedly miserable and
downhearted. My lips and gums were white, an t there
were heavy dark rings under mv eyes. I looked and felt a
real invalid. Some days I would spend most of my time
lying- down as I was really too weak to walk about. I was
bad like this lor four years, and then Nurse Oughton, ol
this city, told mother what a grand medicine Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills were for young girls because they actually made
new blood. Two or three boxes made me feel brighter and
happier. Then my appetite picked up and I grew stronger.
A few more boxes gave me a good healthy color in my
cheeks, and mj' lips lost their whitish look. My friends
are always remarking now on my srood color- and I tell
them that I have to thank Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
tha . They made me, too, a bright, strong, active girl.
For all pale-faced women and girls there is nothing to equal
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
Write for Free Medical Advice.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box.—Refuse all substitutes.
in
or
c


Aboriginalities.
UNCONVINCED.
ARGUMENTATIVE INDIVIDUAL: “ I affirm that it is
against all reason, there’s no suoh place as
hell.”
CHORUS OP PARSONS (derisively): “ Gam !”
, ~
Mount Egmont stands quite alone on the
west coast of North Island (M.L.). Accord-
ing to Maori legend he, ages ago, lived in the
Kaimanawa Mountains close to Ruapehu and
Tongariro. Egmont and Ruapehu fell in love
with Tongariro and fought for her. Egmont was
beaten back to the coast, leaving his track the
Wanganui River. He then meandered up the
Patea to his present position, but is going back
one day in a direct line to have another go. No
Maoris live in this direct line.
A FIGHT.
BILL (plaintively): “ Shay (hie) Jim, jushi
’oleme up while I ’it yer.”
On account of the small number of
sheep shorn on most of the western (N.S.W.)
stations last season, “silver cheques” were
quite common. Rations were also dearer
than usual —meat in particular. At Tarwong,
which is one of the best-known stations on the
lower Lachlan backblocks, one man drew 17s. fid.,
one was 7d. in debt, and other cheques were under
two pounds. Any cheque under two pounds is a
“ silver.”
* » * *
Queensland Agricultural Department re-
cently determined to buy up large quantities
of Gape gooseberries and convert them into
pulp, in order to assist growers, who had an
enormous crop. And the guileless grower
assisted the State by soaking the packages of
fruit with water. One package gained 481 b. in
weight by judicious soakage, and, of course, the
State paid full price for that 481 b. Procedure of
the gentle cocky : Clamor for State help till
you get it, and then swindle the State as hard as
you can, and curse State socialism.
“ W.M.B.
Laidley (Queensland) is
practically a German settle-
ment. One of its curiosities
is the German waggon—a
long, low, springless affair,
with backless seats. It i.s
used as a family coach ; will
carry about three tons of
produce ; and makes an ex-
cellent hearse. The driver
sits on the left-hand-side, and
takes the right-hand-side of
the road. On Sunday a long
procession of these vehicles is
to be seen making for the
church. They draw up at the
pub, and jugs of beer are
brought out to the women
The inhabitants are not
troubled with the “ Tired
Feeling ” in those parts.
Women plough, harrow, fence,
cut and draw wood, and do all
manner of field work, dressed
in moles and shirt, or e'ss m
a short petticoat with bare
legs. They look hard, work
hard, and live hard, these
settlers from the Fatherland.
“Periwinkle”: It didn’t take the mem-
bers of the great Vic. angling tribe long to find a
way whereby to dodge the drastic provisions
drafted to secure a proper close season for native
fish in inland waters. On the Campaspe, from
Kyneton to the Murray, anglers (!) may be met
whipping the stream in the most flagrant manner.
They make an ostentatious show, by dangling a
spoon bait when a stranger approaches (the worm
tin is carried in the pocket), and when their
basket is referred to in the local press, the catch
'$
caU ght on shrimps (which are unobtainable this
time of year ). up and down the river, cod,
perch, and bream, on the move to spawn, are
being taken as trout. Don’t know why the
average Australian sport is such a wretchedly
hungry, unscrupulous two-legged caterpillar and
human cockroach, but he is.
“ C.” : Overheard a cocky
in Clifton (Q.) talking about
his harvest hands : “Oi wint
to town to git some min for to
harvest my bit av whate, and I
sees four young fellers; and as
they looked foine, dacent
young min, T axed thim if they
wanted worruk, and wan of
thim sed he didn’t mind. So
Oi sez to jump up in the cart
and liov a roide out, and so
they did. In the morning Oi
was up pretty airly and had
the praties boiled, but divil a
soign of the min. So Oi waited
a whoile till it begin to git
dayloight. Thin I wint to the
barn and woke thim up, and I
sez, ‘Well, min, aren’t ye
going to worruk t’day ?’ ‘ Aw,
worruk,’ sez one, ‘let father
worruk.’ ‘ Well, come on up
and hav a bit to ate, annybow;’
so they kim up. There was a
noice bit of mate on the table,
too. ‘ Well,’sez one, ‘I won-
der what the next will be ;
this ain’t much.’ So I yoked
U,» the ould horse and was
going to get them some good
mate and stuff, and just as 1 was
shtarting one ov thim sings out.
I pulls up, an’ he comes to th’ cart
and sez, ‘Get me a dozen shtrikes,
half a pound of snout, a pair of strides,
a pair of crabs, and a cady.’ ‘ Pwhat
are you saying at all,’ sez I, ‘write ut
down.’ An’ me woife or me
daughter cuddent go to milk the
cow, but a couple of thim wud he
peeping round the corner. ‘ There
she goes’; ‘Luk at th’ leg uv
her’; ‘Lor-blime, she’s ri-
buck.’ Arrah, lave me alone
about thim Sydney lariikins,
wut their little black caubeens
shtuck on three hairs of their
head, and their cigar-a-tees
shtuck up in their gobs ; lave
mt alone about thim, lave me alone.”
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Somebody in Bulletin
(17/9/’O3) asks about the length of the carpet
snake. I can say, without fear of contradiction,
that I have seen the biggest of the species yet
met in the Commonwealth. It was between
Mulloon and Inglewood Forest, in the Braid wood
district. Under a spreading wild apple tree, 30ft.
high, a widow stood washing clothes. I sat on
my horse close as I could get to her, doing what
the cookies called a mash. I was a jackyrooster
at the time, and felt the loneliness ot the bush.
In consequence one of the bosses and I had been
drinking hard for a fortnight. As the woman
stooped over her tub a reptile, with its tail
twisted a couple of times round the topmost
limb, let itself down, and rested its massive head
upon her bare neck. After a bit it drew itself up
again. The woman turned to me and remarked
that my hand was “mighty cold this morning.”
I was spellbound, and couldn’t speak in my de-
fence—l’d only known the lady since the day be-
fore. The length of'that snake must have been
34ft. lf any reader should wish to verify
my statement, he can write to Mrs. Smith, who
is married again and living near Dubbo.
*** , *
“ War E.” : At Brookong shed (N.S.W.)
an average of 100 men were fed nightly at the
shearers’ expense this season, but it took over a
week to fill up two vacancies ! At Junee (N.S.W.)
show ground about the same number encamped
every night, exploiting the sheds for “tucker,”
yet more than half those sheds were working
short-handed. The invariable excuse for refusing
shed work was, “ We are lookin’ for harvestin’.”
* * * *
“Cecil P.” : When the young butter-
splasher of N.S.W. North Coast starts on his
own, he generally goes dov n
South and marries a cousin.
One such returned with an
elderly bride, who owned to
being 43. She had a fao-.y
'good moustache, and fhe
believed that the Deity
was the first Particular
Methodist, and that a
certain old gentleman
at the Vatican wore
a tiara in order to
hide his horns. His
mates chaffed the
bridegroom about his
cho'ee of a wife.
Why,” they said,
“ya could ’ave ’ad
’er sister, Edie : she’s
only eighteen. ” “All
very well fur yew
blokes to talk,” said
the happy man; “ but I
watched ’em all in the yard, an’ my Mary milked
six cows to any other girl’s five.”
* * * *
A valuable horse was lost by a M.L. man
in a queer way lately. The animal’s fad was to
follow his owner anywhere, even up the gangways
of steamers. When it was left at the Pori River
suspension bridge (Alfredton) for a few minutes it
decided to follow. Owner rushed back when he
heard the steps on the frail bridge, and met the
nag at the centre, just as the planking collapsed
under its weight. The horse fell 100 ft. on to the
rocks below, leaving the man dangling by the
wires in mid air.
“ Viking” : The present state of things in
Papua is only history repeating itself: —
After the Cape was ceded to Britain the missionaries
soon put in an appearance, and played the same pranks
as they now do in Papua. Some of them married native
women, and their sympathies thenceforth went entirely
with the nigs.—and their habits. The history of their
“ missionary enterprise ” is written in trading accounts,
and in the record of baseless and disproved charges of
rape and murder made by them against white settlers.
It was largely due to their influence in London that the
savage Kaffir raid of 1834 went unpunished, and that the
offenders received a grant of territory in return for their
merciless slaughter of colonists. When D’Urban promul-
gated his “ Native Regulations,” and decreed that
natives would be punished for crime in the same manner
as whites, the missionary outcry was great and effective.
D’Urban was removed, and his regulations became of no
effect. Natalians regretted the loss of that code for many
years. Missionaries, in their dealings with the blacks, and
as intermediaries between whites and 1 l icks (even when
the missionary is earnest), are notoriously tactless and
ineffective, both from lack of knowledge of men and their
ways, and from an overweening sense of spiritual import-
ance. St. Paul’s method of working amongst the
Greeks, Romans, and Galatians was quite different from
what is required in Polynesia. St. Paul was a learned
man and a zealous Christian, but his early ungodly
career had taught him much worldly wisdom. The mis-
sionary is not a Paul by any means. If the mission work
is worth doing, why not learn to do it well? Didn’t a
little, one-armed man, called Brooke, deal successfully
with the most furious race in Borneo, simply because he
was a man, and understood men—who in turn under-
stood him ? The average missionary has got human
nature hopelessly out of focus.
• • * ♦
“Ex-Missionary” (The Bulletin fancies
somehow that'lie is very “ex” indeed) writes:—
The Kanakas who infest the sugar-growing districts are
deeply religious. Their knowledge of the English lan-
guage consists principally of psalms and hymns, which
have been kneaded into them by missionaries. If they
wish to get rid of any spare emotion which they have
hanging round, or wish to give vent to their feelings,
they cannot swear like an ordinary, respectable Christian
—but rap out the 43rd psalm or No. 99 Moody and
Sankey. The most incongruous thing in the world is a
Kanaka drunk. He takes possession of the bar, dances a
primeval fandango, brandishes a bottle, and sings
“ Happy Land ” or “ Little Drops of Water.” I once
witnessed (from the branches of a convenient tree) a
battle royal between Kanaka and white cane-cutters on
the Tweed River. Hostilities commenced in the bar. It
was heartrending to see the full bottles being thrown to
the tune of “Beautiful Stars.” The publican quickly
cleared the room by whirling the limb of a ti-tree round
his head whilst they sang “ He wipes the tear from every
eye.” A big buck Kanaka here struck up “Shall we
gather at the river,” and they forthwith adjourned to the
ferry, where a desperate encounter ensued. After a time
the supply of bottles gave out. The field was strewn
with white man and Kanaka and the local policeman,
who was put out of action early by the combined bellig-
erents. The black men were victorious and marched
off the field singing “There were ninety and nine that
safely lay.” Towards nightfall I crept down out of the
tree and looked round, and there wasn’t a full bottle
about anywhere.
* * * *
“ Periwinkle ” : The little native wild
brown bee will soon follow in the wake of our
fast disappearing native quadrupeds. The
droughts, the sparseness of timber, the ants thfit
rob their food-stores and larvse-cells, and their
winged enemies of the bird and wasp tribes,
account mostly for this. Still there will always
be nomad aparium tribes while bee culture is a
hobby, for of every ten hives that swarm out-back
near timber-land, eight make for the bush as
naturally as a bush-cobbler makes for a public-
house. What are left of the wild bee tribes are
plucky, industrious, and harmless. The wild bee
is in the same position as his old enemies, the
blackfellow ; there is too much of the hybrid or
half-caste crawling over his honey-comb from the
hives of civilisation which contaminate the wild-
flower-kissers’ genealogical tree. In the summer-
time the air within coo-ee of a bee community’s
treasure-trove is a refreshing whiff to the nose,
and the concentrated quintessence of the gum-
blossom’s honey-dew is much to be preferred to
the town-grown article. Wild honey, till recent
years, was consul, red a sovereign remedy for all
lung and throat oomplaints out-back
AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS.
Licensing day outside the City Court, Melbourne.
“Medi-cuss” writes more or less seri-
ously
Re query (8., 21/l/’O4) as to the reason of oats becoming
thin after a diet of grasshoppers and locusts. The ex-
planation lies in the fact that the bodies of these
“animals” contain blatic acid, which agent is a deadly
enemy of adipose tissue. Cockroaches contain the same
acid, and powdered cockroach is a very important remedy
in the Chinese pharmacopoeia. Were George Reid to take
a course of this treatment for two months that dog
would have no bow’-window to bide under.
WANDILLA BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were two hairy men and brown,
From out the far Barcoo,
Who met and told in Boulia town
Some stirring tales of bush renown—
Weird tales they told, those two.
They spoke of dried-up waterways—
Of awful thirsts ’neath tropic rays,
As bushmen sometimes do.
“ That’s nothin’ 1” said Wandilla Bill,
Ere yet the yarn was spun,
“ I knew a cove at Hogan’s Hill,
What ten days perish didn’t kill,
Beneath a blazin’ sun.
You ask me why he didn’t croak?
He was a sad and weepin’ bloke,
An’ so he had his fill.”
Then did the sun-browned pilgrims twain
A thrilling tale unfold,
Concerning how, ’mid flood and rain,
Long Hawkins drove his loaded wain
Spoke-deep through mud and mould ;
And how he steered the ten-ton load
With axles skimming on the road,
Those ancient bushmen told.
“ That’s nothin’ 1" William slowly said,
“ I knew a Winton man
With seven horses —all grass-fed—
He loaded nineteen ton pig lead—
Upon a hawker’s van.
He struck a flood up Richmond side,
An’ swum the Flinders—four mile wide •
I mind his name was Dan.”
Then did they lift their voices up,
Those Barcoo men, to tell
How Ringer Joe at Spinemup,
Between his break of fast and sup,
Did shear —and shear them well—
Just fifteen score of sand-bank ewes ;
He worked nine hours —no time to lose—
He wouldn’t take a spell.
“ That’s nothin’!” William from the bar
Remarked ; “ a cove I knew,
Who shore at South Barwinnagar,
Could shear ; he never called for tar—
His name was Mick Carew.
Five sixty-two was what he scored
Upon the blessed tally-board,
An’ stud merinos too ! ”
And then those bushmen, lean and lank,
On William jointly fell ;
They dropped him in a near-by tank,
And down into the mud he sank,
And stayed there quite a spell;
Then as his dripping form was raised,
They shouted as they stared amazed,
“ Great Scott I he’s ’live an’ well!”
“ That’s nothin’! ” gasped Wandilla Bill,
As soon as he could speak ;
“ A mate o’ mine at Andrawill
(My word, that bloke was hard to kill!)
Got swept down Cooper’s Creek ;
He couldn’t swim an’ sank like lead,
So walked a mile along the bed,
A landin’ place to seek."
N.S.W.
JASON.
THE LEADING WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLY STORES
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
PHONOGRAPHS, GRAHOPHONES and RECORDS
of all the Latest Songs and Up-to-date Music.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—POST FREE.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
260 Collins-st.,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT
37 Rundle=st.,
ADELAIDE
90 Queen=st.,
BRISBANE.
Mardy E
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS and SILVERSMH HS.
TROPHIES or PRESENTATION
PLATE.
SOLID SILVER CHASED BOWL
on Ebonised Plinth, as illustrated * rv
(8i in. diameter) -
Other Designs— 61 in. diameter, £6 15s;
Pin., £l4; 12in., £25.
Write for Hardy Brothers' Complete
1904 C ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
dealing toith this and all branches of
their business.
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY, &AT BRISBANE* LONDON
. ________________________________________________ ' A


“Bathurst Burr”: Your sketch of the
“ Wild Man of the Mountains ” reminds me of a
similar character known as “Jack the Fool,” who
lived a troglodyte's life in that part of the bush
surrounding Bathurst called “The Bald Hills.”
Jack, who was certainly more rogue than fool,
was a villainous-looking ruffian. His long, matted
hair hung in wild profusion on his shoulders, and
he wore a sort of combination suit of his own in-
vention, made out of two potato sacks ; the upper
one formed a sort of jumper, the lower being
fashioned into a very original pair of trousers,
kept up by a wide leather belt of the real gory
pirate pattern. Into it was stuck, so as to be
easily seen, the four-inch handle of a butcher’s
knife ; the handle was there, but the blade and it
had long since parted company. Jack’s plan of
campaign was to call at the lonely houses on the
outskirts of the town, and ask for a drink of
water. He was credited with having once been a
“ gent one ” of the “ sticky-finger ” type, and cer-
tainly his many ways of evading the law would
justify that rumor. He never begged. He
merely asked for the drink of water, and relied
on his ferocious expression to get him something
to eat. If that was not done he contrived to let
the knife handle be seen, and fear did the rest
Jack kept a bull dog, which effectually protected
him from all canine attacks. When he was found
dead in his cave his assets included £13 in cash.
OUTBACK GRADES.
CITY JOHNNIE: “ What brand is this rum? ”
BUSH BAKMAN: “ That’s plain centred", but yer can
have snake if yer want it , an’ th re’ some of
the biled devil brand on the top shelf .”
“A.P.R.”: Notable how rare baldness
and obesity are amongst bushmen. Men out-back
run to sinew, bone and hair. Once knew a station
overseer who was so thin that he wore half-a-
dozen shirts to hide his angularity. Challenged
to fight one day, he began removing his Man-
chester department, but his opponent hurried
away at the vanishment of the fourth shirt, fear-
ing there would be nothing left to fight. Often,
too, when a brumby bucked sideways with him,
his head would brush the ground ; his long
crooked legs, however, always enabled him to
maintain his seat.
A PRACTICAL BULL.
BILLSON: “ Why are you putting up the post,
Feeney?”
FEENEY: “For whoi would I be puttin' it up, do
ye think? To nail the sign on, to be sure.”
“D.”: One would think by the width of
the tracks leading to a big ant-hill that the ant
had a foot as weighty and extensive as a polic 3-
man. Saw an ant-heap at Burragorang that had
tracks leading up to it like small carriage drives.
A blackfellow informed me that the ants spit on
the grass to stop it from growing along the track.
That particular camp could have made good
money clearing scrub by expectorating on it.
• * * *
“Myrtle”. Be “N.M.’s” par. (8.,
15/10/’O3) referring to surgery of Queensland
aborigines. About Wide Bay, at all events, the
aborigines knew hardly any surgery beyond the
tomahawking of the little finger in marriage.
Any broken bones, etc., always mended badly,
and resulted in a crippled appearance. Beyond a
little faith healing, their ideas of doctoring were
also just about nil. I once saw on Mary River
(Q.)a blackfellow disembowelled by a boomerang.
His gin only placed the entrails back holus-bolus,
closed the gash, and had him carried to the river-
side, where he was put on the sand. The
abdomen was covered with very thin mud. Two
days in this position and a month’s spell set him
•up again.
* * * *
“T.H.A.”: Not generally known
there is a creeper—resembling the passion
creeper—growing .in the mangroves of N.
Queensland, used by the blacks for fish-
ing, the sap having a stupefying effect
on fish. The blacks crush the stalks between
two stones, put the julp in a dilly-tag, and
plunge it in and out of the waterhole until the
water becomes tainted, when the fish come to the
surface. Mud-turtles make for the banks when
they get the flavor, and it is alleged even alliga-
tors are affected.
* * *
“A.P.R.”. Although the aboriginal is
extinct on the Castlereagh (N.S.W.), his many-
hi ed progeny are fairly numerous. Near each
town is a “blacks’ reserve,” and here the darkie
must reside, under penalty of losing the State
ration and blanket. It is the distinctive curse of
the half-caste that he never finishes an under-
taking. Give him a farm and a flock of sheep,
and in a few years the sheep are all eaten and he
is back in the scrub looking for wallabies.
At a black’s camp I saw lately a hut, chimney,
fence, well, yard and stable, all unfinished
and abandoned. Half way through, the half-
caste settler had got tired and had wandered off.
He had tackled each item separately, and given
each one up as a bad job.
* * * *
The story of a J.P. in the wilderness :
Brannigan, who lived where they only get a mail once
a month, was darkly nursing his wrath against O’Grady.
While in this state he received notice that he had been
made a J.P.
He fled promiscuously to the pub. Co spread the tidings,
and was shortly as full of beer as he was of glory.
On leaving the dry husk of the pub. he met O’Grady,
and imparted the news in a voice dim with beer. He
also told O’Grady that the first time he (o’Grad.y) was
brought up before him (Brannigan) he (Brannigan) would
transport him (O’Grady) without the option. O’Grady
had only time to say, “ You’re drunk, ye dirthy baste,”
when the fight commenced, and Brannigan sat on him.
O’Grady went away to take proceedings, and Brannigan
to mourn over the prospect of exposure and probable loss
of his new dignity. He was so much broken-up that he
offered Doolan 10s. if he wou’d persuade O’Grady to
assault him.
Doolan was assaulted by O’Grady that same evening.
Then Brannigan hunted up O’Grady, and almost wept
at the idea of seeing an old friend transported for the
attempted murder of Doolan. He said the lowest price
at which he could buy off Doolan’s animosity was £5, and
he (Brannigan) would put up £4 himself, out of his love
for O’Grady, if O’Grady would pay the other £l.
O’Grady fainted from gratitude, and paid the £l.
Consequently, when Brannigan had paid Doolan his 10s.,
he was still half-a-sovereign to the good, and had the joy
of remembering that he had licked O’Grady.
O’Grady didn’t proceed against Brannigan How
could he?
* * • *
“Taro”: Curious that some Australian
birds (notably jackasses), have a strong antipathy
to members of their own tribe when domesticated.
Some time ago I captured a John Mule, and hav-
ing clipped his wing, turned him out in the garden.
Next morning I was awakened by a more than
customary row in kookaburradom, and found the
home member engaged in a warm tussle with a
relative, feathers flying in all directions.
The shorn one hung on to the adversary’s leg till
I separated ’em. Clipped the stranger’s wing also,
and added him to the collection. All that
day dozens of Jacks sat around on trees, and
hurled reproaches at the unfortunate captives,
wbo meanwhile kept in strict seclusion under the
tomato plants. Next day the curtailed pair suc-
cumbed to an attack en masse by their Estranged
friends. The murderers then fled. Have noticed
this hool’"”inism in the case of magpies also.
*. • * . • *
” : A man who thinks himself
a sane, intelligent Scotchman told me of an excel-
lent cure for warts. Steal a piece of meat (it
must be stolen, or it will be useless), rub it on the
wart, then bury it (the meat, not the wart), and
as the meat decays so will the wart. He assured
me he had tried it, and found it an excellent
remedy. Is this better than the old cure of
standing at midnight on the grave of an unbap-
tised child, with a dead eat in your hand, and
reciting a spell, after which you throw the oat
violently over the left shoulder ?
• * * »
“Alix”: The donkey is a somewhat
humorous beast. One was brought to a station
where I stayed recently, and at first caused a
panic among the local nags. After a time, how-
ever, they grew used to his little ways, and quite
made him one of the family. But the donkey did
not appreciate the kindness as much as he might
have done, and kept a sharp look-out for any
equine visitors. Directly a strange horse was put
into the paddock he would make a dash for it and
chase it round and round, braying wildly every
time the terrified animal essayed to stop. One
day two horses were taken to scarify the orchard,
and it happened that one of them had not been
formally introduced to the donkey. My lord
soon discovered this, and promptly betook him-
self to the orchard fence, where he stood looking
over and hee-hawing at the top of his voice. The
humor of the situation lay in the donkey’s cour-
teous attempts to signify to the horse he knew
that he was braying exclusively at the stranger,
and that he wouldn’t insult a friend on any
account. His struggles to wave a friendly hoof
to his friend while he blew out fearful sounds at
his enemy were amazing. At last he felt that he
was really being misconstrued, and he broke into
the orchard and bit the strange horse in order to
clear up all misconceptions. Then a large lump
of hard earth struck him, and he went away curs-
ing profusely.
The “Sawdust
King ” sends a snake
perjury
Went to Woodlark
Island. Met mate who
had preceded me. Wag
not on island ten minutes
when I saw a six-foot
reptile, and immediately
prepared to despatch it.
Was about to strike it,
when I was pulled back
with a sudden jerk by
my mate. “Never kill
a snake on this island if
you want to leave it
alive,” he said. In
astonishment I asked
“Why?” “ Too valuable,”
he answered ; “ You’ll see
when the sun goes down and
the skeeters and flies get
going. You could never live
here only for the snakes.” I
noticed that on every tent there
was at least three feet of spare
beam projecting out, and just be-
fore dark a curved sort of ladder
was placed against the projecting
beam. Up this the snakes would
crawl, curve their tails round beam and
hang suspended. Every fly or skeeter
that attempted to go in (always left tent-fly
open on account of heat) those snakes caught
in their mouths. I never saw one escape them. Most mar-
vellous thing was that each gang of snakes knew its own
tent, and, as regular as soldiers, would turn up every
evening at sunset. Have seen them waiting outside the
tents for the ladders to be put up for them.
“ Old Bill ” tells about a bush joker :
I didn’t mind so much losing a tooth or two,
the result of gun-powder rammed into my
briar; but I did object to a live snake for a
bed-fellow, even if it were only a carpet, and
non-poispnous, as Denis afterwards swore. I
had to take his word, for at the moment I
hadn’t time to figure out the design on the
brute’s hide. The last straw came in this
way. Mick had gone to the township for
rations, leaving me in the shaft, and Denis on
top at the windlass. At midday he went off
to the tent to put the billy on, promising to
return and haul me up when tucker was ready.
Among our possessions was a grey mare, old
and blind. Besides the foregoing infirmities, a
huge bell hung from her neck. We often won-
dered how long it would be before she fell
down some of the deserted holes, for she was
always poking round the camps. As Denis
left me, I could hear the bell a hundred yards
or so down the gully. As I worked away the
sound drew closer. There was no mistaking
the bell; it was the old blind mare sure enough.
I began to wish she’d stay where she was, or
fall down one of the holes before she came
to the one I was working in. I could already
picture a tragedy with myself underneath.
Closer and closer came the cursed “ding-dong.”
Work at this stage was out of the question.
I tried a giant eoo-ee. No answer. By this
time I could plainly hear the mare si umbling
over the loose timber about the mouth of the
hole. I yelled for Denis. The sweat just ran
off me. Down came a few loose pebbles
about iny ears. With a frozen heart I glanced
up, expecting to see the grey form of the
wretched quadruped descending on me. In-
stead there was the grinning face of Denis,
asking me to come to tucker as the billy was
boiled. It w'as the wreck of me that went
up in the bucket, too sick to remonstrate, and
I took his explanation about the bell with-
out a murmur—“l was just fetchin’ it up
to rivet a new strap on.” My horses were sad-
dled before breakfast next morning. Denis
said good-bye, tears running down each side
Of his nose. Only when mounted did I discover
my reins crossed, and the off-side stirrup care-
fully buckled in.with the girth.
WOLFE’S
21 SCHNAPPS |g
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
Highfield Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
Newly erected; Commodious; Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
HOBART.
“Did you think he was a clerk ? ” a wit-
ness was asked lately in Melbourne Banco Court.
“ No,” he rapped out, “ I thought he was a man.”
Then the lawyer spoilt the jeer by explaining that
in the country a “man” meant a groom or
“generally useless.”
“Cornstalk” writes from Durban (we
get this complaint every S’African mail now): —
I have been through Cape Colony, Orange liiver
Colony, and Transvaal, and cannot get employment. I
am now in Durban, but can find nothing to do. I have
almost had many a billet, but as soon as they found out
that I was an Australian they wouldn’t employ me,
saying, “ We never employ Australians ; they are a bad
lot."
Three Maorilanders have to stand their
trial for discharging a firearm, to the danger of a
Chow, down Naseby way. A charge of attempted
murder was dropped. Alleged that accused
threw stones at the Chinkey’s hut, and when he
said, “ Whaffor?” in an Asiatic tone of voice, one
of the individuals (all three were armed) fired at
close range, the bullet lodging in the hut .just
above the Chow’s head. As usual, one of the
party was a returned trooper.
Modern American dentistry at Dr. Thomas’, 57
and 59 Swanston-st., Melbourne. New anaesthetic,
new patent suction plates ijhknown to any other
dentist in Australia. Up-to-the-minute dentistry
—-painless, skilful, effective, and moderate priced.*
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps ( oj any
State) accompany.
Roma: Verse too much of the pretty-pretty
order.. .Si: Your muse is just about suited for the
work of grinding out topical verse for the pantomimes....
Little Willie : A little weary.. ..Piebald : Not quite up....
Prospector: What the deuce has arsenic to do with the
cyanide process?.. ..Observer : The most straightforward
way would be to sue for the money... .Croyez ; Yes, pars
would be aceej bible... .P.H.: A good deal in your
point that many women are unfitted to produce children
very rapidly. Undoubtedly, if " prevention ” were
stopped altogether, it would lead to a big increase in
the death rate.. ..W.G.: Verses about your bibulous
uncle not bright enough : a drink poem should grow like
a rich, red flush on a lofty nose, or like the sunset on
the white mountain behind Cain’s imperial town
G.B. (Melbourne): Fairly graphic in places, but too
loosely put together.... Bandar : “ Love’s Gift ”to hand.
Don’t remember the other... .Demos : Very weak and
flat E.V.P. : Some pathos, but not strong enough
Craphs : Please don’t send the first three volumes of
your 12 vol. book ; this is our busy year... .Smada : Poem
you wrote on discovering some dark flat insects in the
bedroom suggests in a dim far-away fashion the poem
Columbus would have written when he discovered
America if he had known that the Yankee was going to
chaw up his native land ; also the poem the U.S. would
write now if it could foresee the storming of Washington
by the Mexicans in the year 2405. But there’s an un-
happy prejudice against insect verse in this paper....
R. : In the old days the Sydney larrikin was a most
gorgeous creature when he had ’em all on. Now-a-days
the State doesn’t, seemingly, borrow enough money to
allow him to retain his pristine magnificence Rex:
Glad to get pars, but batch submitted all too thin except
the Cornish yarn, which is a fat chestnut... Orion : You
haven’t earned the belt for verse.. ..Max: Your
poem, “ Not having any,” contains its own answer....
Lux: See 8., 3/3/’O4 A.W.N.: Your letter is much
funnier than your story—a testimony to the value of
spontaneity. ..Bobs: If you wish; though our experi-
ence is that a re-cast by the original author is mostly a
failure Wee-Wa :In personal comportment too much
manner is as objectionable as too little —and that’s what s
the matter with your story. Simplify and you’ll be much
stronger Blanket Flat: Too inconsequent and digres-
sive... .Signor : Fairly graphic, but hardly enough in it.
Geo. A. N. : Too trivial a handling of a well-worn
idea... ,D.M‘G.: Nothing in that.... W.W.F. :No; we
don’t “see great promise in it”—nor little promise
either! Samivel: Not quite the same meaning.
Hypothesis means the supposing as a cause something
the existence of which has not been proved, while theory
means a provisional explanation by known causes
O.N.H. : Verse, “ Egmont,” not up to mark. Paragraph
excellent.. ..A.G.A. : Fear that yarn wouldn’t help the
poor lame birth-rate much... .G.J.R. (S.A.) : A streak of
pale, tender melancholy with Soul in it. Don’t like that
kind of Soul....Billican : Interest rather too juvenile....
S. : Hardly skill enough in the telling True Bill :
A crude piece of work Brolga : Spoilt by its feeble
finish A.T.D. : “ Strictly original.” Just so—even to
the spelling. “ Encurragement ” is a noble effort
Warburton : The mock heroic treatment requires a
stronger hand than yours D.M. : Too suggestive of
R. L. Stevenson Walter W. : You say nothing in
particular, and don’t say it well, and mostly leave it
unsaid after all Surge : Mailitto Bulletin accountant
T. M‘G. : “ Crushed ” deserves to be J.F.D.:
Don’t care to make a “joke ” out of a man’s two wooden
legs Birilli: Will suggest a change to the correspon-
dent Tenis : Sending you what may prove useful....
THAT TIRED FEELING.—WHAT IT
MAY GOME TO.
J. 8.: (1) We haven’t tried it, and couldn’t say ; (2) better
consult a doctor ; what would suit one might not suit
another J.M‘O. : If child is born within the British
dominions—yes... .Local: Would want fuller particulars
to be able to say definitely—date, printer, and so 0n....
Dikinson : On an average 24 poets want to sob in The
Bulletin every week; so there has to be a severe'selec-
tion in sob poetry Fish : The peewit’s family disagree-
ments are rather too small to chronicle Bertie Drip-
ping: Too flabby and formless Heinous: Tale too
feebly told. Verse impossible E.G.H. : No literary
quality F.O. (W.A.): Very dry and dreary Balder :
Pretty good stuff, but much too long and discursive....
Bert Mac. ; You haven’t improved it worth a cent....
B. F. Morris (Chicago) :No thanks. The Bulletin won’t
publish an advt. for Zion’s Leaves of Stealing, and take
payment therefore in copies of that purple-languaged
publication. Our office-boy is comparatively guileless,
and we couldn’t leave Thieves and Stealing where it
would corrupt his young mind—Rangiora : Some talent
for humorous description; work otherwise crude.. .
Unsuitable :—W.N.P., Fionulla, D.B.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
M‘D.; "Dead Casey” is a very old pun J.0.P..
Infant and pun joke quite unpublishable T. le B.:
Figures good, but no background, and mighty little joke.
D.W. (Auckland) : Two almost imperceptible jokes...
Frederick W. : Sketches quite unsuitable for reproduc-
tion,.. Otoko : Gag stale, drawing hopeless Gebo :
A great deal of promise about drawings, though still
rather rough, especially as regards backgrounds. Jokes
worse than drawings....N.E.Q. : Joke venerable
Kanger : All impossible.... Unsuitable : A.M.8., Wal C.,
G.F.P.
‘ Cherub ’
Design.
Sir Joshua Reynolds'
world-famous pic-
ture has so popu-
larised this design
that we find it
difficult to keep up
stock in this design
Xiim
Solid Silver, best hand-drawn bristles, 2 sizes, 18/6. 25/
A new shipment has just arrived, all in Solid Silver. It consists of Hair
Brushes in 2 sizes, Cloth and Hat Brushes, Hand Mirrors, Baby Combs, Church
of England Prayer Books (8/6 each), Pin Trays, Comb Trays, Hair Pin Boxes,
Puff Boxes in all sizes, Pomade Boxes, Tea Caddies, Clocks for bedrooms, and
many other of the more unusual lines of a high-class jeweller’s stock. All at
London Prices, plus Duty.
London Prices
Plus Duty.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS:
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Solid Silver Top, with
Cat Glass,
7/-, 8/6, 10/6,
upwards.


THE NEW “BOND OF EMPIAE.”
“The restrictive effect that tho Federal tariff has already on importations is shown
in some of the figures supplied by the Minister’for Customs In 1901 the exports to the Com-
monwealth from the United Kingdom were £21,356,491, in 1902 £19,530,118. and in 19<»".
£16,130,254, a falling off in three years of nearlv £5,250,000."— News item.
„ /t 1
/
/
r o"V
<VVS
J&p
..«* f-/
sP £*>
MAP OF THE NEW N.S.W. ELECTORATES.
—The imaginative render, on careful stud)
of this map, may gather some idea of the
expression of face to be seen on our legislators, 35 of whom will have to go*
lJflJroß OP "Great Daily". “Mr. Inkbratt, nave you written a week’s supply
of * Letters to the Editor ’ on the deereasiug birthrate, and faked up
enough war cables to run through Easter holidays, and written the usual
weekly leader on ‘Corruption in the United States’?”
Sub: “Yes, sir."
EpJTOR : “Then you may go for your week’s fishing—thab E* t t 0 yoCI have
scrubbed the stairs.”
-AJIUTY OH HtfFSt
London Wfoncedtj A/urnoou—i h. Na-
| Uo-ui AaujLiatioo of Ert»UaJ Jtp»
porlafl 10 ** ,W U * fey o* mo-
“Thc Mail says that the natioitkl credit of Australia cannot be
restored until her population increase!.’'— Cable.
A CONVINCING ASSET—or, How we shall have to approach the
British Money-lender in the putt;rA
L.B M * “ Please, sir, will you lend me a million or so to build a foundling
asylum ? This is a real baby 1 ’
A cable came through last week which startled one of our staff very much indeed. The
already overtaxed man became calmer after examining the same with a powerful qjhgoifyinc*
glass.
CUT BEHIND „ . iatiC
Geo. Reid, having Be “‘ “ hi“htd I^ waggon to a star.-
labor in the Transvaal, now feels that ne nos
SOME PASSING VISIONS.


%/Sh kJ^orCT
nyrtZme j>let\jL
An imporfcr
Coml pltynT' \
irjore publicity Gir'pn
id our }<
ever— sj
record m%e 3
kX* Ml
of /firm ffi|
ih'ljfe (Jov* jP
Tfe Cri)ij hfift lift of % Detfm G ov f i 5 fatimi for* n/oni
Tljp lotmr tie dekj, syfo clew r will Ifje J {
PtftjSeeTffe rijk runrtwtq^
■ J}e*<in •' quic.KlyJ
* Wfry Jonlyou pef~-fnchiitjeJ 1
labour ;
lull ! C*irs«]^"
m * Mv
3
a|
-Tfe
Bogina •' —v filoW'
A *o\[ ifjwi
J7nT7M^
W^ es v|i
%v*\
r< v\
\ *+ X
• %<%
>• ?<>
no doubf^
Sonj«
ge-^s
“f> 2* 'tfaJKs off- of jt s
own Record.
\ <
W <r V'V
-• *»
■r&wvs.
fj'S denial JfrATe^cocKN,.
did s2\'j Ttjact"<^bouT"7fje njenV
ter \ II
lt encourages "Ifje Suspicion —^
docs not reproduce. members siv
•Anti- Jb Aop.
MOSTLY VICTORIAN.


FOR EASTER OR WEDDING GIFTS!
Important to YOU: We are quite nnequalleu
in HIGH VALUES and LOW PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Baby’s BRUSH, Handsomely E
bossed. Fine Soft Bristles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
MILK, with Cover.
4-bottle BREAKFAST CRI'KT,
Pure Silver-plate:! on Hard
White Metal, 30s.
Similar Style, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
Pure Silver-plated Coloured
Venetian Glass SALT CE..LAK
and SPOONS, 10s Gd;
With Handles, 12s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set of CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel Hand
Finished, Securely Riveted Handles, 27s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, to £-2.
HOT WATER KETTLE.
FULL SET, £2O.
Comprising 5 pieces—COFFEE POT, TEA POT, HOT
WATER KETTLE, SUGAR, and MILK, with Cover.
Hand finished, handsome y embossed, it is fluted in a
most artistic manner. It is made of two plates of
Solid Silver, with Hard' Nickel Silver between, and
calculated to last a lifetime. Manufactured by Jas.
Dixon and Sons, famous Engish Silversmiths.
SUGAR, with Cover.
Special Royal RAZOR,
Xylonite Handle, in
2, ditto, i
Best Sheffield Sil. Steel,
Leather Case, 10s 6d;
in Case, 21s.
Pure Silver-plated Venetian Glass
JAM DISH, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s Cd, 12s 6d, 17s Gd, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE and HANDKERCHIEF BOX, Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Embossed, Silk-lined,
Size Bin by Tin, £3.
With Glove Box to Match. £5 10s pair.
Ladies’ Solid Silver
SEWING COMPANION, 7s fid.
Large Styles, 15s Od. 18s 6d.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
with Sil. Shield, 4s Od.
Other oryles, 5s 61, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d.
Bushman’s and Miner’s COMPASS, Special Steel
Dial, 3s 6d.
Other Styles, with Spring Case, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation INKSTAND and CALL BELL,
Pure Silver-plated, Beautifully Chased and
Ornamented, £3.
Morocco Leather PURSE, Sterling Silver Mounts,
Invisible Snap, Is;
Crocodile, Tan, or Green, 12s 6cl.
Oak BUTTER DISH, China-
lined, Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
KNIFE RES IS, Cut Glass,
Solid Silver Mounts, 12s Gd.
Larger, 15s 6d, '2os.
‘ WINCFJELa RiWBUMAMftCS
iyiu tjmamm
Presentation CUTLERY SET, comprising Set of Carvers,
i Doz. eacli Dessert and Dinner Knives, in Si
lined Case, £2 2s 6d.
Extra Mounted, £2 12s 6d.
YOU CANNOT COME
TO SEE US!
Our Full Catalogue tells you
all about it. Write for it.
It is worlh while.
GET OUR FULL
CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Chased
and Embossed, Silk-lined size 12 x 5, £3,
With Handkerchief Box to Match, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated CANDLE
STICK. 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s.
i«!j
1
m
A. SAUNDERS.
20th Century Rapid Focussing FIELD GLASSES,
Very Sharp and Effective, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 12s Od, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, to £lO 10s.
vm
Special Value 4 O’CLOCK TEA SET, comprising 3 pieces-Tea, Sugar, and Cream- oill lined,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Chased, £2 15s. _
Jas. Dixon’s A 1 Quality. Other Styles £3. £4, £j.
ISNS
Handsome Presentation Double English Oak INKSTAND,
Plated Mounts, fitted with Drawers, &c.,
&& 10s.
mm*
sLS
uA
m
I''-'..
Lady’s or Gent.’s TRAVELLING-BAG£ Silk-lined, fitted
with Every Convenience, Nickel Fittings, Lady s £4,
Gent.’s £4 ss; Silver Fittings, Lady’s £4 10s,
Gent.’s £5 10s to £l5.
m
mt
mm
Pure Silver-mounted Hobnail Cut Glass,
PUFF BOXES, Price According to S : ze,
2s 6d, is 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHAVING BRUSH,
7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s, 20s.
Gent’s TRAVELLING COMPANION,
Hairbrush, Mirror, and
comprising
Comb, 12s 6d.
m
m
KBil
HAIRPIN BOX, Pure Silver-mounted, White
Hobnail Cut Glass, size 6 x 14, 10s 6d-
Oval Shaped, 8s 6d.
Handsome Oak LIQUOR FRAME, 3 Half-cut Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts, £2, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 10s, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s SEWING COMPANION, fitted with
Every Convenience, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 15s, 17s. Od, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-cup EGG FRAME, Pure Silver-plated
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, £2 10
Cheaper Styles, 18s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT EPERGNE, Pure Silver-plated,
with Handsomely Embossed Cherub Vase,
30s.
Without Cherubs, 27s 6d.
Pure Silver-plated SERVIETTE RING, Nicely
Embossed, At Quality, 5s 6d.
Other Styles. Ss 6d, 6s 6d. 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
s^4
Ifc
wm
m
A/M
VA4
4-bottle LUNCH or DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White
Metal, 30s.
Other Styles, 17s (id, 21s, 255, 3us, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLFR
AND OPTICIAN.
809, 81), 813. 815. 817
GrEORGTE-ST.
(OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION).
SYDNEY.


“ Ku-Klux ” : Have seen a few records in
Bulletin columns; can any reader beat this: I
have been, in sixteen years, draper, printer’s
devil (twice), chemist’s assistant, whim-driver,
ironmonger,' grocer, mail carrier, lamplighter,
splitter and general bush worker,, shearer arid
rouseal out, swagman (lost count of the number of
times), drover, harvester (every year since Capt.
Cook landed), rouseabout in a boiling-down (the
next worse place is hell), carpenter, painter, and
at present lorry-driver.
Papers (just published) of Countess von
Eppinghoven, covering the period in the German
Emperor's life from 1888 to 1898, strongly sup-
port the theory thar Kaiser Bill is a megalo-
maniac. The Countess was lady-in-waiting to
the Empress, saw much of the inside life of the
German Court, and tattles freely of what she
noted--of the Kaiser’s afflicted ear, which has to
be syringed out every day ; of his withered arm ;
of the “ghosts” whom he employs to draw his
cartoons, to compose his poems and his operas ; of
his mean little household spites and jealousies ; of
his essentially stupid and lazy character—flogged
to some sort of industry by his vanity, and clever
enough, anyhow, to steal the work of other
people’s brains. It is an unflattering picture, set
in a lurid light by such anecdotes as this :
His Majesty sat down to dedicate a number of Bibles
for the new Berlin garrison church, inscribing them as
follows : —“ I will walk among you, and will be your God,'
and you shall be m,v people. Ye shall walk iu all the
ways which I have commanded you. Without me you
can do nothing.” He signed each sentence, “Wilhelm,
lmperator Hex,” and omitted quotation-marks, as well
as hook, chapter, and verse, by whiuh to indicate the
orisrin of the phrases. “They shall stand by themselves
as expressions of my royal will,” he said.
WHAT FOLLOWS.
“ Can you tell me what always follows the march of civilisation to a heathen country? ”
"’Arf-castes, Miss! ”
“ Herr Bloak ” : “ Nature Study ” doesn’t
brighten the path of the Australian teacher much.
My first attempt at it brought me this letter ,
Dear sir, —I won’t send my girl Annie to school, if you
learn her about bull oaks and she oaks. You will oblige
me by learnin’ her readin’ and riteing and sums.—Yours
truly, Mrs. F. Benbow Cobmngwood.
The curator of Sydney Botanic Gardens
points out to an occasional visitor the trees planted
there by the present Prince of Wales and his
brother. “ Why don t you put a label on them?”
asked one. “If I did, in a week there wouldn’t
be an atom of them left.” And probably he is
right. When the dukelet was in Sydney the
crowd who inspected the vessel by which he
travelled appropriated for souvenirs even the
straw on which the cow which gave milk to the
royal guests was littered.
The N. S. W. Comptroller-General of
Prisons has at last seen fit to amend the regula-
tions governing the admission of visitors to gaols,
and the morbid curiosity-seeker will now only be
admitted on Saturday afternoons, and will not be
allowed to enter those parts of the gaol where
continues are on view. Visitors are not to be
allowed to tip warders, and warders are forbidden
to exhibit or supply information about prisoners.
The old practice of allowing hoodlums to stroll
through a gaol while a warder, hungry after a tip,
pointed out the “ notables ” was a disgrace to any
prison system. One N.S.W. country gaoler, who
had a celebrated criminal in his charge, made a
practice of inviting any new acquaintaince up to
have a look at him. On the arrival of the visitors,
the prisoner, who was employed at tailoring, used
to crawl hurriedly and disgustedly under the
table, from which place he would be extricated for
exhibition.
The man on the land is always in trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business
in the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results, no fees is his business
shingle.*
Like Britain, Australia suffers from kilts,
tartans, shamrocks, cock’s feathers, and other
fripperies in military life. The expense is not
the whole evil. Dressing a man in green rags
and dubbing him a member of the Irish Can-
noneers, or in kilts and tartans and calling him a
Scotch Fencible, isn’t the way to foster an Aus-
tralian sentiment among the citizen soldiery. It’s
the way to make him look to the traditions of
Ireland or Scotland for his inspiration ; and the
traditions of Ireland and Scotland—no matter
how admirable in themselves —will never make a
man think of Australia first and always. And
Australia badly wants her citizens to think of her
first and always. The institution of a purely
Australian uniform and an Australian designa-
tion for Australian regiments is a necessary
military reform. It would be better for the
Australian troops to paint themselves black and
call themselves the King Billy Boomerangers
than drag around these tatters of extraneous
sentimei t.
Only for difference in beard-color a reli-
gious Chow who does business in Paddy’s Market
(Sydney) would be a good double for Dowie. The
ordinary Chow grows about one hair to the
square inch, but the sample in question has
enough bush on his face to stuff a saddle.
“ Sancho Panza ” : Re theory generally
accepted that female teachers have invariably a
careworn appearance. The handsomest woman
to be seen in the “business” trains on theS.ydney
suburban line is a public school teacher who
alights each morning at —well, at a station not far
from Petersham. I make this remark in the hope
that a rush of bald-headed men will set in and
improve the railway revenue.
The chairman of a N.S.W. Land Board
gets more titles than any other man when adjudi-
cating in the West. They are settling on “Your
Worship ” in Dubbo, but he has to take “Your
Excellency,” “Your Highness,” and “ Your
Honor ”in other places. It is thought an insult
to say “Yes, Sir” to him, though now and again
he finds himself addressed as “Boss.”
Friend Havykins, the resident Dowie
parson in Adelaide, states that no one has ever
been fined for smoking in Zion, and that the
prophet does not object to his followers taking
their pipes and squatting down to enjoy their
tobacco on any one of the roads which run round
the holy territory. Pipes, however, are per-
emptorily put out in the precincts of Zion itself.
Question is, if Zion spreads so much that there is
no convenient region of sin outside to which
smokers inay retreat, what will become of Zion ? ■-
“T.D.”: It’s quite common for ex-
members of Parliament lo “bluff” their way
about on the railways on the nod. The other day,
I saw one who had been in political oblivion for
two years fumble with his watch-chain, nod his
head to the ticket collector, and soescape a thirty-
shilling fare. In Victoria this is easily done, as
there are many men out of Parliament who hold
life passes because they have been honorary
Ministers. A leading politician tells me that for
over twelve months of 'travelling the length and
breadth of Victoria he never showed his Parlia-
mentary gold pass, but just touched the reverse
side of a somewhat similar medallion issued by
the Melbourne Cricket Club to its subscribers.
Also, I would wager odds that a search would reveal
in active circulation many counterfeits of the
annual passes issued on the local railways for the
convenience of commercial travellers and others.
“C.P.”: One of Melbourne’s business
firms has provided a table and writing materials
in a secluded nook, where the casual stranger, on
condition he puts a coin in the hospital box along-
side, may write a hurried note to his best girl or
to anybody else. The other day I laid myself out
—in the boss’s time—to make observations. An
elderly female spent 10 minutes, and finding no
one looking, as she thought, fled without con-
tributing ; sweet seventeen, four minutes, did
not even bother to see if she was observed ; youth,
eight minutes, ditto ; stout, florid gentleman. 15
minutes, subscribed |d. 5 seedy individual, two
minutes, subscribed 6d. ; long, spare lady, four
minutes, went to get change and forgot to come
back; bare footed youth, half a secoud, stole all
the paper, ink and pens, and would have got away
with the box only it was screwed down. I would
have put |d. in myself but had no change.
Westralia’s State pub. finished its first
year £3OO to the good, after providing not only
for interest but for a sinking fund on its
£5500 capital. Now, as the pub. has been a
success every way, people are asking why the
State doesn’t take a hand at running lodging-
houses. As a matter of fact, it has one already in
the cave district, where the tourist goes, though it
can’t be said that up to now it has been much of a
success. But the tourist is not the only person in
the West worth looking after ; and if the State
ran a lodging-house in some of the goldfields
townships, it would be doing a fine thing for a
whole lot of young fellows who, as things are,
mostly “batch.” “Batching” on a mining field
consists mostly of irregular hours, irregular meals,
tinned dog, sardines, untidiness, pumpkin jam,
improvidence, discomfort, and an occasional sui-
cide ; and the State ought to be able to improve
upon that by a good deal. Meanwhile, the fact
that one State pub. has been a success should set
Westralia considering whether it might not suc-
cessfully make all its pubs. State pubs. Russia
makes about one-third of its revenue out of the
State drink monopoly now, and Australia wants
revenue quite as badly as Russia.
The following remarks contained in Golds-
brough, Mort and Co.’s review of the wool season, are of
particular interest :
“ A leading feature of the year’s operations has been
the undoubted strong support of the Colonial market*
accorded hj the Continental section—who have taken by
far the largest proportion of purchases, with a wider
range of qualities than heretofore. Until the last few
years the purchases by the Continent have been mainly
confined to Merino Wools, hut since 1901 they have
gradually supported the stronger-haired qualities as well,
and now rank among the important operators in the
coarser staple—the bulk of which has been hitherto taken
by the Home trade.
The strong support accorded by the American section
has been continued this year, and has been a dominant
factor in fixing the price, not only of choice super-Merino
Wools—the greater part of which they have secured—but
also of any stylish parcels of the lower grades of Cross-
breds, a large proportion of which they also bought.
Throughout, a regrettable feature of the season has
been the lukewarm support to the market —more
especially in Merinos—accorded by the Home trade.
During the season the buying powers of this section
appeared to be on a lower level that that enjoyed by the
Continental buyers, and even oh Crossbreds, on which as
a rule they have been the largest operators, the same
conditions have prevailed.
The favor into which the Australian markets have
advanced has continued, and become more marked during
the last twelve months, the proportion of wool sold in the
States having reached 76j per cent, of the whole ■ . f
Australia’s production. Many manufacturers not hitherto
represented locally, have realised that the bulk and best
of the clip is sold in Australia, and each year the number
of buyers attending- the Colonial sales ;shows gratifying-
increase.
When it is borne in mind that wool can'now be landed
in Yorkshire from Australia at a less cost to the user than
from Australia to London and then to the manufacturing
centre, with the London charges and cost of freight for
re-consigmnent all taken into consideration, it will be
realised how much it saved to the English buyers in
intermediate handling, when they can purchase in
Australia at first hand, apart from the advantages of a
wider selection to choose from, and the greater facilities
for inspection available in the States.
With the Continental section, who are, as we have
pointed out, our largest customers, the advantages to
them in purchasing in Australia do not admit of
argument. They are able to ship in vessels trading direct
with their respective countries, in many cases enjoying
special rates available as a result from the subsidising of
steamer lines by their respective governments.
In the immediate future we look to a still further addi-
tion to the percentage of clip selling in the States, many
of the most ardent advocates of shipping in the past
realising and admitting, against long nursed prejudice,
that their natural market is the one at their doors, with
quick realisation, retention of supervision of the sale of
their wools, and assured full value on the date of
disposal.”*
Front a religious paper the N.S.W.
religious paper in which the Rev. Merveilleux
Arohdall is always worrying about the embroidery
on the clergyman’s pinny :
We believe that the office of a minister of Christ has
grander joys than fail to the lot of those engaged in any
other occupation upon earth. What must, for example,
have been the feelings of the Archbishop of Canterbury
in preaching the sermon on the occasion of the special
service in St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, in the presence
of nn immense congregation, among whom were numbered
the Queen, the Prince and Princess of Wales, and other
high dignitaries. The only disappointment about the
nr.iceedings was the absence of the King through ill-
health.
To such low estate has the religion of the Carpen-
ter and the fishermen come, its grandest joy is
to preach before a Queen.
Baby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Take this rose, and very gently place it on the tender,
deep
Mosses, where our little darling, Araluen, lies asleep.
H. Kendall.
Take my rose, and very gently put it near his
marble face,
For its whiteness makes it worthy—it is in its
proper place.
Let the lid shut up for ever, face and floweret,
love and leaf,
For the grave awaits the baby ; little time have
we for grief.
Friends around thus seek to comfort: “It is well
for him to go ;
What had life in store for baby—this at least you
surely know ? ”
But their words refuse to soothe me, ’tis in vain
they all condole;
Grief has made me stony-hearted, and rebellion’s
in my soul.
Why should mine be born in sorrow? Why
should death bring mine relief?
Why should [ to God be thankful, just because
his life was brief ?
Did the Father mean the many should for ever
toil and slave,
Hungering, thirsting, wanting—finding only peace
within the grave’
Dowm beside the snow-white coffin that holds
baby’s lifeless form
I have thrown my weary body, heart and soul
alike in storm.
Born in anguish, died in sorrow—empty, pulseless,
soulless clay ;
Broken, weary, stony-hearted, baby mine, I still
can pray.
“Unseen Father, watching o’er us, o’er my loved
one cold and dead,
Hear the prayer of one grief-stricken whose last
tear on earth seerns shed.
Listen to her torn soul pleading as she kneels with
face firm set
O’er the babe beside the blossom that decay has
not touched yet.
“ Send from out the wombs of millions other babes
in place of mine,
Till a new-born generation shouts aloud these
cries divine:
‘Freedom, justice, work for each one, hunger,
thirst and want for none.’
Oh, my God, make their blood riot, till the victory
is won ! ”
And I rise from his small coffin, take the last look
at his face,
See them bear the easy burden to its final resting-
place ;
And I linger with the evening till the stars begin
to shine
And I fancy some one whispers : “God has heard
this prayer of thine.”
N.S. W.
HUM: STONE.
THE “ BORDERLAND OF DEAFNESS.”
It seems remarkable that many people who have
defective hearing refuse to believe that they are
deaf. The editor of “ The Review of Ear, Nose
and Throat Diseases ” in the last issue of this
medical journal, goes into this subject thoroughly,
and to those who may be interested will send a
copy containing a specially written paper on tests
of hearing and the prevention and cure of deafness.
The “ Review ” is published in London, England,
but copies can be obtained post free, by sending
none and address to “Review” e/o Box 241,
Gr P. 0., Sydney. With the “Review” there s
also a report form, by means of which anyone can
obtain free advice by post.*
A REAL PICK-ME-UP. —“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” s lid Byron, “thereis nothing which cheers
your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But had he
known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly have
preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
Headache and Constipation.
Promptly Ended by Bile Beans.
“If evidence is wanting of the existence
of a remedy that will cure the splitting
headaches that women are sometimes troubled
with, I am the person who can give
that evidence,” says Mrs. A. Moon, of
IG4 Regent-street, Redfern, Sydney. “ I have
had most wretched times with my head, being
quite knocked up and unfitted for work, having
sometimes to lie down all day. I was also troubled
with constipation, which I expect, was the main
cause of my headaches and the untold misery that
followed. I had heard of your Bile Beans, but
had little faith in medicines, so many had failed
to afford me relief, but, in the end, I was per-
suaded to give them a trial. Their beneficial
effect was marvellous, and a short course proved
sufficient to restore me to health. That was some
few years ago, but I still use Bile Beans as our.
family medicine, and find them satisfactory in
every respect, differing from many medicines I
Itave tried, in that they do not leave behind them
that nausea or griping feeling, and I can always
depend on them to tone up the liver, and restoie
energy to the whole system.” Bile Beans will be
found a prompt and permanent cure for bilious-
ness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles,
debility, female weaknesses, nervousness, bad
blood, bad breath, anaemia, insomnia, loss of
appetite, and in fact all ailments that owe their
origin to defective liver action. At this trying
season, no home should be without a box. Bile
Beans are obtainable from all chemists and stores,
price Is. l.ld. or 2s. 9d, large box. The large box
is specially recommended for general family use
as being more economical.*
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘BengeFs Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible .
""" Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists. &c.. Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
<j) find. My wife sounds
the praise of ' Benger’a
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


POLITICAL
POINTS.
N.S.W. Public Works Committee can't be
dragged away from the Public Loaf It will have
the last possible bite.
M’Eacharn, in his contest with Maloney
for the Melbourne seat, is evidently again relying
on his “vast natural resources.”
Query : Is it part of the business of the
N.S.W. Government Printer to print notices to
the effect that the Governor’s parrot is lost ?
Joe Cook, G. H. Reid’s pal, mopes
gloomily, and is said to take it badly to heart
that he wasn’t appointed first lieutenant of the
Yes-No party instead of Dugald Thomson. To be
ordered about by a politician named Dugald is to
have insult added to injury.
Queensland Attorney-General Blair has
been economising of late by w'iping out tipstaffs,
sheriffs and other legal apparatus. Now he re-
fuses to appoint a fifth judge to fill the vacancy
caused by Griffith’s retirement. The legal pro-
fession is fuming—but the public is behind Blair
all the time.
A dreadful rumor went round, the other
day, that numbers were to be used to distinguish
the N.S.W. electorates in lieu of territorial names
as heretofore. Members wept that numbering
would be too like gaol. For instance, how
would it sound —“the hon. member for 40?” or
“the blatant ruffian who disgraces 1 ? ”
Sydney Watchman repeats, for sectarian
purposes, its old exploded lie that “the majority
of the Labor members are Roman Catholics.” It
would not have any political significance if they
were—so long as they were Roman Catholics in
church only and Australians in politics ; but, as a
matter of fact, they are not, and if Parson Dill
Maoky had any regard for his reputation, he would
prevent his “official organ” repeating what has
been proved over and over again to be a gross and
malioious falsehood.
WANTING SOMETHING ON HIS REPUTATION.
“London, Friday.—Consideration of the Army Estimates was continued in the House of Commons
yesterday. Mr. H. O. Arnold-Forster, Secretary of State for War, made a vigorous speech. He said the
motherland was likely to question more arid more the wisdom of paying the lion’s share of the burden of
Imperial defence. He looked for a remedy in the gradual growth of opinion in the colonies that if they were
endangered they must contribute a fair amount! or to the growth of opinion in the motherland in favor of
saying that she was not able to permanently carry the burden.”
“ Don't know me, sonny ? Why, Tm the chap you useter borrow from when you was hard up.”
A fair example of the legislative value of
a member can be gathered from the questions he
puts on the Parliamentary notice paper. For
instance, Pumpkin Smith is wasting the time of
the Representatives by inquiring how many
persons voted for Lyne and how many for W. 0.
Goddard in 1901. The figures have been pub-
lished in almost every book of reference in
Australia, and the silly Pumpkin might just as
well ask the date of the battle of Waterloo, but
idiotic queries of the kind are just about Pump-
kin’s limit of usefulness.
Half-a-dozen Federal Labor members
agreed to protest their loyalty by accompanying
the Speaker to Government House when he went
with the mace to present the Address-in-reply.
But the open carriage driven through Collins-
street proved too much for their modesty, and
they bribed the driver to go back through bve-
streets.
At the Australian general election last
December only five electorates polled over 60 per
cent, of the voters on the roll: Wide Bay (Q.), 67
per cent. ; Herbert (Q.), 63 per cent. ; Wentworth
(N.S.W.), 61 per cent. ; Kennedy (Q.) and Coran-
gamite (Vic.), 60 per cent. The champion dead
electorate was Swan (W.A.) where only 20 per
cent, of the electors voted.
It is in contemplation to steal another
piece of Moore Park—the “Sydney Common ”of
Governor Macquarie’s time—as a site for a mili-
tary barracks. Already several slices have gone—
the Cricket Ground, Agricultural Show Ground,
the Zoo, tram sheds, &c. Presently nothing will
be left for the people. Also it is proposed that
another bit of the Domain shall be taken for a
Public Library site.
When the Australian tariff put a duty of
15 per cent, on “glazed kid” leather the Foreign-
traders confidently said that it would be impos-
sible for Australia to make that fine quality of
leather. (It is the Foreign-traders’ fixed faith
that the Australian is an oaf and clown, and can t
make anything finer than blucher-boot leather.)
Now the Leather Journal announces the arrival
of a Mr. Carter to found a glazed kid tannery in
the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth Government has great
ideas sometimes. It proposes to manufacture its
ammunition in Melbourne, where the first enemy
may drop a big shell into the factory and knock
the supply endways, and it also has an idea of a
Government arsenal in Sydney, where it will be
nice and handy for capture as soon as the war
begins. The Defence Minister who would dump
our chief military resources practically on the
open sea-shore doesn’t know enough about his
business to defend a quarter acre of grain from
sparrows.
Last Friday the S.M. Herald published
an unusually vigorous leader entitled “ Canada’s
Lesson,” in which it strongly urged Australia to
follow Canada’s example. And it contrived to
struggle through this article, as well as a dozen
previous ones on the same subject, and never men-
tion once that Canada’s example is that of a
heavily protected country, that it depends.more on
its protected manufactures than on its agriculture,
and that its resurrection dated from the exact
year when its Protective tariff started. It is
wonderful how much a daily paper can leave out
of a long and eloquent leader.
Sydney Telegraph, in its feverish anxiei v
to show that the Australian is too poor a creature
to manufacture his own locomotives, let loose an
“expert,” H.K.W., to show that in England
engines, the like of which for merit N.S.W.
never saw, were made for £2OOO and ,£3OOO (local
price now tendered is, roughly, £6000). Then it
was pointed out that, anyhow, N.S.W. has been
paying £5BOO in the past for an English engine,
so that either H.K.W. didn’t know what he was
writing about or the English manufacturer had
been shamefully swindling the State.
Victorian Forests Protection League com-
plains that the recent Government in that State
has allowed forest reserves on the
River Murray and elsewhere to
be denuded of trees, with the
result that destructive
erosion of the river
banks is made
practically
certain.
AN INTERRUPTION.
EXCITED TEMPEKANCE LEOTURER (winding up
brilliant oration): “And NOW, what is the
vilest drink on earth?”
SAM THE SOAK (in front row, fervently):
“ Worter!”
Victoria’s public servants talk of selecting
for their candidate “a gentleman, if possible a
lawyer, in agreement with the Labor party’s pro-
gramme, who will not behave himself so gently
and sweetly in the struggle for repeal of separate
representation as to make the House wish to keep
him with it.” A candidate frequently mentioned
is David Gaunson, and, if he were the Gaunson of
20 years back, he would fill the bill accurately.
Sydney Telegraph’s recent leaders on
the Transvaal-Chow question appear to have been
written by that stout person, named Tweedle,
who goes to bed in his gaiters. Leaders in ques-
tion are “balanced ”on the decimal system. The
mining magnates are allotted 350 words, mostly
grease and adulation ; the Chow receives 100,
Australian public opinion 25, the white workers
of the Transvaal about five, and sometimes they
aren’t mentioned. Those leaders, “balanced” in
King-street, within a magic circle of directors’
bingies, make pale reading after a heavy break-
fast. The stereotyped word “Imperialism” is fast
becoming a disease to critical readers.
Sydney Telegraph, last week, delivered a
solemn warning to Australia to the effect that if
the Federal Arbitration Bill is made to include
State railway servants, it will damage our great
borrowing industry, and seriously smudge our
otherwise glorious prospect of getting further into
debt. The Telegraph’s hair stood on end as it
assured Australia that “tremendous interests of
the Commonwealth are in jeopardy.” Australia
has become, through much borrowing, so servile
a dependent of Cohen that it can’t do anything
without first considering whether it will damage
the stupendous borrowing industry. The best
answer the country can make is to abolish the
borrowing industry.
The Murray (Urana-Corowa district), re-
presented in N. S.W. Parliament by Hayes, has
the shortest roll among the new electorates. It
has only 5871 voters, or just one more than the
statutory minimum. The Flinders division of
Sydney (Surry Hills, &c.) has the longest list—
-7990. The Rocks are close up with 7969. In
point of size the Wilcannia-Bourke district is
biggest; England and Wales could be dropped into
it. And in the whole of it there are onlyl676women
voters ; it is the only one of the new districts in
which the tally of the women is under 2000. Out
there, there is barely one woman to three men ;
in Ashfield there is more than a woman and a
half to each man.
Yet another lot of people with very
rooted objections to the Socialistic horror called
round on Vic. Minister M‘Leod, the other day,
and asked him to put down some bores on the
Coal Creek Company’s property. The State had
already helped the company in this way, but the
keen anti-Socialists who boss the concern con-
sider that they were partially'misled by the pre-
vious boring operations, arid hold that it was the
Government's duty to help them in exploring the
property further. Minister M‘Leod very pro-
perly told them to make a call up some of the un-
paid capital and shift for themselves, as all good
anti-Socialists should do, and above all to avoid
the e\il of State interference, and let Private
Enterprise have a fair show.
In view of Premier Bent’s brutal and law-
less threat that if the Victorian civil servants
support Labor members or take part in political
agitation, “ something further ” may be done to
them, this recently-published regulation is in-
teresting :
Clause 26a. Elections by public officers. —In connection
with the election of Members of Parliament as their repre-
sentatives, public officers may take such action as is
necessary and usual to ascertain the views of candidates
and to further the election of candidates whom they
desire to see returned, and public officers, if candidates
for election, may take all necessary and usual action to
make known their views, and obtain the support and
votes of the electors.
One rumor, by the way, is that the “something
further” will be a general repudiation by the
Bent Government of existing pension obligations.
The Mayor of Perth has taken a hand in
rounding-up the Westralian National Ass.
Unless further borrowing took place there would be a.
great increase in taxation. That was the only means of
raising revenue without borrowing. ,
This idea that borrowing is, besides taxation, the
oidy means of raising revenue deserves encourage-
ment. Only, if you can raise revenue by borrow-
ing, what’s the use of taxation at all ? Why not
raise all your revenue by borrowing? Why not
buy everything on credit? Why pay for any-
thing ? Then, when you live in a house built on
credit, and sleep on a bed from the time-payment
shop, and eat food that you haven t paid for, you
can call yourself a man with a “stake in the coimr
tiy,” and the only fit and proper person to
govern it.
Victoria's most important main-
road, the Sydney road, is now, like
everything Victorian, in a grievous.
state of disrepair. It was constructed
in the early days by the Govern-
ment, and was formed witli a solid
foundation of pitchers, and the top
■ macadamised with a good crown of
bluestone. Between Melbourne and
Seymour the road is now for miles,
worn down to the pitchers. No effort
is beingmadetosave the.se; in fact,
in one section a council has taken up
the pitchers from the sides, napped
them up, and used them to form the
middle. There is no money for re-
pairs. The local councils manage the
roads, and the big local landholders
form the councils. They value their
land at about one-tenth what it is
worth, and then strike a shilling rate,
which is really a rate of l£d. in the £.
Then chaos supervenes.
The way the Irvine-Bent Government
fooled the Victorian farmer was marvellous.
More money was badly wanted, and it might
have been got by a graduated land-tax, which
would have fallen principally on the big land-
monopolist. This, while providing money, would
also have started the breaking up of big estate*
and supplied the farmer with land in well-watered
regions at much less than he can buy it for now.
But the cocky stood by the big land-monopolist
in the Kyabram league, and there was no heavy
graduated land-tax. Then Premier Irvine filled
the gap by a heavy increase in the railway grain
freights. This puts the burden wholly on the
cocky, while the big landowner, who seldom grows
grain, escapes almost entirely. And still the fool
cocky stands by Kyabram.
Premier Bent has been saying a few
things (not nearly enough things) to the farmer-
ridden local government bodies of Victoria about
their valuations. For instance, Seymour shire, on
the N.E. line, levies a rate of nominally Is. in the
£, but the land, as shown by sales, is valued for
rating purposes, at half, or less than half, what it
is worth ; so the alleged Is. rate is really only a
Bixpenny rate. (In some shires the nominal Is.
rate is really a fourpenny or threepenny rate.)
And Seymour is so reluctant to pay even its six-
pence that £5OO of rates are uncollected. And
Seymour is howling for a State subsidy—to be
made up partly at the expense of the city worker
in Footscray, who is already rated to the extent
of 2s. 6d. in the £. There is nothing bashful or
backward about Victoria’s anti-socialistic farmer.
For the twelve months to the end of
February last 1,088,898 acres were made available
for selection in Victoria. All the “reserves,”
“commons,” bits and oddments that could be
grabbed without evoking too loud a protest, also
the precipices and mountain tops, were dragged
in to help this “liberal land settlement policy of
the Government,” and 17,000 would-be farmers
applied for blocks. About 3500 got a scrap or
precipice or crag each, leaving the great bulk
unsupplied. It is reasonable to assume that if
Victoria were blessed with a Government which
had a really liberal land settlement policy, it could
easily find 30,000 people within its own popu-
lation anxious to settle on the land —to say
nothing of the army of outsiders that would be
attracted. But then it is the life business of
Victoria’s 48 Rich Landlords to see that the State
shall never get a Government with a liberal land
policy.
With a general election almost within
touch, the Westralian Government is getting
great joy out of the local Labor split, and is
working it for all it is worth, and more. Hastie,
of the A.M.A., leader of the Laborites in the
Assembly, is being opposed in the preliminary
“go” by Lockard, of the A.W.A. Contrary to
the general rule in the Eastern States, the two,
with their supporters, are fighting and canvassing
hard, and meetings are being addressed in the
interests of one and the other. An M.L.A. of
one faction has announced that it would be a good
thing if an M.L.A. of the other faction were to
drop dead—which illustrates the warmth of the
fight. But, though they can squabble like this
among themselves, Westralian Laborites showed
at the Federal elections that they knew when to-
stop squabbling. If they still possess that know-
ledge, they will realise that it is time to stop
now.
Of all the daily papers in Australia Mel-
bourne Age is about the soundest on the need of
a non-borrowing policy, but so badly has the loan
disease got into the bones of Australia that things
like this crawl into its columns unobserved, like
caterpillars in the night:—
The conference of postal electricians now at work in
Melbourne has advised the Postmaster-General as to the
character of the new telephone switch boards to be set
up at Hobart and one of the suburbs of Sydney. As the
Federal Government has determined to persevere with its
“ no borrowing for publiG works ” policy it will be impos-
sible for Sir Philip Fysh to introduce either this or next
year the metallic circuit into the Melbourne and Sydney
central exchanges. All works of this kind involving
large sums of money must be deferred until Parliament
sees fit to authorise a loan for purely reproductive works.
The theory that Australians are such a poor,
helpless crowd that they can’t be expected even
to renew their old telephones out of their own
resources —the “ magnificent natural resources of
this great country ” —seems to have got hold of
almost everybody.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. GENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
JONES’
Trte Great South African Remedy for
Gout, Rheumatism, etc. solo by all chemists.
2/9 per Bottle, or; posted direct frptu
The Rheumaticuro Co. 29 melbo"* n a n e
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
struetions and Price List, our marvellously-acourate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H, A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
<3-0 TO HELL-
I(1 OLAN 1 ) (or Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 E9izabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Sought. Prioo-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


There was a rich joke in Sydney Tele-
graph of 24th March, 1904. Minister Bill Lyne,
in reply to some dreadful remarks on him by that
paper, sent it for print some of its own remarks in
March, 1901, when he was finding and promising
(mostly promising) billets for the Telegraph
staff at a great rate, and no Telegraph director
could go out to lunch without being offered a
title or a sinecure. This is what the Telegraph
used to say of Bill then :
Mr. William Lyne’s career as Prime Minister of New
South Wales is one to which he may justly look back
with satisfaction. . . . Mr. William Lyne showed himself
a statesman of resource, initiative, and conspicuous
energy, in matters both legislative and administrative.
. . . The name of his Ministry is associated with a list of
progressive democratic legislation that will compare
favorably with the record of any previous Government
within a like period. . . . This is the best record a states-
man could have. . . . The political panegyric that is
worth anything has to be written in the division lists of
Parliament, and the Statute Book of the country. What
those records have to say regarding Mr. William Lyne’s
regime is such as any Prime Minister at the end of his
career might be justified in looking upon with pride.
The disturbing elements at Elijah Dowei’s
only evening meeting in Adelaide were the Uni-
versity students, the School of Mines students,
and the stockbrokers, assisted by other severely
respectable citizens who don’t usually cat-
call at meetings. The prophet publicly for-
gave them in his most violent manner on the
following day. Opposition leader Darling (who
married Mrs. Overseer Jane Dowie’s sister)
suffered temporary unpopularity because he
was supposed to have given shelter to
the harassed prophet, and the mob clamored
round John’s house, and demanded that
Dowie’s halo should be handed out that they
might bowl it down the street. Darling,
however, strenuously refused to say whether
or not the fugitive was within. As a
matter of fact, he was not there when the
excited _ multitude arrived to express their
admiration; and the audience couldn’t decide
whether to wreck the premises or not.
The mob that hesitates is lost. It is notable
that the first-fruits of Dowie’s mission in
the Jenkins city were an apple, which struck the
prophet in the Waistcoat, and a 'tomato, which
squashed itself <Wu, the Madley,
Commissioner of Police.' S7A. is so largely agri-
cultural that it instinctively flies to vegetables in
time of trouble. If ever a foreign foe occupies
Adelaide, the crow-eater will roll water melons
down on him from the adjacent hills, and these
vegetables will bound through the city with great
slaughter.
EASTER VISITORS TO SYDNEY.
Visitors to Sydney during the Easter holidays, would
do well to call on the specialists of the Freeman and
Wallace Medical Institute, Elizabeth and Bathurst-streets,
Sydney, and consult them upon diseases of a serious
nature, demanding expert medical and diagnostic opinion.
These world renowned medical specialists, lecturers, and
authors, may be consulted free of charge at their con-
sulting rooms, and testimonies of cure from some of the
most influential persons associated with the social and
political life of New South Wales may be seen. The
firm’s advt. which appears upon page 31 should be read
with interest, as it announces that one of the finest
of medical works, “ Clinical Experiences,” comprising 570
pages, 150 medical plates, 31 chapters, a book essentially
for men, and published in their interest, may be obtained
during the Easter season for one shilling in stamps, post
paid. Private appointments may be arranged with the
physician-in-chief, Dr. Richard Wallace M.D., who is
registered by Australian, English and American medical
boards.*
Premier Bent shams enthusiasm for closer
settlement, and shows his bona fides by elabo-
rately proposing as the leading feature of his pro-
gramme a method which is already in existence in
Victoria, and which has already proved useless.
Yet the public thinks he is actually proposing
something new. It is already possible to com-
pulsorily take Chirnside’s or Clarke’s properties
for closer settlement by means of a special Act of
Parliament, which must pass both Houses. And
Bent proposes to take them by special resolution
of both Houses of Parliament. Needless to state,
what cannot be got by a special Act now (through
the existence of a squatter veto on all such legis-
lation) will not be got by a resolution with the
same veto in the way. The only practical differ-
ence between the present available method and
Bent’s is that the Bill has to be signed by the
Governor, and the resolution hasn’t. And that
isn’t much of a difference, even in the case of the
tiredest Governor.
TO SEND
-TO YOU
23
Post Free
Duty Free
Except to W.A.
m
Pi
I
wmmm.
iptr Vt
fifty#... ■ ; V,
53:
i '
"
>.,,-3' v
■
A PAIR
OF THESE
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS.
Made from fine French
Calf, with a made-to-
order appearance in
pointed, medium, or
broad toes.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS lead the
Boot Fashions, and have, by their
superior wear, excellent style, and
comfort in fit, achieved the largest sale
of any boots in the Commonwealth. If
we could take you into the factories and
show you the difference in the making of
Callaghan Boots and other hoots you would under-
stand easily wherein the sterling qualities of the Callaghan consist.
Infinite care in the preparation of the leather and in the workmanship characterise every
pair we sell.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 george st., Sydney.
Page, who, it is alleged, represents Labor
for Maranoa (Q.) in the Australian Parliament,
may be a colossus physically, but his intellect
seems to be undersized. Witness the vast publi-
can’s interjection on the introduction of the Iron
Bonus Bill. “You are flogging a dead horse”
was his gibe at Minister Lyne, who was endea-
voring to establish the most essential of all indus-
tries —iron manufacture —in the Commonwealth.
ARE YOU ANXIOUS
To get cured ? If so use VITA=
DATIO. You will be fully satisfied
with the result.
Bladder Troubles Cured
BY
VITA DAT 10
READ HR. O’CONNOR’S TESTIfIONY.
_ Venetian, Kennedy-street, Glebe Point.'
Dear Sir, —You will be glad to know of the cure j our
medicine, VITADATIO, has worked on me. About 12
months ago I was attacked with inflammation of the
Bladder. For eight months I was under the treatment
of three of the Sydney doctors, but their efforts failed to
cure me. In November last I commenced taking
VITADATIO, and in less than two months I was thor-
oughly cured. I have had no trouble since then.
I trust this letter will be of use to you, and induce
others to try VITADATIO.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) S. W. O’CONNOR. .
for further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N. }
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sj'dnej’,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
a SYI !N EY (°PP- Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts..
Viator' : Had a friend, who was one of
the unfortunates drifting about for days in the
last boat picked up after the wreck of the Aramac
io my amazement, he attributed the safety of the
boat to two non Britishers in charge of the craft.
You can t beat them foreigners for grit ” he
remarked. “There was one (Italian, I think)
and another from the north of Europe somewhere
and they was real tough—them two. If it hadn’t
been for their pluck we d ’a’ chucked up the
sponge sure s death.” How’s that for a tribute
to Dago and co. ?
Mr. JOHN F. FLEMING, No. 59 N. 23d st
Phila. writes: “A SEVERE COLD, which settled in my
chest, caused me considerable pain and difficulty in
breathing 1 tried Jayne’s Expectorant, and before I had
ENTIRELY WELL.”"" 11 b ° ttleS ° f thafc medicine - 1
“J.R.'’ writes : Younghusband’s attempt
to l ea oto LhaSSa( T hibet ) in the de P th of winter
with 3000 or so soldiers, natives of the plains of
Lidia, is a foolhardy business. They started from
Darjeeling in latitude 27° north, and 7800 ft. above
the sea, crossed the Jelep La pass, 14,000 ft., at
Dhristinas, and have not made much more than 50
miles since. I have crossed the Jelep La in
summer and found it, though high and steep,
easy, the snow lies on the hill top even at mid-
summer. In winter the avalanches roll down the
pass with a noise like thunder. I have seen and
heard them. Ihe wonder is that they did not burv
the whole 3000. If the people who sent them there
had only had the patience to wait till summer,
instead of trying to force an expedition through
the snow, they could have crossed the Jelep La
without losing a man.
Parson Fitchett, in the current number of
Life in his serial, “The Commander of the
Hirondelle, has this description of a brig :
She was of great.beam, though shallow draught, her
tbp h O6 u° d r ntlne l B ' The set of her cut-water,
the flow of her bow-hnes, the daring height and rake of
her masts, the vast stretch of her canvas, all told of
speed. But though light in draught she had, what was
‘h n uni i su ? Mature in ships of that day, a very deep and
sharp keel- an anticipation on a small scale of the wedge-
like keel of a racing yacht of to-day-making her
Weatherly and stiff under canvas. B
A vessel of shallow draught with a “very deep
and sharp keel! Fitchett should stick to Blood
and let sailonng alone.
Do You Want a New Suit ?
For £2 we will forward Post Free to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Keady-Made
“ BULLETIN ” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders
and is certain to give every satisfaction. ’
Price List of other goods on application.
Address:—
T. C. BEIRNE & CO.,
Ttle Valley,
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos
5s. i P. 0.0., or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, Brieffach, Germany.
TYPEWRITERS
3 of the World’s Best
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE— N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— Hedbey Button.
Malthoid Dampcourse
THERE are two classes of men who build houses—the Capitalist,
who looks upon property as a means to get interest for his
money; and the man who wants a home of his own, that he will
characterise with his own tastes and ideas, and live in all his life.
The first builds as economically as possible, and since he probably
has experience, thinks first of the dampcourse—and, after consultation
with his architect, decides on
P & B Malthoid Dampcourse*
The second thinks of fittings lead-light casements, over-
doors, electroliers, parqueterie floors, and luxuries. Let him take
wisdom from the capitalist, and see to his foundations first; for, when
damp comes into a house, it destroys in one year more than the cost of
a properly-laid and well-set dampcourse.
Be wise—insist on
P & B Malthoid Dampcourse*
Send for Booklet, or Call.
W. 5. FRIEND & CO., Sydney.
JAMES W. JACK, Wellington, N.Z.
JOHN BURNS & CO., Ltd.,
Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON,
Dunedin, N.Z.
EDWARD REECE & SONS,
Chkistchurch, N.z.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO, Ltd.
Invercargill, N.Z.
08,
IUSTR4LA-S!4N RFPBf-!EHIAT,Si.E SYDMFV


A young Collins-street (Melb.) dentist
has taken a stubborn stand against the re-
proachful presence of the chaperone in the
torture chamber. When Cissy steps in from
the waiting-room, followed by her special
Gorgon, the forceps man politely requests
Gorgon's retirement to the next room, and
she has to perch in the waiting-room, trying to
read a back number of Harper’s, suffering tortures
of suspicion (worse than toothache) that her girl-
friend is being kissed by an unprincipled tooth-
extrac’ter every time she breaks the silence with
a scream.
Melb. National Gallery Trustees conjointly
are a short-sighted person. Having the whole of the
Felton bequest pictures to select from, it coldly
and unenthusiastically singled out a few (not by
any means the worthiest) and mumbled in its
beard something about having more canvas than
the Gallery walls could hold, besides being
hampered with a Government grant for further
purchase of pictures. Yet the soul of the art-
lover is afflicted by the sight of many crude daubs
—mostly copies by young pupils of old masters.
The Felton bequest offered a splendid excuse for
throwing-out a lot of the aged lumber, but the
Trustees have deliberately chosen to miss the
chance.
“ Deeby ” on a religious matter :
To those of us who have lived the broad cosmopolitan
life of the restless Bohemian, the amount of bigotry
existing in nearly every large inland town of this con-
tinent is astonishing. Cliques, founded on the nar-
rowest sectarianism, are rampant in every country town
it has been my misfortune to dilapidate in. If you are
running any kind of business you will receive only the
support of the sect to which you profess to belong. If
you belong to no sect at all, then no one patronises you.
I speak from experience. If you go to all the churches
indiscriminately you are also left. I know this, for I
tried it. I was absolutely forced to join some sect, and
as in my present town the Catholics are strong
I am, for the time being, a Catholic. Next month,
though, I must be either a Wesleyan or an Anglican,
as I am moving to another town.
“ M.G.” Be baldness (“XXX.,” B.
25/2/’O4). Does “XXX.” want a cure? I met
him (the bald-headed one) the other day. He
came driving along the track, with his shiny old
pate bobbing in and out among the trees like an
addled egg in a pot of boiling water. “ ’Day,”
says I. “’Day,” says he. “Lost your hat?”
says I. “Me ? Not much ! ” says he ; and he
fishes out a black hard hat from under the seat of
the sulky. “ Ain’t it dangerous with that head of
yours in the sun?” says I. “Not when you’re
used to it,” says he. And then he explained :
“I got sick of trying hair stuffs. They’re all
alike, and not one of them any good. Then I met
a man up Barcaldine way. He wore no hat, and
he wore no boots. The boots he left off to cure
his corns, the hat to make his hair grow, as he
was getting thin on top. It’s an all-right cure,”
said my shiny friend, with the light of enthusiasm
in his eye. “Look here ! ” and he held his head
down for inspection. “See that?” and he ran
his fingers lovingly over a head that might have
done for a looking-glass, till one looked hard at it.
Sure enough, there was a fine, a very fine down
all over the scalp. It may be common to all bald
heads (I never examined one so closely before),
but I mention it as a possible source of consolation
to “XXX.” As to my friend on the road, he
tucked his hat again under the seat, took up his
reins, and shook up his pony. “’Day,” says he.”
“’Day,” says I, and off he went. P’raps he’ll
see this, and corroborate it.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Calling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 CollinB-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
vv trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Da. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
A. few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, flic nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
USHMAN and BUCCANEER,
I Price Ib. Id. Post Free.
Shipping.
nxr. id. i_j.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt. Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 13th APRIL.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about 13th APRIL,
SUE VIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC
to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l7 17 0 to £25 4 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, See. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
STB A IVES BCIF*
A. AND A 7" LINE.
COTMEPAKTY,
CEANIC
o
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Bpecial Rates, Including St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
&
WE
$
P*
&
sxr.s.-w
(Qont dePiete D.^ l l. Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREACrH ST. f 74.
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
tub—n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burks, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Robartb
CiM.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305—assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses-eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
«19 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holder* 250/100 ... £330.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright* Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
ieir- BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. -«a
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL.RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
April 18, May 16, June 13.
The New Twin Screw Steamer,
MANUKA,
SAILS ON MAY 16.
Quadruple Engines Ensuring Steadiness and an
Entire Freedom from Vibration.
Salt and Fresh Water Baths such as on
no Other Steamer on the Pacific.
ROOMS LARGER, LOFTIER THAN ON ANY
OTHER STEAMER.
Manuka’s Passengers reach St. Louis as Early as
Exhibition is Ready.
SPECIAL RATES. CHEAP FARES.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. *
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND(lnvested in Government Stock) 62,00 C
£695,46?
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOUOHITIS,
DIARHHCEA, &G > b eara on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o»
Sept. 28 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
GIVEN
AWAY
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch.
Post Free
3 Tips with Ospreya.
Black, or Black tipped with White.
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Write To-Day. Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Eourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(DIMITRI)).
EXPRESS PASS UNGER SERVICE ho and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports«
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI It IE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippinpat Fremantle
toallNorth Western Port s
SS. Warrejro, Thursday,
March 31, at 5 p.m. (Tran-
shipping at Melbourne).
S.S. Grantala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), from Melbourne,
April 13.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairng
S.S. Rockton, Saturday,
April 2, at Noon.
S.S. Warrego, Apr. 9, at Noon
S.S. Koonoowarra, Frida}',
April 15, at 5 p.m.
Rest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY._
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARTS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, lnana, Gram*
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also aocompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. AND a.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
K Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
mM
m
i
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State shotrid have one
Price 30s» (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke, St,, Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
GUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hare
Used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSOEII’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure {or Indigestion. Bi'lonsness, TTead ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation. Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all t> i ores.


So assiduously do the Seddon islanders
cultivate the tourist nowadays that the “fishing
notice ” takes its place alongside the official re-
marks about the weather ; and the information
that the Waimakariri water is discolored, and the
Rangitata is dirty, and the Waitaki isn’t too
clean but is fishable is breathlessly crowding out
the latest war fables.
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos of the popula-
tion problem. Why are parsons always on
the side of illimitable families ? Is it in the
interests of capitalists, or of morality, or is it a
question merely of christening fees ? It is gener-
ally supposed that Methodist ministers have many
children because Conference makes a monetary
allowance annually for each fresh baby. Could
not the State act similar’y as a sort of forerunner
of the old age pension?—Y”ours, W.
According to the reckoning of the N.S. W.
Public Service Board, Tibooburra and Milparinka,
in the Far North-West, are the N.S.W. towns
where the cost of living is highest. In most cases
the maximum civil servant’s'special allowance for
high cost of out-back living is 10 per cent, of his
salary if he is married and 6 per cent, if he isn’t;
but at Milparinka 15 per cent, is thought a fair
thing. In some eases, of course, the very junior
clerk’s salary has to be jumped up a good deal
more than 15 per cent.—to as much, in fact, as
100 per cent, here and there. The idea is not to
Piy less than £lOO a year to anybody who has to
eat dust and tinned dog.
The evolution of our language :
“ He’s simply marvellous 1 "
“ ’E’s a marvel.”
“ A marble.”
" The glassy agate.”
Somebody has found out that, among the
hundreds ot sculptures in Westminster Abbey,
there isn’t as much as one pair of trousers. All
the men wear knee-breeches or antique draperies.
Baron Plunket’s nomination to the Gover-
norship of Maoriland recalls an anecdote about
the Guinnesses, to which family his mother be-
longed. The Guinnesses are known the world
over for Dublin stout. B. L. Guinness, grand-
father of Plunket, spent £150,000 in restoring
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Dublin, and another
member of the family spent a large sum on
schools, all these moneys being earned in the
great brewery. An American visiting Dublin
inspected beer, holiness, and knowledge, all stand-
ing in a portly row. “Wall,” said he, “this
is the first time I ever heard of damnation,
salvation, and education being run by the one
firm ! ”
“ Sox ” : I have had a Royal audience and
can now die happy. Royalty wore, amongst
other things, a fairly shiny bell-topper and boots,
and from its neck hung a crescent-shaped metal
plate. His Majesty was most affable; he shook
hands with me ; called me his “fr’en” ; and tried
to sell me a bag of oysters. Expressed my regret
at not having the necessary two “bob,” where-
upon the Royal manner towards me grew per-
ceptibly cooler. Later on, however, I regained
favor at Court by a gift of some tobacco. As
it was rather late I reverently backed out of the
Wollongong pub yard, which served as audience
chamber, and, shortly after, I saw his Majesty
putting his best leg foremost on the way to his
palace at Minnamurra.
The Salvarmy has a curious habit of going
into particulars. A hard-faced girl might be heard
the other day at T —- thus address the crowd,
flogging the tambourine at intervals :
“ Yes, dear friends, I am glad to say I’m saved at last.
One short year ago I didn’t know what it was to have a
nice clean home to go to. When I had a meal I didn’t
know where the next was coming from. No clean clothes
to wear. But now, thank God, I’ve got a good home to
go to —a good bed, a good meal, and plenty of nice, clean
underclothing.”
Then she was plunging into details about the
spare pair of boots she had behind the door in
addition to the burst pair she was then wearing,
and her other corsets, and four pairs of stockings,
and a hat that was suspended on a nail, but just
then the band struck up “ We will Assemble at
the Tank.”
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Was discussing
books with a literary loafer at Gidyeagalah during
a short sojourn at Sunset Side. He said : “I
can’t stand them short serials at all. The short
stories are a curse. When I eat, I like something
to chew at ; when I read, I like a long, long yarn
—one that yous can git fair rapped tup pin. The
best I ever came across was one called ‘Mick
M‘Quaid.’ It was published in an Irish paper,
The Shameock, and it ran for about 30 years.
It orily ended when the writer died. Oh, I ain’t
jokin’. It was a great yarn ; be the time yad
come t’ the end of it, yad forgot the beginnin’; and
so yousc’d start afresh.” Perpetual perusal. The
author must have been paid by the million words.
the most reckless person in
Melbourne inserted this advt. in a recent Age :
TV/TISSING since Monday, large black Cat, answers
Dan. Reward at 02 Grove, dead or alive.
Naturally it rained dead black eats. A dead cat
was better than a live one for this purpose ; a live
cat might actively refuse to answer to the name
i ° r apoleon, or Austerlitz, or anything 1
else, but a dead cat is strictly non-committal.
Moreover, a dead cat can be easily and safely
dyed to make him the right color,” while a live
one will turn and rend the art st. Therefore, a
wave of cats, on many of which the ink wasn’t
yet dry, rolled towards the address given, and
when the deal didn't come off the dead cat was
left round the corner, and the live one was just
dropped where lie stood, and it became a neigh-
borhood that it was good to be away from,
b inally, the advertisers locked the garden gate
and when new applicants threw their black cats
over the wall for inspection they were thrown
back again, and the police came and drove the
cats away, and peace set in again.
Copy of a letter received by a C.P.S. from
one of the last batch of magisterial curiosities
inflicted upon the unhappy State of N.S.W. by
grateful politicians :
I have bin choesen as a justic of the peas and intind
being sworen in at the next quarte sesions to be hild at
" 1 want a ward of advic from you when will i have
to aply befor the cort opens or aftr' the cort as finised
will l have to go to yore ofise is so when and what time
hopping to here from yons.
I remain yois trully
John Blanky J.p.
“War E.” : Arrived one evening at »
small Riverina township, and, finding that I had
mislaid my pyjamas, went to a general store
for a suit. “We're out of them tilings now,”
said the young fellow behind the counter; “in
fact, we don’t keep ’em in stock at all. It’s all
cookies about here, and they don’t wear such
things.”_ “Still adhere to the old-fashioned
night-shirt?” I suggested. “Well, no, I don’t
think so ; you see most of them sleep in their
clothes ! ”
“ Hiphen ” on hats :
The trials of a young man ! Most young women of my
acquaintance are suffering from a craze for the making
of paper hats. Tht se same hats start with a wire frame,
which frame, with the aid of crinkled paper and much
tea and gossip, soon becomes metamorphosed into a
floppy “creation ’ in the front and down at the back.
The other evening I was sitting with one fair young
creature and her paper hat by the sad sea shore trying to
discover what the wild waves were saying. The hat was
of her ow r n manufacture—of which she was absurdly
proud. I was smoking a cigar—an excellent cigar it was ;
three for sixpence and one extra if you go away from
the shop before lighting up. With aa unselfish desire
not to monopolise the whole beach I was sitting rather
close to her when all of a sudden my cigar connected
with her paper roofing. With great presence of mind and
a few handfuls of sand I quelled the conflagration. You
would expect that a few words of gratitude would be the
reward for my heroic act; but no. She had barely re-
covered from the slight inconvenience caused by the fire-
works when she turned on me, and in a few ill-chosen
sentences told me what she thought about me and my
up-bringing. Then she went home. Such a fuss about a
tuppenny-ha’penny head-covering which can easily be re-
placed. Her hair, lam sure, will have grown again in a
few weeks. Besides, I lost my cigar. Girls are un-
reasonable.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
- '
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
Can you Spare a £
We have just received
FIVE HUNDRED PHONOGRAPHS !^>
9
ki m
fel
4.- .
bought in England at a ridiculously low
price, and offered here as a Bargain.
The Phonograph for 12/6
4 Selections (Songs, Speeches,
Music, &c.) at 2s. each
(by post 2s. 6d. extra),
Or £1 COMPLETE.
Thousands of Records to select from,
2s. each, 21s. doz.
Needless to say, there will be a big
run on these, and you ought to send at
once. Your money returned if you do
not like it.
CATALOGUES FREE if you would
rather learn more about it before A
sending, but don’t wait too long \
or these BARGAIN MACHINES will f
all be gone.
Osborn & Jerdan,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and 99 QUEEN BTREET, BRISBANE.
SPARAGUS
DISHES
Some very handsome
pieces in best Silver-plate.
These form uncommon
Wedding Gifts. A Heart-shaped Dish,
with Sauce-Boat and removable rack, for
84s. An oblong Frame, with heavy cast,
mount, pierced removable rack and pair
of Asparagus Servers, 80s. A neat, oval
design, with handsome, large, wire re-
movable rack, 635.
STOCKS ARE NOW AT THEIR BEST.
All the New Easter Goods are on view—New Jewellery—New Silver Goods—
New Purses—New Plated Ware—New Clocks. Come and inspect them, no
matter whether you want to buy now or later. It costs only a little time to
become acquainted with the new styles from over the seas. This store is pre-
eminent for the Reliable Quality of the Merchandise it handles, and we always
quote lowest prices. Our Eight Australasian Stores with their big buying
powers compel bottom prices, combined with dependable qualities. Our Cata-
logues are free, and all Goods are sent out post paid. Write us if you can't call.
W,
0
0
#
CORNER , CEORc c
ST
SYDNEY
ROOCHES
of Every Good Kind are
here—in all gold from 5s ;
in the popular New Zea-
land Greenstone and Gold
from 10s 6d to 25s ; Gem-
set Brooches ; Diamond Brooches that
blaze and dazzle, all are here in such a
breadth of variety that to be unsuited is
almost an impossibility. Our fine dis-
play of Knife-edge Bar Brooches, set
with precious stones, from £l5 10s to
£3O is worthy of close inspection.
HAINS
in Silver and in Gold
Single styles or in the
fashionable pocket-to-
pocket form. All the
good designs, some plain,
others slightly fancy. Quality is standard
in all. No seven carat for nine and
twelve for fifteen ; but full quality
guaranteed. In Silver, single styles,
8s 6d ; double, 12s 6d. In Gold, single
and double, as low as £3.
iamond Rings
• For Engagements and
Birthdays. The daintiest
and most charming gift
you could send a woman
who loves pretty things.
Having ourovvn house in Hatton Garden,
London (the home of the Diamond), we
are able to pick up parcels of pure White
Stones at favorable prices. Upon inspec-
tion of our lovely stock of Diamond
Rings, you will see at once the effect our
methods have upon the prices.
NTREE
DISHES
No woman can consider
her stock of table plate
complete without one or
more Entree Dishes. The cover has a
handle, and this, by half a turn, comes
off, and there you have a second dish,
which looks equally well as the other.
All good Plate, from 42s to 70s. Vegetable
Dishes, Steak Dishes, Soup Tureens, Pie
Dishes—in great variety.
RUIT KNIVES
and FORKS
Cased up handsomely—6
Knives and 6 Forks. Just
the quantity for a young-
household. Smart looking in design—
no clumsy effects. Knives have nicely
engraved blades in a variety of designs.
Strongly Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
and made for use, not ornament only.
For £2 XOs you can get a splendid set.
We have a big range.
REENSTONE
The real Stone from the
home of the Maoris, not
the common Chinese
Jade, which, though a fair
imitation, is but an imita-
tion. No doubt many jewellers sell the
Jade in the firm belief that they are sell-
ing Greenstone. If you want a piece of
the popular, real Greenstone Jewellery,
we can command our assortments to
your inspection.
AT PINS
Every woman can find use
for more, no matter how
lavishly she is supplied.
She can leave a supply in
each hat ready for instant
use. Silver Kangaroo, Emu, Jackass, or
Swan Hat Pins for Is. Any Initial nicely
cut out, Is fid. Gold Emu or Kangaroo
Hat Pins, 4s 6d and 8s 6d. Lots of fancy-
styles as well. Some Fine Gold & Tortoise-
shell Hair Ornaments, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6.
NKSTANDS
The Gift pre-eminent for a
man. Probably the hand-
somest and best lot in
Sydney, or, for that matter,
in Australia, to select from,
the rustic Silver-plated Single Bottle-
Stand, with pen-rack, at 9/6, up to the
elaborate Solid Silver Presentation pieces
at £6 10/-. Silver Topped Bottles, 7/6 up.
Silver-plated Inkstands, 16/6, 25/-, 35/-,
55/-. 70/-, £5 5/-.
AH DISHES
These are articles of daily
sale, and, in consequence,
our stock is constantly
changing-. We add new
designs every fortnight—
all bought for cash by our Hatton
Garden (London) buyers from the most
reputable Plate manufacturers in
England. You can pay as little as 6/6
for the simple styles, and then go up by
easy steps to 25/-.
Kettles. We have—at least, we think we
have—some of the prettiest Kettles made,
and as for the prices—well, £2, £2 15s,
£3 15s, and £4 4s will buy something in
which you can have lasting pride and
satisfaction.
INKS
For your cuffs, with strong
connecting links, thus en-
suring long wear. Every
neat style made finds a
place among our unrivalled
display of these most necessary pieces of
men’s jewellery. We do not stock the
very light weights, as satisfaction cannot
be bought for next to nothing. But for
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s you can get a
pair of gold Cuff Links that will be a
pleasure to wear.
UFF CHAINS
Still a favorite with
the ladies, and no sign
of going out. They
look so graceful when
compared with old
style short chain or fob. The 9ct. gold
Muff Chains run from 555, then 60s, 635,
70s, 955, £5 ; in 15ct. gold, £6, £6 15s,
£7 15s, £8 10s. Pearl ornamented ones
in a variety of styles from £6 ; 10s up-
wards. Silver Muff Chains from 8s 6d to
13s 6d.
ECKLETS
Everyone wants one of
these for hanging the popu-
lar photo pendant on. As
usual, we are fully equ'pped
with a splendid stock of good
and useful designs. In 9ct gold, 6s 6d,
12s 6d, 13s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s ;
In 15ct. gold, 32s 6d, 40s, 50s, 555. Then
we have the patent Pearl Necklets made
from mother-of-pearl and coated to imi-
tate the real, 63s to £5. Gem necklets
£6 10s to £385.
PAL
BROOCHES
One of popular gems of
the day is the Opal—that
lovely Stone with sun-
shine in its depths—flashing forth every
color under the sun. A splendid selec-
tion of styles in Opal Brooches to pick
from, including some specially fine and
practically unmatchable pieces. Rings,
Bangles, Pins, Pendants—all are fully
represented.
30s, 355, 425, 50s, 60s. The cheaper ones
being much plainer in treatment, the
higher-priced ones showing evidence of
superior skill in the decoration. We
have Tea Pots to suit every table, from
the cottage to the mansion.
HOTO
PENDANTS
We could not describe
them in detail—the
of stjdes is too wide."*- You
must come and feast your eyes on theni
in the store. Prices were never so
reasonable for good Pendants. For 6/6
7/6, 8,6, 10/6 to 15/6 you cap get the Gold
ones ; then the Stone-set ores from 21s all
the way up to £6. A beam v, with star-set
Pearls in 15ot. Gold for 2 12s 6d.
UEENSLAND
BEANS
Mounted up as Match-
boxes, are eminently
suited to give as Gifts,
especially for friends at home or going
home. Selected Beans beautifully
polished, and mounted with sterling
Silver, Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
A Snuff-box might suit an occasional
Gift-buyer. Silver-mounted, 13s 6d.
IN GS
This is a favourite depart-
ment with us, probably
because we fit so many
dainty fingers—some with
Engagement Rings and
others with the Plain Gold Circlet, that
binds two lives together. If you want a
Ring, come here, where the best can be
seen linked to lowest prices. IBct. En-
gagement Rings, Gem Set, 32s 6d to £4.
Wedding Rings, 21s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s.
UQAR BASINS
SCUTTLES
A new shipment of Silver-
plated and Embossed
Sugars, just right for after-
noon tea, 12s 6d each. Then the favorite
Scuttle designs in the very best quality
silver plate for 20s, 22s 6d, 25s. A Solid
Silver “King James” Sugar Basin, 63s.
These are just a few picked from the
many we stock.
nique Designs
That is what we offer you
in 15et. G<s{d -and; Pine
Pearl Star Brooch, and
Pendant Combinations.
Not the stereo-typed
patterns, but the novel and effective
styles Stars that have passed the
test of expert judgment, and priced ns
low as the fine quality will allow. Prices
for 15ct. Gold and real Pearl Stars 57s fid
60s, 70s, 955, 110‘s, 130 s, and 140 s.
dozens of pretty ones to select from. A
few Buds in one or more of those dainty
ornaments will go a long way towards
making your dinner table good to look
upon. Prices from 2s 6d up to, say, 50s
for the large silver ones.
ATCHES
Fool a man once and
that settles it. Cheap
watches never built up
a man’s business. We
have the kind of
watches that enable us to say we sell
more watches than any firm in Australia.
Come in and talk the watch question
over; or if you cannot, write us for a
copy of “Honest Watches.” Forty-eight
pages of watches fully illustrated.
ceptional Value
Our stock of long-wear
purses is complete, and
when you see them you
will want to buy. YVith
the exception of a'few high-
grade American purses, our stock is
entirely best English, each being care-
fully made and sewn, with English
Hall-marked Silver or Gold mountings.
Prices from 8s 6d to 25s for silver-
mounted ones.
TROPHIES
Our stock of suitable prizes
is a good one, and includes
some of the finest silver-
work ever brought into Australia. The
Armada Jug, a solid silver piece at forty
guineas, is a gem fit fora collector. The
Union Cup, at the same price, is also very
handsome. Lots of appropriate Cups and
Bowls, in solid silver and fine plate.
EALOUS
ATTENTION
That is what wo promise
all who call or write. We
are ever ready to show you
ana tell you all about the new things
and, no matter whether you are a buyer
or not, that same zealous attention will
be given. If you write, we will supply
any information you may desire, tog-ethe •
with catalogues profusely illustrated.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney Thousand cycle meeting came to an in-
glorious finish on Wednesday night amid a storm of hoots
and much cheering. Another such display, and all the
motor power in Sydney will not drag the public to see
. the alleged sport. There was intense excitement among
the vast audience, officially stated to be 32,000, as the
riders took their places. The front bunch seemed par-
ticularly cool and confident, and the men who sat around
the writer concentrated their attention on Corbett, who
started from just in front of the members’ stand, and made
bets as to how much he would win by. There seemed
only one man in the audience who wanted to back Taylor,
and everybody who heard the wish arose simultaneously
and wanted to take him up for all he was worth. There
was something sinister in that unanimity and he buttoned
up suddenly. MacFarland and Taylor were on scratch ;
Downing, Walker, and Scheps at the 10, 20, and 30
marks respectively. Then there was a long gap of 70
yards to where Kett waited at the 100, with Corbett
just 20 yards ahead of him. Plunkett, Gordon, O’Brien
and Bathie made up the balance of the field at 130, 160,
180 and 200 yards respectively. Taylor started with a
swing and a bound, and was past Downing in a moment,
and on to Walker’s wheel in a flash. The two limit men
were quickly overtaken by the middle bunch, and the
back-markers swept up to Scheps. There were now only
two bunches in the field, and Walker and Taylor strove
splendidly to overtake the crowd which reeled away
in front through the green, ghostly' light. Always
behind them glided the long figure of MacFarland, the
“ handicap king.” When the bell rang out the last
lap, the front bunch were only some fifteen or twenty
yards ahead, and as good as licked. So far, MacFarland
had done no pacing, and, with half a lap to go, Taylor
slackened for him to do his share. But MacFarland did
not respond, and Taylor and Walker again dashed out.
Walker was done, and Taylor went on alone, making
short, quick little spurts, but the race was lost. The
front men were sweeping past the members’ stand, all
bunched together, and right on the line Corbett seemed
to lurch out and win by half a wheel. O’Brien was
second, Plunkett half a wheel behind him third, and
Taylor yards away fourth. The time was 1 min. 54see.
* * * *
Immediately after the race O’Brien lodged a
protest against Corbett and Plunkett for collusion and
interference. The protest was dismissed, and O’Brien
then appealed, and the matter is being dealt : with as
this paper goes to press. Meantime the money is hung up.
* » * •
Cycling is beginning to smell, and the odor of
a fish market is eau-de-Cologne compared to it. There
was a race worth about £7O won by an Australian riderf
recently, and two days afterwards it was a matter o t
common report that the winner got only £l2 of it—tha
a rider who didn’t win got £4O odd, and the rest wa®
cut up among various competitors. The morning o 1
the Sydney Thousand final even the gamins at the street
corners were prophesying, and advising those whom they
loved to put their little bit of stuff on Corbett.
From this writer’s observations, Taylor rode to win,
and Don Walker did the best that was in him. But it is
an unfortunate fact for the popularity of cycle-racing
that so many people were suddenly willing to bet their
boots that Corbett would win. Rumor was blaring with
a hundred tongues. And Corbett won. Had MacFarland
done his share of the pacing, barring accidents, either he
or Major Taylor must have been in the front bunch. The
time had been beaten by both MacFarland and Taylor
over and over again. MacFarland had set up a new
world’s record, lmin. 49sec., for the distance himself.
Truly there was a slight breeze, but, all the same, had
MacFarland shared the pacing with Walker and Major
Taylor, the front bunch almost certainly would have been
overtaken at the ringing of the bell and left hopelessly in
the rear before “ the straight” was reached.
* * * *
Sydney was looking forward to the five races
between Floyd MacFarland and Major Taylor with keen
interest. The last details had been fixed up, and every-
thing agreed upon, when suddenly MacFarland wrote to
Secretary Scott of the Summer Night Amusements, Ltd.,
and declined to appear. According to Mr. Scott, he
didn’t ask for any appearance money, or stipulate for
any alteration in the conditions or arrangements, but
simply went on strike, and burst up what would have
been a most interesting event.
* * * *
“Hermes”: To make money at cycling it is
not necessary to win races ; the man who does that
generally has to borrow money from his old man to pay
his entrance fees. What is required is to be able to win
—or, better still, the ability to convince the other fellow
that you can win his particular plum if you want to.
Call yourself the Sprint Emperor, or the Jump President,
or the Mikado of the Wheel, or some other high-sounding
melodramatic designation ; and bleed the fellows who
want to get their names in the papers as first across
the line. Cycling is a lucrative business if you can put
up a great spin now and again, just to make the
fellows who want to win understand the necessity of
paying you not to. The beauty of being a breaker
of world’s records is that you can demand at least 50
per cent, of the prize ; if there are few or no
other competitors to square, even 75 per cent,
may be demanded with impunity. Always ask big.
It is unworthy of a champion to ask small, and, besides,
it doesn’t pay. One of the most successful Australian
riders of to-day—a man who will cut up a purse with a
Chinaman—is dog poor just because he hasn’t the brains
or cheek (they are the same thing in cycling) to ask big.
He even allowed a man to bleed him for 65 per cent, of a
big prize. The most humorous item in the cycling page
is the par. which mentions that “ that dashing young
rider, Jig Sprinter, won 35 races and £450, at the just
concluded meeting.” No doubt he won the races and
the money, but, somewhere in the background, you will
find an unobtrusive cuss who calls himself the Cycling
Pie-Biter, who pocketed most of that £450 to let Mr. Jig
Sprinter have the honor and glory. Cycling is much
more lucrative than gold mining if one has business
acumen and a bit of speed.
* * * ♦
Sydney Cricket Ground is an ideal ground for
cricket, but as a cycling track it is a failure. The cycle
path was an after-thought, and when the riders are on
the western side of the path there are many parts of the
pavilions from which they cannot be seen. Cricket
matches find a polished, courteous crowd in the pavilions,
and the only time people stand up in a pavilion is in
the intervals, when they arise to show the company their
latest “ creations and confections.” But when there’s
an exciting cycle finish, then the same well-bred crowd
rears up and shows how much of the wild beast it hides
under its chiffon. At the last night of the Sydney
Thousand, women’s flounces were torn off while they
struggled on to the backs of seats to see exciting finishes ;
and fashion plates from Potts Point were jabbed with
brollies between the shoulders by Darling Pointers to
make them sit down so that the latter might see their pet
calves whirled along. Two improvements are badly
required at Sydney Cricket Ground during cycling—a
scoring board on which the results will be posted per-
manently for the night, and a number of strong, able-
bodied female police to keep the excited women from
breaking their necks and getting their dresses torn
trying to climb on the backs of chairs.
• * * *
The council of the League of Wheelmen has
rigidly excluded the press from the hearing of A. E.
O’Brien’s appeal against L. Corbett’s win of the Sydney
Thousand. It is now commonly stated that O’Brien
charges a considerable proportion of the competitors
with being parties to a conspiracy to cut up the race
among them. The exclusion of the press looks as if
the league were horribly frightened that some of the
evidence is too smellful to be allowed to reach the public.
Meanwhile Taylor, MacFarland and other cracks are
cursing,at being detained in Sydney when they ought to
be in Melbourne getting ready for the Easter holiday
races. Adelaide races take place on April 9th, 13th, and
16th, and then the Pie-Biters will return to Melbourne to
mop up any loose cash lying around at the Eight-Hours
meeting.
* * * *
According to a telegram in Monday’s S. M.
Herald one “Cash” performed remarkably at Christ-
church League of Wheelmen’s meet on Saturday. He
won five races, two and three in succession. Sub-editor
failed to see that term “cash” was used to distinguish
money prizes from the lily-white amateurs’ “pots.”
* • * *
Sydney trainers and punters generally weren’t
taken with Yankee Jockey Ames’ Tod Sloan methods,
though The Bulletin was and said so. Late files of
Indian Sporting Times tell that Ames, now in India,
has made a big impression with his riding and
scored several great successes.
* » * *
Doncaster Handicap (big mile event of A. J.C.
meet), to be run next Saturday, looks good for Plavaway,
Sea Kale, Contest, or Marvel Loch. First-named couple
are stable chums, but differently owned, and the better
one should win. Much public money has already gone
on each, but pronounced move made for Playaway during
past day or two would indicate that she is the pick,
though ’tis safe betting trainer Allsop has had no trial to
go on. Playaway’s failure in the Newmaiket, after her
brilliant Futurity Stakes success, is accounted for by the
fact that she must have gone off—an inference the mare’s
jaded appearance on her return to Sydney supports —but
she has freshened up a heap since, and is improving every
day. Contest’s prospects, reckoned on Sir Leonard’s and
Air Motor’s form, look as bright as any nag’s, for he beat
both those horses pointless a week or two back, and they
shaped well subsequently. Manner in which Sea
Kale has chopped and changed in the betting is against
her, but it looks as if she or Playaway will win, with
Contest and Marvel Loch next best. Present comparative
outsiders who might upset calculations are Haloya,
Saida, or Chere Amie.
• * • *
A recent Queensland development in the race-
horse line—Forge by St. Blaize-Fatima—is worth watch-
ing. At Brisbane St. Patrick’s Day meeting he made
hacks of opposition in Open Handicap (6fur.), carrying
7.12, and shaped as if his defeat under same weight con-
ditions in the best of company would have been doubtful.
Pulling up at the end Forge got over the distance in
1.14}, upsetting (by }sec.) Babel’s performance of nine
years before at the Farm. Penalty brought Forge’s load
up to 9.3 in First Novice Handicap (mile and a distance),
but he scooped that easily in 1.57}. Second day handi-
capper let the nag in Pace Welter with a stone more, and
he scored again. Forge comes from the Northen Rivers,
and is leased by well-known trainer, W. J. Noud.
* » * »
The Onlcaparinga Club (S.A.), which races on
Easter Monday only, sold last week the right to collect
a shilling at the gate. (Stands are, of course, extra, but
the club collects that.) It brought £606, which means an
attendance of over 12,000 before the speculator can begin
to pay his gatekeepers and himself. Judging by past
experience, however, there will be a profit on the
transaction.
• * * *
Alf Yon Doussa, M.L.C., who worked the Oak-
land (S.A.) race meeting up from very small besrinnings,
and who kept the club alive when the totalisator was
temporarily tabooed in the State and the Adelaide Cup
was run in Melbourne, promises a £2OOO Onkaparinga
Steeplechase in 1905.
* • • *
A multiplicity of things happened in connection
with a “ district ” race (good old “ district” race !) at a
little Wellington (M.L.) meeting lately. The winner, a nag
named Paleface, was passed out for cutting off an in-
convenient corner. Second and third were disqualified
because they had raced at unregistered meetings. Prize
went to fourth horse, which broke down hopelessly during
the run. The only other starter fell and dislocated his
shoulder.
* » * *
Many people who saw Sweet Nell and Emir
perform at Flemington lately are not impressed with the
little mare’s chance of beating the fine colt at a difference
of 81b., if they both go for Sydney Cup. It was not so
much what Emir did, as the way of doing it, that seemed
to bear out all the Spring reports of his excellence. And
a really great three-year-old can win the Sydney Cup
under a big weight. Wallace, the sire of Emir, got home
in ’96 with 8.12 up, and Carbine, sire of Wallace, scored
two successive wins. As a three-year-old, he carried 9st.
and give 121 b. and a beating to Melos, after being blocked
in his first attempt to get through. Emir has yet to
prove that he is as good as his famous ancestors, but the
horse has already shown reasonable cause for his reputa-
tion. Down at Ballarat, the birds on the trees chirp
“ Emir,” and the men who chew straws won’t allow that
Nell, Belah or F. J. A. are in the same class with the queer-
tempered brown.
* * * ♦
Canterbury Jockey Club (M.L.) has at last
grappled with a matter that has aggravated owners for
years. ' When non-performers are entered for a big event
the handicapper, in his wisdom, used to place some on
the minimum mark, and handicap others either on their
“ magnificent pedigree,” or because they belonged to a
dangerous stable, or because some magniloquent news-
paper chap had predicted a golden future for them. The
C.J.C. has now resolved that maiden nags carry equal
weights, according to age, subject to the usual sex
allowance, unless the conditions of the race provide
otherwise.
* * * *
That all the glory of onee-famous ’Oxboro’
meeting has departed was abundantly demonstrated
Saturday, when attendance was poor. Even many who
regularly attend every suburban meeting were absent,
and local (Windsor and Richmond) residents remained at
home to a man almost; but racing, the course and
management generally left nothing wanting. Battle
between punters and Ikeys finished “ honors easy,” for
though three warm favorites (5 to 4 against chances)
scored, two others came to Mo.’s rescue—winner (St.
Simmer) of last event, particularly, who went out
altogether unbacked, his part}', ’tis said, supporting the
second nag. Unlucky horse of the day was Swop, who
(heavily backed) ran second in first and last races. Sir
Leonard annexed the big event (Hawkesbury Handicap)
easily, carrying the crusher of 9.13, and giving away from
2to nearly 3A stone. Sir Leonard’s and Cressy’s manner
of scoring make them worth considering for the Doncaster
Handicap, though betting indicates that Saida (in same
stable) is preferred to last-named, against whom hundreds
to 4 went begging on the course.
* * • *
Apparently, Musket family has a mortgage
over the Jackson Stakes at Wanganui (M.L.) meetings ;
each year has seen the event fall to one of that blood.
* * * •
Whilom prominent M.L. jockey Woolley, once
attached to Capt. Russell’s racing establishment, but
latterly a trainer, shot himself dead a fortnight ago at
Napier while temporarily insane. Frequent falls are said
to have affected the dead rider's brain.
* • • •
Gross proceeds of four England-Australia and
England-N.S.W. matches in Sydney were £10,200.
Marylebone 0.0. and N.S.W. Cricket Association got
£3689 13s. each and Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees
£2821 Bs. Deduction of expenses left N.S.W, governing
body with £2040 clear profit. On the whole Marylebone
C.O. will lose over the venture.
*»* . *
Victor Trumper, the champion batsman, is ill—
suffering from low-fever, it is said—and has been in-
valided to a Victorian station.
* * * *
The Australian barracker at his worst fails to
get down to the level of his British brother. In February
Macmillan’s, H. F. Abell, writing of the football spectator,
says this : “ When the game is quiet the vulpine and
sodden faces are eager, but not happy ; when an exiting
phase occurs the general expression is one of malignant
anxiety, here broken by an outburst of frantic disap-
pointment, there by one of savage joy. There is
enthusiasm, plenty of it, but it is an ungenerous, one-
sided enthusiasm, without a spark of chivalry or
appreciation of alien worth in it. . . . Every Saturday
during eight months in the year, at least 200,000 men,
for the most part young and strong, are idling round
a football ground in a state of perpetual excitement and
passion not to be smoothed by incessant smoking.”
Harry Dawkins, a nephew of Harry Blinman,
who, next to George Giffen, is thejsenior player in SLA
first-class cricket in a junior match on Saturdaj, ilaren
19— Eastbourne against Stow-took five wickets for no
runs with eight balls. t t *
There is one man who may be glad the
English cricket-tour is at an end. Murdoch, the elderly
and capable business manager, was in rather an m kward
position among the players with whom he had to lne.
Much older than any of them, and neither exactly ama-
teur nor professional himself, his company did not seem
to be cultivated by either branch of the party, and a
settled look of loneliness grew upon him towards the end
of the tour
“Ses” :* The nex*t big thing in cricket circles
will be the picking of a team to go Englandwa,rds after
those ashes, and it would undoubtedly be an advantage
if the “ probables ” did a little practice on a wet wicket.
There is nearly as much dampness in England as there is
fine weather here, which in some measure accounts tor
the superiority of Warner’s team over ours when playing
under muddy conditions. If our batsmen were less used
to droughty conditions, and less afraid of a little damp-
ness at the nets, they would make a better show against
the elements. If the rain didn’t happen along convent-
entlv for practice, the wicket could be watered. In fact,
I would suggest that all practice be done on wetwickets ;
or, in consideration of the bowlers, have one wet and one
drv. This should work an all-round improvement.
J * * * *
In a Launceston paper, one Alfred Blades, aged
74, has been advertising for someone to do a walking
match with him. The advt. said he was to be found at a
certain pub. any night in the week —a good many other
people are to be found under similar conditions quite as
regularly. The ancient’s conditions were that the other
fellow should be an amateur, and of his own age. At
time of writing no business had eventuated.
* » * *
“ F.” : The cool “ cheek ” of Melbourne’s Town
Clerk (Clayton) in “ authorising ” the half-crown enclo-
sure of a long tract of Yarra bank by Johnny promoters
of the trumpery Henley-on-Yarra regatta, elicited a
feeble note of protest after the event. Next year
probably a longer stretch of north bank will be reserved
for the “quality,” and a glorious harvest of two-and-
sixpences will be reaped by the supercilious enclosers.
For the benefit of—what ? Snobbery ; Brummagem
snobbery; the cheap, imported snobbery which pro-
claims its character by fixing up imitation house-boats
on mud-punts, and giving the mongrel show the mongrel
name of Ilenley-on-the-Yarra. Melbourne citizens should
make up their minds to treat this Henley notion as
Sydney did Mr. Burdekin’s notion of collaring Centennial
Park for “ the nicest people to meet in the nicest way.”
• * * *
“ Crank ” : When Miss Hill won so-called
ladies’ 50yds. supremacy of Australasia at big swimming
match, the best wouldn’t compete before a crowd of men.
Carnival (for ladies only) at Coogee Aquarium last week
saw Miss Nea Bristowe come out and easily squelch all
opposition in 100yds. championship of N.S.W., Miss Hill
among them. Writer knows of one or two ladies
who could account for even Miss Bristowe.
• • • *
New Australasian Swimming Championships’
compact brings Westralia in, drops the useless and
uninteresting plunge altogether and substitutes three-
mile championship—the best thing that has been done by
the Union since its inception.
* » * *
The boom in swimming was promptly turned to
account by the believers in unrestricted private enter-
prise. Sundry trades people were visited by polite young
fellows with forged orders from the N.S.W. Amateur
Swimming Association for trophies said to have been won
in the recent record-breaking competitions. The swindle
was only discovered when some trader, more prompt
than the others, called round for a settlement and Secre-
tary Wilson stated indignantly that the Association
didn’t do business in that way. Then the police were let
loose. They are still loose.
* * * *
S.S. Island boy Alick Wickham had hard luck
in the Inter club 50yds. handicap at the public schools
swimming carnival at Rushcutters’Bay, Sydney, Satur-
day. He broke his own world’s record, but did not win the
race. O. Smith had ssec., and L. Murray lsec. start.
They finished in that order; the winner’s time being
29sec. Wickham, although third, did it in 24 3-ssec., his
own previous world’s record being 25sec.
* * * *
The All Schools Swimming Championship of
New South Wales was won by L. Murray, of Fort Street,
at Rushcutters’ Bay, Sydney, on Saturday The distance
was 100yds. and the youngster covered it in the remarkably
good time, for a hoy, of lmin. 3 l-ssec., finishing six yards
ahead of the second youth. The second and third toys,
C. Smith, and H. Hardwick, were also from Fort-street
school, so that institution has a sort of threefold mort-
gage on the championship. Six age championships were
decided : Cleveland-street secured the 11 and 14 years
events per the brothers B. and L. Boardman ; B. Mac*
Fariane of Darling-road, took the 10 years event; A.
Barry of Plunket-street (Woolloomooloo) the 12 years: B.
Waight of the Glebe the 13 years ; and H. Hardwick of
Fort-street, the 15 years.
* * * *
The extent ot the present swimming boom in
Sydney : Over a dozen different controlling bodies had
fixtures last Saturday afternoon, and close on 1500
swimmers competed.
* • • *
Easter-tide marks the end of the Sydney sailing
season. This past one has been remarkable for the re-
vival of the series of races between the Melbourne and
the local crack boats, and the exceeding calmness of the
great majority of the Saturday afternoons. The annual
reports of the R.S.Y.S. and the P.A.Y.O. show the usual
strange discrepancy. The Pot winners of the Royal are
quite in different order to those of the Prince Alfred,
though the cracks of each squadron are the same
boats.
Looks as if M.L. has a coming long distance
champion runner in 19-year-old H. Burk. At Dunedin
A.A.C’s. meeting a week or two ago he gathered the
treble—the half, the mile, andthetwo miles —fromscratch,
conceding starts up to 60 yards in the half, 140 in the
mile and 220 in the two miles. Burk is strongly built,
shows a long easy stride and capital judgment, brings a
fine sprint to bear when it’s wanted, and exhibits
uncommon grit and determination in finishing.
• * * *
Adelaide Oval team has quite unexpectedly
won the premiership of S.A. bowls by heating the older-
established and better-esteemed Adelaide club 98 to
82. Winning team included John Hill and A. M. Pettin-
ger, Mostyn Evan and John Cresswell, with others better
known as batsmen than as bowlers.
* * * •
The refusal of the Federal Minister of Defence
to subsidise the Bisley pot-hunters to the tune of £2OOO is
a nail in the coffin of the ambitious riflemen. So far as
the Victorian Rifle Association is concerned, it has
accepted the rebuttal, and the project has been aban-
doned ; but the other State associations intend to ask
the “ Opposition-leader ” to get the decision altered.
However, Minister Chapman isn’t likely to budge-
even at the muzzle of Reid’s dog.
* * * *
Ped. boom in Brisbane hasextended right through
the country, hut the runners are at their old tricks and
will surely settle the game before long. In one heat of
recent Novice Handicap at Gympie it was alleged all five
starters were “ dead ” ; four of them were “ sent up ” for
three months. Another heat of the same event saw four
shape and get over the track as if weighted down with
lead, and officials ordered the race to be re-run.
* * * *
The wondrous possibilities of howls as a game of
manual skill, mental resource, dashing courage and
general ability were set forth last week in a Melbourne
A&e notice of the local contest for a champion of cham-
pions trophy. The last grand final struggle, it seems,
was between Mr. Hyland, “whose form for so ynuiig a
bowler has been phenomenal and of a very superior
chara "ter,” and Mr. W. W. Stephens, “ the champion of the
Armadale Club for the second season in succession. J.an -
guage contains hardly enough adjectives to fittingly des-
cribe the proceedings between these Bowling Boshters.
“The game resulted in a win for Stephens by 6 points after
a tussle of the finest possible description. Hyland s d riving
was superb, for nofc only did he succeed in making three
dead ends when the shots were lying ‘ ugly ’ against him,
but his cutting out of shot bowls was simply extraordi-
nary in so young a player. Stephens steadiness and
greater staying powers won for him a well-earned victory,
and it is no exaggeration to say that Mr. Needham’s
handsome trophy was never won by better play
than that exhibited yesterday. Hyland’s brilliancy
and Stephens’ constancy formed a dazzling bowling
contrast, and the Armadale club adds yet another
jewel to its already well-studded crown.” So Stephens,
for the present, is Emperor of Emperors and will
wield the sceptre for at least 12 months. But Hyland,
the young claimant to the throne, is growing older all
the time. The necessary mellowness of form will come
to him if he perseveres with the fiow'ing Bowl ; steadiness
and staying power will succeed to the hot impetuosity of
youth in this as yet unseasoned Marvel, and then the
Nestors of the Green “in fair round belly with good
capon lined” will do homage to an Unprecedented Ex-
ponent of the game, maybe
* » * *
Pug. Ed. Jessop, who has fought four draws (85
rounds altogether) with Bob Turner, met ex-Newcastle
miner Paddy King at Kalgoorlie, recently. Fight was hard
and vimful throughout. King’s heavy rights under the
heart kept him in front during first haif of the stipu-
lated 20 rounds, but in the next 10 Jessop’s left operated
continuously and effectively. Referee Bill Doherty’s ver-
dict was a draw, and both sides kicked hard—probably
the bes.t evidence of the accuracy of the decision. The
pair met before in N.S.W. ; then Jessop’s hand was
broken, but he fought gamely to the end, making a draw
of it.
* • ♦ *
Recent Dunn-Thorne gloved-fist struggle at
Her Majesty’s, Kalgoorlie, tvas a surprise to most
alleged good judges, who tipped Thorn an easy
mark for his heavier, taller, and longer - reached
opponent. Thorn, though behind in points till
the tenth round, went in then and wiped some
of the deficit off, and the 17th round saw Dunn rocking
badly ; but Thorn couldn’t, or didn’t know how to, make
the most of the situation, and the other pug. won on
points*
* • * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Football Union
intends to make a splash during the corning wunter in
booming the sport along. Last year it paid out £503
more than its receipts in bringing country teams to
Sydney and despatching metropolitan teams to the
country, and otherwise “ furthering the game” (the total
expenditure reaching £2300); hut even last year’s effort
is to be put in the shade. Of course the Union is relying
to a great extent on the gate receipts of the coming
English combinations to pull it out of the hole, but
unless the English team is a particularly strong one, the
Union may fall in.
Awful Eczema
Yields to the Marvellous Blood-Purifying
Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The terrible disfigurement caused by this disease
is a great humiliation to both men and women.
It is purely a blood disorder, and when the
poison is eradicated from the blood the skin will
heal and become soft and white. The experience
of Mr. Spencer Pavitt, of 23 Flinders-street,
Sydney, is remarkable. He had a particularly
bad case, and he tells in no doubtful language the
result after taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
He says:—
“ A few years ago whilst prospecting in
Tasmania, round Beaconsfield Lefroy (which was
my home), I contracted that awful malady eczema.
I suffered severely and had to give up work. I
consulted doctor after doctor, and was a patient
in the Launceston Hospital, but no good seemed
to come from either. I was in a bad state, my
body all over sores. Seeing an advertisement of.
Indian Root Pills I determined to give them a
trial. I bought them from a Beaconsfield chemist.
I at once felt a relief, and now for months, I am
happy to say (except a few scars) there was not a
sign of eczema on me (anyone who has suffered
knows only too well this awful name), and I am
now completely cured. lam only too happy to
be able to bear testimony to the marvellous blood-
purifying properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. I never go anywhere without recommend-
ing them, and have in rny own expedience found
them to be wonderful in the cure of liver diseases
and constipation. I shall be only too glad if this
small testimony of true relief I have derived from
Indian Root Pills will be the means of inducing
other people to try them. You can use this as
you like, and I shall further be very glad to give
personal testimony as to my cure.”
Such testimony as this should satisfy the most
sceptical as to the splendid properties for purify-
ing the blood contained in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. They are a perfect blood purifier.
They cleanse the stomach and cure all diseases
arising therefrom, and keep the liver and kidneys
in proper working order, and are a positive cure
for biliousness, constipation, indigestion, sick
headache, piles, pimples, boils, and for female
ailments. Packed in amber bottles, and sold
throughout Australasia.*
DON’T GET THE GLOOMS !
If you ever get “ On the Tank” and need a
Mental Bracer read
“MORE EX-TANK TALES”
(First published in the New York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable, American. Make a Corpse Laugh.
Tells the funny side of the booze business.
Price 3s. 6d. post paid. American Book Agency, Box 457,
G.P.0., Sydney, or Dymock’s Book Arcade, Sydney.
BHfl
1
lie
BBS
I
TjiOß the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King 1 Street CotVee Falnce.”
> tuated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
I'i'Hrf*. P' owjvV/or— (rTSQ* 0 • A TjTjIS»
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE... LACE!
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


Franz Josef Lager
. . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Ms
iffiS
Wi
WM,
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MATT, WOMAN or CTTITT) can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving' the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
Bole Agents for
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria—ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
EASTERTIDE
NOVELTIES
Our Lovely Easter Show this
year surpasses all previous
displays. Visitors to Sydney
should not fail to give us a
call.
OUR ONLY ADDRESS—
-90 King St., Sydney,
Next Fresh Food and Ice
Company’s Tea Rooms.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue*
MOST UP-TO-DATE NOVELTY.— SoIid Gold Flexible
Milanese Woven Bracelet, with Turquoise and Pearl set,
Hook and Eye Clasp —ltem ark aide Value, £2 12s 6cl
w
■■SSf—
Double-Heart and True Lover’s Knot Bangle,
English Hall-marked Gold, set with lovely Pearls and
Rubies or Sapphires, 52s 6d, Post Free.
Solid Gold Flexible Milanese Woven Buckle and Strap Bracelets—Plain Gold,
50s, 60s, 65s ; set with Pearls and Turquoise, as in sketch, 555, 655, 90s.
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd.
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Continental Caoutchouc & Guttapercha Co.
3BCA.KTOVBR.
U
&
MAKERS OF
Wallace Continental Bicycle Tyres,
Wallace Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres,
AND
The Celebrated Continental Motor Tyres
(Winners of Gordon Bennett Cup, 1903).
Total Yearly Output—oyer 600,000 Tyres.
DEPOT AT—
WALLACE PNEUMATIC TYRE COY.,
274 FLINDERS ST., HELBOURNE.
Branches in all States.
X
M
*
X
u
w
M
1000 Agents in
Australasia.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Win Prizes on the Track.
Win Praises in the Bush.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 357 George St., Sydney
THE LAST OF SIX.
3Price 6d,
Post Free
1
SWEATERS
BY MAIL.
My stock and values in these goods form a record hard
to beat in any business race, and I want you to get
acquainted with them. Special Lines in WHITE,
NAVY, or HEATHER MIXTURE, at
4/6, 6/6, 9/6 c “
Reliable Nottingham manufacture, and will not shrink.
Have you written for Patterns of New Autumn
Suitings? If not, WRITE TO-DAY for yourself and
friends, and try to win that “ MAIL ORDER ” Com-
petition advertised on March 17th in The Bulletin.
m
u
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
mm
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR.
m
ItgTEvery Bar
weighs 17
Honest English
I Ounces, divided
into Six Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN
I SLICES. 232
Clarence St.,
’ Sydney. Elliott
Bros. Ltd, Bris-
bane, sole ag'nts
for Queensland.
WILLIAMS 9
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
SNARPSHOOTSMS
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKJ
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
Two S. Australian “visiting justices” came down
with almost barbarous severity on nine prisoners
who made a rush for freedom the other day. The
surroundings of Adelaide’s one “labor prison”—
known throughout the State as “The Stockade”
—really encourage men to try to bolt. Several
miles away from anywhere, the prisoners are
turned out to work in the quarries which supply
most of the railway ballast; and as it is prac-
tically impossible for prisoners to get clear
away, there being nowhere for them to hide,
the guard kept over them is very slight.
Attempted escapes are therefore common ; a
man has precious little hope of getting clear,
but he sees liberty, and he rushes for it naturally
enough. Instead of walling him in, or putting
a heavier guard on him, the authorities haul him
back —usually an easy matter —and two J.’sP.
give him, as they did in most of the latest nine
cases, three months’ solitary confinement on
bread and water, occasional dark cells, irons, and
chains. So S. Australia keeps its prisoners, not
by spending money to guard them, but by
starving them and so saving money. It looks an
economical way of doing things, but, besides
being brutal, it probably isn’t economical at all—
it adds to the number of the State’s desperate
and confirmed criminal population.
Q. State Treasurer Kidston continues to
say “No” to the various local authorities who
endeavor to get a dishonest hand into the
lean Treasury chest. The latest crowd (from
Dalby) asked to be forgiven a trifling debt of
£30,000 mainly on the ground that those who
incurred the liability had gone aloft, but Kidston
bluntly told them it was immaterial whether the
original borrowers were aloft or below; the
Treasury must have the coin.' Then the discom-
fited repudiators went out, sadly asking each
other if such things could possibly be in a
Christian land. The real humor of the situation,
however, lay in the fact that Joshua Bell, member
for Dalby, who headed the deputation, is Minister
for Lands—he helps to represent the Tory element
in the compound Ministry wherein Treasurer
Kidston is part of the Democratic element.
Joshua is equally responsible with his colleagues
for the Government’s honest policy, so when he
led the begging deputation he was in effect saying
to his colleague, “ Was I really in earnest when I
adopted my present Ministerial policy?” And
Kidston, in effect, replied, “You were, though
you don’t look like it.” ,
DUNLOP
SI
I
■
I
hH
■H
Filled to a.
Cycle, ensure
Comfort. Ease of
Propulsion and
Durability.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE C<? OF AUS.ITD
MEIB. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE . BRISBANE
Perth. ch.ch. n.z.
N.S.W. House:
150 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
RUBBER HEEL 5
FVevcnt jarring make
walking a pleasure. \
Obtainable all Boot Shops
all Sizes
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CPOF AUS.LTD.
MELft. SYDNEY ADELAIDE. BRISBANE
PERTH. CHRISTCHURCH N.Z.


W. D. & H. 0. WILLS
(AUSTRALIA)
LTD.
Capstan Navy-Cut
carries with it our Reputation. We have been
nearly 200 years making this reputation, and
still we have no hesitation in offering Capstan
Navy=Cut as a perfect Pipe Tobacco. When all
talk —that is mere talk —is ended, when all
exaggeration is silenced and plain naked truth
prevails—as it must do eventually—then
MILD
MEDIUM
and
. . FULL
“CAPSTAN” NAVY-CUT
will stand forth pre=eminently worthy of your
patronage—THE PERFECT fl ANU FACTU RE
OF PERFECT LEAF.
SNIJL
■zo| j
anv
•zoz
‘■zoi
“Burglar Bill” writes on female jurors
from his point of view :
I have no objection to a hen juror under thirty. She
is impressionable, and any decent-looking- criminal who
wrorked on “respectable” lines would gather in her
sympathy in one junk. Irishwomen of all ages would
make good jurors. They have a dim idea that the Law
is an invention of the Sassenach. The married ones
have generally a family of wild boys who might offend
the majesty of the law at any moment, and the
unmarried ones are aunts or cousins of the said bovs, so
acquittals would be plentiful. Have my doubts about
the unmarried woman over thirty ; she begins to distrust
all men. And I would promptly challenge the
poorly-fleshed, married woman who wore spectacles.
A house-breaker who let her pass unchallenged would re-
quire the widow’s cruse full of undiluted luck Do obtain
an acquittal. With a presiding Judge of CTie Docker type
who wants a jury to bring in a verdict to suit his opinion,
the chances are that the hen jurors would agree the other
way out of pure cussedness. Would like to see a shrew-
ish, bespectacled old-maid jury that Docker started to
lecture. I guess he would remember it. Anyhow, I
don’t see much benefit in it, looking at it from our side of
the spikes. A prisoner’s chances would be bogged in
lumps of flattery administered by the Crown Prosecutor
and the Judge. Also he woul.l want to know the sex
thoroughly to pick a good jury, and if he possessed that
knowledge there would be no necessity for him to turn
“ crook.” He could make a good living by marrying
middle-aged orphans with money.
A BAD TASTE IN THE MOUTH.
This always arises from a disordered stomach,
and may be corrected by taking a dose of CHAM-
BERLAIN’S STOMACH AND LIVER
TABLETS. They cleanse and invigorate the
stomach, improve the digestion, and give one a
relish for food.*
“ Deeby ’’: The squalid side of Australian '
country-town life : The landlady of the premises
where I occupy a furnished room takes in lod ;.rs,
boarders, odd lots of infants, and washing. One
lodger ekes out an existence on a microscopic
income from England. Another is an ancient,
crippled old-age pensioner. One old woman, who
rents a room, goes out cooking when she can get
the chance; as this is not often, she is reduced to
living on one meal a day in the intervals. Then
there is a little old man, who inhabits a stifling,
back skillion room, and belongs to the Salva-
tion Army, and whose wherewithal of living is a
profound mystery even to the landlady. A
“ young lady ” occupies a room of a detached
building in the back yard, and, like the little old
man, her means of existence are a mystery ; but
she goes out, beautifully dressed, every evening
and does not return until late. There is also a
girl occupying another room in the same building
who is reputed to be a servant out of a place, and
who also keeps late hours. Of the children, two
are the offspring of servants employed
locally. Th® other three are children whose ■
fathers have deserted them, and whose mainten-
ance conies out of the hardly-earned wages of the
deserted wives in service. And the surroundings i
are appropriately squalid, with the unpicturesque !
squalor that is new and raw and premature in its
decay—the wooden house and goat and jam-tin
squalor. ]
TO DARKEN G'REY HAIR.
Locltyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
ver’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
t m&zz
baE j
w
A
B
A
S
H
S
Y
S
T
E
M
S
Send for Catalogue To=day.
SYSTEM and METHOD in the Office
Save TIME, LABOR and MONEY
JOHN SANDS, ?° r L Su,iSSK
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch—
VV. Wollky & Son, Agents,
‘Equitable Bldg. Melbourne.
Queensland Branch—
H. J. Diddams & Co. Agents,
Brisbane.
Acetylene
Gas
Stable lamps.
OUR ADVANCE is
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
ACETYLENE GAS
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Large Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO
161 Clarence St..
SYDNEY.
DO YOU WEAR
0
J
Are they Nice? Are they Comfortable?
Do you think they might be Improved upon ?
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»»♦♦♦♦♦
We are the Oldest Opticians in Sydney, yet we move with the times,
and adopt all the most up-to-date methods of testing.
Perhaps you would like to call on us and have your eyes tested ? It
will cost you nothing.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
393 George St., Sydney,
Opp. Royal Hotel.
And 99 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. 1d
Post Free.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
DEYNOLPS’S
" NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Vigorous Articles.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
THE BEST]
Two Guinea
suiiPm
in the k H
World.j
To Measure*
Write for ftjficrnS
Self-Hc&surc
forms.
Post
free
4
Legal Notice.
TN THE COURT OF ARBITRATION, Sa 52
x of A.D. 1902.
In the Matter of an Industrial Dispute between THE
BRICKMAKERS and BRICK-CARTERS EM-
PLOYEES OF NEW SOUTH WALES Industrial
Union of Emplovees, Claimant; and THE BRICK-
MASTERS and PIPE MANUFACTURERS Industrial
Union of Employers, Respondent,
NOTICE is hereby given that on the hearing of the
above-mentioned Dispute it is the intention of the
Claimant Union to apply for an Order making the Award
of the Court the Common Rule to cover the industry of
Briekmakers, Pipe and Pottery Manufacturers within the
State of New South Wales. Copy of the Claim in the said
Dispute can he inspected at the office of the undersigned.
BROWN & BEEBY, Solicitors,
46 Elizabeth-street, Sydney


The Stinking Pish Party Again.
From a paper published in far Lahore, which is
in India, called the Civil and Military Gazette,
The Bulletin clips a long article, originally
printed in the London Globe as from its Sydney
correspondent, on “ Aliens in Australia. Home
extracts: —
Visitors returning from the East are unanimous. in
describing the angry feeling aroused among the teeming
populations bv the action of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in rigidlV enforcing the provisions of the Act, and
treating colored visitors, no matter how high their social
rank or standing in their country, as criminals if they
venture to land, even if only for an hour or two, without
permission, 'this hostile sentiment, which may find un-
pleasant expression in the future, is not likely to become
mitigated when the news of the barbarous manner in
which the Chinese and Malay crew of the Petriana,
wrecked near the entrance to Port Phillip, were treated
by the Commonwealth Government. While the captain
and chief officers, both white men, were graciously per-
mitted to land, the whole of the crew, sixteen Chinese
and eleven Malays, were forbidden to go on shore, even
to save their lives. They were permitted to drown, if
they so pleased, in Commonwealth waters, but not to rest
until assistance arrived, on Australian soil.
The Federal Government was appealed to, but it
adopted the tone of Shylock when demanding his pound
of flesh. The law could not be suspended, even in the
matter of life or death, not for a single moment. Fortu-
nately, a partial solution of the difficulty was furnished
by the aliens, shivering in their cold and wet clothing,
being taken on board a tug boat to await the arrival of
the Japanese steamer then due at Melbourne. The cap-
tain and crew of the Kasuga Maru behaved in a more
Christian-like spirit to the shipwrecked unfortunates
than did the Federal authorities. The miserable, half-
starved men, who had lost everything the}' possessed,
were provided with food and dry clothing, and made as
comfortable as possible, the Japanese captain and his
officers not having a fear of the Australian Labor Party
before them. But the story of the inhuman manner in
which the crew of the Petriana were treated has
awakened a feeling of distrust throughout Australia.
And much more in the same strain of shameless,
unpatriotic lying. The facts as to the Petriana
wreck are that the agents of the vessel were
required by law (by the Imperial Shipping Act as
well as by the Australian Immigration Act) to
give bonds that the shipwrecked crew would be
transported to their port of shipment on the first
opportunity. They refused to do this; tried to
“ bluff ” the Federal authority just as the importer
of the Six Hatters tried to bluff. As the
Australian Government was not taking any pre-
meditated insolence to the law, to guard which it
was sworn, the bluff failed. But there was no
danger at any time of the Petriana crew being
drowned. They were as safe as in Collins-st.
all the while, and they were well cared for.
The only danger was to the agents, that they
would be compelled to give guarantees that they
would not attempt to dodge their legal responsi-
bilities towards the crew. Such are the facts.
They have been repeatedly published, and must
be within the knowledge of the Globe’s Sydney
correspondent unless he is an incredibly stupid
person.- The only reasonable conclusion to be
come to is that he is a fiction-monger and an
unpatriotic slanderer of the country which gives
him shelter —the sort of person who ought to be
carried away from Australia on a shovel to save
the wharf-lumpers from coming into too close
contact with him?
BOX SEAT.
MOTHER (sadly): “ When you're naughty mother feels grieved, and she might get very ill and
die, and she’d be taken away in a big carriage with glass sides and lovely black
horses, and”
B OBBY(excitedly: “ OU, mumming I can 1 sit with the driver?"
Mr. J. Hutchison, M.H.R., writes in correction
re the S. A. land tax :
_ . . ~ , , . ~
Prior to the session of 1902 the land tax was Jd. in the
£ on all land without exception, and Id. when the value
was over £5OOO In 1902 the Jenkins Government raised
the tax Jd. in the £, so that the small landowner paid an
increase of 50 per cent., and the holder of values over
£5OOO only an extra 25 per cent. Also, there was a flaw
in the Act, and the absentees refused to pay the 20 per
cent, added to the extra taxation, took the case to
court, and won. When the Treasurer asked for a
renewal of the impost last year, although even the Tory
and his 6 Yn "he
that the land tax is once more Jd. up to £5OOO, and Id.
over tHat. amount. Although the money was badly
wanted, the Ministry hung on to the Treasury benches
and proposed a reassessment of all the lands in the
.mifi’ni 1C ” they declared would bring in more than the
amount sacrificed. The Legislative Council instantly
tore up this proposal, but the Government still clung to
the sweets of office, and clapped a part of the deficiency on
to the Broken Hill mines by increasing the freights, and
eompelled the farmers and other users of the railways
to make up the balance.
And The Bulletin puts on its sackcloth and
ashes and confesses that in a recent article
(March 3) it followed Coghlan’s “ Australia and
New Zealand, 1902-3,” blindly. In 99 cases out
of 100 it is safe to follow Coghlan blindly ; this
was the hundredth.
How home industry is fostered in New South
Wales. Coal, a raw product, can be trucked from
Lithgow to Sydney for 4s. 3d. per ton ; nearly
always the coal trucks have to be taken up empty,
so that the 4s. 3d. has to pay for two haulages.
But for iron, a manufactured article, the freight
from Lithgow to Sydney is 10s. 6d. per ton.
Mostly, also, the trucks which bring manufac-
tured iron away from the works carry crude stuff
back to them at Bs. per ton. But while they
charge Sandford, the local manufacturer, 10s. 6d.
a ton to bring the locally-manufactured iron from
Lithgow to Sydney, they only charge Is. 6d. a
ton to carry foreign-manufaetured iron from Syd-
ney to Lithgow in certain cases ; that is to say,
they charge the local manufacturer 38s. 6d. a ton
to carry his stuff from Lithgow to Bourke, and
the foreign manufacturer only 40s. a ton (or Is. 6d.
more) from Sydney to Lithgow and thence on to
Bourke. No wonder Sandford, after a long and
plucky struggle, is growing dispirited, and dis-
mantles part of his works.
«
“Goa Chi” to Thk Bulletin from Penang,
Straits Settlements: —
S’Afrioa will make a holy show of its mining labor
question if it imports the Chinaman. The Ikey push
should indent a dozen on trial first. Judging from the
method of their employment as miners in the native
States of Malaysia (i.e., Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan,
and Penang), the S’Africans should make use of the best
of all policies, which out here i 3 “ Nanti dahulu,” other-
wise “ Look before you leap.” The advice of some extra-
ordinary people has been taken on this subject. One of
them is an individual who knows less about mining and
the labor conditions of this part of the world than his
boot, and who found himself in S’Africa under circum-
stances which are well known to all of us Empire-makers
on this particular bit of red on the map. This, however,
by the way. What I want to point out is that the Chinese
mining coolie here cannot in any sense be called a
miner. He is a coolie pure and simple. To begin
with, we have no deep level mining. Nearly all the
mines are big open-face shows, with an overburden of
from 6ft. to 45ft. above the karang or tin-bearing stratum.
These are worked in “ paddocks,” excavated by gangs of
coolies under separate headmen who are paid at so much
per cubic yard for removing over-burden. That’s one
gang. The other gang is employed at lifting the karang.
They are wages men. All of the w-ork is purely mechani-
cal, and the result is profitable, quantity of labor making
up for quality, in an admittedly cheap-food country.
How will this pan out in Boerland ? It seems to me that
none of the conditions which make the system payable in
Federated Malaysia are apparent in South Africa. The
“ Protector” of Chinese (official designation) has gone to
give his advice to Africa. He knows the Chinaman well,
better than most English out here. But he doesn’t know
or understand his capabilities as a miner, or the difference
between an adit level and a winze. I have only seen it
vaguely stated that “ Chinese are to be employed in the
mines.” If they reckon on getting skilled cheap labor
to work at anything over 300 feet deep, they are making
an awful mistake. Granted that they are able to force
them down below, the whole 10,000 of them, what good
will a lot of blundering yellow lunatics who have never
seen a drill or a plug of Nobel be to the mine-owners? I
think it will be found that their cheapness is of the kind
that is likely to become mighty expensive before all is
found out. A Chinaman, it is said, will thrive w’here a
Polish Jew dies of starvation. So he will, if you let
him thrive in the way that suits him, and don’t interfere
with him ; coerce him and he moves off where things are
easier. There is a weeping and great gnashing of teeth
in store for the promoters of this scheme.
The Laborites who were “ called ” to the N.S.W,
Leg. Council, a few years ago, illustrate how
completely a man is lost who is dropped into that
vault . You never hear of any of them. The
and file even of Laborites probably couldn’t
tell their names. The Assemblyman, having to
r pWtinn now and ae-ain has to keen
g - Up *?, r electlon no J an ? a S aln > nas t 0 Kee P
g oln f? 5 , th e other man doesn t. He gets no pay ;
mostly he has to take some sort of a billet which
doesn’t leave him as independent as he ought to
be. He doesn’t, therefore, make any unnecessary
row and so he drops out of notice. On the whole,
the Laborites don’t seem to treat him too well,
tn England, the Labor man in _ the Commons
nearly always holds some paid union office ; Ben
PICKARD, for instance, who died the other day,
had during his 18 years in the House drawn
sa l ar y all the time as a secretary of the Yorkshire
xrAssociation Vet tlininrh the NSW
t u A ? so ° latl ° n - * et, though the JX.O. W.
Laborites in the Council have a very necessary
and often a most important work to do, no provi-
sion at all is made for them. If they don’t
always do much it is because, in the first
place, they are few, and in the second place
they are not placed in a position of
reasonable independence. Their position is
so anomalous that for the party’s own credit some
attempt might well be made to improve matters,
Of course the thing to be. ultimately aimed at is
A LESSON IN INDUSTRY.
B OY (loq.): “How is it father, that all
the fruit business in Sydney is done
by Dagoes?”
HIS FATHER: “Because, my boy, the
Dagoes are so industrious. See how
bright and shiny those apples are.
It is not unusual for some of the
Dagoes to get up early, breathe hard on the apples, and then polish them on their velve-
teen trousers. The Englishman is too lazy to get up early and breathe hard on his apples
the disappearance of the Leg. Council altogether;
but probably that will never come about until the
Chamber has a strong enough Labor leaven to
vote its own destruction. How it is going to get
a strong enough Labor leaven on the present basis
• „ mv L r v “
is a iny e y.
~ .. A r „„ „ t'..
Elmore on the need for an agncultura c
tones Act:
Want to say a lot about various things, threshing
machines, the engines that drive them, and Victorian
cookies in particular, and I want to know when they are
to be jointly and severally brought under the Factories
Act. As things are at present an uncertificated man can
drive an engine that leaks in every joint, and if a bit of
elbow grease happened to be applied to the boiler his
hand would go clean through it. Many of tbese enginea
(I have only seen 6 and 8 h.p. portable) are tested to to
and 801 b., and when you see them working in a bit of
TOme*important'engagenient^'inne'orbo's, way." “he
pay is 6d an hour, and the hours are 14 a day, sometimes
more. A man must be up at 3.30a.m. to start work ;he
gets to sleep at night about nine. He has to be about 17
or 18 hours awake to earn ss. or 6s. a day. The average he
gets paid for is about 11 hours a day ; the rest of the time
and a-quarter-of-an-hour each for lunch in the morning
and afternoon. The work can be better imagined than
described. A scorching December or January sun, a
cloud of dust which chokes up the lungs, cutting the very
eyes out of one, despite gWgies, and bringing. outthe
J»JtZXSE2%?2R
ss. or 65.. The tucker, on the whole, is good, with the
exception of the share-system cocky’s. His tucker is an
abomination, whicli no self-respecting pig would eat.
The mountain cocky keeps the best table, and is the
S™ JESS'S ES,
giving the strawstack builder a liberal tip. The cockies
vary greatly. You meet the good sort (he generally has
a well-bred horse or two), who objects to rising before
5 a.m., and you meet the sour-visaged one who is at the
stacks at 2 a.m., making enough row to wake the dead,
chasing imaginary horses 1
Nme out of every ten cockles have either a weak-minded
man or,a boy from.the school
or nothing a week. Ta k ng the V ctonan farmeis as a
whole, I’ll shake hands with the man who calls them
a poor-mouthed, slave-driving lot of blanks, and here
1 h ?l h ° n the bUSh^f en us° t wd!rhumbhtT 1 o < urs t elves aJ and
pif & b?»Stttwrssca
Factories Act.
" % f
■nt a xxr a Wt __
N.S.W. Acting-Premier Wise bearded the daily
newspapers again at the St. Bat S luncheon by
reminding them of how his Government had taken
away their dishonest subsidies ; and the Tele-
GRAPH disingenuously comments: — ,
t -j . ~ ~ , ..
Incidentally Mr. Wise remarked that the inflexib e
economical purpose of the Government had been dis-
placed in its enforcement of new and special charges on
proprietors of newspapers, and that people “ had only to
read the morning papers” to be sure that Ministers had
kept their promise to bring about this magnifi-
cent reform. As an attempt to make out that
the hostility of the newspapers towards the Govern-
ment is solely inspired by the adamantine determi-
nation of incorruptible Ministers in this respect,
there is a certain amount of ingenuity about that.
Seriously considered, however, it is found to clash
against the facts. Press antagonism was certainly not
the effect -of that change, but probably it was its cause,
The See Government has never had the support of the
morning press, as everyone knows. If it had, there would
have been no occasion for the Government to take puni-
tive measures against it.
Facts are that the Lyne Government (of which
t |,„ Cnvernment was nrnotioallv a oontinua-
the toEE government was practically a connnua
tion) had the strenuous support of the daily papers.
As for the Telegraph, it was in Lyne s pocket,
When Lyne left the N.S.W. Cabinet a more honest
policy was initiated so far as the newspapers
were concerned ; then the morning papers began
tn nuriiifi the re constructed Ministrv (which in
to pursue the re-constructed ministry fwnicn in
all political matters was of the same temperas
the Lyne Administration, and different from it
only in being a little more honest) with venomous
hostility. The only point of difference between
the Lyns Government and the See Government
was that Lyne promised billets to pressmen and
all sorts of concessions to the newspapers, a,nd See
didn’t. And whilst Lyne, the Protectionist, was
enthusiastically supported by the Freetrade press,
See, the Protectionist (but in power when the
fiscal issue was dead in State politics) was bitterly
A rmhlio which would fail to draw the
assailed. • A public which wouia tail to draw the
proper conclusion from these facts would be a
very stupid public indeed.
+
y t A j •
So little progress has Local Government ma.de in
N.S.W. that there are 44,970 miles of roads in the
State that are still outside of municipal boun-
daries. These have to be maintained by the State
Government, usually at a most excessive cost,
because, ordinarily, an urgent £3 job can t be done
until after the matter has been referred to Sydney
and passed through about six clerks hands, and
by the time it is done the psychological moment
for doing it has passed, and the job which ought
to cost £3 then costs £lO. The man on the spot
c [ looses hj s time—outback he does the job when
there is surface water handy. But by the time a
. - g sano ti O ned under State control the nearest
J• han „ oreieht miles awav and the
water is, pernaps, six or eigni nines away, auu iiie
cost is, consequently, jumped up .100 per cent.
The want of Local Government costs JN. O. W. tens
0 f thousands a year in this way ; and even then
p eo pj e w j lo benefit by the works as a rule
esoape contribution towards them.
“
♦
Somehow or other inter-State unionism among
miners never seems to thn ve. The A.M. A. used
to embrace Vic., N.S.W., S.A., and las., and the
Queenslanders were on the best of terms with it.
j£ ven the Newcastle coal-miners, who generally
fer to stan( j “on their own,” were for a while
hsoeiater); also the Moonta (S. A.) copper-miners,
among whom unionism has never been particularly
vigorous. When the N.S.W. men decided to go
in warmly for Labor-in-politics, tlie Vic. men hung
and disruption followed ; and in the end
there was a comp i e te break-up, only Victoria and
Tasmania remaining united And now even that
little bit of union is threatened, the Victorian
officers being unwilling to go ahead as fast as the
l us tier Tasmanian West Coasters want them to.
] Q course 0 f tributing at bread-and-scrape
rates ° f
Eureka and Bendigo pretty spiritless.
+
EXTRACTS from the JAPAN MAIL, an English
paper published at Tokio :
Mr. Darmapala also addressed the meeting, spoke
, in gupport 0 f the enterprise, and expressed a
hope that Japan’s philanthropic efforts would be ex-
India We may be doinf? Mr . Darmapala an
injusti but hig uttera nces seem to have a sound of ill-
J > iml , ress : on tbev niabe on us. from the pub-
reports, is that he entertains the idea of a Japanese
gg-gg*. «>»»«»„«..be«*..
Mr. Darmapala represents the masses (of India) as
oppressed, and as no better than slaves, and calls upon
Japanese Buddhists to effect their rescue. Exactly to
wbafc clasg of s i aves be refers is not clear. If the slavery
be o{ the political kind, it is difficult to see how Japanese
Buddhists can afford any assistance. We observe that
Mr. Darmapala gives the'number of Brahmins as twenty
millions. He says they are the real rulers of India. On
the beneficent work of the English Government for nearly
h]f century be bad nothing to tell his audience,
~ J . . “ . • . , , ,
The world-supremacy of Asia, that is undoubtedly
the idea which the Japs have in their heads ; and
Jingo-Imperial England helps Japan along the
firsfc st tQ that end ,
r
■■ l ■ ■ ♦
„ necevsarv evil
ON a necessary evil .
Experience of N.S.W. Arbitration Act, so far, suggests
that it would not be wise in the proposed Federal Act to
exclude lawyers from acting as advocates. A Court
founded to administer a new Act has to create*at the
outset a vast body of law ; the Act a sense, the dry
b ones of the framework on which is built, by a series of
decisions, the living law. In coming to its decisions
the Court must be careful always to observe the spirit of
the Common Law and existing statute law ; otherwise
confusion arises and the purpose of the Act is frustrated.
J{ there . g bufc Qne Judße t 0 the Arb itration Court and no
counse j are employed, it will be simply impossible for
that one Judge,■"however wide his knowledge and careful
his study, to avoid serious mistakes, for no man can hope
to keep all the existing laws in his memory. The theory
of the employment of counsel is that they help.lhe Judge
t 0 a knowledge of the law points involved by pointing
them out to him. Billson, K.C., appearing for Jones,
rakes through the whole of the law to find points which
may help Jones. Jobson, K C., appearing for Smith,
does a similar exhaustive search to ferret out points
for Smith. The Judge hears them both, looks
wise, and, if he knows his business, refers
a a ” d a sve S Ta decision which i7rec-
be resu it 0 f three men’s brain-work. If there is any
existing statute which will help Jones, or Smith, he is
almost certain to be reminded of it by one of the counsel.
In N.S.W. Arbitration Court, Justice Coiien, through
being deft sometimes without counsel’s assistance, has at
different times given awards against the Coal Mines
R eKU ] a ti on Act and against the Factories Act—in both
caseg( 0 f course, ultra vires. In the proposed Federal
Arbitration Court, wherein some very complicated points
of constitutional law will add to the perplexities of the
judge, counsel will be especially necessary. I recognise
tdv a t the lawyer is in some aspects an evil; but the evil is
a necessary one, consequent upon the complicated state
of modern law.


The Ivanhoe Junction (W.A.) real figures, at
feast so far as the yield is concerned, have at last come
out, and read only 290 z. from 250 tons. This gives the
miserable average of 2'3d\vt. per ton. The local prints,
as usual, make all sorts of apologies for the fiasco, and
state that most of the gold was lost in the slimes,
“ samples of which, unfortunately, are not obtainable.” (!)
All reports concerning the mine gave the average of the
lode at over lOdwt. and mentioned one chute 20ft. long
worth 290 z. per ton. Shareholders in this miserable con-
cern have again and again been fooled into parting up
calls by a mode of “ window-dressing,” quite as reprehen-
sible as faked balance-sheets, and, if they think the pro-
perty worth more powder and shot, they should at least
change the system of management.
*' » * »
The tentacles of Bewick, Moreing and Co. are
still on the move. The latest to come within their reach
is the Golden Horseshoe, the management of which has
just been taken over. That the previous management of
the Horseshoe left much to be desired there is no
gainsaying. The costs and consumption of water
per ton treated are the highest on the field.
The boiler power employed is perfectly absurd,
and practically double that of any other mine
on the field. The laying out of the plant has been bad,
and has helped to raise costs, which are practically
twice those of its next door neighbor, the Ivanhoe,
working the same lodes. From the richness of its chutes
the Horseshoe has raised itself to being the premier gold-
producer of the Golden West, but the Perseverance beat
it last year in rate of divs. The ’Shoe is now being
equipped with a new 60-head mill, and a lot of labor-
saving appliances, tending to reduce costs. Naturally,
Sutherland should get some credit for the reduction, but
at the next annual meeting the big firm will be given all
the kudos. The advent of the new management was
heralded by the sacking of 40 men, just to show that the
new broom sweeps clean. That a lot of the silver-tail
officials on the mine are shaking in their shoes it is need-
less to say.
* » • *
Brown Hill Extended (W. A.), which in January
last started sinking from the 700 ft. to 900 ft. level, has
discontinued after reaching 800 ft. The exact reason for
the stoppage is not known, but the manager got peremp-
tory orders from the London directors to cease opera-
tions. At the end of last year the co. had, or, at least,
was alleged to have had, £63,000 cash in hand ; but it
may only have been a case of “window dressing.” In
April last 20,000 new shares were placed at 225. 6d., pro-
ducing £25,000 ; this was immediately followed by a div.
of £20,000, followed, in Oct., by another of £25,000. Ex-
cept for the small patch of the Brown Hill chute, which
traversed the north-west corner of the lease, and which is
now worked out, the property has proved practically
barren. Tub Bulletin ha* often advised investors to
have nothing to do with any co. on this eastern belt, as
no payable lode has ever been found east of the Brown
Hill lode, in spite of very extensive prospecting operations
by the Brown Hill, Brown Hill Extended, Oroya East,
North Boulder, and other more or less insignificant
concerns.
* » » *
The rumors regarding the change of manage-
ment of the Great Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) have
been forcibly denied by manager Ralph Nichols in a
cable from London, but they continue all the same.
Numerous sharebrokers have had cables announcing the
impending change to Bewick, Moreing and Co., and
anyone who knows anything of Westralian fields will be
satisfied that a persistent rumor has generally more
foundation than a mere official denial. This mine is
equipped with pretty well all Yankee machinery,
including Griffin mills, and, so far as upkeep of
plant is concerned, is in advance of any other
mine. The engine-room is a picture, and a credit
to the man who bosses it. As to the treatment plant,
the upkeep is enormous, and cost should be written off
in three years, at the end of which time practically
nothing of the original wearing parts remain. The other
mines with these Yankee mill notions are the Great
Boulder and South Kalgurli, and they have seen their
day. In fact, dry crushing has been proved more or less
of a frost, for, like smelting, it is perfectly absurd to
roast or smelt the whole of the ore when, by concentra-
ting, or even by hand picking, not 10 per cent, vvould
require this expensive treatment. If, when Bewick,
Moreing and Co. take charge, the treatment plant is not
fired out on the scrap, 8., M. and 00. are not as far-seeing
as they look. *
* * * *
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.), has
just treated 193 tons for 1240 z., from the Rubicon lease.
This is the property that interested parties have for long
been assiduously booming, and of which it was recently
reported that it had longer and richer chutes in the
upper levels than the Great Fingall, and was, in fact, a
better mine ! Economist Curie stated that the co. had
“ foolishly [?] erected a 10 stamp mill,” which would treat
the richest portions of the reef, and mislead shareholders
into imagining that the whole reef was of similar quality.
If the richest portions of the reef, after much picking,
only pan out 10 to 12dwts., as has hitherto been the case,
the mine must be a very one-horse show. The co. was
originally launched in 1895, since when it has been recon-
structed" no fewer than six times, and, although a cat is
credited with nine lives, the Murchison Associated is
unlikelj 7 to reach that number unless British shareholders
are bigger fools than even their worst friends credit
them with being.
* * » *
Ex-Government Geologist Goczel, of W.A., has
recently been trying his hand on the north end of the
Kalgoorlie field. After much diamond-drilling and other
exploration he has come to the conclusion that, though
the formation of the country is identical with that of the
south end of the field, there has been insufficient heat to
fuse the rocks, as happened at the south, and that the
gold has consequently not been concentrated, but is,
what might vulgarly be called, all over the shop. As
Goczel is shrewd, except in regard to the bawbees, it
seems pretty useless to expect that any payable mine will
be found northwards. The furthest north payable mine
is Oades’, which, however, would never pay a co. What
its real return is it is impossible to say. Oades conscien-
tiously sends in his figures to the Government, showing
an average of 4 to sdwt., but, as he has bought and
erected much machinery, including a 25-head mill, quid-
nuncs wonder how the thing’s done.
* * * *
S’ African brewery divs. throw a little extra
light on the war and its ways. The record of the two big
concerns was:
1899. 1900. 1901. 1902.
Ohlsson’s .. 20 p.c. 35 p.c. 42 p.c. 52p.c.
S.A. Breweries 12J ~ 17J „ 25 ~ 30 ~
Ohlsson’s share capital is £500,000, with £350,000 deben-
tures ; the other’s, £1,250,000.
* * * *
Hercules (Mt. Read, Tasmania), is still keeping
its eye open for something that will treat its lower-grade
zinc-lead ores, but without success so far. Both the
Potter and the magnetic (Ulrich) processes have been
tried, without commercial success. The Elmore oil pro-
cess is now being given a test; and if that does not
answer, then Swinburne and Ashcroft, who have in hand
an electrolytic method, evolved from the original Ash-
croft process, over which the Sulphide Corporation
dropped about a quarter of a million, will be invited to
do their best with the puzzle. Meantime, with the pre-
sent low freights and high spelter prices, a few shillings
a ton profit can be made by sending the rich zinc ore (lOoz.
silver and about 45 per cent, zinc) to Europe, and the
small quantity of gossan ore and the richer gold and
silver-bearing "sulphide are being sold to the Tas. Smelting
Co. at a price which allows of an occasional small divi-
dend. Last half-year’s profit was £3208 on a total output
of 7778 tons. The future depends mostly on getting hold
of something that will turn the zinc ore to better account.
At present, though there is about £l4 worth of metal in
every ton of ore, the co. gets barely £3 landed in Europe.
* * * *
True cause of the rise in Briseis (Tas.) tin shares
is pretty plain. Brothers Home No. 1 report let in a
little light as to progress in removing the overburden.
This gleam gladdened one or two holders, who started to
average a bit; and then a few oversold birds, smelling
trouble, rushed in to cover. It will take months and
months of calls at the Brothers No. 1 before tin is got.
No calls will be wanted at the Briseis, but the drag of
an overdraft of over £3o,ooo—probably £3s,ooo—has to
be liquidated. Therefore with months of work ahead to
get at the tin, the co. has a long spell of work to do for
the bank.
(Continued on page 83.)
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL.
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
15 St. Dunstan’s Hill,
London, E.C., England.
At Poverty Point.
Cecil Ward, preparatory to leaving for London, sold off
his household effects at “ Sunnyside,” Neutral Lay, the
other day. The spot is perhaps one of the most delight-
ful on the foreshores of Sydney harbour, and was pur-
chased by this affluent mummer a couple of years ago.
Carrie Moore, “ resting” after her London engagement
in “ The Shop Girl,” speaks of a future trip to America
and a return to these shores about mid-winter of 1906.
This confident prediction of movements doesn’t sound
as if the versatile Carrie is exactly rushed with mana-
gerial offers. Carrie also mentions that her three young
sisters are in the land of Uncle Sam, and not footing it
in any Melbourne show, as Carrie says Thb Bulletin
had it.
There was nearly an interesting event on the stage of
Harry Rickards’ Melbourne Opera House, one evening
last July. One of his ex-chorus girls swore lately that
she was “on ” on the Thursday evening, and at six next
morning was safely delivered of a boy, for whose mainten-
ance she now sues.
The R.C. prelate is the nearest approach to an autocrat
that Australia possesses. Melb. Archbishop Carr came
down heavily the other day on the organisers of concerts
likely to compete with his own St. Patrick’s night shivoo,
and ordered that they should not be held on the Hibernian
gala day. The arrangements for half-a-dozen suburban
concerts devoted to praise of the “ Harp that once ” and
“The Yale of Avoca” were badly dislocated in conse-
quence, but the Archbishop graciously signified that he
would allow the concerts to be held on other evenings 1
The young author of a recent London drama is said to
have “caught the Jones complaint,” inasmuch as he
“plays about the purlieus of the Divorce Court without
daring to go in.” The heroines of Henry Arthur Jones’s
brightest stage stories have been married women who
had a mind to go astray, but lacked the courage to offend
Mrs. Grundy.
Madame Nordics, who has obtained a divorce from her
second husband, had a unique experience with husband
No. 1. He went up in a balloon some years ago, and is
still up—at least, no one ever heard that either he or the
balloon came down again.
London Times critic, comparing a recent musical
comedy production at the Savoy Theatre with the Gilbert
and Sullivan work that made the house famous of yore :
“ The Savoy Theatre gave us a singular species of opera,
which it is hard to place. Its operas were not only better
than other operas, they were something quite distinct.
To call them artistic might be taken to be implying un-
deserved reproach ; they were so artistic that the art of
them was the last thing thought about. They were full
of wit and meaning ; they made you shake with laughter,
and illuminated life for you at the same time. If you
look closely into your daily conversation you will be sur-
prised to find how much of it is direct cr indirect quota-
tion from the Savoy operas.”
“Hist”: “ Holdar M.” (B. 10/3/’O4) suggests a stage
marriage for pros, as a good draw. Louise Pomeroy got
very near it in a Victorian country town 15 years ago,
playing Juliet one evening to the Romeo she had wedded
four hours before the rising of the curtain. There was a
full house.
Sydney musical amateurs will be pleased to
learn, that “grand old man” basso Tom Rainford has
sufficiently recovered from his recent severe illness to be
about again, and, in spite of his three-quarters of a
century, is looking very well.
A particular feature of the recent A.N.A. competitions
in Melbourne was the performance of Jerome’s one-act
comedy, “ Sunset,” by a practised company—six members
—whose work is considerably above the average com-
petent-amateur standard. The three women parts were
played by Mrs. Maurice Dudley, Miss Mathews, and Miss
Macdonald, the first the wife of Maurice Dudley (of
J. O. Williamson’s co.), and the last the daughter of
Donald Macdonald. The three men—especially J. H.
Hopkins and Dyson—are also strong enough to maintain
the balance of power, a very exceptional thing with
amateur companies, the usual proportions of talent being
90 per cent, feminine to 10 per cent, masculine, or there-
abouts. The “ Sunset” six will repeat their pretty little
show at the Athenaeum Hall in a week or two, for Fred.
B. Norton’s benefit.
At Elijah Dowie’s night meeting in the Holy City, were
distributed programmes on which was a picture of Christ,
with the usual halo, standing before a door and knocking.
Underneath was the legend, “ Knock, and it shall
be opened unto you.” About half way through the
meeting, when thousands of people were shouting for
admittance (the gates having been shut), and were sing-
ing “ Sons of the Sea,” in addition to other disagreeable
things, a man rose up and said: “ Mr. Dowie, on your pro-
gramme you have a picture of Christ knocking, and
underneath the words “ Knock, and it shall be opened.”
(Yah ! Stinkpot!) (Bring Dowie out to us !) (Throw out
the impostor !) Mr. Dowie, here are thousands knock-
ing for admittance.” The purple-winged Profit replied
with his usual brilliant repartee, “ Sit down, or you’ll be
chucked out.”
Died, the other day, Tom Sullivan, well-known
in Sydney musical circles. Although he never rose
to any great eminence, he was a very fair all-round
musician. Some 25 years ago he played Bosun’s Mate in
J. C. Williamson’s “Pinafore” co., and afterwards
travelled a good deal with opera companies—among
others, with M’Cullum and Vernon’s “ Tambour Major”
co., playing leading parts throughout Maoriland. He
was also organist and choirmaster in a Sydney R.C.
church. Two or three years ago, he met with a severe
tramway aceident, from which he never fully recovered.
Sydney trams have in the past few years made holocaust
in the theatrical profession. First, Carmini-Morley, the
tenor; then Edwards, of Bland Holt’s company; and
now, Tom Sullivan.
Until recently there was no theatre in Perth (W.A.),
and visiting companies had to show in the Town Hall, a
dreary, dingy barn built over the fire brigade stables, and
reached by a narrow and dangerous flight of wooden
steps. From the stables on hot nights a strong aroma of
that noble animal, the horse, constantly ascended, and
the surroundings of the place generally were mean and
squalid in the extreme. At last publican Tom Molloy put
up a small theatre in the main street, and it proved so
successful that he has started another one on a much
bigger scale a little higher up. Theatre and hotel com-
bined will cost £46,000. There will be a stage fully a
chain square, and seating accommodation will be pro-
vided for 2600 people. Phil Goatcher, who is doing the
decoration and scenery, says that the new Perth theatre
will be equal to anything in Sydney or Melbourne. Fre-
mantle, twelve miles from Perth, is also building a
theatre, but on a smaller scale ; and the spec, should be
a good one, for Fremantle has a population of over
25,000, and all the big mail steamers now call there.
The most flattering compliment Nellie Stewart has ever
received was paid to her lately by the Yankee journalist
who took her to be “ Mr. George Musgrove’s beautiful
daughter,” and the elder sister of her own child. He
was judging her, too, by a private-box appearance, not
by a stage appearance. Australia’s best Nell is truly a
wonderful woman. Present scribe possesses the book
of a panto, produced, at Melb. Royal, on Boxing
Night, 1873, a panto, “localised, vocalised, and gene-
rally acclimatised by Marcus Clarke, Esq.,” in which
“ Nelly Stewart” played the very minor part of Radianta
(a Sister Star), Docy and Maggie Stewart being other two
stars. Mrs. Bracy (Miss Clara Thompson) was down for
the part of Tommy Tucker. Sister Nellie, of course, was
a very young damsel at that time, for the book of an
extravaganza—“ Paris the Prince and Helen the Fair ”
(by W. M. Akhurst), also produced at Melbourne Royal,
in April, 1868—show's that Maggie and Docy Stewart, but
not Nelly, were then members of the co. These ancient
publications have political as well as theatrical interest
for the reader of to-day. Take, for instance, the follow-
ing lines from Marcus Clarke’s panto. :
A backward glance now let us cast,
And see how much we’ve gained in Session past.
Our members, w’ho must make the meat they feed on,
Have passed a Railway Bill they’d all agreed on,
And, the Police Act having then amended,
Drew salary and thought the session ended ;
And so the Council proved it without doubt,
For all that one threw in the rest threw out.
The Land Act offered, but, its right affected,
The Upper House the measure quick rejected.
The Savings Banks Reserves came Langton pat upon-
The Council instantly the measure sat upon.
Then came a question all their wrath to rouse,
Pray how can we reform this Upper house ?
They didn’t answer, but some folks doubt whether
Next year we shan’t reform it altogether.
Marcus Clarke anticipated, by nearly 30 years, the first
beginning of the reformation.
“La Seconde Madame Tanqueray,” a French transla-
tion of Pinero’s play, was received with mild enthusiasm
in Paris, the critics being astonished to find that an
English dramatist could do anything so good. But the
work, according to English accounts, suffered through
being faithfully translated. The lines spoken by Lady
Orreyed (formerly of the demi-monde), which betray her
real character in the English original, lose all taint of
vulgarity in the French. On the other hand Paula Tan-
queray gets all the sympathy because nobody has any
respect for her husband.
The kind of cable slush the daily paper
reader pays for :
The Queen yesterday paid a surprise visit to the
Alexander Trust Dining Rooms, and herself took lunch
there ; 3000 people were in the rooms.
And even that omits the most prominent feature
of the item —the “Welcome” over the door.
The death of solicitor Thomas J. Butler
at 31 brings up the exact date of the historic
quarrel between his father, Edward Butler,
Attorney-General, and Premier Henry Parkes.
Alfred Stephen retired from the Chief-Justice-
ship in 1873, and Parkes, who had promised the
position to Butler, conferred it on James Martin.
Butler left the Cabinet; and the feud even yet
survives among relatives, though Butler, Parkes,
and Martin are all dead.
English cricketers and sporting papers
have been making wild guesses as to the reason
of the success of Warner’s XI. But no one seems
to have hit upon the correct explanation, which is
comprised in three capital letters—D. C. L. By
sticking to the one brand of Whisky the English
cricketers added new emphasis to the well known
fact that D. C. L. is the Whisky of all round
success. From it the athlete imbibes strength
and wisdom.*
England has raised a Deeming—Crossman
by name. He is reported to have married eight
wives, two of whom are missing. He also had a
cemented relative, and was carrying her remains
round in a trunk. Six*. Was insufficiently
cemented, and the od'#« rf decomposition
attracted attention and policemen. Then Cross-
man fled into the street, cutting his throat as he
ran, and irretrievably ruined what would have
been a most sensational murder trial for the
ha’penny papers.
Sydney Sunday Slimes on the introduc-
tion of Chinese to the Rand :
As for Mr. Watson, he belongs to that section which
includes almost all the pro-Boers who made themselves
obnoxious in Australia during the war, and whose unpa-
triotic talk and acts will be always remembered by the
electors of this country.
Which, considering that the electors of this
country sent Mr. Watson to Parliament, when the
war-feeling was still a live thing, with a big fol-
lowing, and at the last election returned him with
a greatly increased following, is humorous.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
DIABETIC
"Patients will hear of
something: to their ad-
vantage by writing: to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY.
STEYNE COURT,
MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
New Attractions—BlJOU THEATRE, “ BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO.
Amusements.
piTZCERALD BROTHER S’
HUGE MOVING CARAVAN,
Comprising CIRCUS, MENAGERIE, HORSE FAIR,
and the OSAKA TEAM of
JAPANESE WRESTLERS.
BEL M ORE PARK.
THE SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES.
ENORMOUS ATTENDANCES NIGHTLY.
THE VAST CANVAS AMPITHEATRE PACKED TO
ITS HOLDING CAPACITY.
THE ACKNOWLEDGED ARENIC ENTERPRISE OF
AUSTRALASIA.
DR. GORDON, THE STRONG MAN,
who Lifts Great Weights, Breaks Chains by Muscular
Expansion, Carries a Horse up a Ladder, and Lifts the
same quadruped with his teeth.
CHEERED BY THOUSANDS.
First Appearance in Australia of the OSAKA TEAM
OF JAPANESE WRESTLERS,
SATURDAY, APRIL 2.
The Splendid Band led by HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Paling & Co.’s.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, and ALL
HOLIDAYS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
The Great Attraction for the Easter Holidays,
Commencing SATURDAY, APRIL 2,
J. M. Barrie’s Bewitching Romance in 4 acts,
THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON,
Interpreted by Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
Headed by the Popular Young Actor,
MR. CUYLER HASTINGS.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
THE RETURN TO SYDNEY OF
BLAND HOLT
and his
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATION OF DRAMATIC
FAVORITES,
in the Mastodan Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
HAWTREY'S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
HUGE and UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS of the
Great English Society PJay,
THE TWO MR. WETHERBYS.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
ST. JAMES’ HALL, PHILLIP STREET
(Next Paris House).
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
THE INIMITABLE
PIERROT ENTERTAINERS
(Direct from England), in their
UNIQUE, HIGH-CLASS and UP-TO-DATE SOCIETY
ENTERTAINMENT.
POPULAR PRICES. Plan at Paling’s.
Business Manager, PERCY J. O’BRIEN.
MELB. B.
MELB. B.
LONDON’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER.
SPURRj
SPURR,
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, APRIL 2, & EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 4.
POPULAR PRICES—2s. and Is.
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. HERBERT FLEMMING.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
and OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
New Reels.
US? - Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney,
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
A Success of Enthusiasm, THE TWO BELLS.
Also, THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS.
Splendid Reception of Mr. JULES GRAHAM and his
World-Astounding Educated MONKEY, DARWIN.
Emphatic Success of MR. JOHNNY JOHNSTON.
LAST WEEK of CLARKE and HAMILTON.
Mr. LAL LOGIE, Miss NITA LEETE.
Mr. ERNEST FITTS, Mr. JAMES HARVEY, Miss
FLORRIE RANGER. THE CLARENCE SISTERS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Great Success of NAT CLIFFORD, the World’s
Greatest Eccentric Dancer.
LAST WEEK of Mrs. SIMS REEVES.
Miss MAUD BEATTIE.
JENNY CRAY, MAGGIE FRASER, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Mr. Rickard’s New Coon Sketch,
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD FANING.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 2,
The Famous Japanese PJay
The Darling of the Gods,
will be presented by Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S
COMPANY, including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNICHT.
•fHEATRE ROYAL. MELBOURNE.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 2,
Re-appearance after 12 Month’s Absence of WILLIAM
ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.,
headed by
Miss EUGENE DUGGAN.
Opening Production,
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW,
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 2,
and Until Further Notice,
Mr. CEORGE STEPHENSON presents his
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY
in the Funniest Play Since Time Began,
Mama’s New Husband
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—6s., 35,, and Is.


Visitors to Sydney for the Easter Season
should call for a copy of this Famous Medical Work.
THE BEST BOOK.
Over 200 leading Australian
journals declare this book,
“ CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES ” ON GENERAL DISEASES, compiled by the Medical Staff of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
to be one of the finest medical works ever issued to the Australian public. It is a welcome
addition to Australian literature. It has been read by thousands of men and women weekly
throughout Australia. Over 250,000 copies have been ordered in two years. It oontains
570 pages,
150 Interesting: Medical Plates,
31 chapters on general diseases, and 50 valuable articles upon public hygiene. It is a book
essentially for men, and it is worth a Pound a Page to any suffering man who needs a doctor.
ONE SHILLING ONLY.
This great work
may be obtained
for this small sum
by any country visitors during the Easter season who call at the Institute. If application is
made by post the fee of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS ONLY
is charged. Its postage will be paid. It is no mere advertising pamphlet, but a genuine
Medioal Work, instructive to a degree. Country people residing where medical men are few
and far between should keep a copy in the house, for it is as good as a doctor to them. It wil 1
tell you what to do in cases of.
FEVER, SUNSTROKE, APOPLEXY, DROWNING,
EPILEPSY, HYSTERIA, etc., etc.; in fact, there is very little that is not treated in
its pages. Send for it while you have the chance; it does not come every day to you.
Visitors from the country during the Easter season should not return to their homes without a
copy of this famous work. It is a Book of Books. Read it, then lend it to your friends.
List of 31 Chapters,
CHAPTER L ...
CHAP. 11.
CHAP. lIL ...
CHAP. IV. ...
CHAP. V.
CHAP. VI. ...
CHAP. VII. ...
CHAP. VIII. ...
CHAP. IX. ...
CHAP. X.
CHAP. XI. ...
CHAP. XII. ...
CHAP. XIII. ...
CHAP. XIV. ...
CHAP. XV. ...
CHAP. XVI. ...
CHAP. XVII. ...
CHAP. XV111....
CHAP. XIX. ...
CHAP. XX. ...
CHAP. XXI. ...
CHAP. XXII. ...
CHAP. XX111...
CHAP. XXIV....
CHAP. XXV. ...
CHAP. XXVI....
CHAP. XXVII..
CHAP. XXVIII.
CHAP. XXIX....
CHAP. XXX. ...
CHAP. XXXI....
Anatomy.
Heart Diseases.
Lung Affections.
Brain Diseases.
Spine Disorders.
Bladder Diseases.
Liver Diseases.
Nerve Affections.
Stomach Diseases.
Kidney Diseases.
Fevers.
Abscess.
Ear Diseases.
Alcoholism.
Varicose Veins*
Skin Disoases.
Wounds.
Digestion.
On Sleep.
Exercise.
Old Ago.
Marriage.
Microscope.
Rupture.
Fractures.
False Delays.
Quackery.
Blood Diseases.
Cancer.
General Diseases.
Electricity and
Medicine:
Each chapter is illustrated
with plates, which are the per-
fection of excellence, pertaining
to the medical subjects of which
they form a part.
w
m
HI
i
r ;
s n
a*
PTC
m
r
SSSF
<B%
i : ?
'^O
orkr
&5?
&?0
PcP
s
!K*2V--
■
&■' «:
sSflSj
&&2
&
M4;4?a
:<•«*
MS
BKas?
W»-
■
HI
IV.o
SBS
S®
isSS
'vfi
»»
sCsr*«
£1
S S
St
ffiaisK
? fc-'s
• n y-
.
: rs
sas
-' viC ,;•£s§
( i
m
i\^>
m
12US
mum
ruuAu
A Few Valuable
! Press Notices.
Kalgoerlle "•ON” i CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES’ contain!much valuable
information written in a popular manner.”
Adelaida "OBSERVER" i "Thera
has never been published of its kind in
Australia a more worthy addition to tha
literatura of tha colony.”
Hobart "MERCURY” i " It is an ele-
gantly-bound voluma. Over 20,000 .. .
copies are issued yearly.”
Brisbane "WORKER” t "Almost
every disease which flesh is heir to has
been treated within the pages of this
work.”
" NEW ZEALAND MAIL” :" In this
book the authors give us much that is
instructive from a physical health view-
point."
"SUNDAY TIMES,” Perth, in "Bits
about Books,” on March 29,1903, says :
"'CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ on
General Diseases is splendidly compiled.
It would be hard to overrate its value,
nor do we ever remember to have seen a
more creditable production or one that
merits a more appreciative press notice.”
Auckland " OBBERVER ”: “ A high-
ly interesting volume. It deals with
nerve complaints and how to cure them.”
" GOLDEN FLEECE,” Sydney:
"The volume conducts humanity from
the cradle to the grave.”
" FREE LANCE,” Wellington :
" Nerve diseases and a thousand and
one ills arising from them are exhaust-
ively described.”
" FEDERAL PASTORALIBT ” :
" The medical illustrations show the per-
fection of illustrative excellence.”
" PUNCH," Melbourne: “Any suf-
ferer interested in a medically diagnosed
incurable disease should write to the
Specialists of the Institute.”
Bendigo " INDEPENDENT ” :
"Amongst the leading Medical Institutes
of the world, the Freeman and Wallace
Institute holds a position of high signifi-
cance.”
These are but a few of
some hundreds of reviews
given by the leading weekly
and dally Journals in the Com*
monwealth of Australasia.;
The FREEMAN & WALLACE “INVIGORATOR” BELT, ONE POUND ONLY
Easter Visitors are herein warned against the purchase of Electric Belts at .£lO and JB2O. Don’t buy when this amount is asked. The quack
and the medical sharper is on the look-out. No Electric Belt is worth this fabulous amount, and no Belt should be worn unless advised by a
professional man. ELECTRICITY HAS BEEN KNOWN TO KILL.
SOHBPte SPECIAL ATTENTION is drawn to the chapter upon Electricity and its appli-
cation to the human nerve system by the use of
~*Th9 FREEMAN & WALLACE ELECTRIC “ INVICORATOR' 1 BELT.
This treatment is fully described and illustrated, and its uses explained. It is a genuine
electric “Belt,” as is now in use amongst English Scientists, who recognise that an even
current of medical electricityi nfused into the chief nerve centres governing the stomach and
kidneys is a certain relief in cases of physical ‘ ‘ weakness ” and general breakdown.
THIS “ INVICORATOR ” IS SOLD FOR £1 ONLY.
It is superior to any electric instrument used in medical practice in Australia. A perusal of
this chapter re testimonies of cure from leading persons, and the certificates of test of this
medical “ BELT,” given by leading members of the electrical world of Sydney, will be instruc-
tive. Worn round the waist for a few hours nightly, the greatest forms of nerve diseases
classed as “ incurable ” are permanently relieved. It has often cured where doctors have
signally failed,
No man or woman should wear an Electric “ Belt” until they have read in this
book the probable effect of Electricity upon them. They should be certain it does
not aggravate their disease and render a cure impossible as has been proved in
many instances.
THERE WILL BE FOUND AN APPENDIX OF 173 PACES.
further illustrated, which will be found of interest, containing articles upon correspondence to the
Specialists in Foreign Languages (in French, German, or Italian), Burns and Scalds, Poisoned
Wounds, Sick Room Management, Children and their Illnesses, the Sickness of Old Age, &e.
A LIST OF 50 VALUABLE PRESCRIPTIONS FOR HOME USE
containing many useful remedies of well-known efficacy are included. ' A chapter upon
Poisons and their Antidotes, an illustrated chapter of personal testimonials, and a vocabulary
of 1000 medical terms, indispensable to the reader unenlightened in the details of physiology
and anatomy is instructive. The reader’s attention is also drawn to the five full-page illustra-
tions of the modes of wearing an Electric Belt by either sex. Each plate is explained, as well
as the mechanism of the “ INVIGORATOR,” which is constructed on scientific principles.
This magnificent work can be obtained as a Splendid Easter Presentation Volume. After you have read it, lend
it to your friends. It will be forwarded to any address in Australia for One Shilling, in stamps, to cover postage. This
is the Cheapest and Most Instructive Medical Work ever offered to the Australian Public. Remember—All patients are
under the care of Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., who is registered by Australian, English and American Medical Boards.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
And at BOURKE and ELIZABETH
STREETS, MELBOURNE.
Cor. ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY
MR. HOWARD FREEMAN, Director of Institute. DR. RICHARD WALLACE, PHysician-in-CHief.


The Horse That He Broke.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Therb was the nip of keen frost in the air. Sun-
set lay red along the flats and dazzled in shaking
amber behind the poplar fence that lined the home
paddock. Lane came up the road at a sharp trot,
pounding in the saddle after the manner of a man
whose youth had gone from him, and a swagman,
tramping the hedge-way, glanced at him side-
ways. Then the cob shied, snorting, and the
swagman came out into the dust of the long road.
“ Lane,” he said.
Lane quieted the cob and looked at the other
with grizzled brows drawn down.
“ What do you want T ”
His tope was non-committal, and the swagman
shuffled in the white dust. Lane knew that the
cheap boots gaped at the uppers and that there
was no sock below to speak of. But he had seen
this kind of thing so often.
“I haven’c been near the place since you
chucked Hie, Lane; I give you my word.”
“ Your word ! Well, go on. What is it ? ”
“And I’ve never asked you for a bite or a
shake-down. But they’ve blocked us down at
Hunt’s, and it’s a deuced long way to Wairakau.”
Lane moved his gaze to the flagrant light on the
round hills to leeward, where his cattle fed.
“You can go to theuwhare this once,” he said
shortly.
“ Thanks ! ” said the swagman.
“You’d better not come whining to me,” said
Lane, and stuck his heel into the cob’s round
barrel. . “That’s all you’ll get.”
The man’s shoulders straightened under the
swfur, for there was the bite of contempt in Lane’s
voice.
Wait till you’re asked for more, can’t you?”
Then he faltered, and kicked the dust. “It was
only—l wanted to know—who’s riding old Com-
modore these days?”
Lane’s hand went slowly to his grey beard, and
tugged Ht. In times past this man had broken
the son of Captain by sheer nerve and patient
wisdom. But that was when he was cadet on
Lane’s station, and a clean-souled youngster that
all the world would speak with.
“ What’s that to do with you—now?”
“ Nothing, of course. It’s just I often wonder
—you don’t let any kind of a lout hack him
round, do you? He was a bit too proud for that
sort of thing. It’d break his heart.”
“ D you think he’d let a lout astride of him ?”
asked Lane of the man who had done with all
pride for himself, and all honor also.
“He wouldn’t in my time. Is he really the
H sine old beggar still? Have you put a curb
on him ? I mouthed him a bit too light, I fancy.
I’ve worried over that a lot since, for nine
station fellows out of ten such confoundedly
heavy hands on a horse.”
“You won’t find many anywhere with the
hands you used to have.” Lane bit on a thought,
and his eyes glowed reminiscently. “My word,
Dick; it was a near thing the first day vou
backed him! ’Member? How old Ross did
walk into me for letting you up. And he was
a devil, too. That’s the Kinloch strain.”
“So was his pluck, and the shoulders that’d
carrv hi m over a house. And lie’s not done yet,
then?”
“ Done! Sound as a bell, I tell you.” Lane
sat forward, confidentially. “ Saw him take the
stockyard fence last week like a bird. ’Member
that nasty corner by the poplars where Charlie
Mostyn broke his neck—ten years ago, wasn’t
it?”
“ Eleven. It’s ten since I—left.” And then
they both remembered.
“Yes. H’m. Yes, of course. Come up, pet.
Well, Walt Hugon rides him now — up at the out-
station. He’s near as good a man with a horse
as you ever were.”
The man hitched up his swag again.
“Thanks. I just wanted to know. I —l was
fond of the old chap, somehow. Good night. ”
“’Night,” said Lane, and rode on, biting his
beard-corners in puzzlement qf spirit.
“He was utterly lost to all honor and truth
before I gave him up. And he’s dropping down
very fast now. The face shows it. But—he
swindled every friend he had, and worries over
the chance that his old horse gets a raw mouth.
What the dickens are you to do with a fellow like
that?” He jerked open the paddock gate, and
saw the whare lights flash out through the blacken-
ing trees. “Think I’ll see him again in the
morning,” he said.
But in the morning the swagman had gone,
taking with him the cook’s best boots, and a shirt
that Walt had left in his bunk. And he did not
come back to Mindoorie Statjonamong the hills.
G. B. LANCASTER.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Mrs. Martell, who played the sectarian
agitator during the Federal elections, now writes
to the Herald (16/3/’O4) blaming the Labor Party
for the decrease in the birth-rate. And what has
Mrs. M. done for the birth-rate that she should
throw stones about ?
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, <fid been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not bow being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : TCLI-lOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for th eregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright!.
Dr. Creed, M.L.C. of N.S.W., in a recent
letter to the S.M. Herald, proposed something
almost unique in the way of cowardice and back-
down. The idea of the valiant Creed is that, the
white man being played out, and his mana having
departed, and he being now so much scared at the
sight of an Asiatic that he can’t call his soul bis
own, this country should hasten to propitiate Japan
by removing all restrictions on Jap immigration.
Also, he suggests that the crawl should be done
at a secret sitting of the Australian Parliament,
so that if anything was said during the discussion
calculated to make the Jap angry no record of
the remark would be preserved. There was a
time when the white man didn’t apologise to any
nigger for doing what he thought best with his
own country, and there are still white men who
don’t seek by prompt and abject submission to
propitiate the brown heathen, but Creed, M.L.C.,
evidently believes in early backing down, and a
humble rubbing of his head in the dirt while the
possible foe is yet afar off.
The cabled war news is getting more
puzzlingly unreliable every day. Here is an item
dated March 9th :—
The Russians are entrenched on the hills of Antung, at
the mouth of the Yalu in Manchuria. The position is
parallel to the river, and is similar to that held by the
Boers on the Tugela.
Apparently the cable-fakir has made up most of
that out of his own head. Antung is at the mouth
of the Yalu, there three miles wide, with an island
in the middle. Next day, March 10th : —
The Japanese from the Yalu have advanced, and have
captured Peng-Huang-Cheng in Manchuria, on the road
to Liao-Yang, and 50 miles W.N.W. of Antung.
So the Russians at Antung, in “a position like
that of the Boers on the Tugela,” must have been
all in buckram, unless they can run much. faster
than Russian soldiers are in the habit of doing.
THAT TIRED FEELING.
When possessed with that tired feeling, feel
generally miserable, don’t relish your food, try a
dose of CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH AND
LIVER TABLETS. They will make you feel
like a new man and give you an appetite.*'
tjC|
g&4£;
.' Vv'.<r^''<'i' , '‘li"
iy
"‘MI;
// / /
*
NO
Darkroom
Noui
v /111. 1. \ ' )
’ EVERYTH ING
Rdayught
II I T i
' 1 \
this paper
m
a
BS
ST
gIIISfSMELBOURNE.
Sa&rif r ?• .•>%. s r.>-
£l,OOO for 1/- £l,OOO
A Fortune for Is. A Fortune for ts>
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
rFIRST 1
\ GREAT \
[PRIZE J
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
Or 12 months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all
Expenses paid, and £6OO in Cash tor one person, or
eight months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from
£1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours 48th Annual Great Art
Union.
48th —The Oldest and Most Popular—4Bth.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Charges.
A list of winning numbers will be posted to any person
sending an addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 23rd April, or
send direct to the Representative, 312 Flinders-street,
Melbourne, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
j|gp£ Tickets—ls. each, or 11 lor 10s.
All dirtct applications must reach Melbourne, before the
date Of drawing, 11th Mag, 190 k.
BE SURE AND TRY YOUR LUCK.
CHAS. HARRIS, Secretary.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Building, 312 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EFPS’S EPPS’S
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
models £2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , A ccessories , Sporting Goods &
•Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
•Write for Catalogs and Special Of *
. fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD GYGLE CO - Dept. 339 b
CHICAGO, 0.8. A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND#
V MjT-
§m
§
<A •pjogress'v#
dietary leuited tß> th®'
growing digestive ppwers.
. The Milk Foods are as easy of digestion),
as maternal milk, and promote both vigorous an<Q
•healthy growth. The “Allenburys" Foods are especially
fe climates, They are in the form of poy/der and keep ggrtectly.
Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING (,s page 9) Free.
Mien £r Hanbura;s Lt &.,£om6ar</st-.. London,
The'Allen burys' \
Milk Food N?K L
fpgm bfrt/i to 3 mpndis. I
The‘ALLENBURYS*' 1
Milk Food
fivm3to 6mont/is.
The‘ALLENBURYS’
Malted Food N°J.
6 moatAs upwards.
SOME
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■MBRAOIM
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Page*.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1908 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE OOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Fop, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 6d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is!
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be 'fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. fSP - Established, SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. post, Is. ad.
Sappho, genuine, Is. AdviCe to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry. Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Ib.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. Tiie
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, os. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney


Pathetic item from the Parkes (N.S.W.) corres-
pondent of S.M. Herald : —“ Three weeks ago a deputa-
tion of Bogan Gate, Trundle, and district residents asked
the Minister for Works that the Bogan Gate-Bulbodney
railway line should be pushed on. They submitted a
private offer to the Minister to take up £50,000 worth of
Treasury bills, bearing interest at 4 per cent, per annum,
for a term of three or five years, conditionally on the
money being specially 7 used for the constructing of this
line. To-day a reply was received stating that the offer
was not accepted. Residents interested are indignant at
this treatment. They thought that if they could get the
money privately, the Government would not hesitate to
carry out the work.” The indignation of these cheeky
people is an interesting study. They offer to lend
£50,000 provided it is spent on their railway. The
Government is to find the rest of the money. It is to
pay these people a high rate of interest. Also it is to
find £50,000 to pay them back in three or five years, and
where it is to get the money then the Bogan Gate people
don t say. That isn’t their funeral. All they want is a
railway on which the State in general is to stand the loss,
also a good investment at very liberal interest, and their
money to be returned promptly when they ask for it.
• • * •
Treasurer Gardiner, of Westralia, who is just
about to retire in favor of a colleague, Mr. Rason, refers,
in a semi-“ so-long ” address, to the unusually good
position of his State to meet a depression in the loan
market. This year, he says, the gold output alone will
be worth nearly £10,000,000. But you can’t tell the size
of a state s prosperity by the size of its gold output. As
a matter of fact, Westralia could be just as pros-
perous if its output were considerably less. The
toreign-owned mine which is rooting out rich ore
is not worth as much to a country as the locally-
owned mine which makes less profit by work-
ing poorer ores. Up to now the big Westralian
mines have been, comparatively speaking, small
employers of mine labor. When the last official count
was made, at the end of 1903, the Perseverance had 1080
"??., 0n > ts P ay - roll ’ Horseshoe 773, Ivanhoe 701, Asso-
ciated 553, Great Boulder 549, and L.V. Consols 501. In
the previous year the gold output was worth £427 per
!fP% ee .- In N - s - Wales a fair average in gold-mining
M Ic?,P1 c ?,PP er , 1 6185 - and in silver-lead £276. The
'y a | es Sl j_ v er-lead mines at one time showed also
over ±4OO per head ; that was at a time when 300 or 400
employees, working on exceedingly rich ore, could make
a profit of over £275,000 a year for Block 10 Co.’s share-
holders, nearly all living outside the State. The
output of that mine is worth less now than it
was then ; yet 600 men are employed there now. In the
same way the B.H. Prop, is worth more to N.S. Wales
was wh en its output was worth 50 per cent, more
f G n>/ t 4l dIVI / lends were 10 times neater. Size of output
n onM therefore ’, ? ver ything ; and the country which has
V-P * oz Btone better off than the one
which has 5000 men working 2oz. stone and is sending the
® a ' r * d Wa ?s\ to Bome for eign country. Certainly the
country which is rooting out the rich ore, as Westralia is,
„ P osil,lo , n t° do without borrowing— if it puts
n I*!?.*/ 1 ? upon the absentee who draws the big profits.
iin «“•!: Prepared to do that, then it would be just
big" 6U ° ff l£ lt,S out P u *' wasn’t much more than half as
• * * «
P® rson who takes secret commissions does
roi,. ave b ? £°? d f ,m e in England that he can generally
. J f . u In Australia. On Jan. 21 and 22, before
S%? rant^ n V n the Kin s’ 3 Bench Division, the
action Stewart and others versus Foster resulted in
having to pay £l5OO, with interest, being
secret commission received in connection with a property
* * * *
. ?• S’ Wales has still some fragments of old
TW i ,? n which it is paying as much as 6 per cent,
terpsi i?m f am P un t to much in the aggregate; the in-
terest bill for last year at that rate was only £l3B. A
ore 18 outstanding at 5 per cent. ; it still takes
till m? ay v. U S f °r money borrowed on that extravagant
thi ll , The bu ! k of t he aggregate bill for £2,746,765 is at
mpJi Per C6nt \ rate ; and if N - S - w - can ’t make ends
meet on money borrowed for that, how can it hope to get
our wkrV Wlt h- t t e 0we ’ s ee now borrowing at 4J to carry
rnontv w WhlC M were passed by as unprofitable when the
money was available at 31 or less ?
f ** ' * .
oiaHnn Rabbit Trappers’ Co-operative Asso-
with th» r, td 'm nau c gur - a l t l, d a year a S° 10 order to do away
K ofi , t 8 middlemen, had a most satisfactory
haiance t° credil ig small> but initia] cost of
n „fj ' ation absorbed a large amount, and members were
Won.lv nPcnny per pair more for rabbits than pre-
uously. The number treated was 680,000, some of which
for ex P or t, and others tinned. Trappers’
fhisafipr°r n hp are -44, W llkel £ s Pring up elsewhere. And
wif t„? r „ the middleman had proved conclusively that he
forW^ m ° ney °7 e v. the business, and wrecking his
were worth, PeCtB by paying more for rabbits than
Muddling municipal councils in N.S.W. that
periodically cry over rates lost through not knowing the
owners of vacant allotments of land, should go to the
Land Tax Commissioners, and if those officials plead
secrecy, Parliament should be able to obtain the neces-
sary information in a return. Quite a number, who lie
low for the unearned increment and have succeeded in
dodging councils for years, fill up their land-tax papers
promptly and accurately. The land-tax department has
power to sell or lease the land for unpaid rates, which
makes all the difference,
* * * *
“Kerani”: It is just about time that publio
attention was drawn to the manner in which some of our
Are insurance companies settle their claims in country
districts. For instance, this : a family got burnt out in
my district the other day. The furniture was insured in
the wife’s name for £lOO. A couple of days after the fire
the adjuster arrived from Melbourne to investigate. He
found that the destruction was complete—only a few
valueless odds and ends being saved. Then he began to
question the woman about the lost effects, as to their
original price, the time they had been in use, &c. —putting
his own value on some articles and no value at all on others
—until he succeeded in persuading the simple-minded
couple into taking £3O odd in satisfaction of the claim,
and induced the woman to sign a statement —duly
witnessed by her husband—-that she considered this a
liberal settlement. For the protection of ignorant
persons from such practices I would like to see it enacted
that, where a company is sufficiently satisfied with any
risk as to draw the premiums on it, the full amount of the
claim should be paid over in event of the total destruction
of the insured property. What could be fairer than that?
* * * *
The Jewhannesburgers who so manfully sub-
scribed (on paper) for £10,000,000 of the Transvaal loan-
the £40,000,000 loan by which the Transvaal was to partly
recoup Britain for the cost of the war —didn’t pay up, and
the loan has been postponed. As a liar and defaulter the
Jewhanneshurg magnate seems to rank pretty high.
London Daily Mail: —“Yesterday consols
were dealt in momentarily at £B5 10s. (a decline of 12s. 6d.
on last week’s quotation), but closed at £B5 16s. 3d.
Besides the effects of the present war, the money market
is affected by the depressing influence of the. various
municipal loans now awaiting flotation, amounting to a
total of £30,000,000, besides the amounts required for the
purchase of the London water schemes, and for the Irish
land purchase scheme, in addition to which there will be
the usual Australian borrowings.” We are the chronic
deadbeat whom Bull always expects to see at his gate.
He takes us for granted now.
• • * *
Broken Hill North has appointed George Weir,
lately engineer at Block 14, general manager, apparently
on account of his knowledge of concentration ;. it is
fairly certain, therefore, that the works are to be
re-started after a three years’ rest. It hasn’t been shown
yet what the new plant at the North can do ; with
the old one, which was a thing of shreds and
patches, profits stopped when lead fell to £l3;
present price is about £l2. The mine has fair-sized
bodies of good milling ore, and there is no reason why it
shouldn’t work about as cheaply as (say) Block 10. The
trouble was that the present co. started with hardly any
capital, and, instead of buying an up-to-date plant out of
the profits made during the lead boom, paid bigdivs. and
didn’t think of a well-designed mill, &c., until it was too
late.
* * * *
The U.S. Patents Office did not take the same
view of the row over the acid process of sulphide treat-
ment as the Vic. Commissioner did. The latter found
for Delprat (B.H. Prop.) and ordered Potter to pay costs.
The ’Murkan office gives Potter the verdict.
* * * *
The hearts of the wolfram miners of North
Queensland are glad, for wolfram has jumped to £65 per
ton, owing, it is said, to the Monkey-Bear war. The
price has livened up prospecting. Wolfram is used in the
manufacture of armor plates.
• • • •
Chillagoe (N.Q.) has no luck. In three days in
February over Bin. of rain fell. Thousands of pounds
have been lost lately through rushes of water. The Mun-
gana Co. expected to have got out £30,000 worth of ore
from between the 100 ft. and 200 ft. levels of the Lady
Jane by this time, but it has not been able to get a look
at the lode since it was struck last August, though it has
been baling out at times close up to two million gallons
a day. Off the big co.s’ mines the only movement in the
district is at a show leased by E. B. Torpy, where a small
concentrating mill is going up. Most of the other shows
are deserted.
• * • *
The Dee rush (Mt. Morgan) has provided some
fine examples of luck. The biggest nugget, 108 ounces,
was discovered by a man named Stewart whose mates
had all thrown up their ground and abandoned the place.
Stewart worked alone some days until an inrush of water
drove him out of his shaft in the deep part of the river
bed. He put a hole down elsewhere and had sunk only
three feet when he came upon £440.
* * * *
It is worth noting, especially by those who
complain most of Bull’s management of Westralian
mines, that the three concerns whose results have lately
been most in conflict with previous optimistic reports,
and in connection with which explanations are most
badly wanted, are all Adelaide controlled—the Island
Eureka, the Victory, and the Ivanhoe Junction. Bull’s
management may be bad ; Adelaide’s, on Westralian ex-
perience, is awful.
* * * *
It looks as though, in Vie. and Queensland, this
year’s gold output will move down again. Bendigo’s
February figures were 19,5200 z. less than last year’s, and
Charters Towers’ 22110 z. less.
• • • *
A melancholy wail arises from the warden of
Peak Hill (W.A.) goldfields. He returns the entire popu-
lation at less than 600, and last year there were nine
deaths and only four births. The gold yield was nearly
2000 oz. less in 1903 than in 1902, and the Government
battery could only be kept going half time. Last year it
only crushed 1100 tons for an average of less than loz.,
which is certainly not encouraging. Peak Hill is one of
the hottest and driest spots on the Westralian fields, and
were it not for Darlington Simpson’s much-boomed
concern, the place would be left to the niggers, crows
and kangaroos. It is reckless extravagance to maintain
a warden in such a place, but Bigjohn, who made the
appointment, apparently wanted to give Peak Hill all the
importance possible—perhaps to encourage his friend
Darlington Simpson.
* * *
*
After many ups and downs —mostly downs—
Fremantle (W.A.) smelting works are again working.
Some years ago, when Coolgardie was booming, John
Forrest offered a £5OOO bonus for the establishment of
smelters, and an English co. took the matter up. Within
a year the co. went into liquidation, or reconstructed, or
something in that way, and the lights went out. Then,
after spasmodic attempts to keep the fires burning,
Charlie Kaufman thought there was money in the con-
cern, and bought it up for about a fourth of its original
cost. Still the results were disappointing, and Kaufman
was on the point of giving it up, when quite recently
matters took a more favorable turn, and it is now
announced that two out of the three furnaces will be
kept going. As this will mean permanent work for 400
hands, Fremantle is jubilant.
• • * *
“Platelayer” (Kalgoorlie): Shift bosses find
that they obtain kudos according to the amount of
“ progressive ” work done, hence precautionary work is
generally left for the next shift. It is an everyday
incident to hear the boss, when he comes on with his
shift, cursing the previous shift for having gone off,
leaving some propping or staying undone, but he
generally winds up with, “ Damned if I’ll touch it. Let
her rip. Reckon it’ll see us through. Let the next lot
doit.” Probably the next shift will be in charge of an
equally don’t-care-a-curse-what-happens boss, and he acts
and speaks much as his predecessor. But the Jonah
shift eventually comes along, and the ton of weary earth
falls at last, and there is another inquest. The shift boss
and the underground manager are generally in another
level when the fall occurs.
• • * *
Apart from what the Government is doing for
It, the Westralian (Collie) coal industry makes no head-
way worth mentioning; in fact, the tendency is
backwards. At present the State departments (prin-
cipally the Railways) are practically the only customers
of the field ; the total output in 1903 was 133,253 tons, of
which the railways took 105,000 tons. The selling price
has fallen from 13s. in 1902 to 10s. at present; and
whereas in Feb., 1902, the Collie Proprietary’s wages
sheet showed £4650, in Feb. of this year it was down to
£3OOO. The Government has been begged to do some-
thing more, but it reckons it has done enough.
* * m *
Marble Bar (W.A.), where the thermometer
climbs up to 120 in the shade, and stops there for weeks
at a stretch, has had a downpour—three inches in
two days—and prospectors are going out in all direc-
tions. There are some exceedingly rich shows out back
from Marble Bar.
• • • •
The fire underground at Wallaroo copper mine
(S.A.) will hurry on the entire recasting of operations
both there and at Moonta, owned by the same co—South
Australia’s one big mining concern. Moonta ore has been
very poor for years, and has been getting poorer ; and
Wallaroo is now low-grade, too. Last year Wallaroo
treated 103,656 tons for 3242 tons metal (3'13 per cent.) ;
Moonta 61,210 tons for 1785 tons metal (2 92 per cent.).’
For the last couple of years profits have been evened up
by leaching out the metal from the old dumps
by pumping up sea-water; but that can only
last a few years more, and even now re-
sults are not quite up to promise. For the
future profits, can only be kept up to anything like
the old level by working on a more extensive scale, and
all new plant is being designed with that purpose in view.
The compressor plant at Wallaroo, for one thing, is being
about trebled. Taylor’s shaft, which was most affected
by the fire, will probably be practically abandoned, at
any rate for some time to come, and a new one will be
put down. Besides gas caused by the fire, water is
adding to the co.’s troubles ; and, generally, the district
and the co. are down in the dumps.
* * * •
“Billy” Jones and friends, who bought the
Tasmania mine, Beaconsfield (Tas.), have a good gold
producer, but a river to drain. Over £2,000,000 of gold
was won down to 800 ft., but pumping costs are frightful.
A new plant to lift eight million gallons daily is to be in-
stalled, and if this will not drain the porous country
round about, then Jones’s pals'will have cast theirmoney
away. Schlapp reported on the mine for Wernher-Beit
but the water trouble frightened him. . Erecheville
ar *d John Taylor and Sons are less alarmed, and so
‘ Billy” Jones came in with a deal. Heathcote, the
manager, is out again from London.
* * * »
The attempted sale of Crown Lyell mine to
Mfc. Lyell (Tas.) fell flat. The directors of the bio- com-
panj are full, what with South Tharsis and Rovai Tharsis
to say nothing- of North Lyell. A letter sen Mu- Meilor’
denvShat^noffi re - 11 i t 0 the Melbourne Stock Exchange’
denying that unofficial negotiations were in progress for
acquiring the Crown Lyell, scotchedsomeshare fuggling
«eaTe V a e n’app'lti U f 1 P d fo aVe t0 T be * ver >' bit thWould
even the blfshow 7 J * toCk justnow ’ includil *
* * * »
• ‘ 51’ Y doesn’t Lyell (Tas.) pay better? One
reason is that its ore isn’t what it was ; another that its
:i°o To en b a e re ,iln B ' a^ kb f in& °1 S°° d >"en who happen
The , T ° fficia ! ,s a, leged to be common,
ine sacking of Long after he was elected M L A
wiT p ch . a . racterlstl c- He wanted to keep working
miner - met = but he was fired out, good
of “ be IB ‘ - The co/s > in th t'ir anxiety to gJt rid
men who refv forV"* *Lm d waj ' to flll the mines with
“f working y f the ' r blllet * upon smoodging instead
* » * *
DrSoS g ° ing “ big licks ” in S’Africa. From
a report of a seven-chambered shaft
40ft. x Bft., j;o go 4000 ft. before striking the lode.
nJ? 10 ?fP uan Grovcrnmcnt has been cutting a
tw tn ad t 0 th ! Yodda goldfield, where it is reckoned
the rlihJT ent .°u Ut P Ut , ls abollt 500 o - a oionth. But as
the tribes along the track are showing some ugly teeth
a notice has been issued at Samarai that small parties
haven t much chance of getting through.
* * * *
After working them for several centuries, the
baxon Government has at last made up its mind to close
the famous Freiberg silver mines, which have been
run in conjunction with the equally famous mining
school, to which students went from all parts of the
W °-a’ ,s *' raba included. It is years since the mines
paid. The Government grew tired at length of providing
a big subsidy, and will only keep one small property
going for educational purposes.
THE POOR CONSUMER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Addressing the central council of employers of
Australia, at Melbourne recently, the president, Mr.
E. E. Smith (Howard Smith and Co.), deplored the
extraordinary type of legislation that the Commonwealth
Parliament, in its superior wisdom, was now favoring
them with, and pointed out that employers could not
work without a profit, and that if, by arbitrary law, the
wage-earners obtained a higher wage than they were
justified in getting from any industry, the consequence
would be that, wherever practicable, the cost of pro-
duction would be increased in proportion. Any increase
in the cost of production would fall upon the backs, not of
the employers, but of the consumers, and the public would,
be faced by the very serious question of an increase in the
cost of living.—Daily paper.
At the annual meeting of Howard Smith and Co.,
Limited, the dividend declared was 10 per cent, on ordi-
nary and 5 per cent, on preference shares.— Daily paper.
Pray excuse my agitation,
Overlook the silent tear ;
But this awful legislation
Really breaks one up (Hear ! hear !),
Thinking of the poor consumer,
Not on selfish schemes intent.
(Preference shares pay five per centum,
Ordinary, ten per cent 1)
Nasty papers slate our meanness
Call us Fat-men, call us Jews ;
But our fat is turned to leanness
Feeling how much others lose ;
Fretting o’er the poor consumer,
Scheming how to meet his rent.
(Preference shares pay five per centum,
Ordinary, ten per cent, t)
Come, my poor unhappy brother,
Join the fight for Freedom’s Cause—
Pluck your suffering wives and mothers
From the Monster Labor’s jaws 1
If we only stick together
We may find another Bent.
(Save our preference dividend and
Save our good old ten per cent. !)
N.S.W.
JAY RPEA.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
IVI ORRIS’S^
"imperial/* imperial
©intment
Adda lußtre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
AMATEUR REPOUSSE WORK. For finest
tools and materials; most practical manual ; most artistic
designs and best cement, write Gawthorp, 16 Long Acre
London, Eng ; Art Metal Worker to H.M. King Edward
' 11. Impressions of tools and illustrated price list free.*
There are SOAPS and SOAPS.
But for a NURSERY SOAP
there is no Soap like
WRIGHT’
COAL TAR
SOA
It leaves the skin with a wonderful feeling
of refreshment, and
PROTECTS FROM INFECTION.
THE NURSERY SOAP,
- ! *
A. <Sb F.
9
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.


TATTERS ALUS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax
on every Five Shilling 1 Ticket issued by Tatte. sail’s on
January, 1903, clitncs will please forward Id., extra
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
of One Fenny
and after* Ist
for each sa.
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 11,50,000 at 5/1 each. I BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER Y CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
•*>’ ** » <0 f ■"»» w ■ w m i*i—"<*"-■«. "v 1 ■» w w * i W i» ■
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Sweep, 6tC.
For all information regarding Rates, Apply tO the Manager, Head Office, DaptO \
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
boreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
torting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. & &
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Go’d-send to a martyr to
colds a"d bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, andyou can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of j our excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was. —Yours faithfully, .”
Extiact from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that, I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO I KITTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —i wish to add rav testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and t.'ie couch was so distressingly had at niehts
I was obliged to get up and sit by the tire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
vonrs, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had hut two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cou ;h has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithful!v,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Uearne’s Bron Litis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapid \ successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly move its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. .VEIN SINCLAIR, Myers street, Geelong, and
tj nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.— P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. MCDONALD Trinkev via
Quirindi, N.S.W.” J
‘ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Benny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ M 3 r wife 58 82 years old, and lam 79, and lam glad to inform you that vour Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford.
Victoria.” ’
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—l Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
1 1 have found your Bronchitis Curs a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
O
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
‘ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“ Ki.idly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
_ “I ' tr / Phased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTLR, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ 1 have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • •
“ 1 suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your i
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
medicine,
JOHN C.
me
Brook
•• Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
any good; but 1 heard of your Bronchilis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —II HOOD
ikiunds, Avoca-street South Yana, Melbourne.” '
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ our Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took marie me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from von have milled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CUUEO _ IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure bv Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.“
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ VVe often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quit*
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine iu the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ 1 am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Gkkloxg Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sale* of your
HronctvtU Cure.’’-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot , gffi ce ; No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Suig.ll SiiO. 2s 6d. Lai CG. 4s 6d. Sold, bv CliGmists and TVTp.diciine Vendovst Forwarded l>u Font to ana Address when not obtainable Locally.


The Forty-Fours.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(There are forty-four submerged rocks off Chatham
Islands, where the Loch Long recently went down.)
They lurk, awash in the swell,
With cruel lips afoam,
And never a swinging hell
To steady the good ships home.
No light-house winks in the gloom
When the mad sou’-easter roars —
You may drive her blind through the flying spume,
With thunder of rods in the engine-room ;
A nd never an eye will mark your doom
Out on the Forty-Fours 1
There where The Sisters stand,
Seeming to say “ Beware ! ”
This black-browed wrecker band
Crouches within its lair ;
And the racing clipper ships,
With canvas towering high,
Watch for the lick of the lips
That marks where the hard fangs lie.
A cry from the fo’c’s’le-head !
And a staggering sea that pours !
And what does it matter if hearts new-wed
Cry out for the women’s tears unshed,
When the lightsare sinking—the green and red—
Out on the Forty-Fours ?
A wife in a Cornish town
Looks out on the deep-sea track,
Where the ships pass up and down,
For a ship that never comes back ;
And down where the Chathams drowse,
In a sea of dazzling blue,
There’s a ship with shattered bows
And stout ribs broken through.
Nobody saw her fly
Like a stag from the din of wars ;
Nobody heard her sailors cry
As they strove to veer in the billows high ;
Nobody saw them choke and die—
Only the Forty-Fours.
Eastward from Godley Head
They lurk with their lips a-snarl,
Hoarding their treasured dead—
Henri and Jack and Karl.
From Kiel to the Golden Gate
The swift prows lifted spray,
But the mothers and wives may wait,
And the sweethearts mourn and pray,
For down at the heel of things,
Where the whipped foam stings and scores,
There’s a shattered hull that swings
To a dirge that the tempest sings,
And the sea, as it marches, flings
A curse on the Forty-Fours.
Never a swinging bell,
Never a blazing star
Marks where, beneath the swell,
The four-and-forty are,
Crouchmg like beasts to spring
At the solid ribs and floors —
You may drive till your engines roar and ring,
And never an eye will see you swing
And crash and sink, for pauper or king
Dies on the Forty-Fours.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
Simpson’s Old Age.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“But listen,” said the agent persuasively. “If
you put in so much a week now, when you’re
about sixty—getting past work y’ know—you’ll
have a nice little sum ”
“No use, boss !” The selector knocked out his
pipe against the top rail and put it in his pocket.
I haven t got enough money to get along now,
and, even if I had, I wouldn’t touch this old-age
fund, or whatever it is. Besides—well, I’ve got
plenty of reasons .
“P’raps I can convince you ”
“No, you can’t, boss. I knew a cove once by
the name of Simpson that tried it on. He ”
“Excuse me,” interjected the canvasser eagerly.
Was he in our society ? ”
The selector grinned and looked round at the
house. “You may as well stay to dinner now,”
ifmL‘ " ke ready in about ten minutes.”
Thanks ; I will! ” The canvasser climbed up
on the fence and sat beside his host. “ What
were you going to say about your friend ?”
Simpson ?—oh, yes ! He was the rummest
bloke I ever knew. Knew him and his crowd in
the early days on Kimberley. I think he must
have been brought up on Sunday-school books or
tracts of some kind, because he had such a holy
terror of bein’ poor in his old age. He used t’
save an’ scrape so much that I told him one day
to his face that he was nothin’ but a fool and a
disgrace t’ tli’ camp. He was as patient as a dog,
so, instead of pluggin’ me as most would have
!*t! us * ; . sa y s : * I can understand you
thinkin Ima disgrace, because you ain’t got no
sense, and yer don't like anythin’ that's got sense
ln ( 1 , t ; B ut .’ says he, ‘ why d’yer say I’m a fool ?’
, Well, Joe, ’ I says, ‘ I understan’ yer savin’
an scrapin’ like a mad Jew for yer old age—is
that so?’
“ 1 Yes,’ says he, * until I’m old.*
;; | What d’yer call old ? ’ says I.
“ ‘About seventy-five,’ says he.
What are yer goin’t’ do when ye’re seventy-
five ? ’ says I. J
Then,’ says he, joyful-like, * I’m goin’t’ have
a good ti me !
~" at him fer a minit. Then I says t’
him, Pell me, Joe, what sort of a good time d’
}er reckon a man can have when he’s seventy-
Wv, that’s th’ best time,’ says he. ‘No
man gets any real comfort out of life—he oughtn’t
t ex ) ,e< A to until he’s seventy-five, or over.
What stli good o’ spendin’ money when ye’re young
or savin’ it and puttin’ it inter banks that go bung
on yer ! \\ ait till ye’re only got a few years left,
and keep yer pile underneath th’ bed or buried
under th house. Live it at th’ finish, is what I
says.
Live! says I, ‘When a fool’s seventy-five
it s about time he ordered his funeral, ’stead of
chasm rouud lookin’ fer fun.’
thin’ Y ° U re Wr ° ng ’ Jim ’’ he sa y®> oalm as
“‘Rats!’ says I. ‘What fch’ dickens d’you
know about it ? ’
44 4 1 know,’ says he.
“ 4 Ever lived before ?* says I.
“ ‘Don’t mock, Jimmy,’ says he, gettin’ as red
as fire. 4 No, I ain’t never lived before, but I’ve
spoken t’ lots of old people an’ I’ve read books an’
I’ve seen for myself.’
44 4 Well' I says, ‘as ye’re so satisfied, d’ye mind
me askin’ how ye’re arrangin’ t’ be happy and gay.
What sort of a circus have yer planned-out for
yourself?’
He wasn’t th’ least bit angry with me though—
just sat there with a peaceful smile, lookin’ inter
th’ future an’ thinkin’ how happy he’d be when he
got old.
‘‘‘Let’s see,’ he says soft-like. ‘Let’s see
what I’ll be like? I’ll have long silver locks.’
“ 4 Locks ! ’ says I, 4 what sort o’ locks ? ’
44 4 Hair ! ’ says he. 4 I’ll have long silver locks
hangin’down on me pore ole shoulders!’ Then
he looked so dashed sad I thought he was goin’
t’ break down.
44 4 Here,’l says, ‘cheer up a bit. Don’t start
kickin’ up a fuss ’bout yer locks ’fore yer get ’em
—odds are you’ll be’s bald as an egg ! ”
44 4 Bald !' says he, beginnin’ to get wild.
4 P’raps I will. Well then, let me be bald ! Any-
rate,’ he says, 4 th’ children will support an’ love
me—they won’t be able t’ help it.’
44 4 Children ! ’ says I. 4 Which children ? ’
44 4 Me grand children,’ says he.
4 4 4 Yer what?' says I.
“ 4 An’ th’ neighbors’ children,’ he goes on. 4 1
can see ’em climbin’ ’
“‘Hold on,’ I says, ‘you’re goin’ too fast.
What sort o’ kids d’ ye reckon they’ll be ? ’
44 4 Th’ ordin’ry sort, I suppose,’ says he.
4 4 4 Well,’ I says, ‘if ye’re lookin’ fer peace in yer
ole age, I’d advise yer t’ leave th’ kids out or die
young. I know what kids are. If yer want t'
furnish yer ole age with kids, do it, but you’ll find
they’ll play up like blazes, an’ you’ll be too
doddery t’ chase ’em. Better keep fowls.’
“‘P’raps it would be better,’ he says. He
thought fer about a minit. 4 I will keep fowls,’
he says, 4 because I’m bound fc’ want a lot of eggs.
I’ll go and get some fowls t’-morrer.’
44 4 T’-morrer! ’ says I. 4 Why, yer don’t want
t’ get ’em fer another 40 years ! ’
44 He looked quite frightened.
4 4 4 1 never thought of that,’ says he.
“‘Did yer never think, Joe,’ I says, ‘that
yer got lots o’ time t’ fix the job up ? 4 What’s
the use o’ sweatin’ ’bout it now ? Better let th’
whole thing rip fer a year or two and try and
have some fun—just a little now and then t’ keep
yer goin’.’
44 4 Couldn’t do it,’ says he; 4 an’, what’s more, I
wouldn’t. Don’t you try temptin’ me ! ’
4 4 4 What the blazes d’ye think I’m temptin’ yer
’bout ? ’ says I.
44 4 Th’ pleasures of youth,’ says he, commencin’
again, 4 is vain. Only the joys of old age is lastin’.
Why don’t you see it and do as Ido? You are
older than me, Jimmie, it’s ’bout time you ’
4 4 4 Oli, rats ! ’ I says, and I went to walk away.
41 ‘Well, ’t any rate,’ he yells, 4 you’ll know how
right I was when yer lay down in front o’ my
home ter die in the gutter!’
44 At that I stops and goes back t’him. ‘Go
on,’ I says, ‘tell me some more.’
“ His eyes was stickin’ out like a lobster’s with
fright, but he went on in his funny, screechy little
voice. 4 Yes,’ he squeals, 4 an’ I’ll be sittin’ out in
front lookin’ on.’
44 That i&\r disgusted me. 4 Well,’ I says, 4 you
are a spiteful ole asylum t’ go an’ say a thing
like that. An’, look ’ere,’ I says, ‘if it ever does
happen that I feel like peggin’ out in th’ gutter in
front of your home —supposin’ you ever do have a
home and th’gutter’s there—l’ll come in an’ set
fire to the house first. After that I’ll reckon I’ll
be satisfied t’ die ! ’
44 That interview ’bout finished our friendship ;
we used t’ nod t’ each other when we met, but
that was all. I didn’t care to be seen with him,
anyway, because he used to look like a scarecrow
got loose, in the old clothes he wore about the
camp. ’Course he meant t’ spend money on
clothes when he got old, but that was no excuse
fer shakin’ things off clothes-lines —which was
what he did afterwards to Dick Casey when his
stock was runnin’ low. Them was th’ sort o’ little
failin’s we couldn’t stand.”
“ But—about his old age?” asked the agent.
44 Never had any. He put two shots into a hole,
and forgot about the second when he heard the
first report. Had a silly knack of forgettin’
things, had Simpson.”
KODAK.
Fighting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Half the world doesn’t know how the other half
fights. Ten years loitering around Australian
ports has given me some points anent the scrapping
methods adopted by foreign seamen. German
sailors rarely punch, but come to grips and strive
to fling each other down. The Deutscher will,
while clinching, bore his chin with crushing force
into his opponent’s breast.
The bravo-instinct lingers with Greek and
Italian fishermen, but their ladylike brawling is
interesting when they haven’t their knives. Saw
two of them duelling with shark hooks near
Middle Harbor once. The hooks were fixed to
ordinary lines, and they stood ten yards apart
jerking them at each other. In a few minutes
they had torn about two pounds of clothes and
flesh from each other. It grew wearisome.
In Staffordshire (England) I saw two canal barge-
men strapped to a bench ; they sat astride the
bench and bashed each other with slow ferocity
until one curled up and hung by his straps. He
was soused with water, and the fight continued.
The Finn butts with his head. Quite re-
cently a Finnish sailor, under the influence
of rum, butted a brewer’s horse on to the
footpath at Circular Quay; a policeman pre-
vented him butting the cart and the beer
into the harbor. In Torres Straits once, writer
was selling cheap cameras to the Jap pearling
fleet. While aboard a smellfull lugger a drunken
Finn heaved himself from a pile of shell-bags and
butted a diver clean out of his dress. There was
unlimited Jap on hand, and they rushed the Finn
in batches, fastened to him heel and throat, “ Hi
yo Itsu kushima ! ” and they swung his head like
a battering ram four times against the bulkhead.
Then the little men put him to hammock and
caressed him —he was the blue-eyed pet of the fleet
and they really loved him, but the man who
brings up the shell must not be molested. The
Jap is business-like in his affections.
The Russian is the greatest face-biter on earth.
Biting with him is a fine art. Two of them from
a warship were challenging each other outside The
Bulletin office recently. One, a moon-faced
giant with snow-fields in his eyes, stepped
towards the other. “ Dimitri Damovitch ! ”
he yelled. “ Ivan Ipanoff Splechnik ! ” answered
the other. They clinched neck and waist, and
bit like stallions. Dimitri was short-bodied, but
his jaw moved with great suddenness, and, after
a series of well-direc ed bites, he forced the giant
to cry ‘Yamkoff!” They drew apart. Ivan
ran into a pub, demanding vodki. They gave
him rum which he rubbed into his face. Dashing
out, he closed with Ivan, and they bit their way
into a butcher’s shop. Dimitri ducked, and hurled
the giant into a t;ib of corned bed. The head
butcher, blind with rage, emptied a bucket of
brine over Dimitri Ivan ran towards the Quay.
Another party of Russians passed the shop,
accompanied by a Greek priest. The pnest
stayed for a moment to admonish Dimitri. Ha
said it was wrong to bite Ivan Ipanoff Splechnik.
and he begged in a soft voice that Dimitri would
be kinder to Ivan in future. Tallow-fat tears
rolled down Dimitri’s face. “Ivan, vere wauss
you, vere wauss you, Ivan ? ” He charged down
the street like an elephant pursuing its mahout.
IN ext night writer saw Ivan and Dimitri in a puh
together. Their faces were horribly swollen.
-Between them sat a dwarf-like negro. They made
a fine Rembrandtesque picture.
ALBA.
Sunlight Soap makes domes bright.
light Soap
should be used to clean your house as well as wash
your clothes. It does twice the work of a common
soap in half the time and with less labor. Don’t
take our word for it, but try it for yourself.
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white and won't hurt the hands.
SOI
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY.
On Suffering Pain Needlessly.
The worry and troubles of life are a burden quite sufficient for any human being to bear without
having added to it the misery of ever present pain, but, either from ignorance or in despondency,
many people endure pain from which there is no real necessity that they should suffer. The following
is a list of disorders, productive in most cases of intense agony, which can be readily cured t
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
All of these complaints are caused by the presence in the body of urinary and biliary poisons, due
to ineffective action of the kidneys and liver. A realisation of the work performed by these vital
organs enables us to understand why, when they fail, we necessarily suffer,
THE KIDNEYS.
By a process akin to filtering, the kidneys remove the excess of water from the blood in the form
of urine. The kidneys of the average man filter and extract about three pints of urine every day.
In this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric
acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. JNow
all these are solid matter, which, when the kidneys are working healthily, is dissolved in the urine and
leaves the body in complete solution. When the kidneys fail, a proportion of the solid matter
remains in the blood, and becoming actively poisonous, produces the various disorders due to urinary
poisoning, such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone,
Bladder Troubles. Sick Headache and Anaemia are also generally attributable to the same
cause.
THE LIVER.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely related. It is almost impossible for the
kidneys to be affected and for the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa. In the liver various sub-
stances are actually made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made from the
blood daily. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it
up so as to be able to supply it again to the blood as the latter requires enrichment. The liver
changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals
with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive
or diseased, the blood becomes laden with biliary and urinary poisons to such an extent that it is not
in a condition to take up nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no longer formed, and it
is these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. In other words, the blood is vitiated and starved,
and we are bound to suffer in consequence. Indigestion, Biliousness, Neuralgia, Anaemia,
Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders are but Nature’s signs that the liver is not doing its duty
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. At the outset of the investigation it was realised that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so inti-
mately associated in removing the waste products of the body. Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and the liver,
restoring them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, of all
urinary and biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver,
provided Warner’s Safe Cure is taken as directed. Even Bright’s Disease yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A Simple Test to make is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust-like sedi-
ment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are unhealthy, and no
time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful manifestatien of their inactivity will mult, [l4]


The Threatened Woe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[The Temperance Party is urging the Federal Parlia-
ment to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor in the
Federal Capital and its surrounding territory.]
Do these folk, who so much orate,
Believe sincerely
That Patriots can legislate
On Cold Tea merely ?
When England had a greater heart
Than all the Caesars,
She broke the strength of Bonaparte—
But not on tea, sirs.
Her Pitt and Fox when days were dark
Did not swill shandy,
But kept their courage to the mark
On port and brandy.
This paper does not hold with booze
In legislation ;
But thinks that statesmen drink should use
In moderation.
Because some hogs swill, without pause,
Till all is busted,
Must not the makers of our laws
With beer be trusted ?
If not they should be firm, in fact
Enthusiastic
For temperance, and pass an act
Draconian, drastic !
An Act that very sternly saith—
“ Be it known clearly
All adults shall, on pain of death,
Drink water merely.”
Beneath our skies of blue and gold,
In pious panic,
Shall we call back again the old
Days Puritanic ?
Shall sour fanatics, dull and bleak,
Instead of one day
Of Pious Gloom, make all the week
A long, sad Sunday ?
In our great capital to be
(May it rise quickly 1)
Shall there be nought to drink but tea,
And syrups sickly ?
Shall men walk there with looks depressed,
And faces wizen,
As if they dared not laugh or jest,
For fear of prison ?
Not so. Though these sad bigots may
Think Sense they’ve beaten—
There shall be cakes and ale when they
By worms are eaten.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
The Winter Rains.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Drought was still raging on the Jundabye.
The sheep had all perished save a precious hand-
ful on the station carefully fed on sugar-cane
fodder brought some 300 miles by rail to keep the
flower of the flock alive, and to lend them, in
course of time, a fearful value. A couple of
horses were still on their feet, and a couple only.
Down along the “ crik ” a few selectors still sur-
vived—how, God only knew, and God apparently
didn’t care. Yet there was always a gleam of
hope left in their frequent confabulations. When
a dry January had passed over the land, Smithers
would remark to Saunderson : “Well, we never
could expect much in January. February’s the
month for rain—as everybody knows. Better see
to pat chin’ the old boat down on the crik. You
never know what’s going to happen.”
When February had passed with a sum total of
11 points, Saunderson would say to Smithers :
“Didn’t I tell you, Smithers ! Real rainy season
allers sets in in March. Why, ’way back in ’9O, I
had ter swim for my life when the rainy season
set in on March 10, and a month after the country
was like a wheatfield.”
Marcli came and went, and a brutal brazen
sky laughed out in shining mockery on Saunderson
and Smithers. Jimson dropped in. Jimson was
ever a bright-eyed optimist.
“You fellers is alwus in a hurry. Fancy ex-
pectin’ rain before April. Why the biggest flood
we ever knowed was in April. Geraldton got
56 inches, and they had to dig out three Kanakas
that got bogged in a cane-field. I’m patchin’ up
the old humpy this week, for missis can’t a-bear
the damp. Alwus rheumaticky, in April, is my
missis.”
April gave three terrific dust storm* and a
shower that panned out four drops to the acre.
Inspired by this deluge and a drop of something
more potent, Jo® Vatcher took to cheering his
neighbors.
“Which of you fellows seen th® prophecy in
the papers last week? Feller down South ses
May’s goin’ to be the wettest month seen fer 12
years. Same feller prophesied the droughts in
’9O and ’93. Us fellers on the Jundabye can look
out for trouble and get ready to shift camp any
minute.”
When May had departed, and there was only
one horse left alive on the “river,” and the few
remaining sheep, by virtue of the expensive
fodder they had consumed, were well nigh worth
their weight in gold, a meeting of the Jundabye
Provisional School Committee was called toge-
ther. The committee sat on the verandah, after
the meeting, discussing the old, weary, haunting
topic of the probable break-up of the drought.
“Well,” said big George Vane, about the oldest
settler in the district, “there’s one thing we
can’t very well miss after all this, and that is the
winter rains. I never seen a real dry June on the
Jundabye these ten years.”
And the committee chimed in almost unanim-
ously, “Oh, no. We can’t miss the winter
rains! ”
Then they all went down to that arid streak of
desolation known as the “crik,” and began to
argue as to the height of all the flood marks on
the Jundabye right down from Noah’s Deluge.
And a month later the las* crow picked the
eyes out of the last sheep, cast a disdainful “caw”
at the few surrounding gaunt and shrivelled car-
cases, and flew then, with a fierce corvine curse,
coastward. He knew all about the winter rains !
Q.
P.L.
Chicago and the Chicagoans: A
Phantasmagoria.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Remember this, ” says the wise old man to his
son when the latter is starting forth to fight the
b ittle of life in the great Yankee city ; “remem-
ber this, brother cheats brother in Chicago.”
“ Don’t forget,” says the head of the firm to his
juniors, “ there s a sucker born into the world
every minute—and we’ve got to eat ’em ! ” These
two short sentences typify the business spirit of
the Chicagoan.
Out among the layers of humanity, fighting*
striving, working for the Almighty Dollar in the
great skyscrapers, I wandered, eager to see the
“strenuous life of the virile West.” I vaguely
knew from the papers that the thermometer was
playing a scale in fifths somewhere below zero,
and that a coal commission was sitting on the sub-
ject of the dearth of coal throughout the States,
but these bald reports had given me no clear
realisation of the actual state of affairs. I unfroze
my head from the window panes of the steam-
heated railway carriage, and, with a fringe of
icicles hanging round my ears, stepped out int©
the life and stir of Chicago.
I passed down the broad streets with their won-
derful hives rising 15 and 20 storeys above the sur-
face level and burrowing two and three below
ground. I looked into the great and endless
“stores,” through their almost entirely glass sides,
and within, in the glare of the ever-burning elec-
tric light, I saw the human bees, rushing, toiling
in swarms, massing up the dollars.
I paused at the street corner. Overhead the
elevated railway dashed by with clanging bells*
From each of the four converging streets came
cable or electric cars, and each was filled to its
uttermost capacity. The seats and narrow passage-
ways were absolutely wedged ; each strap, in-
tended for the support of those getting in and out
of the swaying vehicle, was clasped by the hands
of several people. Human beings hung on behind ;
they were perched on the iron fender projecting
in front, and they clung to the bent stanchions at
the sides. Nine out of every ten philosophically
chewed chewing-gum.
“What is it?” I asked in bewilderment, as they
came on in ever-increasing numbers.
“ Sure, it’s just Chicago’s home ‘ shove ’! ” oame
the ready answer.
Then myriads more, many of them, without
doubt, members of the lately-formed “ Society of
Seatseekers” or “Strap Hangers’ League”
(bodies the existence of which proves again the
truth of the old adage, “ Even a worm will turn !”)
poured from the great hives (one of which alone
employs 7000 bands), and joined the masses
thronging the curbs. The traffic jolted over
the cobble-stoned streets; it slipped and slid on
the ice; it tumbled over the snow-heaps piled
breast-high ; it caught its feet in a three-legged
stool jammed into a defective man-hole scarce half
a block from the City Hall, and covered with a
friendly white pall. Behind me whistled the
syren of a pea-nut stall; before me stood those
products of th® last century—hawkers with tin
trumpets—each utilising his instrument and
valiantly sounding it above the bells of the cars
and trains, the movements of the city’s hordes
and the snow-deadened jangle of the drays and
sleighs. . . This was Chicago of 1903. Yet I
knew that barely a hundred years before it had
been but a frontier settlement, the scene of a
massacre of white men and women by Indians. I
remembered that scarcely more than 30 years ago
it was but a heap of ruins. . _. I looked across the
wide street at a hive still alight with electricity,
still busy with human life; its foundations had
been raised upon the still smoking debris of the
first Chicago. Upon its walls gangs of men had
laboured the 24 hours round while the ends of the
long streets were yet in flame.
This vigorous young city of nearly two million
inhabitants is a modern Babel. No fewer than forty
different tongues are spoken by large bodies of
people within the limits that have already been
12 times extended. No fewer than 14 of these lan-
guages are employed by colonies of more than
10,000 people. In Chicago the largest Bohemian
city in the world, with the exception of Prague, is
to be found. The linguist wandering through the
medley can purchase newspapers printed in ten
different tongues, aud, if it be Sunday, can listen
to sermons in eight languages, and lend an atten-
tive ear to a discourse delivered by a phonograph.
He can also, on the Sabbath, drop in at a thea-
trical matinee, visit a cock-pit—ten thousand
dollars changed hands at one of these mains a
short time ago —or else spend an hour at a dog-
fight or pugilistic encounter.
The busy American has no time to discriminate
among many foreigners who throng his cities ; lie
terms them all either “Polacks” or “Dagos
the latter word is usually reserved for Italians.
Let him who desires to study dramatic possi-
bilities hastily pack his valise and come to
Chicago. Here he will find photos by the
hundred, ranging in scope from the broadest
farce to the grimmest tragedy. He will find,
perchance, two senates sitting in opposition in
ene House, as happened not long since in
Colorado, where 50 Democrats stood under arms
in the corridors laying siege to the Republican
members in the Chamber, friends surrep-
titiously trying to pass provisions in through the
windows, so that the flesh might remain as firm
as the spirit, while others demanded the use of
the militia. Or else, as at the beginning of
one April, in Chicago, he will see 500 policemen
guarding the ballots in the City Hall from an
alleged attempt by the deputy sheriffs to force a
recount. The patrol waggons surrounded the
massive building, and the blue-coated men,
armed to the teeth, occupied roof and hallways
with orders to “club or shoot to kill”anv one
endeavoring to force an entrance! The very
aldermen themselves run direful risks ; one was
“held up” and robbed in the presence of 50of
his constituents while negotiating for their votes !
The explorer will see Judges granting injunctions
to prevent boys being expelled from school, and
to restrain wives from pulling out their husbands’
whiskers. He will hear of a Consul hauling down
his flag to pawn it for a drink —it only fetched 60
cents!
All this he will learn as he strolls along the
broad streets, over asphalt and paving-stones
placed by the millionaire, over the wood where
two boards are gone out of every three, over the
mud banked up to the ordained width.
For in Chicago each man is compelled by law to
build his own sidewalk, and he builds it as he
darned well pleases, and great is the variety
thereof.
MAOKILANDER.
“ALWAYS AILING,”
YET NOT SICK ENOUGH TO KEEP TO BED.
What a lot of people there are
“ always ailing ” —but not sick enough
to go to bed. How do you know them ?
By their pale, sallow faces, dull eyes
and hopeless appearance —thin in face
and body, and always alarmed at their
condition.
They will tell you their back aches,
that their head and limbs ache ;'that
they have no energy - are rheumatic,
nervous, and irritable ; can’t sleep,
can’t eat; every little cold affects their
back—they cough a little, and their
hearts act strangely. They are gener-
ally miserable.
Such people have kidney trouble,
and don’t know it.
Despondent as they are, it is difficult
to convince them, and to get them to
stop thinking about their ills. But if
anything can do this, we believe it is
the statements of their neighbour made
in this article. Though they have lost
confidence in all medicine—a neigh-
bour brings a ray of hope in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills—and a neigh-
bour’s evidence is good evidence.
••Every Picture tells a Story/*
Lasting SYDNEY Cures.
Four Years Cured.
Mr. Makk Tierney, 6 Darling-street, Glebe, this city,
says: “In reference to the statement made by me four
years ago regarding my cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, I am glad to inform you that I am still well to-day,
and have been ever since using this remedy. lam only too
pleased to let everybody know about this medicine.”
The statement Mr. Tierney refers to is as follows: “For
a considerable time I have been subject to severe pains across
the small of my back, at times extending down the loins. I
was always using liniments, but can’t say much for the
results. I could not rest comfortably at night, and thus had
insufficient sleep. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
advertised, and procured some. The first few doses eased
my pains, and, after taking a course, I was thoroughly
cured. ”
Twelve Months Cured.
Mr. John Moboney, Ham and Beef Shop, 228 Eliza-
beth-street, this city, says : “ About eighteen months ago I
began to get a feeling in the small of my back as if I had a
growth there, or as if some foreign substance had lodged
inside. This troubled me more than you would suppose. I
could not lie in bed with comfort for it. I saw Mr. Grieve’s
statement in the paper about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and one day I asked him the facts of the case, and he
advised me to use the medicine. I’ve not much to say beyond
telling you that the pills cured me. They have removed the
unpleasant sensation altogether, and I’ve not felt the
slightest sign of it since I used Doan’s Pills. It is twelve
months ago since this remedy fixed me up, and I am not
afraid of the trouble returning now. For pains in the back
I strongly advise the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Be Careful to Get
The Genuine Doan’s.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price
by the FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO., 76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAKT’S.


“W.F.M.": In Melbourne Aquarium is to be seen a
spider (from India) eight inches long, body as large as a
mouse, hairy legs thick as a pen-holder, weight three
ounces. It is of the bird-eating species and has the reputa-
tion of biting individuals, but bite (so ’tis said) is not
venomous. In the insectarium attached to the aquarium
is a wonderful exhibit of ants. Black bull-dog ants—the
largest species in the world—are there, hundreds from
the same nest measuring over an inch long. Noted for
their carrying powers, one of the large workers will sus-
tain eleven hundred times its own weight, equal to a man
suspended downwards holding eighty-two tons by means
of his teeth. I don’t know any more cheerful place to
shelter from the rain on the way back from a funeral than
the spider-and-ant department of the aquarium.
“Nym ” : Never knew that dogs were so susceptible to
applause before seeing a troupe of performing canines and
monkeys in Melbourne t’other day. When either the
collies or fox-terriers had done an unusually clever
“ turn,” and the audience applauded,’ the dogs looked
delighted, while the clown —a remarkably sagacious fox-
terrier—got awfully jealous because he had to keep his
chair during the successful act. On the other hand, the
monkeys, despite their inane antics, were the dismal
Jimmies of the show, going through their acts with
uninterested mechanical precision, with both eyes on the
look-round for stomach-fillers.
The drama of the Sydney suburbs is a wondrous thing.
At a production of “ The Kelly Gang," at Waterloo
once, the manager of the company played Ned Kelly,
and in the last act speechified thusly while lying wounded
to death :—“ The end has come, let my fate be a warning
to all Australians; lam sorry to see such a poor house
here to-night; I hope you wili turn up better next week,
when we will produce ‘ East Lynne,’with entirely novel
scenery. After the death of Lady Isabel the Rocks
Brothers will shake things up with a song and dance.
Ugh, oough, ah-h-h, the agony of death is upon me ; tell
my pals that Ned Kelly died game.” Tableau ! Quick
curtain.
“Alba” : While attending the “Sign of the Orosi '
recently I experienced some difficulty in arousing sympa-
thy for the lions. Thousands of playgoers have specu-
lated Concerning the exact number of bites poor Marcus
and Mercia would receive before they succumbed. It is
time that theatrical managers filled a long-felt want.
If, just before the curtain fell, a tame lion were allowed to
walk slowly across the stage carrying the shin bone of a
martyr in its mouth, or a bit of Mercia’s robe entangled
in its'ear, it would send a respectable thrill through the
boardinghouses of Potts Point. Another cheerful climax
might be added to the “Cross” : A couple of supers,
could bring on a large dead lion with a postscript printed
on its breast--■“ Changed me mind and ate Dowie.”
Black-bearded John Prowse (a fiendish comp, tried to
set it up as “black-hearted”), Maoriland’s premier bari-
tone, who left the State with Dolores, has appeared in
London, at St.'James’ Hall, in company with a Madame
Kalliwo.da, and gained moderate kudos. The heavy-weight
Times said: “Mr. John Prowse has a resonant voice,
which he is apt to force, but experience will no doubt
tone down defects which, on a first appearance, may have
been due to nervousness. His enunciation is very clear,
and he created a good impression.” The Times isn’t a
paper given to enthusiasms, and when it gravely deposits
the ton weight of its mild approval on anybody it is like
being sat on by a cordial elephant.
Hamilton Hill, the stilty-legged young Australian with
a bright baritone voice who sang at Rickards’ a few years
back, is just now expressing the new brown Jingo spirit
of the London music-halls in a war song titled “ Good
Luck, Japan!"
“ Hamlet the Mummer ” : It was during the tour that
Fisher and I took on with the Blank Panto Co., not long
ago, that Harry gained the reputation of being a great
lover of children. With a panto company on tour, picqics
and such-like outings are frequently arranged. It was at
one of these picnics that I first noticed Fisher’s interest
in panto kiddies crop up. He didn’t associate much with
the elder members of the company during the day,
though I observed him going from man to man apparently
collecting money. I was curious to know what he was up
to, and presently my curiosity was satisfied. “ Come on,
I want a bob from you for the kiddies’ races!” he re-
marked. I told him I hadn’t change, and would give it
him later on. After he had got a shilling from everything
wearing trousers, save myself, he started the kids racing.
Then I counted the number of males at the picnic.
Thirty-three—£l 125., deducting the shilling I hadn’t
paid. A little later I watched Harry distributing the
prize-money. It amounted to 18s. 6d.! I said not a
word. We had another picnic a week later. After dinner
Fisher was rushed by the kids who begged him to let
them “have some races.” “All right, kiddies,” said
Harry with a smile. “ Now all those under 12 come here,
and let me take your names.” As he was scribbling away
on the back of an envelope, I started out, unknown to
him, on a collecting tour. I’d got in just on a sovereign,
when he discovered what I was up to. He broke away
from the kids, and hurried up to me. “ D—n it, what
are you up to?” “Only collecting money for the kids’
races,” I answered. “ But what in the devil do you want
to interfere for ? Ain’t I running this ? ” “Yes —assisted
by me. I’m going to make five bob to-day as well as
you.” * Fisher shook his head sadly, and muttered, “ My
rotten luck again ! ” We are in partnership now, as far
as promoting children’s races at picnics is concerned.
R. S. Smythe is unmistakably one of the greatest
showmen that Australia knows. He contrives without
any undue expenditure to niake a tremendous splash in
which he himself figures on the same ripple as the “ star ”
he is booming. He took parson Alwyn Ewen, of Mel-
bourne, to Wellington (M.L.)the other day with his guid
Scotch lectures on the “kailyard” authors—Crockett,
Maclaren, Barrie, etc. —and so convincing were the
efforts of the little man who looks like a porcupine fish
that many left the 1 hall declaring that Smythe had dis-
covered another Charles Clark —which he hasn’t. To
help the lecturer out the little man secured a Maoriland
singer, Miss Lloyd Hassell, and made the attempt to pass
her on the public as another Ada Crossley. Smythe was
clever enough to persuade Joseph Ward to introduce the
singer, but after she had finished the Postmaster-General
looked as if he couldn’t help it, and as if he felt sorry for
the statements he had made.
A Blood-Purifier
Impure Blood. Abscesses. Now Strong and Robust.
in *
*••* * - .* ' *-rv. -V • r. ■> *1 -
Mrs. Annie
Snook, of Auck-
land, New Zealand,
sends us her photo-
graph, and says:
“I was a strong,
healthy woman
until about five
years ago. While
living in England,
on recovering from
an attack of the
measles, I took a
cb $l, had a relapse,
and came very near
dying. My blood
was left in a very
bad state. Ab-
scesses formed on
my body. I was
confined to my bed
two-thirds of the
time, and at times
unable to move.
For two years I
failed to obtain any
relief, and was advised to come to New Zealand. On arriving here I con-
tinued about the same, trying many remedies without any relief. About a
year ago I thought I would try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Very soon the abscesses
began to heal, and my general health improved. I followed up the treatment,
until now lam as strong and robust as ever. I cannot too strongly recommend
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a blood-purifier and tonic.”
You will notice it was “Ayer’s ” Sarsaparilla that made this splendid cure
for Mrs. Snook. There are many other Sarsaparillas on the market, but
there is only one “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. It is the old, original, genuine
Sarsaparilla. The Sarsaparilla that has been tested and tried for over sixty
years. Do not run the risk of trying some other kind.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes all Impurities from the Blood.
Prepared by DR, J. O. AYER CO., no well. Mass.. XT. 8. A.
FURNITURE
The Greatest Furniture Warehouse
in the Commonwealth.
We ha ve without doubt the LARGEST and Most UP-
TO-DATE FURNITURE WAREHOUSE in Australasia.
OUR TERMS are the LOWEST IN SYDNEY. At the
same time we guarantee all our Goods Perfectly NEW,
SOUND, and of the LATEST DESIGNS.
Every Household Requisite Kept
All Goods Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
V.TERMS.V *
v v . . Kiu # , zb/«»
PIANOS, £2 DEPOSIT, apd 5/- PER WEEK.
Should the above Terms not suit you, Special Arrange-
ments can be made at the Warehouse.
Marcus Clark & G 0.4“.4“
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTORS,
NEWTOWN.
Branches: North Sydney, Waverley & Newcastle.
UP
GO-OPERATIVE COUPONS
GIVEN FREELY
On all CASH Purchases.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Ib. bottles. Made in London.*
An enterprising Maorilander is rather early in the field
With a cinematograph show of “ the great Russo-
Japanese war,” which he is hawking round little country
districts. The view of the battle that is going to happen
Is said to be most realistic, but probably this is a lie.
HOW IS YOUR APPETITE ?
When the digestion is all right, the bowels
regular, there is a natural craving and relish for
food. When this is lacking you may know that
you need a- dose of CHAMBERLAIN’S
STOMACH AND LIVER TABLETS. They
strengthen the digestive organs, improve the
appetite, and regulate the bpwe]s.‘*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
I? OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beccham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent, Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and ‘As 9d each.
Price 1/1
Post Free.
MORANT:
His ’Ventures & Verses
0,
NEW No. 6 RIFLE
1903 MODEL.
Improved throughout, and equipped with a peep sight, accurately
rifled, and elegantly finished.
, • ■ '/
THE BEST VALUE OFFERED IN RIFLES.
22 calibre, 3| pounds; length of barrel, 20 inches.
Specify U.M.C. AMMUNITION.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CARD.
Dr.MARTIN
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.0.P..8., L.R.0.8..8.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases Ot Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Oualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or bv Letter in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chrome indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RES T DENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for « Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Lettbr, ONE POUND {including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebling and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of whiph he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE* ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
AT.T. COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing


TWO SPLENDID
OILSKINS.
The best that were ever
madfMßjest in all respects.
They’re made on honor and
have ot t reputation beh'nd
them. Powerful, yet light
as silk, and give more wear.
The “DUGONG,” light weight -
The “RAINBOW,” medium weight -
. SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET (Illustrated
- 20-
- 15/6
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Rubber
Merchants,
ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
-270 George St. f Sydney.
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
:raig &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-,
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
and
ICE !>■ 1
.?* , u ■
BUCCANEER,
e.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK-
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
®*“ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd . London and "crar'i
Worthington Pump Company, Limited,
Warren Webster & Co. Newjew,.
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Every
Length
and Size
Stocked.
BENNIE, TEARE&CO.
Mining: and Engineering
Furnishers,
PERTH,
■
MELBOURNE,
COOLGARDIE.
AND
Km
n*;.:
TANGYE
'i
WIRE
ROPES
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
7 4 Clarence St., Sydney.
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools. Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturievant Ore Roils and Crushers.
Record SHAFT SINKING in Australia
Of Ofi'w ° f l i he SPT 1 Hf ?i°!? k p Charters Towers, was sunk a distance of 336 feet in thirteen weeks ; or, at the rate
nfvdtinn 4 C, 1 f £ d l pt £ •° f 1 P° J®®* ( f !; ojn 404 to 544 feet ) was P ut down in four weeks and 31 feet timbered (slabbed) in
shaft sinking in'Australfa 8 & * S 4 eet ® inches, and the formation granite. This performance constitutes a record in
FOUR INGERSOLL-SERGEAIMT DRILLS of the D 9 TYPE
worked three shifts, each shift doing 42 hours per week.
were used in sinking this shaft, and the men
ihp "f AND AIR COMPRESSORS hold the highest average records throughout
.world. They have met and defeated m fair competition every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain
their reputation for doing the most work at the least expense.
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILL CO., NEW YORK.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd., 60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Mining and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st., Sydney
— ! " stoc 2 Amd . toarr| y-~ Portable, Traction, Vertical & HoH^nteT^lers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
rrlgation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
at
m
aizu, s}" x 3i" x 5"
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
(all size*
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Dollars, etc. Engineers’Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and wi™
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors
R. L. SCRVTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLA-EtEBTCB STREET, SYUKTEY.
NOTHING EQUALS rn
METAL SOLARINE POLISH
For CLEANING GOLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL, TIM, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and LESS MATERIAL THAN ANY OTHER POLISH
ON THE MARKET. Sample Tins on application.
Sole Agents
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
- 1 ' ■■
71 Clarence Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
