

’S ALE
i
GAELIC
B-dJA V iLK SIUUI.
2E&.
Mining
107 Kent
Street, Sydney
—FOB-
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY
and Sawmill Machinery,
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS
Requisites
AVAILABLE.
Mining
sd
fsd
Roller. Stsel and Special CHAINS
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and (down out to life-size —causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), tlie Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox, the Great Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (in-tmetions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON!, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
f
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydnej
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 ntt street, SYDNEY.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
T 8 FOR
.EVATORo
CONVEYORS
sdf
ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES
COAL
Th
•K'; :
'l
ROTARY DRILLS
Electricity or
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
A POLICY
MU
M
Price, Sd.
Posted, 8d
HOBART.
•jsjK-1
PIONEER
m
LEATHER
BELTING^
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
'(sed
HIGHEST CLASS —OUR TRAVELLING REPRESENTATIVE IS NOW IN N.SW. LOWEST PRICE.
sd
fs
df
Jat. McEwan Si Co., Ltd
Briscoe •& Co.,
s^ if,cy *-
Forwood Down & Co., Ltd.
Adelaide.
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smeliie & Co.,
Brisbane.
The National Mortgage & Agrency Co., Ltd.
Dunedin.
LINCOLN,
ENGLAND.
O I o
PC
(5=
K
EROOM’S
INDIAN
STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World,
j Well known in S. Africa.
I Egypt, China and Ceylon
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
Ipp
4
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
m h*
K
WORLD-RENOWNED
mm
IWWi
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
long life.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations .
THimraasw!
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
TH
sd
fsd
fs
df
sd
fs
df
sd
fsd
PLUM’
i ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
* like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
d"-e that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testi j t
heir merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21«.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent IJost Free to any Part'of the World.
Hr"* Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agentss CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
EVERYWHERE
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
f
Price Is. Id.
Post Free.
The Quality and Success of this Brand
has caused many imitations.
The Immense Sale of BOOMERANG BRANDY is
the Best Testimonial to its Quality.
sdf
Be Sure that you get the BOOMERANG Brand.
sd
UtiiXjlSaMEl'i-KD.;
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, tinder cover.
Strictly Confidential,
A. G. LUMSOEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD.
AUBURN] MELBOURNE.
fs
HERVEY’S
RACKAROGK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
COOL
ROOF
S)OF
MAR*-
:
;■
%
AGENTS:
Leading Ironmonger*
everywhere. .
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO,
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
*3fe
seeTradeMark
L ON EACH CASE ftC.
FACTORtES : For these two lines address—
“ARABIC” DEPOT, MELBOURNE.
?\RM
Co 4
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
MEMO. FOR 1904: “
'
NULLUS.”
The Bulletin
Vol 25.—N0. 1250.1
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, January 28, 1904.


♦There are no Jews in Scotland.—Old Ballad.
Book Craae Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
St.» Leger. War Sketches in Colour, 245, postage Is 2d.
Cook, From a Wortian’s Note Book, ss, p. 6d.
Blaikie, Personal Life of Livingstone, 3s, p. fid.
Maeleod, Hygiene Methods and Calculations, 6s, p. 6d.
Low, Concerning Golf, 3s fid, p. fid.
Hume (Fergus), The Guilty House, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
1 Gould, Political Caricatures, 1903, Ts 6d, p. Bd.
Johnston, The Nile Quest(Story Explor. Series), 7s6d,t> 8d
Willoughby, Milk, 7s 6d, p. (id.
Chesterton and Garnett, Tennyson, Is 3d, p. 3d.
ead J. J. Bell’s books? The work of a genuine humourist. “ Wee Macgregor," “Et
McLeerie,” each Is 3d, postage 2d extra.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Boors South of King St.) &at Melbourr * * * ’
Have yon read .
and “ Mistress
Ethel,"
London.
For til® Xitm&S, the 1?lEoAT, the VOICE.
. . THE , .
great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds i
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
■ :
A. The Larynx, or organ ol
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
E>. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and v
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Oontain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
3old fey all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on re-
jeipt of stamps. Sydney Depiit: 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Made in Australia. Agencies in all States ana N.A.
THE RED PAGE.
In Cloud-Cuckoo-Land.
two years ago N.S.W. Education-
al Minister Perry (who is accredited with
_JL_ 1 the wisdom of the serpent) found an egg.
In an enthusiastic moment he sat upon
it and warmed it. The cockatrice has just been
hatched —and a voracious beast it is, with its
death-darting I (following Shakespear’s tradition)
very conspiouously fixed on Education-Minister
Perry. It wants to eat its foster Jatlier.
When Mr. Perry blessed his Education-Com-
missioners and sent them forth on their travels,
he instructed them that he did not want a general
survey of the field of education or a reconstruc-
tion of the existing N.S.W. plan. He wanted
hints, criticisms, illuminating facts gathered from
the experience of other countries—the matter that
cannot be learnt from books and reports, but can
be seen on inspection by an intelligent man with
an observing eye. He wanted practical help
rather than idealistic theory. And naturally, he
expected that the Commissioners would observe
and write with a view to N.S.W. conditions,
actualities and probabilities.
In this Mr. Perry was plainly right. The most
modern theories of education, and the fullest
details of modern practice, are at his departmental
disposal in text-books, reports, and magazines.
Educational literature is rich in books written by
French, German, and American experts, embody-
ing the fruit of life-times of thought and experi-
ence ; and it could not be hoped that the Commis-
sioners would add anything of general value after
a journey which was supposed to cover Europe
and America in less than a twelvemonth. But it
was hoped that with their eyes on the machine,
watching the application of theory as the wheels
went round, they would bring bade information
of particular value to New South Wales.
But the Commissioners, strong in their authority,
held and enforced another opinion. They decided
that they must consider the educational problem
fundamentally, and a large part of their Interim
Report is taken up with a discussion of ideal edu-
cation and the general scheme of instruction,
with particular illustrations from the countries
traversed. t Were that part the whole gain, the
taxpayers’ money would have been spent to little
purpose. The gist of the information was available
previously, given with fuller knowledgeand in fuller
detail. One is glad, of course, to have a com-
pendium of systems within the covers of one book.
But that was not what we chiefly wanted. The
main point for the Commissioners was: New South
Wales being what it is, with such a population, so
distributed, educated by such schools in such
a way, with so many teachers trained in such
a manner, and such a Parliament voting such
grudging supplies : what ideas of practical value
can we gather to improve N.S.W. education, and
how fully can we supply material to make the
adoption of those ideas natural and easy. That
is the point which the Commissioners have looked
at askance. Loosely speaking, they have re-
ported on Education, but they have omitted New
South Wales. Of course, their report is valuable
and interesting : with their opportunities it could
scarcely be otherwise. Nevertheless, it is to a large
extent a report oil side-issues. The plan is wrong,
and the details are out of proportion.
Jt
Tnese general remarks apply much more to the
work of G. H. Knibbs than to that of J. W. Turner.
Knibbs is a fellow of the Astronomical Society and
an occasional lecturer at Sydney University. He
appears to have started in ignorance of home
data, and wilfully to have reached foreign
conclusions. The Commissioners have been
good enough to separate their work, so that
one can reach a clear comprehension of the
value attributable to each of them. Knibbs’s
share is mostly wind. He is a true Nephelo-
coccygian, with head in the clouds and a corpus
of doctrine cuckooed from all the best authorities.
He is generally right, of course: people who
swallow the best authorities a r e generally right ;
and it is convenient to have theory enforced by a
reference to the practice of show schools in
Europe. But the Commissioners, in Mr. Perry’s
correct view, were not sent away to dilute the
best authorities or to corroborate the proof of
annual reports. They were sent away to supply
practical ways and means of bettering education
in N.S. Wales; and, so far as Mr. Knibbs is con-
cerned, the result is not worth the expenditure.
This is the conclusion of one careful reader of
the Report, and the Report supplies justifica-
tion which cannot here be given in detail. But)
one may quote a fair specimen of Mr. Knibbs’s
polysyllabic style—
In regard to (6), there can be no doubt also that the
severe analysis of the structure of language, the deter-
mination of the thought really expressed therein, the
recasting of that thought in another language, afford
exercise embodying a high type of mental discipline ; and
no one Vint those quite unacquainted with ancient
languages will lightly reject them as an integral element
in a curriculum intended to call into exercise the highest
powers of the mind, even where their practical employ-
ment is not a matter of direct concern.
There is doubtfully an exception to the rule that
a man who writes in that involved and cumbrous
way will think in a similarly involved and cum-
brous way. Mr. Knibbs is no exception. His
style is the image of his min’d as shown in the
Report.
J*
J. W. Turner does much more effective work.
He had the advantage of knowing a great deal
about the practical side of his subject before
he set out. As the chief teacher in the
chief school under N.S.W. Education Department,
he knew generally what should be done and what
could, be done to make N.S.W. education better.
Travel Ims' opened his trained eyes upon the
thousand small things that can be learnt only
from personal inspection, and he has given excei-
•'fent service. His plain, lucid statement of what
he has seen is in strong contrast to the vague
.manner of his colleague : and he seems to have
digested his observations, not merely swallowed
them. His conclusions are not tilings in the air,
but thing!on earth, that can be applied to prac-
tical use. Nevertheless, whether influenced by
his extravagant co-Commissioner, or whether he
forgot N.S. Wales in Eort-street, he also has
failed to see his task clearly. Tlie Interim Report,
in many ways admirable, is on the whole a monu-
ment of misdirected energy.
The Sydney daily papers, always more or less
unintelligent, have accepted the gift from Cloud-
cuckooland as an indubitable gift from the gods.
It is no wonder that inspectors and teachers grin
in conference assembled. For these men have
the. every-day work of conquering difficulties
which do not occur in Fort-street and are un-
touched by a paraphrase of James or Spencer.
The main difficulty is now, as it always was, a
matter of money. Double the education vote and
you will go near to doubling the efficiency of
N.S.W. education. Every inspector knows a
hundred ways of improving the teaching—if Par-
liament will vote the funds. The noble notions of
Nepheloeocoygian Knibbs are no novelties. They
have been waiting to be applied for a dozen years
past, and they wait in limbo because to apply
them you want money, money, money. As long
as the Education Department pays its teachers
half what competent teachers are worth in
this country’s talent-market, so long will its
education be a half-born, half-baked com-
promise. The astonishing thing is that the
Department, with such an area to cover, does so
well with such scanty means. The teachers have
earned the right to say to the people, You provide
the straw, and be sure that we will provide the
bricks. But the money aspect of' the case is
precisely that which the Sydney daily papers
leave untouched. When a N.S.W. Minister, in
the small hours of the morning, jobs through a
vote of twenty-odd thousand pounds in aid of a
richly-endowed university, you do not hear the
papers saying that, in the service of education, the
money would do far more good if it were devoted
to improving the means and conditions of the ,two
thousand schools and teachers in the Bush. No ;
but you hear them advocating the continuance of
free postage for newspapers, in order that the
revenue-fund available for education and other
purposes may be still further diminished. What
the daily papers want is a little more uncommon
honesty, and a lot more common sense.
T. W. H. Crosland seems to have established
himself as Public Jester in London. His latest ven-
ture, The Five Notions, is mainly a aeries ,of parodies of
Kipling’s verse—the imitation extending to the book’s
form and facture. Intrinsically, the contents are poor ;
but the delightful thing about many of them is that, if
they had been printed in The Five Nations , Kipling’s
devotees would not have been able to distinguish them
from the work of the little master. Crosland is a faithful
parodist, but as a satirist he does not shine. The follow-
ing example is better than his average—
SOUTH AFRICA.
Lived a woman, wonderful,
(May the Lord defend her !)
Possibly she was not true,
But the sparkle of her drew
Hebrew gentlemen a few
Hotly to attend her.
Hebrew gentlemen a few,
From Berwick * unto Dover ;
For she wath South Africa,
And she wath South Africa,
She wath our South Africa,
Africa all over !
Half her land was dead with drought,
(Yeth, my dear, let’s whithper),
She was fenced with fire and sword,
But some little holes we bored,
Gold and diamonds thence outpoured,
So we all thaid Mithpah !
True, ah true, an’ over true,
That ith why we love her !
For she ith South Africa,
And she ith South Africa,
She ith our South Africa,
Africa all over.
Bitter hard her black men toiled
Groaning “ How they work us ! ”
We got very rich indeed,
She for prospering Jacob’s seed
Got the usual woman’s meed,
And a gaudy circus.
In the end she showed some teeth,
Oh, it wath a pity !
Seemed to looth her equipoise,
Kicked up such a devil’s noise,
That we had to send the hoys—
Soldiers from the city.
They took ship and they took sail,
Eager to reprove her,
And she fought like any cat,
Scratched and yelled and bit and spat,
Also gave ’em anti-fat,
And they could n’t move her.
Nigh three years she fought and fought,
Working us much woe there.
All her land is dripping red,
Many thousands dead as dead,
Now they ’re sitting on her head,
And it’s safeto go there.
Wherefore, being bought by blood,
And by blood rethored
To the arms that nearly lost,
She, becauth of all she cost
Other people, is the most
Lovelley and adored!
Tholly, Thidney, let me know
Thith ith why we love her I
For she ith South Africa,
She ith our South Africa,
Ith our own South Africa,
Africa all over !
MEMORANDA
“Prof. L. W. Hart,” lecturing to Sydney
photographers, is reported as saying that in three-
colour photography the best American and German
artists were excelled by an Australian operator. Who is
he ? and why was not his work shown at the Photographic
Society’s exhibition ?
“They do slobber their welcomes in Adelaide,”
as the Duke of York remarked when his hand had been
grabbed and kissed by the temporary Mayor. B. J. T.
Bosanquet tells St. James’s Gazette that, at the reception
given to the Eng. cricket team a' few weeks ago, “The
Mayor of Adelaide was in great form, and extremely
fluent. Some of the critics at home who have had a word
to say about the unrepresentative nature of the side
might have been interested to hear that we were ‘ a repre-
sentative team of representative cricketers, represent-
ing the best representatives of English cricket.’ If they
could hold out after that they would indeed be stubborn.
After about five speeches Warner got up to reply for
u 5.... When he had finished he was requested to intro-
duce u 5.... After this ceremony, the Mayor made one
or two more speeches, and we adjourned" to a smaller
room for refreshment. Here we had two more speeches
from his worship and one from a geutleman who had
been too late for the earlier speechifying.” The never-
ending loquacity of elected officials !
About the best of the Spencer stories shows
how very human a Great Philosopher may be. Many
years ago, when S. was in the habit of dining out, he
frequently met Harriet Martineau. Miss Martineau was
a social lion in her day, notoriously blue, and talented,
and naturally hostesses paired her with Spencer at the
dinner-table. “Will you take Miss Martineau down, Mr.
Spencer? I’m sure you two great scientific people must
have things to say to one another that are far above our
foolish heads ! ” This went on until the Great Philosopher,
who had a reasoned preference for crinolines topped by
pink cheeks and bright eyes, absolutely loathed Miss
Martineau. In drawing-room after drawing-room his
apprehensive glance on entering would fall upon
Medusa’s head, and straightway he would petrify. Then
at last came the memorable night of the Spencer
rebellion (perhaps he had been considering the publishing
account 'for Social Statics). “Will you take Miss
Martineau down to dinner?” cooed an ingratiating lady
as per formula. “No ! ” snapped the Great Philosopher ;
“I WON’T !”
Spencer was systematically particular with his
printers. Some ten years ago he addressed a London
firm by post-card as follows :—“ In making up into pages
the ‘ Inadequacy of Natural Selection ’ avoid sundry
things which I dislike—(l) The divisions between sections
must on no account correspond with the endings or
beginnings of pages. (2) I dislike also to have paragraphs
beginning or ending with pages. (3) I disapprove entirely
of the spaces habitually left between text and extracts.
There must be no more space than between two lines of
text.”,
Lady Marie Corelli’s latest advt. was a libel
case against a Stratford-on-Avon newspaper that had
accused her of crushing a Carnegie library project in
Shakespear’s-street, though she had been willing to
decorate the fane with a Corelli library. The verdict was
a farthing damages, with an expression of opinion
that each side should pay its own costs —which
the Judge said he understood to mean that, in
the opinion of the jury, the action ought not to
have been brought. But the court was crowded, and the
newspapers gave columns of space to Shakespear’s
rival.. Defendant’s counsel unkindly made the persecuted
lady admit that there was already a Technical Institute
in the holy street, and that she had presented copies of
her own works for use by the students—” with great
reluctance ”!
J. J. Bell, the creator of “Wee Macgreegor,”
is now fairly established as a Scotch humourist. Where-
ever there is a Scotch editor he is printed and extolled.
Thanks to dialect, his work looks funny, anyway.
Consider this excerpt from last Idler :
“ Did I no’ ye to pit on yer auld troosers, Mac-
greegor?”
“ 1 dinna like my auld yins, Maw.”
“ Weel, ye ’re no’ gaun oot to the fishin’ in yer guid
yins. I’m no’ gaun to ha’e yer nice new navy-bew yins
spiled afore ye *ve had them a week. The saut watter ’ll
jist ruin them. Awa’ an’ pit on yer auld yins this
meenit! ”
How comic “ Maw” is ! And, translated, there is only
some household detail of a little boy’s knickerbockers.
“ Did n’t I tell you to put on your old trousers?”
“ I don’t like my old ones, mother.”
“Well, you’re not going fishing in-your good ones.
I’m not going to have your nice new navy-blue ones
spoiled before you’ve had them a week. The salt
water will just ruin them. Be off and put on your old
ones this minute ! ”
And this stuff is printed as jocose !
Points of W. T. Stead’s new Lond. daily— The
Daily Paper. A paper “for the Home.” No racing,
betting, or Stock Exchange news or advertisements— “ no
advertisement which ministers to the vices of the day.”
An insurance policy and other gifts for every subscriber.
Principles of “ the Sermon on the Mount practice of
“ a cheerful spirit ”; publication at 10 a.m.
J. Thomson, the latest republisher of Tenny-
son’s early suppressed poems, takes a view of the moral
mechanical bard that is astonishing in tradition-ridden
England. “ Tennyson is a brilliant example of the adage
that ‘genius is the capacity of taking infinite pains.’
Born probably with little more than the average gift for
rhyme, he early in life determined to be a poet, as
another might determine to be a doctor or a soldier.
From that determination Tennyson never wavered.”
And later there is a reference to “the worthlessness of
most of the criticism lavished on Tenn-yson by his coterie
of adulating friends ” ! There is visions about.
Randolph Bedford’s book of True Eyes and the
Whirlwind reads very much like chapters of an auto-
biography. It is a lengthy book, beyond the ordinary
novel-size, and it tells how Billy Pagan went to school,
and ran away from home, and had many variegated
experiences with men and women (two at least, with
blank spaces in the proper places) before he met “ True
Eyes.” Then how he loved “ True Eyes,” and she loved
him, and they married, and he turned to journalism and
was swindled by the daily papers. And then how he
went tramping, and mining, and mine-speculating, and
did his best to make a happy fireside clime for
weans and wife, yet lusted after wandering, and
wandered. It is a yarn, rather than a hovel—a
straightforward yarn of what looks like fact, with
superabundant detail ; a pleasant yarn—frank, warm,
sincere, and manly: full of a curious naivete, yet
expressing what seems, rather natural brutality than
cultivated cynicism. Scarcely at all “literary,” and
all the more humaa therefore; though often there
is a phrase or an idea that sparkles and can be
looked at twice. The book is particularly welcome
because it is Australian —the male of My Brilliant
Career, and could not have been written anywhere but
in Australia. The author’s temperament is Australian :
his big, breezy attitude is’Australian, his shyness hidden
under bluster is Australian ; and his work represents him
faithfully. The cry for a distinctive Australian literature
can be met now with one book and two. And by-and-by
we shall better the art while preserving the outlook.
A meeting of the late John Farrell’s friends has
decided to commemorate him by a subscription edition
of his verses. According to W. E. Johnson, M.H.R., who
has seen the material, this will bring Farrell enduring
fame. Fairell himself was doubtful about it. Despite the
enticement of a waiting publisher, he shirked the task of
reconciling “ How he Died” like the wild colonial boy
with the smooth manner of “ Ave Imperatrix.” Farrell
had a good poetical background to his mind, but his
verses fell far short of poetry. Still, some of them were
agreeable to read, and some are good to remember;
and it will be pleasant to have the whole of him under
one’s hand. He was a poetic personality, anyway, and
he did service at a time when service was valuable.
RECEIVED
The Open Court; October, 6 d. This magazine
of religion and philosophy is recommended to the Earnest
Student. Rabbi Krauskopf gives in this number a list of
alleged “ sayings of Jesus ” found in the Talmud. There
is a good article on Chevalier Pinetti, a curious 18th cen-
tury conjurer. The editor, Dr. Paul Carus, in an article
on “ Chastity and Phallic Worship,” says that “ While
monkish asceticism reaches its climax in the condemna-
tion of all natural life, denouncing especially the sexual
instinct as the original sin, we must state that the insti-
tution of monks and nuns itself is originally based on
phallism. Like the self-mutilation practised by the
priests of Cybele, it is a surrender of the sexual life to
the deity. It is an offering of the very sentiment of
sexuality to the procreator of ail life, it is a betrothal to
the deity. This is true of the Vestal Virgins of Rome, as
well as of the Virgins of the Sun in Peru, mentioned by
Prescott, and even to-day the Christian nun is called
‘ the bride of Christ.’” -
Our advertiser desires it mentioned that he supplies
The Open Court, on subscription for Bs. 6 d. a year. You
may have noticed that we have only one ewe lamb of a
regular advertiser (besides a gentleman who prefers to sell
a really excellent jujube from this high vantage-ground)
and the relationship is peculiar. He tells us that the adver-
tisement doesn't do him any good (almost in the same
breath in which he relates how he has received orders on
the one day from Invercargill, Thursday Island, and Cool-
gardie), and insists that he only advertises for the sake of
occasional illegitimate mention like this, and for .-the
pleasure and pride of being our ewe lamb. We teli him
that on the whole we would like better to have the space
to fill with high-toned paragraphs about Keats and
Yeats and the very late M. Mullarmy, and that one of his
days we will raise his price and freeze him out. However,
the thing goes on, and now and again he gets an
unlawful advt., and occasionally his London agent
lands him with a long “ line ” of some popular and
worthless publication and we damn it with great satis-
faction, and he will supply you at least as cheaply and
efficiently as anybody else, so perhaps you had better
deal with him.
The preceding paragraph, you perceive, is most
undignified. You don’t find paragraphs like that in lhe
Athenaeum- or The-Sydney Morning Herald. They can’t
afford to trifle with their reputations. When one is
accustomed to be solemn and ponderous, any ascent to
triviality affects solemn and ponderous readers un-
pleasantly. They begin to doubt the oracle. This is a
point in British psychology. The British are essentially
serious-minded : they take jokes with difficulty or
rather, they resent them when they come in unaccus-
tomed places. The Briton wants time to get his mind
ready to receive a joke, and if you spring the joke before
he is ready it rattles the apparatus. To a certain extent,
this is true of us all : when you are wrought to really
tragic pitch you resent the intrusion of comedy, because
it means anti-climax. But, short of that pitch, your wits
should be poised lightly enough to adjust themselves
instantaneously to a change of key.
And when that was written, came this in an article on
Judith Gautier by Remv de Ciourmont:
She has a mind at once light and serious; while her
emotion js profouhd, her expression is gay and laugh-
ing. How often have people twitted us with this
“French levity”! And we ourselves, have we not
sometimes tried to banish it? That would he foolish
indeed, for there is no gift more divine. It is the
supreme art. A common expression defines the
quality : Not to look like touching. What shocks us so
much in the Germans is that, on the contrary, they
look like touching, even when they keep their hands
behind their backs. When they really touch things,
they lean so heavily that they crush them. On their
side, they pretend to believe that levity of act or of
form is a sign of levity of thought. They affirm
that everything serious should be said seriously :
we answer by quoting Rabelais, Montaigne, and
Voltaire : the English can answer with Swift, that
prodigious satirist. In fine, whatever other nations
think, it is in France the tradition and always the
fashion to look detached. Smile! like a good
comedian, even with death at heart. And thus we
know among ourselves the true man, he who is master
of himself.
The collection of F. C. Gould’s Political
Caricatures for 1903 (published by Arnold, Lond., at
6s. net) makes an interesting volume. Gould is no artist
—he is not even a draughtsman or designer of note ;he
is cartoonist and picture-writer. Word-writing is still
for most people a mode of expression whose message is
laboriously understood and imperfectly grasped ; but
the picture talks to all of us swiftly and forcibly.
Gould has an uncommon gift for stating a political
question or attitude so that it can be comprehended
by the meanest intelligence; and he states wittily,
often brilliantly. To deny him technical value is not to
deny his capacity for portraying character in many
aspects, or the remarkable invention and ingenuity'
shown in the handling of his subjects. He has thor-
oughly grasped the cartoonist’s principle that the
a picture is, the stronger it is; and with one or tvV'o
figures and a sketch pf scenery he influences the British
masses possibly more than all the London leader-wrj iters.
His text is the kernel of a leader ; but his picture is the
plain sermon that is lost in many a windy column. His
faces, too, are fine studies : the snarling Chamberlain and
the languid Balfour are caught to the life, not only as
they look, but (Gould convinces us) as they are. And it
is a rare talent that can bring such a conviction.
Books about horses are rarely uninteresting ; and
in Horse-Breeding and Managevient (Lond., Everett;
10s. M. net) Fred Adye handles a very pleasant pen. His
book is a shrewd, discursive commentary upon practical
aspects of his subject, illustrated by many photographs.
There are few who will not learn something from his
large fund of experience ; and his generalisations are
suggestive. For example, “the horse’s longevity is said
(and there is a certain amount of truth in it) to be in pro-
portion to his rate of speed. Thus the carthorse would
be quite old at twenty, the half-bred at twenty-five, and
the thoroughbred at thirty:” Here is a sidelight on the
“ ever-vietorious ” British army. “ Some 50,000 troops of
all arms were encamped in my immediate neighbourhood
[during last year’s military manoeuvres], and it was the
una?iimous opinion of such of the country residents as
remembered the autumn manoeuvres held in this same
district In 1872, that the physique of both men and horses
had greatly deteriorated from that of those employed on
the previous occasion.”
Again, “the mule lias beenaptlv described as ‘ an animal
with no pride of ancestry and no hope of posterity.’”
“ As is well known to experienced horsemen, the bone of
the thoroughbred horse is denser and closer in substance
than that of the c iarser-bred animal, more resembling
ivory in grain and texture. So well, indeed, is this fact
ascertained that bone-crushers have affirmed that the
machine works harder, and they can tell by the sound of
it when the tibia or cannon bones of a thoroughbred are
passing through the mill.” Here, surely, is an illustra-
tion transferable to the human species, to account for the
prized slenderness of aristocratic ankles ! There are
readable chapters on colour, on artificial insemination,
and on handling and breaking; and anyone fond of horses
cannot fail to find the book useful and suggestive.
The Damsel and the Sage, by Elinor Glyn
(Lond., Duckworth). A collection of aphorisms on a
skein of parable. Large type and liberal margins make
it evident that the lady’s whimsies are palate-ticklers,
not life-sustainers. However, for sampling—
There are always three courses in life ; the good, the
bad, and—the indifferent. The good gives you calm,
and makes you sleep"; the bad gives you emotions, and
makes you weep ; and the indifferent gives you no
satisfaction, and makes you yawn—so —choose wisely !
Time and place—temperature and temperament—and
after the sunset the night—and then to-morrow.
A man 'wishes and a woman wishes, but Circum-
stance frequently wins the game.
Naughty Elinor!
A.G.C.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
df
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE! AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
" *
m
*
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, s£oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS—
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATSJ 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS, \No. 3 4 5 6
Cane— / 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s fd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
All Cane— J 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN’S CANEI
and RUBBER V
BATS- J
14s 6d. 15s, 15s 6d, 16s 6d
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
Send for Catalogue, Post Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS—
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS-
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
15s set.
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
w
b eft by
3s 6d
C_J
Handicap
Standard
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure In
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19* 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 25s, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100s, &o.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation'
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered..
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion
... 4s 6d doz.
... 9s 6d „
... 10s ~
16s ~
8s 6d „
12s 6d, 15s „
... 163 it
TAYLORS
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted ... 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including' payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
sd
To those suffering from Weak-
ness, Loss of Energy, Insom-
nia, Nervousness, etc. ; to
those in pain with Rheuma-
tism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Weak
Back, Indigestion, “ Come-
and-Go ” Pains, Neuralgia, &c., we ofler Fres Advice. To anyone
calling we will make a Free Diagnosis of his or her ailment. To those
living at a distance, and unable to visit the city, in addition to
our Illustrated Book, which is full of interesting matter, we will
Send a Diagnosis Chart
in which you can describe the symptoms of your ailment. Return
same to us, and we will then let you know what you are suffering
from, and whether our Belt will cure you. In every case under-
taken by us we guarantee an absolute and permanent cure, no
fs
matter if it be
of long stand-
ing or not.
Remember we
use No Drugs
and if the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt fails to cure you nothing in the world
will. It will do for you in two months what Medicine will not
do in a lifetime. It pours a soothing current of Electricity into
your system that after a few days’ wear you begin to feel
New Life Returning, Old Pains Departing.
Send for our Advice to-day ; the longer you delay the worse your
complaint becomes. The first cost of vie Belt is the only expense
you incur, and with proper care it will retain its great healing
power for years. We have thousands of wonderful cures in Australasia alone,
and to sceptical people we can produce any amount of convincing proof as to the
great merits of this world-wide Remedy. “Electricity is Life,” and, as applied
by our Belt, is recognised by the leading Physicians of the Old World as the only
means of restoring the vital power which has been wasted out of the body.
Mr. VINCENT PAIS, DUNHAM, GLADESVILLE, N.S.W., writes:
“ Dear Sirs,—With much pleasure I beg to bring to your kind notice that, within two months’ time, your Belt
has cured my back and neckache perfectly, and it is one month now since I left off the use of your Belt, and
as I do not suffer in any way, I think there is no need of wearing your Belt any more. For your pleasure
WEAK
I take the
interest o f
writing you
these few
lines for the
publication
as niy true
letter."
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
r
m
fwj)
iSWHf'^gS
'Tib
-V
72Zv>
J
"//>*
3»
m.
'N\v 1h i
tiaii
fthr
ne
<fO
ei.etr
~o
//
C’y/ee/f up OLo Fellow. Throw away those
V/lc Concoctions e, wear this 0?M?L AU6HLIN&
BELT, n will &oon Build you up as A
DIO NJ£,
ELECTRIC BELT
Is the ONLY SAFE, SURE and SPEEDY REMEDY, and can be worn
without the slightest inconvenience by man, woman or child. Those who
have tried Drug Treatment of various kinds without relief should try this
Natural Cure. It is absolutely the only means of getting back your Health
Strength and Vitality. “Electricity is Life,” and, as applied by us it gives
Life to everyone.
Do not Buy an Electric Belt until you
have decided, to take No More Drug's.
CAUTION.—Do not confuse us with an advertisement
offering: a Belt “Free,” and who, upon your request for
same, place obstacles in your way and try to induce
you to part with a few shillings as a sign of good
faith, which, however, amounts to many times the full
value of the appliance. “Free Belts” are never Free in
any sense of the word. Write us for full particulars.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. Market Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE OFFICE—I67E SWANSTON STREET.
N.Z. OFFICE—S 4 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON.


df
PROFESSOR /V\UDDS
c/INTMOS
Ctops mair falling out-
Baldness -
- PRICE £/<j -— L - POSTED 3/3 -
K R OMO
Gives life gc olok togrey n air
CONTAINS NO ACIDS :^V P
Wi^mm
r T
polled
5/c,
Ift*
T
Flavelle, Roberts * Sankey,
Lapidaries ♦ . . •
Gem Merchants and ♦ •
Manufacturing Jewellers
sdf
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
1
2
a
4
8
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
No. 1.—3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £lO ; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.—5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—8 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.—3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.-3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7. —1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9. —1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as th*
Diamond), £4.
No. 13.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET GEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 GEMS ON HAND.
WOMEN, BEAD THESE FACTS.
Many of you live far in country parts, where you cannot procure the necessities for the
NURSERY, the BOUDOIR, the HOME. By writing to us you can be certain that your
wants will be supplied. FACE and TOOTH POWDERS, Toilet Requisites in Variety,
Soaps, Perfumes, Patent Medicines, or any indispensable necessity, may be received by parcel
post a few hours after writing. We have an excellent assortment of Bath Requisites suitable for
Summer requirements. Write to us for price lists, sent free on application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure.— The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
2s 6d post paid.
Dr. Hughes’ “Pits Epilep.” —A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use. 5s p. paid
Fincham’s Capaline.— A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle. Is 6d and 2s 6d, post paid.
Fincham’s “ Fearline ” Face Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c. 2s 6d post paid.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
It is so effective that the worst cases are relieved
in six hours. See you get the Gr. 5 remedies,
3s. 6d. p. paid.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic. —Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
2s. 6d. and 55., post paid.
Dr. Clarkson’s Great Re-Invigorator.
—For weak Dyspeptic men, a splendid Nerve
Tonic and Rejuvenator, promotes Digestion,
increases the Appetite, enriches the Blood, and
gives vital strength. In bottles, 7s. 6d. Three
bottles (a course), £l. Post paid.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCHAM, M.P.S.,
ghe iwi §mg/Store, 227 Elizabeth Street,
Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
-.<S
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
130 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Qanz Induction Motor.
SOLE AGENTS:
The fluetral Qtis Engineering Go., Did., South ff)sib.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Prize Medals^
sd
fs
Works i Birmingham, England
These senes
of Pens neither
iscratch nor spurt
jThey glide over
|the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner Ceorge & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30'j;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oply pay for wbat tbcy actually batfc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying; for a
room on arrival) and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEOROE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
KL'O JDJESFY OOMPBTIXIOKT.
WINES Bed * SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral waters. CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
df
The TJnirersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Hearthurn, Indigestion,
Bour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFQRDS
MAGNESIA,
sd
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
fs
df
C, There’s SECURITY In
ARTERS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
| FURRED TONGUE.
; INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Pric«r
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
FREE TRIAL for 60 DAYS.
m
£
W
&
7 f
We will send the Dr. Austin Electric Belt on
this basis to Men and Women everywhere.
Not to be paid for until the cure is complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only
r ■medy in the world which can be sold on such
n plan. It is the only never-failing cure for
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back and
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and
Stomach troubles ; in fact, all chronic diseases
of Men and Women. It cures after all other
remedies have failed. Why ? Because it
restores nerve life, animal vitality, warmth
and vigour to all the weakened parts.
The Best Belt*-New Non-Vinegar Belt.
All who have used another belt will realise the great advantage of having a powerful up-to-
date improved Belt that don’t need soaking in vinegar each time before using. Most other
belts sold in Australia use vinegar to produce a current. Our improved Belt does away with
this trouble, is guaranteed for three years, and never burns. We are so positive of the
wonderful curative power of our Belt, that we have decided to make this speoial offer, and
each person writing us will receive
ABSOLUTELY FREE
a handsome copy of the latest edition of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book. Write at
once and we will send by return post, closely sealed, this valuable work. Remember you
don’t pay for our Belt unless it cures you. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co. (Dept. M),
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Nmv Zealand Branch— l 9 PRINCES STREET, DUNEDIN.


Danger ahead I
The engineer
doesn’t see the
broken rail.
There is sure
to be a terri-
ble wreck.
There’s a
wreck
ahead for
you if you pay no attention to youi
weak throat and lungs.
Cherry Pectoral
Weak throats and weak lungs easily
give way. Some extra strain, as a
fresh cold, and you are down with
bronchitis or pneumonia. Better
strengthen these weak places before it
is too late. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
heals these irritable throats, gives tone
to the relaxed membranes, and imparts
strength to the lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be surd
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
EVERY WOMAN
sdf
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Clenses Instantly,
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free—
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MHRVBL CO.,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W*
POSTAL ADDRESS, BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
ttwti
SPOONER’S
*T»iv a:
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
sd
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
• Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
t Models <
<3 82.t0t0 £5.5.0
fs
Fr U pfi lo W^ r ? S ’^ eStWOo(J Steel Eim S.
tree Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia .
Motor Cars and Motoeycles
iZZf' 4f ces J ories ' Sporting Goods &
gewtagMaebmes Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
mm— _ sufficient foreign postage.
oygle oom De P t - 339 b
CHICAGO, B.S.A, and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
MEN
If
you
are
’ suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
6 S *-P“(P«r B f S
I will send a trial bottle of my
remedy, free.
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
188 r FESSOR H - READ,
Ws.Cfit.ujjg STBEET. MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
« Por LUe Atmma on tbe Mmual prlnclp ~ * J
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural lanrie «,..
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bill! of
n w AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTFREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the nriviWe 1 *
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Cne repayin 2 up to 20 per
tors —Thomas TiTTTTiPLTOHw. F.an nhoirm.n. rnu„ t T „_ a d y. _ e *
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SAHKEY. Ltd.
Occulists’ Opticians, and
Manufacturers of Spectacles.
Brisbane and Rockhampton
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHA3. SANKPY Pdaspd bc n n m.
the hig-hesfc qualifications as an Optician in all Australia viz stc/.>5 tc /.> Efca > who hold »
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optica Northamton Tn*Vlhit»' °™Tv A i PP le< * ,°P tlC3 i Northamton
Correspondence Invited—Prompt Attention Assured.
Recommended by Leading Occulists. TRg
The Best and the Cheapest.
np 1 M K r— —W
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
Prom our S P rill S B at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
H.JT. SMITH
Brisbane
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Tours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading' Jeweller.
H. F. SMITH
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1903 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
df
'fHE name “Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
gontand peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Kirn-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
F O B SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue* Post Free.
PERRY BROS. -
ENO’S HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
salt;
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—See Capsule msrked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without It you here a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr.p«r.a«rtjbjJ.O,BNO, Ltd.,‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, HMCK.
by J. 0. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Bards of the Backbloeks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Coal-Black Horse.
The Devil he brought me a horse to ride—•
And he was a rare one, too—
With a head of pluck and a heart of pride
And a sin in every shoe.
The Devil he tossed me up in his glee,
And prodded my steed on the thigh
With the point of his pitchfork. One—two—three,
We are out in the open sky !
I was only a half-fledged youngster—see ?
And the black was hard to hold,
But I steered him past Dishonesty
And Falsehood and Greed of Gold ;
But he came to the mire of Laughing Lips
And the swamp of the Swelling Breast,
And down he went to his coal-black hips
Ere ever his rider guessed.
I flogged him up with the double of Pride,
I raked him with Conscience’ spur,
But deeper he stumbled at every stride,
Ham-strung by the hands of Her ;
I waled his hide from wither to hip,
I lathered his flanks in blood,
Till my arm grew tired and I dropped my whip
And lost my spur in the mud.
It is warm down here in the clinging mire
White wanton arms within,
But I have sated my last desire
And tasted my sweetest sin,
And I drown in the depths of a slow remorse;
While, sick of the soul he slew,
The Devil has bridled another horse
And mounted a rider new.
THE LOST SOUL.
Waiting.
I await you : hath the rain-drift,
Sweeping fiercely from the sea,
Met you out across the plain-drift—
Barred you, blown you back from me ?
And does Dusk, the half-breed, cover
The long, twisted track we know
(For a man may seek his lover)
Where the velvet mosses grow,
And the trailing ferns unravel ?
(Must a woman stand and wait ?)
Hark ! a step upon the gravel,
And the clanging of a gate !
No, twas but the storm-wind’s laughter
In the grey gum’s boughs aloof,
Or the straining of a rafter
And the rain-drops on the roof.
I know that the twilight holds you
Somewhere in its great grey space ;
That the wild, wet wind enfolds you
As it blows upon my face.
And mayhap your eyes are meeting
Other eyes they leap to meet—
If they seek not mine in greeting,
Then I care not whose they greet!
Now the Night has traced her finger
O’er the plain’s dim, blotted chart,
And the crawling moments linger
With their hoof-beats on my heart.
Mayhap ’tis a needless sorrow
O’er some little dull delay,
I may hear you tell to-morrow,
And laugh at this weary day.
M.L.
LOLA RIDGR.
Dad’s Cheque.
Our Dad is somewhere in the West,
A-slaving all the year;
And Mother, when she talks of him,
Will often shed a tear ;
But once a month her skies are blue
Without a cloudy speck,
And that’s the day the postman brings
Dad’s letter with a cheque !
She hides the money-slip away
Until Dad’s scrawl is read,
And soon we know the aching’s gone
From weary heart and head ;
Then gay we trapse it round the town,
Where lures the windows deck—
Ah ! all the traders bless the day
That Mother gets Dad’s cheque.
There’s this and that the kiddies want,
There’s rent, and tea, and flour;
Dad’s money takes a month to earn—
’Tis melted in an hour !
For copper-toes were made to wear,
And boys their clothes will wreck;
But Mother’s daily scoldings cease
When spending Dadda’s cheque.
Dad hints he’s coming home again
Because he’s growing old,
And says it’s up to younger men
To chase the hard-won gold.
His freckled boys are growing now—
Ned’s up to Mother’s neck—
And soon they’ll have to take a turn
At making Dadda’s cheque.
vio.
RITA SUNYASEE.
Alfred Tennyson Dickens, of Vic., writes
Daily Chronicle, denying that his
Melbourne University has reached its
kpHml 6e ' Since its foundation by Justice
pfr m °L d Ba ,TO- t , tlas had on ly four chancellors—
Barry himself Bishop Moorhouse, Dr. Anthony
Brownless and Chief Justice Madden. Madden
bflleJbwh ha , rd b nt unsuccessfully for a small
snrnetv th , e Varsit y-registrar, librarian, or
something else obscure. We don’t know when
Providence is good to us.


A NOVEL PRESENT.^sfes*
0
,N receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we
w 1 » n y address in Australia one of our Handsome*
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/.
In 15ct G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. _ All letters carefully
addressed to R. BIMB, Gold Wire Kins, COISS
Book Arcade, Melbourne) Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
ft*-
VLtcm
Which we (end FREB
TO ALL explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STRONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explains their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can ho
SPEEDILY CURED bv
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TROUBLES, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WEAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
ft
Kfi
X
sd
means
DANGER!
Wilson’s
Commonsense
Ear Drums
mean relief and
SAFETY
Send a postcard to day (or
descrptive booklet (posted
free) .giving testimonialsfrom
Australian users. Established
8 years; sales largely increas-
ing. Address. J. Chalmers,
-231 Collins St., Melbourne
fs
“ ACTS XIKH A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica'and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
£2s. ©cl. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
. Cape Town,
i and 29 Niagara Lane, Mebourne
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and
apply CUTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the .blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
. loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Gutiguba Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers,
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid CUTICUKA
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cureß. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. CUTICURA PILLS are alterative, antiseptic, tonic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
CtmcußA Rkmkdies ar« «old throughout the world. Auatrelien Depot* R. Towns * Co., Sydney. Britleh
D.pT27 2 8 ChaXrhou 9 ” Sq! London. French Depot* A Rue do la Paix, Baris. PoTraa Dbuo and Cm*.
Sole Props., Boston, U. 8. A.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
Tha Original
CELLULAR.
7ba Healthiest and moil Comfortable Underwear for Hen, Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as "just as good as Aerteg.".
SOLE AGENTS l
Illustrated Catalogues
and Pattern* post fret.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 King-Street.
i r r*i"v hoj: hivh cxoo-o
w
All Chemists.
%
f
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay. Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it la
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
nr For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
tST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
df
Washington H. Soul, & Go.,
Pitt-streeb, Sydney.
sdf
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE
Hnld bv all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ;
°° lu * Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street
HAIR.
Mr. GORDON, 92 George
s MELBOURNE
WILL ANDRADE’S ». ROOKS
m
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 60 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post. Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making,,ls 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
BpoK and Fortune Teller, Is; 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,.ls ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Uf-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
28. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANjl> ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE. WORSTCOUGBSJ
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO OURE IT.
GOUT
PlliliS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. Eor GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J. LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following are some of our best known Maohines
in use:
The “ Challenge ” Punching Machine— ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill)—3d. Slot-
pays value in goods. .
The “ Australia 6 Slots Spots and P. Machine—3d. Slot
—pays value in goods.
The Monte Carlo—s Slots Machine— Bd. Slot—pays value
in goods.
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
SSI Our Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
nervousness.
loss of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Ot HELP
CURB, will forward the same, free ol
charge, to anyone interested.
Address ! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease ana
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Writ,
to Arm and Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
REGULARLY at BEDTIME
USE
CALVERTS
20 per cent
CARBOLIC
SOAP
to prevent Mosquito bites. It is an excellent
antiseptic soap, refreshing and beneficial
to the skin, and a useful remedy for insect
bites, itch, and other skin irritation.
Bach tablet in metal box.
CALVERT’S
W/o CARBOLIC POWDER
offers a safe and simple precaution against
the spread of infection and disease.
Cheap to use, as it is so strong.
i lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England.
HERE’S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch
Post Free.
31
Black, White, Oream,
or Black tipped with White
Worth Twice the Money
Write To-day. Send Postal Note
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
sd
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanaton Sts., Melbourne
[Mejtiop Tp 1


Low, Languid, and Dispirited.
The Vagaries of a Torpid Liver.
A Useful Lesson for Sufferers.
The Case of tyr. J. DEGNAN.
(FOB THB “ REDFERN TIMES.”)
Among the most important missions of
inquiry placed on record was that recently
made by our reporter to the home of Mr.
John Degnan, Garden-street, North Botany.
This is due as much to the magnitude of his
discoveries as to the interest of the incident
he elicited on inquiring.
“Will you favour me with a complete
outline of the vicissitudes you successfully
combated ? ”
“ Right willingly,” answered Mr. Deg-
nan, as he offered the pressman a seat. Five
years went by from the time my illness
started till it was finally conquered, and if
I did not have a bad time it was a caution.
Bear in mind, it was all through the torpid
state of my liver, and, believe me, I got
into such a very wretched condition that I
did not care whether I lived or not. Before
I was really aware what disaster was be-
falling me I used to feel as though I had no
life in me, and was always low-spirited and
sleepy. There was only one thing that I
was fit for, and that was to lie down, but
when I did so I could not sleep, my mind
being actively engaged in going through a
multitude of unhappy thoughts which
seemed to be born of the melancholy condi-
tion I was in. What caused me considerable
uneasiness of mind was that my appetite
became poorer every day, and still more
anxiety' was engendered by the knowledge
that what food I did eat was of no benefit
to me, my ability to digest any kind of
eatables having vanished. In this way it
transpired that my strength wasted away
till it was often compulsory for me to knock
off work, although my employment at that
time was not of a heavy description.”
“ How did you feel after your meals? ”
Just as if I had swallowed so much
lead. Something like a heavy ball seemed
to foim in my stomach, the pains arising
from which were simply horrible, and from
the stomach the heavy sensations travelled
up to my chest, thereby giving me extra-
ordinary difficulty in breathing. My head
ached to a degree which proved almost dis-
tracting, for I could not settle down to
read or do anything, and there was even a
swollen feeling in my eyes to annoy me.
Owing to a pricking sensation under my
shoulder-blades I used to think I had
caught a cold, but experience has taught
me that that was a deranged liver symptom,
while another one, although more torment-
ing in its persistency, was a nasty aching
pain across the loins, which I felt very dis-
tinctly when moving about. The bitter
taste in my mouth was enough to turn any
man off his food, and the dirty coating on
my tongue used to make me feel sick. At
times, when exhausted nature claimed a
few hours’ rest, I fell asleep, but there was
no comfort in doing so, as the ugly dreams
I had simply beggar description. The flesh
gradually fell away from my frame till my
bones were quite visible, and my prospects
were anything but rosy, especially as my
head had long since been troublesome.
W ithout any ostensible reason it used to
start beating violently against my ribs, the
sound it made being quite loud enough to
be heard several yards away. It seemed
more than likely that myheartwas diseased,
particularly so as those fits of palpitation
were usually accompanied by feelings of
faintness. The worry of mind and pain of
body at last succeeded in wearing out my
patience, for it took but little to make me
irritable and excited, after which I sank
into the old gloomy groove of misery till
something else occurred to upset me. Ner-
vousness was not the least of my ailments,
as my nerves twitched involuntarily when-
ever anything happened to disturb me, and
in spite of the medicines I had taken, they
still trembled at the least provocation.”
“ Where did you get your medicine from,
Mr. Degnan ?”
“I refer to the medicines which my
doctors prescribed for me, but which I
might as well have left untouched for all the
good they were. I was Iways paying
money away to doctors, and never got any
value back for it; but now if I should
have the ill-luck to fall into bad health
again I would go straight for Clements
Tonic, as I know it to be the btst medicine
ever brought within the reach of suffering
humanity.”
“ That being your opinion, why did you
not take some earlier than you did ? ”
“ Recause I had been suffering five years
before I was told about Clements Tonic,
and another reason was because I had de-
cided against taking any more medicine, as
I thought it was useless. But a relative
came upon the scene and told me how
Clements Tonic had cured his complaints,
which were like mine in nearly every detail;
so I promised to try it, and when I did so
it was the best day’s work I ever did, for
Clements Tonic piloted me to health. I
used to dread the very idea of taking any
food, but when I had been on Clements
Tonic a few days it was quite different, as I
was always the first to sit down to meals
and the last one to finish eating, and before
a week was over there was a great reduc-
tion in the severity of my pains in the
stomach. My food did not ferment and
turn to wind as in former years, but it
digested quite readily, and of course I got
the benefit of its nourishment.!. The weary
feelings which had darkened my days were
wafted away by the invigorating qualities
of Clements Tonic, which likewise buckled
together my shattered nerves and ma le
them firm and true. The greatest surprise
I ever got in my life was when I discovered
what a splendid medicine Clements Tonic
was for promoting healthful sleep, and I
say ‘healthful’ advisedly, for there was no
languidness or depression on awaking, such
as is experienced after taking sleeping
draughts or other such means for producing
slumber. The anxious misgivings which I
had borne in silence when my heart was
given to palpitating were not long in being
dispelled, for Clements Tonic made that
organ beat with the regularity of a clock,
and I can make the same statement in
regard to my internal functions generally,
for I never suffered from constipation after
taking a few bottles of Clements Tonic,
which relieved my chest pains and head-
aches very easily. It was pleasant to get
up and notice that my tongue was clean and
that the bitter taste had left my mouth,
but what was still more lo be appreciated
was the fact that every ache and pain had
deserted my body, which was regaining its
weight from day to day.”
“ Are you sura about the completeness of
your cure ? ”
"lam quite positive that Clements Tonic
made a new man of me by giving me better
health and more strength than I ever had
before. Not long ago I was helping to cut a
road through the mountains, about ten miles
from Nowra, and I found that I could do
the heaviest manual labour going without
being unduly fatigued, and, as Clements
Tonic gave me the health to do it, you can
publish my story in any way you want.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
. i, JOHif De.gnan, of Garden-street. North Botany,
in the State of New South Wale#, Common wealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and lhat it contains and is a
true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic; and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
ex'***
Subscribed and declared atDarlinghurstthis twenty-
eighth day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
THOMAS MOOBE. J.P.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
f
sdf
sd
COVERS
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOR LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
sYDarriy.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to r
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
0
Si- Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Sub-Agents
Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Faulding & Co., Sydney. Adelaide, Perth.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Prloe - eci. ; Posted. Bd.
ONE FILLING LASTS FOR DAYS.
ONE PEN FOR YEARS.
fsd
From one
End to the Other
There Is not one bad feature about
the Swan Fountain Pen. From
one end to the other it is as good a*
money and brains can make it.
Flade of the very best material
and fitted with most famous sold
pen on earth.
FouHTAIJf
has the most perfect ink feed
known to the soience of fountain
pen making. It never blots, baits \
nor skips. Try the Swan for a
time.
MABIE. TODD » BARD.
London & Manchester.
England.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers. '
JIJOTICB TO imBOURXSi VISITOR*
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Ttlephone No. 10UL
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sixes supplied*
EPPS’S EPPSIT
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRISCXJIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, flelbotirne.
2fojf3cLLet flight's
Try
Wants
&hv
Jdesl
Pefi/sis a////7?/faf/or>s
Salfaftlfijl. Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGENTS FOP SYD/VfK
SAYFPS JUIPOPF At POTTFP
RIDGE’S FOOD Mitts. LONDON. Enc.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
T 1 trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will lie more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE By that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST
DE. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
siriDiisriEj'sr.
Cockroaches I
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Boot. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Anstra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 108. 6cf.
SOLE AGENTS.
m \
The Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEINI. N.s • W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Governme.nt; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents'; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W. .
Directions for Use.— Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
to hoot*
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
lo sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy*
PATERNOSTER S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingijicstkk <Se Truman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


f
Standard
of Purity
throughout
the World.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC,
T33*
Iffsrl w
AARONS
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
sdf
Concerning Elgin Watches^-
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 478 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Bllver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
Imported expressly for those who place
QUALITY first.
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
CHEAP"
ARE
NOT
CIGARETTES.
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
HERBS
FdR CHILDREN AND APMITS
NATURES Om REMEDY.
A TASTELESS aFfilBtESS APERIENT,
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes thus: “The action of
Golden Frtjtex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Good for INFANTS and AGED alike.
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS. Obtainable Everywhere—Box, 20 Tablets, Is 6d.
Head Office for Australasia—3l7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
r.-isi; i■ i
, » f.i l i ..
• -, I I 11. iHiil'i/J I.IJv '.,;
* £ £| ! t.jj
MM
; ; m urg r
wi
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
sd
fs
The VOLCANIC AERATED WATER MACHINE is being
used on Messrs. Spiers & Pond’s Railway Refreshment
Bars throughout the United Kingdom.
A Great
Saving
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS etc.
AERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the Best and Simplest
Machine in the Market. S3F"Pricb
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS 10 GALS. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same principle, £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
M
t*
Iff**
&
<s>
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, V- 4, 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents —Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
Si
07*
'
e
<3^
T 7
Pa*
r
Smoke
|£YSTON£
i. Tobacco
As upon the
KEYSTONE
of the ARCH depends the success of the building 1 ,
60 upon
“KEYSTONE” TOBACCO
depends the success of the Smoke.
f/O MOKE
Wills'*
KEYSTONE
Tobacco
CUT or PLUG


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
VOL. 26.—N0. 1250.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 1904,
Phio j 6r>.
/ *y , <*■'*&' 3 *
fW/F/i
mf w£
•<S.' . V <S>'\ A* / .
i \V .as> v :gn ,t° /'
V • \** N v v'"
>«.>'• ~ K.. V v\‘?‘ : : • ■ -
A' \^ c
t v •
K v>v
." -
Mill ■ M
3, AltiiOMiai (as win f„,.
referring b, Ko. 3} he. took
every precaution to secure his own
sriety, ho received a not necessarily
iatal wound and fell more or less
like a-soldier.
I: One. very hot day last week mgjPrff W
artist (who shall he nameless)
M. down to fabricate an. epoch-
making cartoon for this paper ; and
although every effort was mafic to keep
J'“" att 'akc !'<* went to sleep and dmuaotl.
4. Ho was found more
dead than alive or> the
field of glory by hij
U <(mt» m iurjnt.il nurse :
who nut, only -rendered hirst, Aid,
'«>. But nursed him afterwards iu t fa-
military hospital at. 1 rkutekskskt. She is here
seen placing a lump of ie.n •where the mustard
i!S. usually goes. It is magnificent! thought
~,. the artist, “ hut it. is not. war! ”
C. Ah! those delicious' days of
eonvalescejice, when lie was able s —"it*
i.it sit about m the cold, cold snows of the hospital grounds, with
his little nurse by his side, and meanwhile getting stronger every day on a diet of
candles, washed down with train-oil.
T. Of course, there
could be but one sequel
to an affair of that sort.
Ho fell in love with his'
nurse, arid she became, a
, . __ , • little, dearer than his pet.
polar bear. They were married, and would have lived happy —and cool
over after, only just, then the Office Bore came in, and awakened the artist
i>y asking : ‘vis it hot enough for von 1 "
>V"/» A .
A MIDSUMMER DAY’S DREAM.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
" A ustralia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Jjtd., at tlie Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ••• A° n
Half-yearly ... •••
Quarterly ... ••• v / u
NOTICK.
Bv sending direct to The Bulletin Off Ute Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can hare Tiie Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the ••Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 1 ales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
al'll/ acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiib Bulletin will velum cell unsuitable MS, when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed . But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Mach and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
anu interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e. any picture which has to be re-draum—will be paid,
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
llhodesia.
Cevlon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong. --Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 1904
Australia to the Empire.
Australia, after years of experience, is convinced that
practical prohibition of Chinese immigration is impera-
tively required in the best interests of the people of all
British communities, and especially those which enjoy,
or expect to enjoy, the powers of responsible self-govern-
ment. Though most reluctant to travel beyond their
own boundary in order to introduce themselves into
matters having local import, the responsible Ministers of
the Commonwealth, in the discharge of their duty to the
nation, feel compelled to express deep apprehension at
the results which will follow the introduction of Chinese
to the Transvaal. They foresee that grave perils, racial,
social, political, and sanitary, will inevitably be
introduced by an alien influx—injuries to your-
selves and the 'neighboring territories with which your
future is linked indissolubly, and finally to the Empire,
of which South Africa is so great and vital a part. We
are aware of the safeguards which you propose,
hut our experience of alien races shows that, however
stringent the conditions of their introduction and em-
ployment may be made, yet it is practically impossible to
prevent the existence of many and serious evils ; more-
over, such introduction creates vested interests on the
part of the employers which renders it extremely diffi-
cult to terminate the practice once it has been
sanctioned. We earnestly' commend these considerations
to you as far outweighing any immediate pecuniary
gain. A momentary material advantage will be dearly
purchased by the introduction of a foreign element, dan-
gerous when unassimilated, and not to be assimilated
without detriment to your progress, institutions, and
patriotic ideals.— Message by the two representatives
of the Australasian people, Mr. Deakin and Mr. Sf.ddon,
ostensibly to South Africa, really to “ the Empire.”
The united protest of Australasia against the
Imperial policy of flooding S’Africa with Chinese
slave-labor marks the turn of the tide from the
frenzied Jingoism of the past decade. The cur-
rent begins to flow back towards the traditions of
a more wholesome time—traditions saner and
more consistent with a national spirit. The Aus-
tralian States were largely populated in the early
days by the victims of landlordism and class
tyranny—the English Chartist, the Irish rebel,
and the Scotch crofter. To them were added in
time the most daring and adventurous from the
northern European countries, and from America,
ready to brave the unknown for the sake of the
attractions of goldfields, or free acres. Erom that
brew of bloods a people of free instincts
naturally sprang, a people with whom “outside
authority entered always after the precedence of
inside authority,” prompt to protest and reluctant
to compliance. That people showed its spirit in
many incidents: at Eureka, when tyranny was
overthrown by force of arms which failed and yet
conquered : at Circular Quay, when, under the
guns of English men-o’-war, a few Australian
colonists sent back the transported prisoners to
their gaolers; at Lambing Elat, when tlie first
struggle for a White Australia was entered upon :
in many other happenings, such as the scornful
veto put by Queensland on the choice as its
Governor of a notable Irish Coercionist. Then
came a time of flat peace and cankering conces-
sion. People who, in the face of wrong, were
bold to protest and firm to act, forgot to be
stubborn when wooed with flatteries, and Aus-
tralia took up the cross of the Order of St.
Michael and St. George on its shoulders to march
towards the crucifixion of its national life.
* * * *
That lapse from an early strenuousness for
independence was in every respect deplorable—for
Australia and for Britain. It was bad for Aus-
tralia that she should no longer seek to foster her
own national life but should elect to limp after
another people in apish imitation. It was bad
for Britain that Australia should become a mere
flunkey of the British Government for the time
being, instead of remaining a candid friend in
counsel and an example in the development
of the parent-race under new conditions. The
good of the Anglo-Saxon race, was best to
be served by this seedling nation in a dis-
tant country developing on its own natural lines.
To the race a new nation, however small,
a characteristic and individual Australia, offered
precious advantage, but a petty village imitation
of England none at all. And the good of the
Anglo-Saxon race can be the only legitimate aim
of a true Imperialism, though it is the last idea in
the mind of Jingo Imperialism, with its demand
for a blind obedience, a humble following in every
Mafficking clamor, a fawning acquiescence in all
that a temporary majority of the English electors
may deem to be wise, and a reasonless worship of
the trappings and traditions of a royal system
which the best of Englishmen themselves treat
now with good-natured contempt. .For Britain,
as for Australia, a free and independent-
thinking Commonwealth on this continent
is the best of possessions. But even if it were not
so, if the true interests of Britain were to be
served by a sacrifice of Australian ideals and
aspirations, the sacrifice would be wrong. The
loyal Australian must consider Australia first. It
is as a recognition of a return to that principle on
the part of Australian public men that the
Deakin-Seddon message on the Chinese question
is so welcome. For the first time in many years
the voice of Australia has been raised in warning
against the policy of a misguided Imperialism.
* • * *
Mr. Deakin certainly wrapped up his protest
against the flooding of S’Africa with Chinese in a
good deal of characteristic eloquence, when a little
bluntness would have been more effective; he
addressed it to the Transvaal rather than to
London, which might be taken as a sign of a
certain timidity. But all this notwithstanding,
it was a manly and a dignified assertion of
Australian aspirations and Australian prin-
ciples. It affirmed the result of Australian
experience in regard to the introduction
of colored alien workers; and it claimed,
—putting forward the claim “ with reluctance ”
but none the less putting it forward—that Aus-
tralia had a right to protest, in the light of her
own experience, against the Imperial power
forcing upon another part of the empire, an
experiment certain to have disastrous results.
The duty of Australians, it has been sedulously
preached by K.C.M.G. politicians of late, is to
march humbly in the wake of England, endorsing
any folly so long as it is England’s, disclaiming
all right of independent opinion or free action
whenever the issue was one on which England
had expressed an opinion. That was the only
way of showing “ loyalty.” Mr. Seddon, remem-
bering not past years, now runs clean counter to
that perversion of a principle, and by his side
stands Mr. Deakin, who in this incident has
proved the possession of courage as well as of
Australian patriotism.
« * • *
True, the protest will have no practical
effect in the present. The Transvaal was
not conquered for “the Empire,” but for
the Stock Exchange; and the gang of mostly
foreign Jews who controlled the British
Government in its campaign against the Boer
republics will not be frightened from exploiting
their prey by any word from Australia. At
the best, Mr. Deakin’s message will be
ignored by Englishmen, to whose minds it
will yet bring a tinge of uneasiness; at the
worst, it will be greeted with the cheap
sneers of the Jew-controlled newspapers, such as
that taunt from one London daily that it is due
to the Australian Premier’s fear of the Labor
party —a taunt directed against a man who is even
now preparing to abandon office rather than make
to the Labor party concessions strictly reason-
able, but to which his prim mind takes some
fanciful objection. But it was not for its immediate
effect that a protest was necessary. The Chinese
will go to the Rand because Cohen has so com-
manded, and will create at the Rand those evils
as to which the Australian message warns Eng-
land, and will, in time, band there m one anti-
imperial, anti-British party, Boer, Afrikander,
and Englishmen, to the great future woe of “the
Empire.” That much is inevitable, for in this
matter Britain has entrusted her destinies to the
care of the financiers of her own Stock Exchanges
and of foreign Bourses, and their thought for any
“Empire,” is only when it has come to the
stage at which it is to be plundered. But Aus-
tralia has at any rate warned England, and has at
the same time clearly defined her own position as
having the right to nourish ideals and aspirations
of her own and to run counter to the Imperial
policy when that is made necessary by a
divergence of aims.
* * * *
That is the important result of the Australian
protest. The blindest of optimists never had a
hope that it would have practical effect in chang-
ing the course of things in the Transvaal. But it
should have a very marked influence on the course
of Imperial politics in the future. Australia has
spoken clearly and decisively, on a matter about
which experience has given her a deep knowledge,
and on a matter around which will centre the
crisis to one day decide the future of an Empire
made up of hostile racial elements. Britain must
some day decide on being a pro-European or a pro-
Asiatic power, and will find the decision difficult
in view of her great interests in both continents.
The view of Australia at least is now sharply de-
fined, for Britain’s guidance or otherwise. It is
clear White. If Mr. Deakin’s Premiership
achieves nothing else it will have won by that
alone a place in history.
Has Arbitration Failed?
The Bulletin doesn’t know what the daily
papers expect to gain from their campaign of
lying and misrepresentation with regard to the
N.S.W. Arbitration Act. The Act is there, and
transparent lies will not smudge it out. If the
newspapers had a practical alternative to suggest,
there might be some sense in what they are doing.
They attack the Act, however, declaring that
it is lop-sided, but they stop there. Of course
there is an alternative—the alternative that they
have in their eye—but they dare not mention it.
That alternative is a return to the era of strikes
and lock outs. The papers want the Act
abolished. In other words, they want all work-
men to be in a position to do precisely what these
few Newcastle miners have done. They want all
workmen to be in a position to do what the Vic-
torian railway servants were driven to do a few
months ago, and what the Gippsland miners have
been doing for a whole year past. That is the al-
ternative —a return to strikes and lockouts; and the
daily papers might just as well be honest, and say
plainly that that is what they are after. And
when that issue is stated, the public will have
a word or two to say—that public which has been
so often crushed between the opposing forces in
conflicts in which it has had no party interest,
but which nevertheless touched its daily life.
The public knows, moreover, that, after all the
struggling and suffering which strike and lockout
entail, the dispute is not as a rule settled on its
merits. Even though this Arbitration Act should
fail once or twice, it is not to be therefore ruled
out. On the contrary, if it succeeds only once it
is in a way justified ; if it prevents one strike, it is
good. Only a lunatic —or a daily paper would
abolish fire brigades and safety appliances at
theatres because Chicago had a tragedy the other
day. Only the same lunatic—or a daily paper
would destroy an Act to prevent strikes because
one strike has taken place in spite of it.
• • * *
Yet, has the Act failed even this once? The
only authority for the statement that it has
done so is the daily paper; and the same daily
?aper was authority for the suggestion that the
’etriana crew had been drowned by order of the
Australian Government. The fact is that, if
there were failure at all, it was with the Arbi-
tration Court, and not with the law ; yet the Arbi-
tration Court, being neither the Almighty nor a
daily paper, and hence not infallible, may be
allowed an error or two of commission and
omission without forfeiting public confidence. In
this case, as Mr. Justice Cohen frankly stated
in giving his decision, something had been
omitted. A fortnight’s notice was the rule of the
district, but had not been made part of the award;
and, not being made part of the award, there was
no breach of the award when the men declined to
go to work on the new conditions. The men
simply took advantage of a point of law ; and they
have as much right to do that as employers have.
The Bulletin regrets that they took it; regrets
that the matter was not decided on its merits,
just as it regrets that importers, instead of recog-
nising their moral obligations, have nosed out
loopholes in the Customs law and its administra-
tion, and have crept through them, with the warm
approval of those newspapers which are shocked
now because a few northern miners have got out
of their difficulty in the same way. In the case of
these men the law has by no means said its last
word, either. In fact, only the first steps have
been taken. The fact that the daily papers
rushed with indecent haste to stamp the Act a
failure before its means of remedy were exhausted
showed an intention to make their point, fairly or
unfairly, when it was possible, and a knowledge
that if they waited till the business was finished
(assuming that the employers will finish it, which
is improbable), they would not be able to make
the point at all.
* * * *
Whether strikes and lockouts will in the future
be absolutely prevented is doubtful. In Maori-
land, as was pointed out by Judge Back-
house, the N.S.W. Royal Commissioner who
made a valuable report on the whole question
before the N.S.W. Parliament dealt with the
present Act, small troubles had, up to that time,
occasionally occurred, and seemed likely to go on
occurring. Even this affair at Newcastle is not
the first in this State ; though, being the first in
which the workmen have been the rebels, it is
only now that the papers have become hysterical.
When lately, “in consequence,” so the published
notices said, “ of the award of the Arbitration
Court,” in regard to cooks and waiters, some
Sydney dining-rooms were closed and the em-
ployees refused further employment, there was no
outcry. It is doubtful whether either employers
or employees —restaurant-keepers or miners—can
be forced to give or accept wages which the one
thinks too high and the other too low ; it is
doubtful whether either can, in short, be com-
pelled to work at a loss. But it is precisely at
this point that Arbitration is a triumph ; for,
while the strike takes no heed of such fine points
as profits and losses, the arbitrator does—it is the
very basis of his award. It is the basis of the
award in this Newcastle case; and, curiously
enough, but yet with their customary fatuity, at
the very moment when the Act has tried to be
the protector of the employer from conditions
which he alleges to be unfair, the employers’ press
organs turn upon it to tear it. But, even though
it should sometimes fail here, as a similar Act has
sometimes failed in Maoriland, there is no call for
its destruction. In the Newcastle case the union
has proved itself the solid friend of arbitra-
tion ; it, like every other advocate of industrial
peace, counselled the men to accept the
award loyally. And, while the unions are
on this side (and they must be, if only
through the bonds they give), there is nothing
to fear; for any strike which is not backed by the
unions must be a poor, short-lived and isolated
affair. The Newcastle trouble amounts to no
more than this, after all; and within a week or
two it will probably fade away, even if the law in
its present State can not deal with it. And if
the employers will not give the law a chance to
deal with it—well, then, only the employers are
to blame; certainly the law isn’t.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Education Question.
The small fizzle of excitement over Mr. Knibbs’s
recommendation in a report on N.S.W. Educa-
tional system, for a return to the system of sub-
sidising sectarian schools, soon died away.
Everybody seems to recognise that there is no
hope of raising that question again ; the State has
decided for secular education once and for all,
and the decision rests on too solid a foundation
of logic and reason to be lightly alterable. There
is in its favor the argument of economy.
The State recognises it as a duty to edu-
cate all children, and spends large sums in
founding schools in thinly-settled districts;
if it subsidised opposition to its schools in the
larger centres, it would be in the position of a
post-office system which did all the back-blocks
work itself but. encouraged and aided opposition
postal enterprises in the cities. But much
more important than any financial argument is
that of the civic advantage. It is to the benefit
of the State that the children of the State should
be educated by the State, as far as possible under
the same conditions and in the same classes.
Sectarian schools breed sectarian prejudices and
are the seed - beds of those religious rows
which debase public life and threaten public
order. When the Mickies and the Mackies
are educated in the one school they, as a
rule, came to a mutual knowledge and respect,
which no subsequent clerical misrepresentation
can efface. It is the segregation of the sects
which breeds sectarian hostilities. In France it
is now proposed to absolutely abolish religious
schools. That is a stage which, however much
justified there, would be too extreme for Australia
—too extreme because events rapidly trend to
secure the same result of a universal State educa-
tion without any such compulsion. So far only
one religious body in Australia makes an organised
effort to substitute its own for the State
schools; and that effort is almost necessarily
a failure, and, generously supported though it
lias been, must be abandoned when the cold logic
of the position comes to be appreciated. There
are, roughly, 32,977 Roman Catholic children
attending their own denominational schools in
N.S.W. (taking one State as an example) and
31,054 Roman Catholic children attending the
State secular schools. Obviously, any claim that
the State schools imperil the eternal salvation of
the R.C. children who attend them cannot be
maintained in face of the fact that nearly one-
half the juvenile R.C. population are left so
situated by their church. In time an untenable
position will be abandoned by the Roman
Catholic clergy on this question ; and State
secular education will then be the un-
broken rule, except in regard to some few
private high schools. Mr. Knibbs’ suggestion,
if adopted, would assist to maintain a position
which is wasteful, and opposed to the cultivation
of a true civic feeling. Australia wants her
children to grow up with a common aim of
patriotism; one of the best means to that is the
common school.
A Whole Hog Budget.
The Treasurer of the Whole Hog Cabinet arose
amid cheers to deliver his first budget speech. He
said:
I intend to break through one or two precedents in
speaking to-night. It is usual for a budget speech to
take from two to four hours : 20 to 40 minutes seems to
me to be sufficient. To give a straight message takes no
long time. It is concealment and evasion that call for
clouds of words.
To mention briefly, in the first instance, a few
things which I do not propose to do. There
are no proposals for remissions of taxation : theie
are suggestions for some increases. I do not intend to
follow in the footsteps of Mr. Reid and, by transferring
expenditure to loan votes, make an appearance of
economy. Unlike Mr. Reid, I know no meari3 by which it
is possible to decrease taxation, increase expenditure,
and yet have a genuine surplus. Further, I do not
propose to imitate the “ economy” of Mr. Irvine and try
to make the accounts square by ruining the morale and
efficiency of the civil service and by allowing the State
property to rust and rot to ruin. It is necessary to
disavow from the first such methods of “economy,” for
economy has been in the past so identified with them as
to lead many to think that they are, not only means to
economy but the only means. They are, as a matter of
truth, shocking extravagances.
I propose to ask you to make it a matter of policy that
no necessary public work shall be neglected—railway,
road, bridge or drain ; and that no existing useful public
work shall be maintained in any other state but that of
full efficiency. A certain type of public works will, how-
ever, be absolutely vetoed. There will be no sand-
shifting, no more Lyne parks.no more spoiling jobs at
the Spit. If a public works proposal can prove its utility
it will be constructed in good time ; if it can prove its
necessity it will be constructed at once. But there will
be no undertakings merely to find work.
Further, I ask you to affirm that the public service
shall offer the best career in the community for men cl
Concerning Literary Priggery.
A paper which aims to express a national senti
ment, not merely through the publication of the
views of one, or two, or several editorial writers,
but by valuing every word, in prose and verse,
characteristic or typical of any of the many phases
of Australia’s life, coming from the mouth of an
observer, needs must suffer sometimes at the
hands of the literary thief. Accepting “copy
from all quarters, demanding no introduction
from a contributor but merit in his writing,
the prigger of literary trifles is certain to
make it his —or her, more often her —mark.
Those respectable papers which “do not accept
contributions from persons outside the staff, as a
rule, and certainly never from unknown people,
are safe from the dishonest scribbler. But they,
or their readers, suffer otherwise. On the whole,
it is more than worth while to be swindled occa-
sionally for the sake of unearthing new writers,
and of giving a voice to the great multitude who,
as writers, have but one—and that a swan —song
to sing. “To be swindled occasionally,” because
it is inevitable that of the many swindles at-
tempted some few will succeed. Editors and sub-
editors may be as careful as possible; they
may have cultivated that instinct —the best
fruit of experience—which in some unex-
plainable way says “Beware” when there seems
really no valid ground for caution. But instinct
is occasionally at fault, and it is not possible
for one man or one staff to have read everything.
Professor Metchinkoff lias just been promising
to the future man, who follows sane physiological
laws, a natural life of 140 years. Even with that
span of life, to com pass the whole world of literature
would be impossible, and the future sub-editor of
130 years of age will still be liable to be cheated
with a poem which lie ought to have recognised as
a prig, or an article which is a clear crib from
some celebrated work, and will still have to
rely mainly upon his journalistic _ instinct to
give him warning of a plagiarism. That
instinct is in the well-trained man. as m the
well-trained dog, fairly sure. But it must fail
sometimes. Sometimes, too, its warning is deli-
berately disregarded. Annie T. forwards a poem,
seeing which instinct promptly growls, “Not
Australian in thought at all; not likely to have
been written in Australia —a crib.” Then Experi-
ence searches in all likely corners, but can find no
justification for the warning ; finally, perhaps,
writes to the contributor asking politely if it all
really is out of the contributor’s own little head.
Annie T. (or Florence J.) promptly answers
“Yes” and weeps indignantly over four pages of
letter paper that an aspersion should be cast upon
her character. And Experience feels like a beast
and prints the poem—with Instinct still growling
in the corner. If it is Tom B. or Mark b.
to whom the doubting letter goes, as likely as
not, if he is a thief, he funks or grows ashamed
and sends no answer, and Instinct comes out to
be patted on the head. Very rarely is a man so
accomplished and bold a liar as a woman. Some-
times Instinct suggests “ This is too good stuff to
come from . Beware ! ” And that is an alto-
gether unreasonable attitude in the opinion of
Experience. May not a man or a woman write
better or best ? May not good come out of
Nazareth ? Is it necessary for the neophyte always
to pass through a long apprenticeship of crudity
and dulness ? So, sometimes when Instinct points
to a bird the gun is not raised ; and occasionally
Instinct is looking after other business when it
should be raising doubts about a most impudent
daw in borrowed feathers. Thus plagiarisms
creep in. The Bulletin feels angry when it has
been cheated; partly for the money it has lost,
much more for the mistake it has been convicted
of. But what can be done? Except to black-list
offenders and in a flagrant case to prosecute
nothing. The penalty of originality is an oc-
casional plagiarism.


Irravefnr °V nercl y ~e a refuge for men of routine and a
far too lmv ° lvll service claries are, on the whole,
There is n . j l "® V e man 3' unnecessary public servants,
had st'ifm?^ eat ,i dea of unne cessary marble corridor and
servants asi and » j- ast ? rooms to give those underpaid
Cabi net wm nnt° f - dlgnlty and im Portance. The Whole Hog
todoavvav!v? f n£ IVe another penny for frill; it intends
service making e P m ’ate landlord as regards the public
rooms with ** n ? ces ? ar J\ dignified Personages share
sarv addii inn t l , er ? v ’ lt: " i!1 sto P all >lut absolutely neces-
salaries }f t 0 th ® seivice - But it will strive to raise
Li. l her t e is a man in the service worth £2OOO a
is Veallv «°V n *, to ,t: ’ there is a man outside who
}.ttraot'l.h,i n d ’ a « d that salary, ora bigger one, will
that the Ci’vil 'qe to be made. I propose
staff nf a hi,}h ®. ervice shall be run on the lines of the
no waste Iti!}} 18111 ? wa £ es for high capacity, but
Serviee vot«. a^°. r ir:^ n lme * ho P e to reduce the Civil
man in the 6 J ' V - d5 P e . r cent., and yet have almost every
hi } ,1? f V '. ce paid hefc ter than at present. This will
haveThetime. The Whole Hog Ministry hopes to
You will find the estimates cleared of very many
Histri'hnt lfc , e , ms ; Hon- members will not in future
distribute blankets and Xmas boxes at the expense of the
Treasury. There is no vote for parks. A locality want-
nig a park can have one bv paying for it. The cost of
maintaining the Sydney parks and gardens is
thrown on to the municipality, which I am glad
to say welcomes the new responsibility. In certain
exceptional cases, where a park grant is of use in
stimulating the railway revenue, it is allowed to stand.
The schools of art subsidies are abolished. People who
pine for novels and cheap billiards must find the means
to get them from their own resources. Agricultural
shows will have to rely on their own pumpkin in future ;
the country is tired of subsidising trotting matches,
■mggy parades and gaffing shows. There are many other
economies, small in themselves but great in the aggre-
gate, such as the placing of the State Governor’s estab-
lishment on a basis suitable to the want of importance of
the position, which I shall explain in detail when we are
in committee of ways and means.
The greater economies will group themselves under
these heads : (1) A re-organisation of the civil service, so as
to do away with unnecessary work, unnecessary space
and, in time, without encroaching upon vested
rights of employment, unnecessary men. For
one matter, I am negotiating with the Federal
Government to have the postal and telegraphic business
of the small towns on the railway lines entrusted to railway
officers ; at present two telegraphic staffs are often em-
ployed in one railway town which hasn’t enough business
to keep one going. (2) The absolute cessation of ail un-
necessary, local-influence, find-work-for-the-people works.
A Local Government Act which has been drafted and
which will put practically every acre in the State under
6ome form of local government is largely relied upon as
a means to this. (3) The paring away of all extravagances
and the abolition of useless offices.
Now as to ways and means. The budget last year
provided for an expenditure on revenue services of
£11,500,000. The difference will go to a public works
fund. I hope to reduce t-hat to £10,000,000. To further
increase the public works fund, I have proposals for a
graduated increase of the land-tax on large estates and
for a graduated increase of the income-tax, with a
special surtax in each case for absentees ; if further
revenue is necessary, I may ask Parliament to consider
the nationalisation of the liquor traffic. There will be, of
course, no more borrowing, except to provide for existing
debts falling due. Pending negotiations now proceeding
with the Commonwealth Government, I make no pro-
posal for a sinking fund. Should these negotiations not
result in a fedcralisation of the debts, I snail ask you
to agree to the funding of the whole of our debt in an
issue of Australian Consols, interminable, with a sinking
fund of half per cent, to be devoted yearly to the
purchase for retirement of portion of the stock.
I now move that this House do go into committee of
ways and means.
An Advance Hint to Victoria.
A sober Victoria will have its second chance to
talk to Irvine about the end of April. Twice
before it has had a conversation with him. The first
time, though, it wasn’t aquite-soberVictoria, being
under the influence of Kyabram ; and, besides, it
didn’t know its Irvine. The second time, at the
Federal elections a few weeks ago, Irvine did not
have this latter advantage; and a Victoria both
sober and sore, though it couldn’t throw him out,
performed that service for his friends. Irvine's
own turn will come in April. But the Liberal
and Radical party of Victoria must not expect
that lie will take it lying down. With his Kya-
bram disguise be tricked them before, and with
bis lands-for-settlement cry he will trick them
again if they are not wary. On the ground that
compulsory land-purchase is democratic policy, he
will ask for the support of democrats. But land-
purchase may be worked in such a way that, instead
of being of any great advantage to the small settler
and the community, it may become a matter of
playing into the hands of the big squatter and
landholder. It may, in short, simply create a
new buyer with more resources than any ordinary
private buyer and more easily bled. Irvine,
Shiels, the Argus, and their landed friends
know that land resumption is coming. A State
that isn’t absolutely stone-blind and deaf can’t
have a Mao.iland example before it for years
without feeling some effect; and the movement has
been helped by the results in those cases in which
subdivisions have been carried out by Victorian
run-holders on their own motion. Since, then,
compulsory repurchase, to make available the
most suitable lands whether the present holders
want it or not—to put people on the best land
whether the holders want to retain their few sheep
there or not —is coining, Shiels and Irvine and the
Argus want to get in first. It is now the duty of
the Democratic party in Victoria to see that they
don’t. When there is Radical work to be done
the Tory isn’t the man to be trusted to do it.
‘ ’ Set a thief to catch a thief ” may be very good
id vice; but we don’t, nevertheless, give him our
purse to mind. Moreover, when he shows a
remarkable desire to have the minding of our
purse, we hold on to it all the harder. He
may protest that, though he isn’t perhaps all
that lie ought to be in the matter of spoons
and watches, yet he is spotless where purses
are concerned ; and still we don’t believe him, and
we keep our purse. If we didn’t, and the purse
didn’t come back, or if it came back with “ flash”
notes where there were good ones, and “cronk”
sixpences where there were sovereigns, we
shouldn’t get much sympathy; and we should
deserve as little as we would get. This is just the
position that Victoria will be in if it hands over
this great Liberal work of land settlement to a
man who has proved himself about the last in the
State to be trusted.
The Iron Industry.
The wraith of “the unemployed” haunts Aus-
tralia early this year, refusing to wait for the
winter. The London money market has been
practically closed to the Australian borrower ;
local efforts to raise money would fail but for the
stimulus of a heightened interest rate, and even
with that the result is but small gleanings. Since
Australia has for so long accustomed itself to the
loan “dope,” the first consequence of a partial
cessation of borrowing is depression and un-
employment. This consequence is not by any
meant, a necessary one ; if the position were met
by due economy, by what increased taxation is
needed, and by a systematic effort to develop the
manufacturing and agricultural resources of the
country, there would be no depression and no
want of employment. But there is no effort to
meet the position in that way. The only alterna-
tive to borrowing, to the average Australian
(jovernment s mind, is drifting—stopping Dublin
works, dismissing public servants, and generally
allowing the country to become ragged and down-
at-tlie-hcel. Present political circumstances,
however, seem to point to the probability of some-
thing other than the average Govemment having
power in the Federal and in some of the State
Governments. The old political parties are pass-
ing away, and in the supreme Parliament of the
Commonwealth the Labor party is now in, _ rela-
tively, the strongest position, and to it, in all
probability, will come the task of facing
the fast-approaching crisis created by the
bursting of the borrowing boom. It is necessary
for that' party, therefore, to look squarely at
the difficulties which now crowd on the horizon.
The principal of these is that, with borrowing
compulsorily stopped, Australia will have to ex-
port through its Governments .£11,000,000 worth
of products before having a bit of bread for the
local worker. For that there is only one real
remedy—an increase of local production with a
corresponding decline in the imports from abroad,
payment for which is the second great burden
on the Australian toiler. And the situation
is so urgent that the Labor Party cannot
afford to allow any fine theoretical points
to stand in the way of applying a rough-
and-rude remedy. The necessity will be to. tide
over the crisis somehow ; and to do that no single
proposal would seem to promise better than an
acceptance of the proposals of the Barton-
Kingston Government for the creation of a local
iron industry. The Labor Party has so far
objected to such an industry being subsidised if
it is left in private hands, and insisted that it
must be a State monopoly. But no State will
undertake the work, and a fair compromise has
been offered to State-socialistic ideas in the
shape of provisos that any private works
established under the bonus shall be under
the control of a State Arbitration Court
as regards conditions of labor, and shall be
liable to resumption by the State Government at
any time under fair conditions. An industry
conducted under such terms could never
degenerate into an oppressive and sweating
monopoly. It might not be as good as an iron
industry under full State control: but there is the
difference that one is possible and the other is
not. Australia wants the industry, wants it
badly. The Labor party could give no better
sign that it was fitted to meet the responsibilities
of the present situation than by plumping for an
iron industry, under private control for the
present, but with full safeguards against the evil
of monopoly.
♦
The N.S.W. Parliament.
With a short, sharp shock N.S.W. Assembly lias
cut away a quarter of its membership. The
session which enacted the reduction, in obedience
to the Referendum, was the briefest on record.
The Government, resolute to carry out the verdict
of the people—though that verdict was, to some
of its members, a disagreeable one—confined the
business of the session absolutely to the one
matter, and was, in a measure, rewarded by the
obvious dismay with which this procedure filled
the Opposition benches. Mr. Joseph Car-
kuthkrs long ago announced that he made
no “ fetish ” of reduction of members. In
truth he was not anxious for reduction, only
anxious to make it a stalking horse to power.
Now his stalking horse has been “lifted”
and his annoyance was shown in the House by a
petulant and gratuitously insulting outburst
against the member of the See Government whom
he rightly judges to be mainly responsible for the
stampeding of the animal. The redistribution of
seats under the Act is to be carried out by an
independent commission of which Judge Murray
and Mr. T. A. Coghlan will be members and which
accordingly will have the confidence of the
electors. The margin allowed, on a quota of
something like 6000 electors, will be 1200. The
old margin was 600, but as the female vote has
doubled the number of voters and the reduced
number of electorates has further increased the
quota of each division, the new margin
is practically smaller than the old. Yet it
will allow a maximum difference of 2400
voters between two electorates. Probably this
margin will be used to favor the rural districts.
That is the case, at any rate, with the existing
scheme of distribution, and the procedure has the
tacit approval of Parliament. Suggestions were
made for a much higher margin—2ooo was pro-
posed by Mr. Crick but fortunately not
accepted. A 2000 margin would have allowed of
one electorate with 4000 and another with 8000
voter:, which would not be one-vote-one-value
by any means; and, since the electoral commis-
sioners always seem to use the margin allowed to
something near its full extent, it is well that they
should not have too much license. Whilst the work
of redistribution isbeingcarried out, the Parliament
should, after a short recess, enact the logical com-
Element of reduction of members—a complete
local Government Bill. That and a Greater
Sydney Bill might well fill a short session before
the dissolution and would give the Government
something in the way of a record of work on which
to appeal to the electors. Its record so far has
consisted mainly of bad language.
4
Land Reform.
“ J.A.H.” writes:
The other day, the leading Sydney Single-taxers had a
meeting, at which a proposal was approved to drop the
term “ Single-tax ’’ and adopt “ Land Values Taxation,"
or something similar. It is now 16 years since the late
W. H. Traill started a Land Nationalisation League,
which included all sorts of land reformers, whether they
were in favor of Protection, Revenue Tariff, Single-tax,
or Socialism. The disciples of Hbnry George, how-
ever, egged on by the Revenue Tariffists, managed to
capture the new organisation, and, by changing the
title to that of “Single-tax League,” they turned
a promising national movement into a mere party
auxiliary. From that time onward, the Single Tax
League became a small mutual admiration society, com-
posed of enthusiastic devotees to the doctrine of absolute
freedom to import and to make money anyhow, save by
the one means of privately appropriating the ground rent
of land. This land value was to form the sole subject of
taxation, while alcohol, tobacco, and all other commodi-
ties were to be freed from customs or excise duties, and
licenses, stamps and income taxes were to be
abolished. The exclusive character of the Single
Tax League’s doctrines prevented many people from
joining in the movement to burst up the power of land
monopoly, and all the progress made up to date has been
the imposition of a State land tax of Id. in the £ with
an exemption in favor of the small holder. Such a
trifling burden on land compares very badly with the
progressive tax in Maoriland where land reform was not
made a Siamese twin of free imports. Now the Single
Taxers are waking up to the fact that they were used
as a catspaw by the N.S.W. political party which carries
on by revenue and a few incidentally protective
duties, plus land sales and unlimited borrowing.
They are now going to drop their impracticable
ideas about the tariff, which the financial as well
as industrial circumstances of Australia render an
absolute necessity in the future, and intend to con-
fine themselves to their proper work, viz., the appro-
priation by the community of the value in land which
results from public expenditure and the presence of
population.
To this end they propose a fighting platform, con-
sisting of two planks. (1) That all municipal taxation be
raised by a tax on the unimproved value of land,
instead of upon the rental value. (2) That the
interest of the railway debt be met by a tax
upon land values, and the fares and freights reduced
by the amount that would allow. The first idea
is generally professed by local government reformers,
but the other suggestion is somewhat of a novelty. The
notion hitherto promulgated by Single Taxers has been
the running of the railways absolutely free of charge,
putting both working expenses and interest against the
revenue from land values. Recently, however, they
have realised that the whole annual value of land
was limited in amount, hence they have modi-
fied their proposal by charging interest only to
land-tax. For this amended suggestion there is
not only a basis of good sense but also a legislative
precedent, for several railways recently passed
through Parliament have been burdened with the proviso
that the deficit in revenue from them has to be made
good from a betterment rate on the adjacent lands.
Now, the construction of the whole railway system of the
State lias given an enormous increment to the value of
land in town and country, both public and private, and
were the equivalent of the interest levied in taxation,
fares and freights could be immediately reduced at least
40 percent., which in itself would enormously stimulate
exchange and increase travelling.
And the alteration in the method of getting the interest
on the money spent on railways would have another
effect. At present, anyone who travels on the various
lines must recognise how much good land alongside, with
a fair rainfall, is practically in a state of nature. The
owner exists, but he is probably doing a little grazing,
pending the increase of population ensuring him the
price for it that his cupidity demands. If he were made
to pay his share of interest on the construction cost of the
railway, he would be compelled to put his land to more
productive use, or make way for those who would do so.
Settlement is just now squeezed far out to the droughty
West, where grazing or wheat farming is a gamble
against Nature, and the actual users of the railways
are charged by the Commissioners with heavy
fares and freights to cover interest, so that speculators
may hold good land idle for a future profit. If, not New
South Wales alone but all the other States as well, are
ever going to pay their way honestly from their own
resources, they must adopt some drastic yet just method
of using all the land to which railways have furnished
easy means of access. Charging to owners of the railway
interest will very soon compel them to put their property
to its right use—viz., the maintenance of industrious
men and women.
It may be urged that there are districts where the
State has spent money largely, though not on railways,
but the principle might fitly be applied all round,
and then the landowners who have had their estates
benefited by improvements to rivers and harbors would
also be levied upon for their share of interest on these.
At present the land owners on the northern rivers do not
even pay any charge for dredging the channels which
allow of their products being taken safely to market.
Altogether the principle of getting from the land the
interest on railways and the outlays of loan funds is well
worth adopting, not only as a fiscal reform more equit-
ably placing the burdens of taxation, but also as a very
potent weapon in forcing the development of the natural
resources of this country.
♦
Christianity and Colored Labor.
Fiji is now troubled with a sex problem among
its imported Indian coolies. The proportion of
males to females among the coolies is 50 to 30,
and, as an official report puts it:—
Such a disproportion of the sexes is favorable to the
prevalence of those sexual complications and grievances
which account for the majority of the homicides, and
perhaps also of the suicides that have to be recorded
annually, not to mention many violent assaults.
There is no more hideous negation of the rules set
forth by Christ for human guidance than the
traffic in cheap colored labor, which is part of the
policy of so many Christian powers and which
gains the earnest approval of so many contempti-
ble pensioners of the collection-plate. The laborer
is in most cases either trapped or forced to the
labor; he is always robbed of his hire inas-
much as he is never paid anything like the
value of his work; and, torn from his country
and family, he is condemned to conditions of
loathsome immorality. That the men of Mammon
should urge colored labor experiments, such as
the employment of Kanakas in Australia, of
Chinese in S’Africa, of Indian coolies in Fiji, is,
after a fashion, explicable. They worship wealth,
and that is a way to wealth. But for “men of
God,” Christian clergy, to lift white and reverend
hands in blessing on a traffic involving such
abominations is nothing short of disgraceful
blasphemy.
+.
N.S.W. Parliament got into its old habits quite
naturally. First business paper of the new
session showed these items :
1. A question about a dusty corner of Devonshire-st.,
Sydney.
2. A question as to whether every member got the
same sum of money out of the Treasury as a Xmas box
for needy constituents (this is one of the small briberies
of our political system).
8. A question by Mr. Wully Affleck about roads.
6 (No. 4 being of some importance). A question about
another dusty city street.
8. A question about somebody’s tea-money.
11. A question about a cricket squabble.
13. Something about grocers’ and colonial wine licenses
and alleged favoritism at Parramatta.
And so on, the final matter being a query about
somebody’s pulverised paint.
+
The Newcastle trouble has set the Tories’ pens
going in letters to the papers on “The Tyranny of
Trades Unions.” One of them, “ Citizen,” writes
in agony to the D.T. :
In your issue of Monday last you publish the fact that
the Arbitration Court is to be appealed to for the recovery
of union subscriptions. In other words, the whole judi-
cial power of the State, comprising law, military, and
police is to be set in motion to protect, foster, and
cherish the principle of trades unionism. Thus, labor
has now forced itself upon the care of the State to the
exclusion of mere abstract justice—court to sit, Judges
to administrate, police to enforce, and prisons to gape
wide for the purpose of obliging citizens to pay subscrip-
tions to these societies, whether they like it or whether
they do not.
This poor, blind “Citizen” doesn’t see that the
compulsory payment of union subscriptions is in
the interests, not so much of the workmen’s
unions as of the employers, because union sub-
scriptions are really now an insurance fund,
guaranteeing that awards given in the employers’
favor avill be observed. If there were no such
provisions, members could simply drop their mem-
bership, and so defeat any award that they didn’t
like.
♦
A few days ago the Victorian ’Pootra produced a
chicken with the alarming, but highly suggestive,
name of the “Victorian Farmers’, Producers’,
and Property-owners’ Association.” The asso-
ciation was founded at Cranbourne, a little village
out Gippsland way ; and it claims that the Labor
party, which is said to be synonymous with the
Socialistic party, has done something outrageous,
which is not definitely stated, at some unspecified
time, and that it must stop immediately, if not
sooner. “We must sink our opinions on all other
matters,” says the secretary, Mr. M‘Pherson,
waving his slogan in the air, “ and unite as one
man in opposing socialism, or it will ruin
the country.” Why not, as a start, have the
flagrant socialism of the Agricultural Department
put down, and all the cheese, butter, veterinary,
analytical and other experts, who give the farmers
free ad vice, sacked ? Then the cold-storage experts
could be shunted, and the special grain freights,
and starving stock rates done away with. All the
overdue interest on the socialistic irrigation
schemes might be collected, and the subsidy to
shire councils stopped. The association might
then be asked how it felt.
In an Evening News interview the returned
American Consul for Newcastle is stated to have
replied to a question as to whether there were any
arbitration courts in America :
No, sir, I reckon our military is the Arbitration Court
and it settles little differences with surprising l smartness’
In other words, when the American worker
and the American employer fall out, the side
which has the greatest pull in politics calls out
the military and the dispute is settled with a gun.
Of course, that is not the case always, though it is
sometimes. Most of this generation remember
the strike at Carnegie’s works when the exponent
of “triumphant democracy” had to hire armed
Pinkertons to fight his battle, and an in-
dustrial trouble was settled by savage bloodshed.
And that is, after all, the logical alternative to
arbitration. In the old days workmen were con-
tent to let the issue be decided by starvation, and
as they had to do the starving, the result was
generally unsatisfactory to them. Now, in
America and other countries where there is no
arbitration, there is an increasing tendency to
refer the dispute to decision by force, which gives
the worker some sort of a show. Force is the
ultimate alternative to arbitration in industrial
disputes; and the papers which are attacking the
N.S.W. Act should bear it in mind.
A Bill to suppress bogus advertisements for
shop, ballet and other girls would be a very
good thing in its little way. The ordinary
theatrical request for 100 tall and lovely ladies
to apply at the stage door before 0.30 a.m.
is perhaps generally recognised as a mere trick
of the trade—a puff for a forthcoming panto-
mime or drama. Very few females go out of their
way to answer it, and the fact that none of the
short, unlovely applicants is needed is not a
considerable public grievance, anyhow. Still, there
is a principle involved. In the case of a bogus ad.
by a pushing suburban draper the victims are more
numerous. Girls travel long tram or train jour-
neys sometimes accompanied by their mothers,
only to discover that the “50 smart lady
assistants for Gammon and Co.’s great sale”
are not required at all. The advt. is purely
fraudulent. The bargain sales and alarming
sacrifices may occasion the presence of .extra
“hands” in the shop what time a guileless
public is biting at the bait, but the girls who
act as assistants at such times are not specially
engaged. They are drafted from the workrooms
upstairs to meet the rush when there is a rush,
and when there isn’t a crowd in the shop they
remain at their sewing machines, which explains
the seeming difference in the number of a draper’s
employees on a fine Saturday and a wet Monday
during the bargain period. When a business
man seeks to push his wares by playing a mean
little fraud on the unemployed, it is lime for the
law to interfere.
♦
“ Z.” : There was a lot of talk about the “mud-
dling ”of the late Federal elections. I’m afraid
there was something much worse than “mud-
dling”; there is strong internal evidence of “stuf-
fing.’’ Take, for instance, the Werriwa electorate.
The official returns show that there were over
15,000 votes polled for the Senate and only 9000
odd for the House of Representatives. The figures
are : Senate: Foreign-trade bunch, 9500 (Neild,
9536 ; Polsford, 9431; Gray, 9577); Labor-Pro-
tectionist Griffith, 4018 ; other candidates bring
the total up to 15,353. For the Reps, the figures
are: Conroy, 6545; Barrett, 2976; informal,
322; total votes polled, 9843; or less than are
alleged to have been polled for the Senate. These
are the official figures, and the public are asked to
believe —
(1) That in this Electorate over 5000 electors took the
trouble to vote for the Senate, and omitted to vote for
the Beps.
(2) That over 3000 foreign-traders abstained from
voting for Conroy, and voted for Neild, Gray, and Puls-
ford, whom they never saw.
(3) That more votes were cast for each of the foreign-
trade Senators than were cast on both sides combined
for the Lower House candidates.
The problem is, if in one electorate 5000 unac-
counted votes are credited to the Senate candi-
dates, what about the other 25 electorates ?
♦
A bill lately passed by the French Senate,
and to come before the Representatives, gives
a lead for Foundling legislation. It orders local
mayors to inquire as to the reasons for the
high death-rate of infants in any municipality,
where such is above the average, and to take
steps to stop it; it enacts that no working woman
shall he admitted into any workshop during the
two weeks which precede and the four
which follow her confinement. If she he
destitute, medical help and a small pension are
to be granted by the local authorities. Any woman
who knocks at the door of one of the hospitals
created by the Bill (practically Foundling Hos-
pitals), and who asks for secrecy, is to be admitted
in a special section ; no inquiry will he made by
the officials, and the State will adopt her child.
France has discovered that 77 per cent, of the
134,000 infants who die there every year can be
saved by looking after them and their mothers
properly. But France doesn’t worry whether
such women are married or are merely house-
keeping. It takes the infants and rears them
because it ivants them. And Australia wants
infants to an even greater extent.
♦
The Anglican Bishop of Melanesia (how re-
freshing it is to meet a truthful clergyman !) on
the Tory lie as to the “danger” of returning
Kanakas to their homes:—
It has been asserted over and over again that it was
unsafe for Solomon Islanders who had served on Queens-
land sugar plantations to return to their islands. He
had heard it said that they would, almost as soon as they
landed, be killed and eaten. There was no part of the
Solomons, excepting perhaps Malaita, to which an
islander could not go back with perfect safety. Malaita
stood by itself. A number of its people had been taken
to Queensland, and while many had returned and were
living peaceably with them, many others had lost their
lives. The reason for this was that generally, before
they had gone to Queensland, they had themselves mur-
dered someone. For wrongdoers it was most unsafe to
go back. The general statement that it was unsafe for
the many thousands of “ boys ” in Queensland to return
to their islands was absolutely untrue.
♦
Dr. Morgan Thomas, of Adelaide, who
died in March last, bequeathed £65,000 to the
S.A. Public Library, Museum, and Art Gallery,
yet the recently-published report says: “The
reduction of the Government grant has compelled
us, very unwillingly, to make severe reductions in
our officials’ salaries.”
‘ k G.R.” : When Russia fights it is solely
at the command of her autocrats ; if the common
people decreed a war, there would be some ground
for sympathising with their side of the conflict.
A Jap-Russia fracas is not worth our pitch-in on
any score. The more the Bear swallows the worse
his dyspepsia when the people take things into
their own hands. No system of despotism has
yet survived joint coercion of Chows, Tartars,
Slavs, and fragments ad lib. Give him enough
iope and—a job for the coroner.


The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
SETTLEMENT RASED ON PRESENT EXPERIENCE.
The following policy has recently matured, and the result will be found worthy of the
consideration of persons seeking a safe investment combined with Insurance :
Policy No. 568,531. 10 Year Endowment; 10 Year Distribution.
Age at Issue, 40. Single Premium, £443 11s. 6d. Amount, £5OO.
Issued in the Year 1893. Matured in the Year 1903.
SETTLEMENT.
Policy £5OO O O
Bonus 103 12 6
Total Amount Paid £603 12 6
Cash gain to Policy-holder £l6O Is., being a return equal to over 3 per cent, compound
interest on Premium paid, and insurance for £5OO during 10 years, free of cost.
Accumulated Funds exceed £80,000,000
Surplus above Liabilities exceed £15,000,000
Particulars of Policies to meet every requirement may be obtained at the Head Office for
Australia, or at any of its Branches.
COMPANY’S BUILDING - Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
The Problem of the Consumptive.
Dk. Nash, M.L.C., took the opportunity of the
short session of N.S.W. Parliament to again call
the attention of the Government to the cruelty and
the economic waste of the present system of not
treating the State’s consumptives. Dr. Nash has
persistently agitated on this subject, but so far
without avail. The poorer consumptives are still
killed off at the Tubercle Farm, and the better-
off ones allowed, in general hospitals or in
their homes, to spread the phthisical infection
abroad. Meanwhile, in Victoria, where there is
the difference that the Board of Health has a
live man at its head, drastic action is being taken.
Consumption is to be declared an infectious
disease under the Health Act, and a quarantine
hospital for hopeless cases established. N.S.
Wales might at least, as a preliminary measure,
establish a tent hospital to treat pressing cases;
the expenditure would be small, the benefit large.
Nobody in Sydney knew that Mr. Terry
carried on an active speaking campaign in support
of his candidature for Ryde until the daily papers
mentioned the fact after he was returned. They
had before coolly suppressed all his speeches in
the interests of the Deform candidate.
Gregor M'Gregor, who led the Labor
party in the Senate with much success throughout
last Parliament, is more sensitive about his
almost total blindness than one would casually
judge. A man of singular modesty, he has got
hold of the notion that it has been to some extent
sympathy with him that has led the members to
choose hint out for leadership ; and so, out of
a fine consideration for the party to which he is
wholly devoted, he is not inclined to accept the
leadership again. But the pressure will pretty
certainly be so strong that his objections will be
broken down. Just now Mr. M'Gregor is in
Adelaide hospital for an eye operation.
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOI SANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. p or further particulars, address —
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE— NARANDERA
70 PITT ST., SYDNEY or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Belle of New York.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Eternal City.”
Lyceum “ Saturday Night in London.
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Queen’s Hall .. Mel. B. Spurr.
Palace “ Brown in Town.”
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Theatre Royal “In London Town.”
Bijou “ Little Red Riding Hood.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
4
“The Eternal City,” otherwise a Pope,
some conspirators, and Hall Caine, was staged at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) last Saturday. _ A packed
house welcomed it, according to the wit Heaven
gave the individual spectators, or the education
they had achieved or had thrust upon them. The
theatre party that attended “ for the purpose of
seeing the Pope wash the feet of twelve poor
loafers,” and openly expressed dissatisfaction
because he didn’t, was perhaps the most
curiously-biassed group. They got considerable
satisfaction, however, out of the “real tele-
phone,” but remarked that Baron Bonelli “would
have been more lifelike if he had said ‘Hello,
there.’” Other individuals asserted that they
liked more women in a play. One woman
(with any part worth mentioning) and some scores
of men in a play might be art, but it wasn’t artful.
There could not be the longed-for amount of
love-making, and—they would like to know what
Will Ogilvie would say of those grey horses on
the tapestry walls. Grey horses and black,
chevroned and with breast plates and bearing
brave Crusaders with banners and pennons flying
above the unromantic scientific telephone ! Many
persons have had the misfortune to become
acquainted with Hall Caine’s ten-mile-square of
story of the Eternal City. Those who have not
need not try to catch up to the lack. It is
not interesting in any ordinary sense. The play
shows the best of it, and one has the truly mag-
nificent staging and dressing and the Mascagni
music as extras thrown in. Curious what a dust
of controversy has been raised over this play on
the one item of the Pope being made to appear on
the stage. Bishops of the Anglican persuasion
are quite commonly pourtrayed, and in oratorio
the Voice of God is allowed to thunder without a
suggestion of irreverence. Anyhow playgoers wel-
come this mummer Pope’s appearance at Her
Majesty’s. Mr. Warburton makes him about the
only reposeful figure in a play full of frantic
feverishness, movement, color, glitter, the ruffle of
drums, and long, stern swell of the trumpet.
Mr. Julius Knight as the revolutionary
David' Rossi is supposed to have the star male
part, but that in reality is in the very capable
hands of Mr. Arthur Wontner, who acts Baron
Bonelli, Prime Minister of Italy. Bonelli reminds
one of Baron Scarpia. Mr. Wontner’s repre-
sentation in the part is a really fine one. He is
of the iceberg now, volcanic next, and always
dignified. Mr. Knight was on the top C., so
to speak, all the time, but he never cracked
or went flat in his emotional soarings.
Miss Maud Jeffries as Donna Roma Volonna, the
sculptor, is in appearance all soft seductive curves
and delicate brunette tints and rich attire, and she
goes about her sculping, and her love-making, her
revenge, and her “ happy ending,” with the grace
of a young leopardess. More than one word of
acknowledgment is due to Mr. Eardley Turner,
who, as Rossi’s friend, plays the excitable, then
maddened, Brunnio Rocco right forcibly.
*# * *
“Saturday Night in London,” staged at
Sydney Lyceum on Saturday night, has most of
the familiar features of melodrama. There is
much talk of ane-jells (otherwise angels) and
in-no-sense (which is innocence); and the British
policeman acts, as usual, in the capacity of judge
and jury and is the high court of appeal in
criminal cases : and there is ample scope for the
gallery to vociferously applaud various virtuous
declarations. The generous appreciation by the
gallery at a melodrama of the principles of
pure ethics is one of the curious phenomena
of civilised life. The gallery is ever enthu-
siastic for virtue, ever scornful and savagely
hostile to crime. Its quick, eagle-like mind
soars above all the brambles of technicalities,
and sees with eager intuition the exact right of
every case, and promptly comes forward as the
champion of that right. All the problems of
philosophy, all the difficulties, to settle which a
nation has Parliaments and law-courts, would
vanish if only the rugged virtue of the melodrama
galleryite could be carried into every-day life.
But, alas ! it vanishes with the going down of the
curtain, and passes away with the pea-nut, and is
swept off the floor, among the dust, with the
remnants of the cheap orange. Having satisfied
the gallery demand for opportunities of displaying
a jealous virtue, “Saturday Night in London ”
departs a little from the beaten track and
ventures on some genuine coster humor and
on a prize-fight scene, which is carried through
with evident earnestness. The story, too, is made
a little stronger than in most melodramas ; the
scenes are bright and animated, and, altogether,
the show is one of the best that the Lyceum has
had for a long while.
♦ * * *
Miss Ada Guildford does very good work
indeed as the heroine in “ Saturday Night in
London,” and she is well assisted by Miss Ethel
Buckley (a coster girl), and Miss Rose Conroy (as
Sarah Shabner), and Miss Ivy G-orrick and Miss
May Roberts. But, in the interests of the
virtuous gallery before mentioned, melodrama
should be purged of drunken women scenes,
fighting women scenes, and arrested women
scenes ; they are almost invariably repulsive, and
it is not a fair thing to artists who can do good
work to call on them for scratch and scream
acts. Among the men, Mr. Robert Inman
stands out as a big-voiced and manly “ persecuted
hero,” and Mr. Dunbar does, in its way, quietly
effective work as Mordant, the villain; Mr.
Dunbar’s nonchalant way of committing and
planning atrocities grows on one after a while.
Out of a part that suits him well, Mr. Bert Bailey
makes much fun, and in a cast that is throughout
well suited, other good features are Mr. Temple
Harrison, Mr. Stirling Whyte, and Mr. Carden
Wilson.
* * * *
The Cirnocs’ “turn” at the Tivoli has
been a much wilder boom in its last days than
in its first; Monday night, when they answered
another challenge, hundreds had to be turned
from the packed house. Two young squatter-men
had had a set of handcuffs, leg-irons, neck-straps,
and other paraphernalia joined with bars ; and
when the slim young Cirnoc was done up in the
gear (with Harry Beckett on the stage as referee),
he seemed absolutely incapable of any movement.
A calico sheet had been spread over the stage, to
prevent any trap-door business; this was then
drawn up at the back and over him to shut out
aid from those quarters. And in 22 minutes
the slim young man was out, free,
receiving the hand - shakes of the two
young squatter-men and the cheers of the crowd.
Vulcana, whose beautiful back, not to go further
into details, has been already recommended on
the high authority of The Bulletin’s Melbourne
correspondent, has now entered, upon a season of
posing and graceful heavy-weight lifting; and
Atlas helps. The lady is what the posters say
she is, and neither words nor paint can go further
than that. Also, there is so much more in the bill
that, altogether, it is just now one of Rickards’
best.
# * * «
The pantomime season at Sydney Royal is
drawing to a close, and on Saturday the clever
co., with the addition of Miss Vinia de Loitte —
of whom The Bulletin has not so far heard, but
her name raises favorable anticipations—will stage
“ The Belle of New York.” Most of the panto-
mime performers are familiar with this invigorat-
ing cocktail among comic operas, and a good
presentation may be expected.
* * * «
At the end of this week “Mama’s New
Husband ” will be promoted to the Home for
Incurables, and “ Brown in Town ” will take his
place at the Palace. Smith and Jones have been
there already, and Brown is understood to be a
cousin of theirs, and the same sort of irrespon-
sible, cheerful party, but with more music in his
soul and shake in his leg.
* * * *
Charles Holloway’s “last nights” have
been happening this week at Sydney Criterion;
and when these valedictory remarks reach “ Con-
stant Reader” and “A Subscriber for 10 Years”
the co. will be holding its face over the Westralia,
on the way to Maoriland, and recalling and re-
gretting its sins. It has been a moderately suc-
cessful season ; yet, except when he staged the
human vulture, Holloway deserved even more
than moderate success,
* * * *
Musgrove’s Shakspearean co., which made
so auspicious a beginning at Melb. Princess’s nine
months since, brought its Australian tour to a
tired conclusion at the same theatre last Friday.
The occasion was called a Farewell Festival
Night, but it should have been billed as the
Breaking Up, or the Last Stage of Dissolution.
Many things were done in a careless, ragged style,
and some things were not done at all. For
instance, Miss Milton was conspicuously missing
from the closing scene, consequently when
Touchstone Denny said, “ Come along, Audrey,”
he had to beckon to an invisible wench in
the wings and go along by himself. In
the kitchen scene from “Twelfth Night,”
a new clown (Charles Rose) took the place of
Kenningham, and in the scene from “ Romeo and
Juliet” another non-member of the farewelling
company came to the rescue of the “Festival.”
The flaxen-haired vision on the balcony—the old,
old balcony—was not Nora Kerin, but Unie
Russell, the young Melbourne amateur who played
Parthenia for Mrs. Gr. B. Lewis’s benefit at the
Royal a while ago, and had previously appeared
in another Juliet scene at the Princess’s. A
sweet, graceful little actress whenever she
gets the chance, Miss Russell was a particular
credit to local talent the other night, and
had the Romeo been a real young man, the
effect of her dainty style and elocution would
have been more pleasing. Miss Rigtiold was
about as satisfactory a Romeo as her sex would
allow her to be. A girl in the part cannot affect
a very tempestuous passion without giving herself
away. When, like Miss Rignold, she has special
natural qualifications for a restrained imperson-
ation of Romeo, she can do no more than convert
the character into a poetised pantomime-boy.
Next time Miss Russell plays Juliet she should be
contrasted with a robust, bona-fide masculine
Romeo who can fittingly convey the impression
that he thinks her nice enough to eat.
* *
The ragged musical comedian who takes
dead-cats and other vegetables from the bowels of
his grand piano, and the lady who hovers round in
fine raiment, still maintain an excellent reputation
at the Opera House. New turns are the Two
Bells, and the Six Empire Girls, just arrived from
London via S’Africa. The Bells are dancing
duettists, with a song about society and propriety,
much the same song that their mothers used to sing,
if their mothers were music-hall “sisters,” in the
long ago —the song that came in with the first
pair of serio-comic twins, and will probably endure
for ever. If the Bells didn’t dance much better
than they sing, their duets would not go as well
as they do, which remark applies to the efforts of
the Combined Six. All the same, the half dozen
Girls are collectively above the average as regards
their manner of dancing and their method of
trying to sing. The turn is tasteful rather than
spicy.
** * *
Nothing whatever happened at the Prin-
cess’s on Saturday. A solitary, unaccountable
production of “ She Stoops to Conquer ” had been
spoken of, but the scheme fell through. Mus-
grove’s house is shut for the present, and will
presumably have the chain on the door until
Willoughby and Geaeh come along early in March
with a new Yankee comedy.
*» * *
“In London Town,” at the Royal, is
rather favorably remembered as the drama
wherein a disreputable blind man bangs his best
friends with a walking-stick until one of them
knocks him backward through the doorway of an
attic. When last heard of he sounds like an
afflicted mendicant falling violently down a steep
staircase and marking time with his head. An-
other and a shinier villain is pushed from a roof-
top by Bland Holt, but the fate of his minor
accomplices is not so clearly defined. “In London
Town” is a drama with a strong first act, which
doesn’t fulfil its promise in the subsequent proceed-
ings. This first act shows millionaire Baker—not a
Great Millionaire in this case : merely an
ordinary Silver King type of capitalist—accepting
the blind man’s girl as his long lost daughter
whilst the real heiress is sharing her last twopence
with Mrs. Bland Holt, who works at a jam and
pickles factory. Later on the heiress accepts the
blind man as her long lost father, and the villain,
having fixed things to his liking, is about to take
the millionaire for his nominal father-in-law when
a wandering curate lets daylight into his dark
schemes. Then the drama stops short upon the
roof aforementioned, all among the chimney
stacks of London town.
* * * *
The Bland Holt co. is comfortably pro-
vided for in this work of fiction. Sims, the part
author, sketched some mildly Dickensesque cha-
racters, and added some sentimentalities which,
though cheap, are not irritating. With the aid of
Brunton’s scenery, “In London Town” prospered
when this Commonwealth was only a few months
old, and nothing has occurred in the meantime to
change the opinion of the public.
*# * #
The panto at the Bijou has hung out the
Last Nights announcement, but the nights are
not yet definitely numbered. On Saturday next
Miss Isabel Webster will take up the singing part
of the Fairy Queen, and give an improved musical
tone to the show.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s a generous and fairly-
enlightened public continues to encourage “A
Country Girl.” It has heard most of the evidence
on both sides of the case, and considers that the
popularity of this particular Girl is proved beyond
all question.
** » *
Adelaide Tivoli has again opened with a
variety co. of mostly local talent; the advertise-
ments are full of injudicious superlatives that in
the long run cause dissatisfaction. Miss Queenie
Silvester (a daughter-in-law of the old “Fakir of
Oolu ”) forestalls Oirnoc as a “ handcuff queen,”
and the turn in which she wrestles with manacles
is interesting because quite novel.
The Wild Cat Column.
N.S. Wales has borrowed £500,000 in London on
4 per cent. Treasury bills redeemable in 1907 at some-
thing; under 98 per cent. ; this means that, while the
Australian hanks are offering 4 per cent, for two years,
the State is paying the prodigious price of about
£4 12s. 6d. per cent, for, say, 3J years. With money only
available at that price it is little short of a crime against
the country to borrow ; nor, in view of the early maturity
of other loans, is it much less than a crime to wit hold taxa-
tion for the purpose of providing a sinking fund, so that the
State may not be so absolutely at the moneylender’s mercy.
What the State has to pay when it is at his mercy this
transaction proves ; because it seems that it was impera-
tive to raise the money now in order to make payments
under the resumption scheme. Apart from other con-
siderations, how can we expect to make a success of
public enterprises when they are burdened with such
interest charges?
* * * *
The Commercial Banking Cos. of Sydney
Added to
Profits Dividends Reserves Reserves
June, 1897..£40.119 8 p.c. =£40,000 £ll9 £1,025,257
Dec., 1897.. 40,150 8 „ „ 40,000 150 1,025,407
June,lß9B.. 40,410 8,, ~ 40,000 410 1,025,817
Dec., 1898.. 40,864 8 „ ~ 40,000 864 1,026,681
June,1899.. 42,340 8„ „ 40,000 2,340 1,029,021
Dec., 1899.. 45,251 9 „ „ 45,000 251 1,029,272
June,l9oo.. 50,880 10 „ ~ 50,000 880 1,030,152
Dec., 1900.. 51,509 10 ~ „ 50,000 1,509 1,031,661
June, 1901.. 51,228 10 „ „ 50,000 1,228 1,032,889
Dec., 1901.. 51,249 10 ~ „ 50,000 1,249 1,034,138
June,1902.. 51,254 10 „ „ 50,000 1,254 1,035,392
Dec., 1902.. 51,455 10 „ „ 50,000 1,455 1,036,847
June,1903.. 58,768 10 „ „ 50,000 8,768 1,045,615
Dec., 1903.. 64,649 10 ~ „ 50,000 14,649 1,060 264
The capital is £1,000,000, and on this, combined with
reserves as at the commencement of the half-year, the
profit was at the rate of £6 6s. sd. per cent, per annum.
Recent figures on the same basis have been
June, 1900.. £5 1 3 p.c.
Dec., 1900.. 5 1 5 „
June, 1901.. 6 010 ~
Dec., 1901.. 5 0 10 „
June, 1902.. £5 0 9 p.c.
Dec., 1902.. 5 1 1 „
June, 1903.. 515 4 ~
Dec., 1903.. 6 6 5,,
Such figures need no adorning. Comparing the position
with that of 12 months ago, the following results show
up:—
Dec., 1902. Dec., 1903. Increases.
Reserves ... ...£1,036,847 £1,060,264 £23,417
Notes and Bills in Cir-
culation .. .. 1,181,086 1,292,207 111,121
Decreases.
Deposits .. .. 11,804,668 10,998,208 806,360
Advances, &c. .. 9,269,271 9,054,414 214,85/
Cash and Liquid Se-
curities .. .. 6,363,347 4,906,624 456,723
The Commercial of Sydney put up the rate of interest
for deposits very reluctantly, and only after others had
been competing for some time at higher rates ; and since
then State Governments have also been competitors.
Formerly “advances to Government” were included
among the cash and liquid securities ; now they are, for
the first time, included among the ordinary advances. If
they were treated 12 months ago as they are now treated
the'two lines affected would read as follows
Dec., 1902. Dec, 1903. Decreases.
Advances, &c. .. £9,418,137 £9,054,414 £363,723
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. 5,214,481 4,906,624 307,857
Twelve months ago the Government owed the bank
£148,866 ; what it owes now is not disclosed —it. is hidden
among the “bills discounted, &c.” Usually the bank
keeps in liquid assets about 40 per cent, of its liabilities
to the public ; and as these securities and liabilities have
been reduced in that proportion during the year, the old
rate is very little affected; it stands now at something
between 39 and 40 per cent.
* * * *
Ex-Minister Yale, of Ballarat, writes concern-
ing a question of Victorian finance (8., Jan. 7) : “Ooghlan’s
figures may be right, but they do not show the correct
state of Victorian finance. The revenue is from ordinary
sources, not from loans ; the expenditure is ordinary, but
in the gross amount, according to Coghlan, is included
payment of old liabilities. In six years, this amounted to
£900,000. Besides, in that period there were unexpected,
non - recurring and unprovided - for expenditures of
£900,000 (old age pensions). The payment of £500,000
Carter Bonds in two years can also scarcely be called
ordinary expenditure.”
The City Bank of Sydney
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Reserves.
serves.
June, 1897 .. £8049 4 p.c. =* £BOOO £49 £108,552
Dec., 1897 .. 8395 4 ~ „ 8000 395 108,947
June, 1898 .. 8273 4 „ ~ 8000 273 109,220
Dec., 1898.. 8053 4 „ „ 8000 53 109,273
June, 1899 .. 8070 4 ~ ~ 8000 70 109,343
Dec., 1899 . 8212 4 ~ „ 8000 212 109,555
June, 1900.. 8041 4 „ ~ 8000 41 109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8223 4 ~ ~ 8000 223 109,819
June, 1901 .. 8105 4 ~ ~ 8000 105 109,924
Dec., 1901 .. 8157 4 ~ ~ 8000 157 110.081
June, 1902.. 8016 4 „ ~ 8000 16 110,097
Deo., 1902 .. 8108 4 ~ „ 8000 108 110,205
£109,000 tranferred to Contingent Account 1,205
June, 1903.. 9351 4 „ „ 8000 1,351 2,556
Dec., 1903 .. 9052 4 „ ~ 8000 1,052 3,608
Shareholders’ funds (paid capital £400,000 and £2556
reserves) earned profit at the rate of £4 9s. lid. per cent,
per annum during the last half-year, as against £4 13s.
3d. on the same basis in the previous half; further back
than that it would be useless to go on account of the
recent writing-off. Comparing the position with that of
a year back these results show up
Dec., 1902. Dec., 1903. Increases-
Deposits, &c. .. £1,138,731 £1,222,331 £83,600
Notes, &c., in Circu-
lation .. .. 68,040 76,355 8,315
Cash and Liquid
Assets .. .. 318,749 433,004 114,255
Premises .. .. 138,821 142,821 4,000
Decreases.
Advances, &c. .. 1,268,134 1,135,954 132,180
Reserves .. .. 110,205 3,608 106,59/
These are unusually large movements, which, though
they would in the ordinary course mean reduced profits,
yet strengthen the bank’s position, more especially if any
large proportion of the deposits is fixed —as to which,
however, there is no information. Twelve months ago
liquid assets represented only 26 per cent, of the total
liabilities to the public; six months ago they were
slightly less even than that; now they represent nearly
33J per cent.—which brings up the proportion to about
the average level of the bigger Sydney concerns, and
takes it beyond that of at least one of the greatest of
them.
* * * »
Asa result of Melb. Age drawing attention to the
fact that the local bakers were paying about £8 a ton for
tbeir flour and selling it—in 680 loaves at from 6£d. to 7d.
each—at about £l9a ton, they promptly met and reduced
the nominal price of the 41b. loaf from 7d. to s£d.
Plenty of suburban grocers sell the loaf at 4jd.
* * * *
With the opening of the inter-State markets S.
Australia is building up a nice little trade in grape spirit.
In the first nine months of 1902, 18,255 gallons went out
to other parts of the Commonwealth ; in the first nine
months of 1903, 31,310 gallons, mostly brandy. Victoria
is now a rather larger buyer than N.S.W. The growth


■
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
HAULAGE.—Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
is P ' Ml ', ira " UVay ’. w } th suitable rolling- stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
stock, ' f J, economrcal and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rads, Mining- Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
■ nucrt i a. —Uog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i. e., EVERYTHING.
£BT Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. TE3I
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E, LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Branches— Melhonrno r-s.i, n • Representing Orenstbjn and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris,
rancnes Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The attention of mine managers,engineers, etc.,
is drawn to the fact that the Dunlop Tyre Co. are now
manufacturing rubber conveying belts for all purposes—
made endless and in any length up to 45 inches. Guaran-
teed the highest quality, and free from stretch. Sample
and price upon application.*
* * * *
Insurance, Banking and Financial Review,
London, Bth August, 1903: “The 1902 report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society is not only a
cheerful, but a decidedly convincing document. To have
accumulated nearly three millions of funds during a life-
time of 30 years, speaks volumes for a shrewd and
energetic management.*
* * * «
The field of concentration after stamps or
amalgamation is an old and recognised one, yet this
treatment is now improved upon in certain instances bv
concentrating direct from the stamps, as it is found that
gold heavy enough to sink through the film of water
moving rapidly down the copper plate is heavy enough
to be successfully settled upon the deck of the Wilfley
Table, and thus concentrated. A large number of
Wilfley Concentrators have now been sold in Australia,
and they are daily coming into more universal use. The
Austral Otis Engineering Company of South Melbourne,
who are the Agents and Sole Manufacturers of the
Wilfley Tables, are kept busily employed in turning out
the tables, and have some difficulty i'n keeping ahead of
the demand.*
♦ * * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* » * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to36inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire
where the branch works are bying erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
A. Kozmmsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned froni England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shores), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
11. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties promptly
attended to For fuller information apply to H. Brandoh
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Registered Patent Agent,
![ 9 5' een : s tr ee t, Brisbane.' Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world *
*** ’ . »
Alfred Bo wry, sharebroker and mining secre-
(memb . er of the Charters Towers
mines thPP field ( ° ratu]) . a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending-
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
<mHld a Sydney shipping-man, has in-
the lr ! ,nes , at Kalgoorlie, and he makes the
startling assertion- that some of them have 40 years’ divs.
in sight. Just as valuable would be the opinion of
“i 1 " 1 ,"? ,? a P, ta ' n ” Polpen if he went to Newcastle and
proclaimed that several of the coffins sent there to load
coal would be staunch and seaworthy for 40 years
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald.
174 VVilliam-streetj
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 63 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eajrle-st.,
Brisbane; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Welhnjrton, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z,
tofor y ei^ , pL e c balanoeS t^6 selious S * UUI P * n wine-exports
* * * •
iqfti Commercial Bank of Australia from
ui, when the re-valuation was made :
Profits
(less loss Dividends on Added Bank
on Assets Preference to Re- Re-
t„„„ Trust). Shares. serves. serves.
June, 1901 _ _ £l6 917
L?7,’ f42>46 ° 3 p.c. =£31,758 £10,702 27^619
J 3S - 434 3 „ „ 31,758 6,676 34,295
1 0| feited Capital added to Reserves, 143,000 177,295
. ~ 3 P- C '= 31 > 759 ~.«5 184,730
Foifeited Capital added to Reserves, 3,000 187,730
J^’ 1903 r , 3/,442 3 p.c. = 31,759 5,683 193,413
Foi feited Capital added to Reserves, 2,500 195,913
Dec., 1903 40,638 3 p.c.= 31,759 8,879 204,792
The nominal capital is now £2,212,169 ; on this the profits
pol e e 2? a iJ' 0 P er cent, per annum, as against
9d 7 5, h ,® previous half-year, and £3 10s. lOd. in the
H * e t ,K t f! ec ' 34 ’ 4992 - 14 t he reserves are included
the rate for the past half was £3 7s. 7d. per cent,, and for
previous half £3 2s. sd. But practically there are no
resenes, because the bank is responsible for the Assets
trust (the institution that, is nursing and realising the
securities with which the bank was left when the boom
burst), and the Assets Trust has a vast deficit. Never-
„„elvß-S’ so far as business is concerned, without doing
anything sensational, progress is being made. And, as
an institution with a large country connection, this pre-
S SO°d agricultural season ought to give it a long lift,
like this ? BUres com P are with those of 12 months back
Deposits b,.rin e 19t>2 ' 1903 ' Inor '"" ! -
NoKTand Bill, Cl,: “ 7 *' S77 ***»• 07,m
Cash atldtiquid Securi- «■ «*"* »•"•
tles 1,848,423 1,885,789 37,366
Advances, &c 3,868,762 3,654,210
Deposits not bearing ’
„ I"terest .. 1,703,674 1,691,506 12,168
A Deposits .. .. 630,554 316,073 314,481
Real Estate ... 453,177 451,652 1,525
Ihe Commercial of Australia is one of the very few banks
which show an actual increase of liquid assets on the 12
months; advances have, however, been very much
reduced, especially during the past half-year, which
feature for J t- . Tlle next most conspicuous
feature is the large reduction of old “A ” deposits The
liquid assets are equal to 53 per cent, of the liabilities to
the public ; but in connection with this very high figure
it must be noted that more than half the total deposits
•8.1 g at call.
In connection with the Assets Trust this pro-
gress has been made : *
T . , Dec., 1902. Dec., 1903.
Liabilities of Assets Trust £3,121,228 £3 058 888
Assets of Assets Trust .. 1,735,000 1,675’fi00
Deficit of Assets Trust .. £1,386,228 £1,383^888
Less Bank Reserves .. 184,730 204,792
Net Deficit £1,201,498 . £1,179,096
S d^S e j ns . t7lat ne k deficit has been reduced by
£•-2,402 during the year, at a cost of £60,000 of trust
assets. This progress is not so good as usual. Finally
the whole position of bank and trust combined may be
stated as follows : J
Capital (as written down) .. .. £2,212 169
Net Deficit on Trust Account .. 1,179,096
Shareholders’Funds Intact.. £1,033,073
•> » June 30, ’O2 .. 1,021’860
Increase of Funds for Half-year .. £ll 213
* * * * ’
The Bank of Victoria
Dividends.
<■ *' v Added
Pref. Ordinary to Re-
r, Pr °nts. 5 p.c. 2* p.c. Reserves, serves.
V 60 '’ £l i’ 92B £10,419
June, 1897.. 17,877 10,419
Dec., 1897 .. 22,730 10,419
June, 1895.. 24,380 10,419 _ 13 961 7*650
Dec., 1898,. 27,800 10,419
June, 1899.. 27,637 10,419
Dec., 1899.. 27,906 10,419
June, 1900.. 28,554 10,419 £13,266 4,869 129’605
Dec., 1900.. 30,178 10,419
June, 1901.. 31,399 10,419 15,919 5,061 138‘,506
Dec., 1901.. 33,136 10,419 15,919 6,798 145 304
31 p. c.
June, 1902.. 33,323 10,419 18,572 4,332 149 636
Dec., 1902 .. 33,715 10,419 18,572 4,724 154 360
June, 1903.. 29,410 10,419 18,572 449 154 809
Dee., 1903.. 31,351 10,419 18,572 5,363 160,172
Tiie half-year’s profits were more than in any other term
>ince the boom days. The earnings on total' funds as at
S™~ en,e,lt 7 the half-year (£1,478,010 capital
fl nd £154,809 reserves) were at the rate of £4 4s. 2d. per
this w^- a " nU,n ’ th ’ S compares with recent results in
June, tgob.. £3 12 5 p.c. June, 1902.. £4 2 lpc
Dec., 1900.. 3151 ~ Deo., 1902.. 4210 P
June, 1901.. 317 11 ~ June, 1903.. 312 2
Dec., 1901.. 4 2 0,, Dec., 1903.. 44 2 ”
Ihe cash and liquid assets are somewhat less than they
eSin m l mo " t . hs , a -° ! actual cash is, in fact, nearly
£-00,000 less, but profit-earning remittances in transit
,• > bave increased. This reduction in cash is, however’
almost counterbalanced by a reduction in deposits
not bearing interest. The fact that larger profits
have been made, although the advances have
”* e " - less > See,l .' s show that, though the interest
rate for deposits has gone up, the average rate for
JhoTnT.iS™ " p The >»““ i-
Dec., Dec., In-
-1902. 1903. crease
Deposits (interest bearing).. £2,939,557 £2,959,139 £l9 582
Notes and bills in circulation 448,028 543 260 95 23^
Real estate .. .. 412,794
Deposits (not bearing inte- Decrease
re , st) •• 1,770,003 1,015,045 154,958
Lash and liquid securities.. 1,785,890 1,728,961 56 929
Advances, &c. .. .. 4,750,167 4,693,699 56,468
As compared with 12 months ago, the position is a little
stronger; and as compared with six months ago, a good
deal stronger. Six months ago, cash and liquid assets
were equal to 28 per cent, of the total liabilities to the
public ; now they are equal to 33* per cent., as against 32
linniVi ent ' 12 months ago. Considering the size of this
reserve, profits must be regarded as fairly satis-
r,7- V : a • that isn t what it ought to be is the half-
-3 early addition made to the reserves, too large a pro-
portion of profits being distributed in dividends V
* * * *
The A.1i.1. Cos. is the title of a Sydney money-
lendmg institution. AEI is Greek for “for ever.”
1 here s a hint sticking* out there somewhere
* * * *
The Queensland National Bank, from its
re-arrangement in 1897 :
Less
n Repaid
Gross Written Repaid Private Total
Profits. Off. Govern- Deposi- Re-
June 1898 ’795 S IS
Dec!’ SI iS S 4500 S’
June, 1899.. 23,879 13,879 2500 5000 9 000
? ec -.| 399 -- 27,341 15,341 3000 6000 12 000
June, 1900.. 27,447 15,447 3000 6000 15’o00
Dec, 1900.. 27,712 15,712 3000 6000 18 000
June, 1901.. 25.350 16,350 3000 6000 '■>] VloO
Dec., 1901.. 28,745 16,745 3000 6000
3une ’ 49 ? 2 -- 25,605 13,605 3000 6000 27 000
Dec., 1902.. 22,329 10,329 3000 6000 30 000
Dec 6 ’1903" 21 777 o’— oncr° 6000 33 ’ 000
’ 1903.. 21,777 9, <7/ 3000 6000 36,000
This looks like a turn of the tide. The scheme of arrange-
ment is responsible for the monotonous regularity'of
most of the columns; net profits have been for many
years brought to a uniform £12.000 per half-year by
writing off whatever was made above that. The progress
(or otherwise) of the business can only be shown, therefore
on the basis of gross profits. The past half-year shows
on this basis, a profit at the rate of £9 15s. 3d. per cent,
per annum on total shareholders’ funds as at the coin-
™e o n nom en i° f th ? half ' year (ca l jitai £413,140 and reserves
£33,000). Recent records have been :
June, 1900 £l2 18 5 p.c. June, 1902 £ll 14 4 D c
Dec., 1900 12 19 .0 ~ Dec., 1902 10 3 0
June, 1901 13 32 ~ June, 1903 915 6 ”
Dec., 1901 13 411 ~ Dec., 1903 915 3 ”
This is still, in spite of the reduction, one of the highest
of Australian rates. Only three were higher last year.
But, then, theQ.N. Bank has the advantage of having a
large part of its deposits fixed so tight that it is not
necessary to maintain cash reserves against them, and
the hank also pays, on the average, a very low rate of
interest. Comparing the position 12 months back with
the present, these results show up :
Dec., 1902. Dec., 1903. Increases.
Advances, &c. ..£4,831,142 £4,934,263 £103,121
Bills in Circula-
tion, &c., .. 256,206 384,901 128,695
Deferred Govt. De- Decreases.
posits .. 1,224,994 1,121,494 103,500
New Govt. De-
posits .. .. 616,219 584,987 31,232
New Private De-
posits .. 1,133,614 1,133,380 234
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. 1,833,479 1,774,582 68,897
Premises, &c. .. 277,668 276,244 1,424
This movement ought to mean a somewhat larger earnim* -
capacity. As to the decrease of liquid assets, the position
still seems perfectly sound ; exclusive of deposits covered
by the scheme of arrangement, the liabilities to the public
amount to £2,425,268, and the liquid assets (including
money at short notice in London) are still equal to 73 per
cent, of this. r
The Q.N.’s balance-sheet is an unsatisfactory
document in some respects. Two items disturb the
whole calculation as to the real position. Under the
scheme sanctioned in 1897 it was provided that the
Queensland Government should receive £1,833 326 of
extended deposit receipts, £1,374,995 being repayable in
five equal annual instalments, commencing in 1917 and
carrying 3J per cent. ; the other l-4th (£458,331) repay-
able, without interest, out of profits before 1921. Private
deposits were dealt with in much the same way’, except
that, for the 3-4ths, inscribed interminable 34 per cent,
stock was issued ; the amount was £3,116,621. the other
l-4th (£1,038,874) being payable out of profits. But the
last-mentioned item does not appear in the balance-sheet.
On the other side is an item, “Private ledger account
(debts in suspense, pending realisation), £510,296 ’’ and
this may be worth much or little. The whole position
then, as nearly as can be stated, compares with that of
six years ago in this way
n f .„, ~ .. 1897. 1903. Reduction.
Deferred Govt. Deposits £ £ £
bearing interest .. 1,374,995 1,121,494 253 501
Non-interest bearingdebt
to Government .. 458,331 373,831 84,500
Interminable Stock .. 3,116,621 3,116 621
Non-interest bearing debt
to private depositors
(about) .. .. 1,038,874 966,874 72,000
Debts owing to bank in
suspense.. .. .. 742,835 610,296 232,539
During the past year the first item has been reduced by
£103,500, which means a large saving in interest. The
last item is presumably being reduced, partly through
the writing-off process and partly by realisations, though
how much of the securities (book value) have been
realised it is impossible to say. Summarised, then, the
liabilities have been reduced by £410,001 since the re-
arrangement in 1897, and assets have been written down
£166,530.
* * * ♦
The Royal Bank op Queensland :
Added
Djvidends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June, 1898..7460 -( . P er « ent - =
l Written off 3000/ 4U > U7U
Dec., 1898. .7579 2£ per cent. ~5075 2504 42 574
June, 1899. 7830 2J „ ~5075 2755 45,329
(£1463 capital forfeited and written off)
Dec., 1899.. 8322 24 per cent. =5056 3266 48,595
June, 1900.. 8384 |?| ... » *> 5056 1 _ 40.90
\ Written off 3500 J 48,423
Dec., 1900..8434 2J per cent. ~5056 3378 51,801
June, 1901.. 8657 2i „ ~5056 3601 55,402
Dec., 1901..8758 (p£ef. 3J £c!} »6 080) - _ 55030
(Written off 3000 I
June, 1902. .9024) f „ 6700 2324 57 404
Dec.. 1902..8646 I Ord. 3 p.c.) ~7223 1423 58,827
Der e I £ ref ’ H P-c. ) ~7227 1825 60,652
Dee., 1903. .9455 J (~,7227 2228 62,880
The profit is equal to £3 13s. on shareholders’ funds
(capital £457,466, and reserves £60,652): for the past
three years the figures have been :
June, 1900 ..£3 17 3 p.c. June, 1902 ..£3 17 Odc
Deo., 1900 .. 317 9 ~ Dec., 1902 .. S 810
June, 1901 .. 319 3 „ June, 1903 .. 310 2
Deo., 1901 .. 319 6 ~ Dec., 1903 .. 313 0 ~
The position generally compares with that of 12 months
ago as follows
In-
. , Dec., 1902 Dec., 1903 creases
Advances, etc £978,066 £996,869 £18,803
Bills in Circulation, etc. .. 40,977 41,835 858
Bank Premises, etc 62,006 62,664 658
Reserves 53,837 62 , 880 4;053
Capital 456,927 457,466 * 539
Deposits 774,938 762,865 DeC I2J)73
Cash and Liquid Securities 298,821 272,740 26,081
The increase in advances and reduction in depouts
(together amounting to £30,876) has naturally been fol-
lowed by a shrinkage of liquid assets, though the movement
has been partly met by increased reserves and slightly
increased capital. Even now, however, the liquid assets
are equal to nearly 34 per cent., which is well up to
the average of Australian banks. The somewhat
larg-er profit has apparently been due mainly to
trading with a rather larger proportion of the
resources than hitherto ; and that being so, and
especially as the reserves are still, in proportion to
either capital or business, comparatively small, it will
probably be better if the proposal to shortly increase the
dividends is hung up for a while.
» e * *
Victorian Tories are howling because the
Government has refused to allow a big monopoly in
tram tracks at Essendon. Essendon has 57 trains a day,
but, as the suburb is scattered, A. E. Morgans, of
Westralia, recently offered to supply it with electric
tramways. These lines in some cases would feed the
railways, but more often the existing tramway lines.
The Government, therefore, declined to sanction the
Morgans lines on the ground that they would injure the
property of the people in the shape of the Essendon
railway line. The Tories say this is a shocking inter-
ference with private enterprise, and are surprised that a
Government which has been so consistently Tory should
have struck such a democratic notion. In the same
issue of the Arous in which the Government is
denounced for this action, there is a long wail about the
Melbourne Tramway Co.—how slowly it has taken up
improvements in traffic, what a handsome profit it
makes, how perfectly it has evaded all provisions of the
law for the protection of the people, and lastly, how much
cheaper, more convenient and superior the Sydney
Government-owned tramways are. In the one breath
the Tories thus advocate and denounce private-owned
tramways.
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Cos (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Carried
Net Dividends. to Deficit.
Profits. Reserves.
June, 1897 ..£835 5 per cent. =£375 £460 £1656
Dec., 1897 .. 708 7 „ „ 525 183 1473
June, 1898 ..746 5 „ „ 375 371 1102
Dec., 1898 ..949 7 „ „ 525 424 678
June, 1899 ~ 1071 7 „ „ 525 546 132
. Reserves.
Dec., 1899 .. 1042 7 „ „ 525 517 385
June, 1900 ..941 8 „ ~ 600 341 726
Dec., 1900 .. 1090 8 „ „ 600 490 1216
June, 1901 .. 1113 8 „ 600 513 1729
Dec., 1901 .. 1252 10 „ 750 502 2231
June, 1902 .. 1748 10 „ „ 750 998 3229
Dec., 1902 .. 1391 10 „ „ 750 641 3870
June, 1903 .. 1248 10 „ ~ 750 498 4368
Dec., 1903 .. 1529 10 „ „ 750 779 5147
This is equal to a very handsome return of £ls 15s. l'Od.
per cent, per annum on total shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves) as at July Ist; the Sydney Perpetual, which
headed the list of Australian trustees co.’s last, year, made
£ls Bs. 6d. per cent., so that the Ballarat co. so far gets
back to its old leading position. And its position is all
the better because it has almost the whole of its funds in
Government stock, only £ISOO being represented by
mortgages.
* * * *
The Wellington Trust, Loan and Invest-
ment Cos. (Wellington, M.L.) :
_ _ Added to Re-
Dec., Profits Dividends Reserves serves
—
1901 .. ..£10,040 8 p.c. = £BIOO £1940 21,920
1902 .. .. 12,372 8„ „ 8100 4272 26,192
Property written up .. .. 1000 27,192
1903 .. .. 10,073 8„ „ 8100 1973 29,165
The co. holds £265,889 of deposits, and its liquid assets
(including special deposits) total £9250. Most of the
balance is represented by “ mortgages and other securi-
ties.” This is no doubt the way to make large profits ;it
is also one way to make large smashes. Whether the
system is safe in this case depends upon how tight the
deposits are held, and how soon the “mortgages and
other securities ” may be realised. A co. whose deposits
are represented by 9d. in cash and 19s. 3d. in mortgages,
etc., calls for very careful management indeed ; and, as
even careful managers sometimes miscalculate, it would
probably be a good thing for this co. to get as much at
least as its reserves represent in Government stock.
Perhaps “ other securities ” include such stock : if they
do, it would be as well to say so.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Cos.
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
June, 1597 .. 987 7 per cent. = 1,050
Dec., 1897 ..1,592 7 „ ~1,050 542 15662
June, 1898 .. 1,125 7 „ ~1,050 75 15,737
Dec., 1898 .. 1,411 {Written off ” ~
June, 1899 .. 1,068 7 percent. ~ 1,050 18 15 616
Dec., 1899 .. 1,389 7 „ „ 1,050 339 15[955
June, 1900 .. 849 7 „ ~ 1,050
Dec., 1900 .. 915 7 „ ~ 1,050
June, 1901 .. 498 7 „ ~ 1,050
Dec., 1901 ..1,219 7 „ „ 1,050 169 15,236
June, 1902 .. 701 6 „ ~ 900
Dec., 1902 .. 1,174 6 „ ~ 900 274 15,311
June, 1903 .. 837 6 ~ ~ 900
Dec., 1903 .. 1,395 6 ~ ~ 900 495 15’,743
Profits are erratic, and there is nothing in the accounts
to show why, the whole income being bunched in one
item. On tbe whole year’s operations shareholders'
funds (£30,000 capital and £15,311 reserves) earned £4
18s. 6d. per cent. The co. has still £21,000 debentures
outstanding ; and nothing has been written off value of
buildings (£70,000) for some years.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Cos. (Sydney) :
Added
Written toße- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1897 £4326 10 p.c. =£3672 £1226
Dec., 1897 4397 10 „ ~ 3679 1060
June, 1898 4189 10 ~ „ 3687 848
Dec., 1898 3589 10 „ ~ 3689 2741
June, 1899 2300 7J „ ~ 2773 1182
Dec., 1899 2801 7J „ ~ 2778 7335
June, 1900 3031 7| „ „ 2780 443 8 406
Dec., 1900 3003 7j „ „ 2781 189 £33 8,439
June, 1901 2972 7J „ „ 2784
Dec., 1901 5010 8 „ „ 2972
June, 1902 4873 8 „ „ 2972
Dec., 1902 5913 8~ „ 2972
June, 1903 6048 10 „ „ 3717
Dec., 1903 6484 10 „ „ 3720
The shareholders’ funds (£74,349 capital and £17,838
reserves when the half-year began) earned at the rate of
£l4 Is. 4d. per cent, per annum, which is something
remarkable. On capital alone the return was equal to
17i per cent., which looks more remarkable still. The
position now compares with what it was three years ago
in this fashion :
Dec., 1900. Dec., 1903. Increases.
Interest Received .. £6,654 £10,970 £4.316
Working Expenses .. 3,351 4,250 899
Deposits .. .. 11,756 12,363 607
Reserves .. .. 8,439 20,602 12,163
In every way satisfactory—from the co.’s point of view
anyhow. •
* * * *
Sydney Ferries, Ltd. (Sydney):—
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re- ..
_ _ serves, serves.
June, 1900 .. £4701 7 per cent. =£4200 £5Ol £5Ol
Dec., 1900 .. 5089 7„ „ „ 4200 889 1,390
June, 1901 .. 5377 7,, „ ~ 4200 1177 2,567
Dec., 1901 .. 5268 7„ „ „ 4200 1068 3,635
June, 1902 .. 5742 7„ „ „ 4200 1542 5,177
Dec., 1902 .. 8040 8„ „ „ 5453 2587 7,764
June, 1903 .. 7464 8„ „ „ 5600 1864 9,628
Dec., 1903 .. 8702 8,, ~ ~ 5600 3102 12,730
The reserves consist of £9500 “ reserve for special repairs
and new steamers,” £2500 insurance reserve, and £730
undivided profit. The capital is £140,000, and the profits
show a return at the rate of £lll3s. per cent, per annum
on this and reserves combined.
* * * *
Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society
(Ltd.), N.S.W.:—
Dividends & Carried
Profits Bonus to to Re-
Consignors Reserves serves
Mar., 1901.. .. £3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 £256 £256
Mar., 1902 .. 1.528 162 418
Mar., 1908 .. .. 2.957
Half-year to Sep.,
1903 .. .. 513
An unexplained addition of £lO to the reserve fund has been
added to profits. Profits are not what they have been, but
the business seems to be extending ; for the half-year the
, WaS £ } 2B^ 3o - Of the paid-up capital (£4858)
only £437 has so far been spent. The dividend and bonus
are declared at the end of the co.’s year.
* * * * .
The Australian Coffee Palace Cos. (Meib )
wljush is also the chief holder in the Hotel Metropole
(Ltd.), Sydney : 1
Added
_ „ . Written to Re-
Dec.,. Profits Dividends off Reserves serves
'• “ fls > 3fis - £9,626
1895 -. 594 io,H 4
1896 •• 976 - 500 £476 582
189/ .. 17/6 —— 1,500 276 qcq
1898 .. 1310 _ lioOO -
1899 .. 5054
1900 .. 4860 3 p.c. =£lsoo
1901 .. 5190 3,, „ 1500 - 3690 8-272
1902 .. 5088 3,, ~ 1500
1903 .. 5913 4„ „ 2000 _ 3913 xg^g
The Hotel Metropole shares, which had been returning
£4OOO, gave £SOOO during the past year ■ hence the
increase of dividend. The co’s. capital is £50,000 • the
profits were equal to a little over 91 per cent on’this
and reserves combined. The reserves' consist of ordinary
reserve fund £BOO. reserve for depreciation of freeholds
£14,750, and undivided profit £223 ; the size of the de-
preciation reserve, to which large additions have been
made recently, suggests that the limit of writing-down
has not yet been reached. All these reserves are in the
co.'s assets, which, moreover, still carry heavy mortgages,
notwithstanding large repayments. The total of mort-
gages on the two properties has moved in this way -
Dec., 1896 .. £137,166 Dec., 1900 .. £98,545
„ 1897 125,786 „ 1901 .. 88,625
„ 1898 .. 115,593 „ 1902 .. 81,000
„ 1899 .. 107,000 „ 1903 .. 78,000
Of the £78,000, the Aus. Coffee Palace carries £41,500
and the Metropole £36,500. The reduction in the interest
bill during the last three years must be equal to some-
thing like 1£ per cent, per annum on the co.’s capital;
and there is still room for a reduction equal to another
6 per cent.
* * * * -
Local shareholders are making a protest against
the continued idleness of the Broken Hill Junction,
Junction North, and North. None of these is producing
anything; all three, haying got their milling plants more
or less ready, are waiting for the lead market to pass
£l2, and meantime are making small calls to keep a
little work of development going. The North last half-
year (to December 31) spent £3390 on the mine, using up
practically the whole of the credit-balance brought
forward, besides the call money; and another call has
been made. This mine has large bodies of rather low-
grade ore ; but as the stuff can be pretty cheaply mined
and dressed, the North could be worked at a profit before
either of the others. The Junction North, which has
only a rattle-trap plant, has had some product
successfully treated by the magnetic process
for zinc. This mine’s ore is heavy in rhodonite—
an intensely hard mineral which makes ordinary
concentration difficult, but which the magnets extract
satisfactorily. The chances, therefore, are that the
Junction North’s waste-dumps will yet be worth money,
though, so far as experiments have shown, there is very
little margin of profit left for shareholders. If the whole
three northern mines—Junction, Junction North and
North—were amalgamated, there might even now be
a fair chance of working them without loss; and this
scheme offers the only hope of working them at a profit
at ordinary times, unless there is very much more
progress in metal extraction than has peen made so far.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY’S
Great Midsummer Sale
MEN’S
MERCERY
DEPT.
r 30 doz. WHITE MAT TENNIS SHIRTS—
Usual Price, 4/6 Sale Price, 3/11 each
All our Season’s PRINT SHIRTS, Stiff Fronts,
Square Cuffs—
Usual Price, 6/6 ... ... Sale Price, 5/6 each
2nd Quality PRINT SHIRTS, Stiff Fronts,
Square Cuffs —
Usual Price, 5/6 ... ... Sale Price, 4/9 each
All our 5/9 CRIMEAN SHIRTS, Collar and
Pocket ... Sale Price, 4/6 each
A Line of CAMBRIC TUNIC SHIRTS-
s Sale Price, 5/6 each
REDUCTIONS in All Departments.
COfIPLETE SALE CATALOGUES Post Free.
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
HARRINGTON’S
Carries 12 Plates or 24 Films
Makes Photographs 4J x 3J inches.
This elegant, well-constructed Camera is suitable
for Lady or Gentleman. It is neat and compact
and simple to operate. A set of magnifiers are fitted
inside the Camera, which enable Bust or Full
Length Portraits being taken at 6, 10 or 20 feet from
the sitter. It is also fitted with latest improved
movements and good lens for taking Groups, Land-
scape Views, Moving Objects or Snapshots.
Price for Plates, complete with
Book of Simple Instructions
42
Postage in N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States and N.Z., 2/2.
Latest Style Cameras from Ss. to £5O.
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
HARRINGTON & CO.
“TIMOR” CAMERA
i Si
Photographic Merchants, 66 KING ST., SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Society
[?]
WHEN THE WORLD’S TROUBLES BEGAN.
ADAM : “ Yes, it looks right enough. But, I suppose, she’ll always be wanting clothes now.”
Noticeable how sadly the ordinary Austra-
lian takes his “ hitching-up.” He has no particular
facial expression to denote that particular brand
of happiness ; the wild look of joy for use when
Australia is leading in a test match hardly suits
the occasion ; so he wears an air like that of an
emu which has swallowed a corkscrew—uneasy,
but trying to pretend that he could do that sort
of thing every day if he tried. He looks round in
a way half-timid, half-defiant, as if wondering
whether he ought to be cheered or hissed. The
Australian is not suited for public marriage cere-
monies. He is even less suited than the English-
man, who can at least summon up an air of
frozen dog and hauteur. Sensible Australians
should marry in private.
S.M. Herald rapidly falls away from its
old notions of being fairly honest and only
moderately unfair. Trades and Labor Council
officials lately complained about a report of a con-
ference, that it was all wrong, and instanced a
dozen or so mis-statements ; and the Herald put
this cheeky note to the letter: —
The conference was not open to the press, and our
report therefore does not pretend to be full and literally
accurate. But etc., etc.
Shade of old Fairfax : the Herald confesses that
it does not pretend that its reports are “ literally
accurate ” 1
* • * *
The Australian casualness again. A lady
told a Victorian Bench the other day that “the
lame gentleman just came to my house and in-
sisted on taking a room against my wish. Since
then he has been boarding with me and spending
my money; my husband sends me £8 a month from
the West.” “ The lame gentleman ” then plain-
tively asked the magistrates: “ What’s all the fuss
about ? I found her, and live with her as her
husband ; and what’s it got to do with anybody ?
Everything’s all right.” The lady was reminiscent
of a recent Xmas Bulletin yarn of the woman
who took a strange man into her happy home,
merely that she might have someone to admire
the furniture that her absent husband had sent.
• » * *
A.K.C. from Mildura tells more about
“pinky”—a subject with juice in it which has
just come to discussion in Adelaide: —
In this prohibition settlement with its clubs and great
heaps of empty bottles it is impossible to obtain one
bottle of pinky (from which a man might recover in a
few days). You must get at least two gallons, or none at
all, and the amount of Hades compressed into two gallons
is wonderful. The wine sellers here send out cartloads
of pinky to all parts of Mildura, and it is not at all
uncommon to meet a blear-eyed pinkyite, craning his
neck at the sound of wheels, and asking passers by if
they have seen the “blood cart’’ anywhere. Pinky has
wonderful effects. Unwieldy old ’uns who have not been
out of a walk for years, will throw out wild challenges to
“hoof-race”anymanin the crowd, or demonstrate the ease
with which they can stand on their heads. Sturdy and
active youngsters will fall into such deep slumber that
even when used as brooms they fail to awake. There are
two spots in this salubrious orchard sacred unto pinky.
One is Pinky Bend, on the river just below the town-
ship—the resort of those who have tramped from the
Darling, or from record harvesting operations, for the
“ grape snatching ’’ season. The last time I camped at
Pinky Bend, I saw large wire hoops covered with paper,
or someone’s calico, and set on fire. Those who were
“ pinkied up ” to the required pitch would take a long
run and dive through. (If a stump lurked on the other
side so much the better—something to look forward to.)
The “ fiery ’oops ” were the popular draw, although there
were also " stoush;" acrobatics, fire-eating, snoring, sing-
ing, howling, and weeping side shows on the programme.
* * * *
There was a pathetic little advt. in the
S.M. Herald the other day. A married couple
advertising for board and lodging owned up to
an encumbrance, but described it as a “ very quiet
infant.”
The humor of the daily papers is nowadays
all contained in the advertising columns. Mister
James’S.M. Herald printed this sarcasm, Jan, 19:
"YXTANTED, a good General Domestic HELP, all
'' duties, no objection to a Christian, provided
she is also a good cook. Apply to s
Mrs. JAMES, 44 Elizabeth-street. *
* * * *
The Melbourne Licensing Court had a
noble chance, t’other day, that some men would
give their souls for. It had finished taking evi-
dence about the 57 North Melbourne hotels, 37 of
which were to be closed, and then adjourned—to
the 57 hotels aforesaid. All had to be inspected,
and every publican was anxious to please the
court. That the court got home sober that night
wasn’t the fault of the licensees.
A deaf mute trained to the oral system of
speech is an awfully
uncanny conversation-
alist. Words are
spoken in an explosive
treble without the
least inflection. The
talking of a person
who has never
heard the sound
of the human
voice is seeming-
ly devoid of any
instinct of accen*
tuation. When
the afflicted stu-
dent of lip me-
chanics says
“Yes,”or“No,”
or ‘ ‘ Good morn-
ing)” y° u won-
der whether a
deaf mute dog,
reared among a
crowd of normal
dogs, would not
teach himself to
bark more ex-
pressively than
his human bro-
ther has learned
to utter familiar
monosyllables.
On the other
hand the finger
and sign conver-
sation of two
silents is a pleas-
ure to see. The
facial expressions
are in keenest
sympathy with the
actioned words. Go
to a picnic of these
peculiar people and get
a new idea of the
poetry of motion from
the spectacle of two sweet-
hearts whispering eloquent nothings on
their fingers whilst eyes speak love to
eyes that speak again. And then listen
to the babbling of the bank clerk and his
frivolous suburban girl as they pursue their
regulation “spoon.” They tear the tender
passion to tatters with their clumsy tongues.
The true art of love-making is sacred to the
deaf mutes.
* • • •
In Otago (M.L.) a young man advertises
for a good, kind, Christian lady who will under-
take “to pay his debts which were contracted
while he was an unbeliever.” This is a variant of
the “Will kind gentleman oblige Christian lady
with a loan ? ” Why do these hard-up Christians
always appeal to persons of the opposite sex ?
• • ♦ •
A Sydney house-agent, who has the letting
of a terrace of furnished houses, observes that
most are occupied by couples who “ haven’t got
their lines.” “You can always tell them; man
takes the house, gives references, and so on, and the
woman is contented with everything. The proper
married woman taking a furnished house grumbles
at everything in it, and wants five dozen articles
next day.”
• * * *
Recently there appeared in a Sydney paper
four funeral advertisements for the one person,
in which the undertaker got in nine lines of public
enthusiasm concerning his burying business. He
managed to vary each advt., calling himself in
turn “funeral director,” “embalmer,” and
“undertaker,” and advertised a small branch
business, and inserted his telephone number and
a few other details. At a funeral recently, the
hearse arrived half an hour before the appointed
time, and when the deceased’s nearest relative
expressed astonishment, the ghoul cheerfully
observed, “ Lots of people about, sir; good
advertisement for us, you know.” Then he
occupied himself walking to and fro, explaining
confidentially to bystanders that “ Snatcher and
Co. have the funeral arrangements. Always do
things up to date and nice, you know.” Wanted,
a municipal monopoly of the undertaking busi-
ness to do away with the ghoulish competition of
private firms.
* * * *
There is a suggestion before the Church
of England in Melbourne to substitute women for
boys in the Cathedral choir. Bishop Clarke is
reported to favor the idea, but foresees a difficulty
of clothes:
It is only to be expected that the question of dress will
arise whenever female voices are used in chancel choirs.
I would not venture to recommend the adoption of a
special dress for women in church choirs unless I feel
able, at the same time, to accompany my views with the
assurance that female charms are not likely to suffer in
the process, and that a young face and form, or for the
matter of that an older one, never looks so well as when
framed and clothed in a neat, well-designed costume of
sombre hues relieved with white strings.
And the Bishop’s assurance can be taken with
confidence ; there is no surer aim with the matri-
monial harpoon than that of the hospital nurse in
her “ sombre ” uniform.
* * » #
S. Australia, outside of Adelaide, is prac-
tically without the flaxen barmaid. In the
country townships the landlady generally pulls
the pump, with the occasional help, perhaps, of a
daughter or a maid-of-all-work. Barmaids are
mostly exported to Australia from Tasmania,
which produces them luxuriantly. Proportionately
to population, Westralia takes most, and S.A.
least of this class of exports.
A QUESTION OF CAPACITY.
INTOXICATED HUSVAND (to angry wife): “ Whash
marrer, m’ love; why do you look so cross?
Yer n' offended wi’ yer little Billy, are you? ”
ANGRY WIFE: “ Billy! Little Billy, indeed!
You are no Billy—you are a bucket, a kero-
sene-tin, a tank."
The Petriana myth might have had a mate
in the Onipenta myth had not the fact that the
elections were over made the daily newspapers a
little less frenzied in their lying. As it was. the
Onipenta myth died in infancy. As_ hatched, it
stated that a Lascar had died on the ship Onipenta
at Brisbane, and that the Federal authorities pre-
vented the landing of the body for burial. All
the truth there was in the story was that the man
had died ; no effort was made to stop his burial,
and, after a few hesitating paragraphs, the papers
dropped the subject. If it had occurred a month
before, how the story would have gone around like
wildfire that the Federal Government had refused
burial to an alien !
BUT THERE IS NO HOPE.
GEORGE : “ How happy could I be with either!”
THE ROYAL ESCAPE.
(A Loyal Ode.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Queen Alexandra recently escaped from a slightly
burning bedroom.”— Daily paper.
There was something that smoked
In the house, and I he Queen ?
Why she put on her things,
And she went from the scene.
She traversed —she did—the big staircase alone,
And, after a while, when the danger had flown,
She went back to her bed—on two feet of her own.
And this is just why
Other nations sing low,
And Great Britain can brag,
And Great Britain can crow ;
She feels if her Monarchs know dangers are play,
They think like the deuce, and though little they say
They’ve always got sense to get out of the way.
For Kings we have had,
With such stuff in their head,
That if things took ablaze
They would burn in their bed ;
They would jabber away in the fullness of gin,
They would greet any rescue with lunatic grin,
They would dance a fandango and die in the din !
And the Monarch abroad,
If not wholly insane,
He is mostly beset
By a buzz in the brain ;
tie’s erratic from birth, and he’s queer when he’s wed,
And he's given to loading his servants with lead,
And his subjects get drunk when they know that he’s
dead 1
So we’ll fill up our glass
With some good British beer,
And we’ll drink to the King
And the Queen and the Peer ;
For the Monarchs abroad may go wrong in the head,
But ours are too ’cute to be burnt in their bed,
And they nobly go down by the staircase instead 1
THE GROVELLER.
LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are like bats that out of a dark cave
Have suddenly been scared into the day,
Blear-eyed and vexed as here and there they flap,
Unnatural denizens of such a world.
So seem we all, as this were not our home,
And we, as aliens in these elements,
Moved here and there, blear-eyed, heart-weary and
Possessed with many fears, till Death’s new dark
Showed us our passage back to the old cave,
Whence Birth before may have affrighted us.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


Highfield Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
Newly erected; Commodious;
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE
BEST
i N
THE
WORLD
WATSON’S WHISKY,
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality.
The sexes are gradually getting even in
Westralia. Right back in the old Groper days
there was a sad disproportion of males ; in 1886,
well before the gold was found, in every 100
people there were 16 males too many. Later on
things got worse than that ; the summit was
reached when, in 1896, 71 per cent, of the whole
population was male. There wasn’t even one
female to two males at the end of next year
either ; but at the end of 1898, when the “missus”
had started to take the children over, the 2 to 1
proportion was just reached, and since then more
“ missus” and more children have gone over every
year, until, on Dec. 31st, 1903, there were 137,844
males and 91,887 females. Roughly, therefore,
the proportion now is 60 to 40. In Victoria there
is almost exactly the same number of both sorts ;
in N.S.W. there are 52 men to 48 women, in South
Australia 51 to 49, in Queensland something over
55 to 45. The Tasmanian female is supposed to
overrun the land ; but as a matter of fact, unless
the census papers were faked and all statistics
cooked, the small island’s sex-proportion is just
the same as N.S.W.’s—s2 to 48, the males being
the 52.
» * * *
Some day there’s going to be a very sensa-
tional fatality in Tasmania at the Blowhole—
Marcus Clarke’s historic Blowhole down near
Eaglehawk Neck. In the season this region is a
favorite haunt of irresponsible excursionists —
morbid visitors and others. These foolish folk
patronise the Blowhole, finding it “awf’lly
picturesque,” and so forth, adopting it, picnicking
about it, carving their silly names round it, gener-
ally ill-using it after their kind. Also, they take
■dangerous liberties with it, crawling into the sea
■end of it when the tide is ebbing or low. Often
these people get splashed or drenched, and that is
■very laughable. Some day a round dozen of
them will be drowned, and then every puling
idiot in Tasmania will write letters to his
puling print apologising for the Blowhole
•and laboriously explaining how the thing
■occurred. The true explanation might as well
be given beforehand. Away south and east of
the Blowhole is a tremendous stretch of deep sen,
■contemptuous of excursionists. The frequently
very heavy swell is also very irregular ; it
rushes and recedes with a treacherous suddenness,
keeping no time-table. Some day it will come
■along unexpectedly and suck several excursionists
'to eternity in one indiscriminate gulp. It has
■eddies and under-currents, and the whole place is
jagged with rocks. The force of the thing is
•tremendous. Only a tomfool excursionist would
'trifle with Marcus Clarke’s Blowhole.
• * • •»
Sydney Health Department, acting with
quite unusual energy, t’other day notified the
aldermen of the Glebe (which abuts the bad-
smelling Blaclcwattle and Roselle Bays) that, as
they had failed to adopt the model code of sanitary
by-laws, a recommendation would be made for the
issue of a proclamation compulsorily extending
the by-laws to the Glebe district. Instead of
kneeling down in the public road and begging the
■community’s pardon for their neglect, or worse,
the aldermanic fellows jumped to their feet and
■opened wide mouths of indignant anger. One
urged that, “if the model by-laws were extended
•to the district, it would mean practically the
whole of the borough would have to be re-built,”
■and all agreed in a resolution condemning the
intrusion of the Health Department. What can
be done with such councils except to sweep them
-away with a Greater Sydney Act ?
REVENGE.
1ST. MAN IN BAR: “Say. loss, the publican won't
stand me a drink.”
2ND. MAN: “Well!”
IST. MAN : “ Well, just you lend me 3d. and see
me eat all his counter-lunch.”
AN APOSTATE.
MRS. VARIPLAINE : “Dear me, Miss Talltossle! Don’t you think that, considering so many
prelates were expected — DON’T you think that your costume is rather—you know? Now,
I put it to you as a Catholic young lady”
MISS TALLTOSSLE : “Ah! but I’m not a Catholic now. Just as soon as the Pope said those
horrid things about decollete, you know, I went and joined the Primitive Methodists! ”
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners recently
fitted up refrigerator cars for the carriage of rab-
bits to Sydney during the summer months, and
already the rabbit industry flourishes in conse-
quence. Why not do away with the barbarity of
transporting thousands of heads of live stock yearly
to Sydney for butchering purposes, and supply,
by a system of slaughter-houses in some handy
locality, the whole population along the different
railway routes with meat cheaply, rapidly, and
healthfully ? Present system is wasteful because
it involves carriage of a huge quantity of offal witli
the meat, and because it takes away the offal front
the country districts, where it could be used as a
manure, to the city where it is treated generally
as waste ; and unhealthy because sheep and oxen
are killed when in a fevered state from long
travelling.
Nearly all Melbourne’s theatres were
erected on “ building leases,” and reverb to their
mostly absentee land owners shortly; so the
Board of Health should have little compunction
in making—not the lessees or managers—but the
ground landlords bring their properties right up
to requirements. The Princess’ lease will fall in
in about 12 years to the heirs of one David
Benjamin, who died in London a while back. It
was built by Williamson, Garner and Musgrove
and did nob cost its ultimate owners a penny.
The Royal’s ground lease expires in ’2l. The
Alexandra, now Her Majesty’s, was put up by
Exhibition Joubert, who is said to have spent
£30,000 on it, on land belonging to one Porter,
son of a former Vic. prothonotary, also an
absentee. The luckless Joubert couldn’t pay the
ground rental, and the building fell into the land-
lord’s hands (for nothing) long ago. Harry
Rickards built the Opera House on land belong-
ing to W. G. Sprigg, secretary of the tramway
00., accountant, auditor and director of many
schemes. The owners of these blocks and their
friends object very strongly to a land tax because
of it pressing so hard on the “ poor farmer ” —the
poor farmer who owns the Theatre Royal and the
Melb. Coffee Palace with the Chinese dens at the
back of them.
• * * *
Adelaide crematorium is gradually getting
business, though it suffers from hard luck. A
little while ago an elderly doctor died, and orders
were given for his cremation, but afterwards
withdrawn. A little later another died, leaving a
request that he should be burned. But an official,
whose signature was necessary, happened to be
out of the State, and the corpse had to be buried.
Before a body can be cremated two or three page 3
of foolscap have to be signed by various persons,
testifying that the corpse was not murdered or
otherwise foully slain. The third trier achieved
burning. He was an Agnostic, so the customary
service in the crematorium chapel was dispensed
with, and the coffin slid into the furnace without
any prayers.
• • » *
A Sydney couple, married the other day,
included a “ theatre party” in the joyful celebri-
ties, and solemnly went to see—“ The Sleeping
Beauty and the Beast.”
* • * *
At the request of numerous customers I have
deoided to keep my saloon open all day on Wedes-
days and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-st.*
Sydney’s Sunday press is admirably
adapted for the convenience of fishing parties;
one tuppence-worth is excellent for “hurley,” the
other for sinkers.
* * » •
Little Etn’ly Soldene gives a valuable hint
on etiquette to Sydney E. News readers: —
Big lunches are, I think, more trying than big dinners.
You can go to bed after dinner, but it looks bad to do so
after lifneh.
\•• * *
“ P.X.” : I was waiting for my tram, and
a drizzle commenced. The man whose umbrella
was dripping down my neck said it was monstrous
that, with good rain like this, people didn’t go on
the land. I pushed his umbrella aside a little,
and it started to drip down his own neck. Then
he said it was monstrous that the Government
didn’t ibnt up a shelter-shed at that corner (there
is a shelter-shed at the corner opposite). The
first thing I read when I got to my desk was about
something that happened up Boulia way. A man
in charge of bullocks fell sick at Roeklands. He
travelled slowly down the Georgina, about 150
miles. At Herbert Downs he decided that if he
didn’t promptly get in to Boulia and see a doctor
he would die. He got into Boulia (60 miles or so)
and in bed for a fortnight. There the local
doctor told him that his only chance was to get to
,Townsville. That meant four days and three
nights rough coaching to start with. Still, with
the local hospital-wardsman to prop him up, he
started. After the coach-ride there was the long
railway journey from Winton to Townsville.
When I had finished reading the par. I started to
think again of the fat man who wants a shelter-
shed on every city corner, and who can’t imagine
why more people don’t go on the land.
• • • •
While the public is panicky over fires in
theatres, and even churches, fashionable drapery
shops—veritable death-traps, some of them—
should be looked to.
• o • *
Sydney Y.M.C.A. has given the girls
notice to quit its Sunday evening choir. For 20
years girls and boys sang together in the Sunday
hymn, but the management has now firmly re-
solved to banish petticoats and Jong hair. And
the Pope has banished low-neck dresses from (he
vision of his prelates. The religious leaders have
been finding out things lately perhaps.
• « • •
Spite of dap. Consul M’Eacharn’s affecta-
tion of scornful amusement at Crouch’s state-
ment, that the Jap. naval officers who visited
here last year knew nearly as much about Aus-
tralia’s defences as we do ourselves, the fact is
that Victorian military officers were astounded at
what the Japs. knew. They produced a chart of
Port Phillip Bay more accurate and complete than
any in possession of the V ic. military authorities ;
and they anchored outside the Heads in an area
of ocean which is not commanded by any of the
guns at the Heads, but from which those guns
could be attacked and silenced. Wherever they
got it from, the brown men have the best of infor-
mation.
NOT LIKELY.
BUTCHER’S NEW BOY (who has mistaken studio
for another room): “Is this where the meal's
for? ”
DE PUCE : “ Heavens , no ! Why, this is a studio.”
From ARGUD :
LAWRENCE.—On the 2nd December, 1903, at “Hell
View,” Sulphuropolis, Wild West of Tasmania, the
wife of S. P. Lawrence—a daughter.
“Genius does what it must, talent what
it can.”
HIS KNIBBS SAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W. Education Commissioner Knibbs, addressing
the fair students of the Croydon Presbyterian Ladies’
College, at the recent annual distribution of prizes, said,
amongst other things : “As Australians, we may rest
assured that our great Empire’s destiny is inevitably our
destiny, and we should cultivate the Empire spirit, that
feeling of solidarity that showed itself so splendidly in
the South African war.”
You have gained (said he) much knowledge,
Ladies, in this Croydon College ;
You can ask for gloves or hat in
Very tolerable Latin,
And (I gather from the chairman)
Purchase sausages in German ;
You have also firmly gripped your
Share of sound, selected Scripture ;
But these gifts will simply irrit-
Ate all people truly loyal
If you lack the Empire spirit
And revere not all things royal.
When your brothers and your cousins
Went to Africa by dozens,
You inspired them with your cheering,
As through town they went careering,
Your white ’kerchiefs you were waving
To these Heroes, Empire-saving,
And their thoughts to you were turning
In the mi Ist of their farm-burning.
Many Boers they sent to H: des
For your sweet sakes, dear young ladies ;
Thus your charms and courage noble
Helped old England in her trouble—
Glorious heritage of Beauty
So to point the way to Duty !
Laugh and play ; keep young and skittish
While you can—but still be British ;
All things else are false and alien,
Even if they’re called Australian.
Thus his Knibbs—or very nearly—
And, no doubt, he spake sincerely.
Then the ladies of all sizes
Hid their smiles and took their prizes.
C.R.


GORDON’S
Dry Gin and Old Tom
THE - VERY - BEST
(IN BULK OR BOTTLE).
All Particulars from
BWIFT & COMPANY, 7 Spring-st M Sydney.
Miss Nellie Stewart writes: “ 1 Yalaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “ Yalaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price Ss. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Dress Fabrics
THE VARNISHED BOARD
.M
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
Thb
*£TS
&
O
> eclipse
all otpers-
Be sure
lx>.geh hhe
RIGHT
V
fsd
[very Corset is branded inside on band
RD.
f
PD.
Refuse all ethers*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 26, 1904.
My Dear Arini.—
Miss Carrie Swain, who will be best remem-
bered in Australia as a shapely, well-developed
young woman who climbed a telegraph-pole in
some play or other, is said by an American paper
to have begun a legal action, in which will figure
prominently Mr. frank Gardiner’s matrimonial
affairs and those of a lady to whom a divorce
from the pallid Frank was granted ere he married
a beautiful French girl. Miss Swain when last
in Sydney was credited with musical ambitions,
and with cultivating a grand opera voice.
An unamiable correspondent tells me that there
was a good deal of surprise in Bombay in 1900
when our new Northcote was made a peer.
Before that he was only a simple little baronet.
The reason eventually evolved was that the
Dukelet of York liked him for his height—or
want of it. Lord Northcote is just three inches
shorter than the Duke, and when side by side the
Duke could really and truly look down on him.
When Gov. Rawson was on the Northern
Rivers, at one township hotel they went so far as
to decorate the bath-room which his Mightiness
was to use, with his colors—orange and green, I
think—in ribbons and flowers. Even the shower-
bath sprayed in a delicate verdant tint, and the
hot-water tap ran golden (so I was told). And,
after all, the glory of it fell not to Gov. Rawson,
but to Mr. Sam See, who used the bath first. It’s
very hard to get ahead of the See family when
there’s any vice-regal glory lying about.
A friend has appealed to me “ as an authority ”
on behalf of a friend of his who is writing a serial
story. “He would make it all about men if he
could,” writes my correspondent, “for he is a
misogynist, not because of any harm women have
done him, but because he thinks they might if he
gave them a chance. He seems to imagine that
they bite, and that their bite is dangerous always,
and frequently fatal. But he knows that no pub-
lisher will look at a book (unless it be a boys’
story, and he is not writing a boys’ story) from
which love is entirely absent. He has created
two women characters—one dark and tall, with
mysterious eyes and enigmatic smile like Monna
Lisa and in other respects a compound of Cleo-
patra and Faustine and the Marquise de Brin-
villiers. The other is a wooden angel with fair
hair and blue eyes.' (By the way, how is it that,
in the minds of men who have had no feminine
education, a good and loveable girl must be an
idiot ?) I remember, in this connection, the saying
of a Dutch writer: ‘ The man who thinks a
woman is an angel never had any sisters.’
“Anyhow, in my friend’s story the wooden-angel
(dear Amelia Sedley!), after a desperate struggle
with the fiendish dark woman, wins the hero. My
friend is sorely ip need of advice concerning
lovers’ dialogue, >He thinks it should be some-
thing between baby talk and the conversation one
addresses to a cat. Also, he wishes to know —
(1) How long is a woman supposed to be a Bride?
(2) If she is a widow who has married again, does
that make any difference in the duration of her
Brideship? (3) What is the origin of the term
‘grass-widow?’ ”
Well, I think my friend’s friend—the writer of
the serial story—is about 30 years behind his
time, the present time, in his creation of the
wooden angel as a loveable type. Amelia Sedley
was the novelist’s favorite type for the good
woman of that period—somewhere about 1814.
The men of to-day do not think that to be good
and loveable a girl must be a kind of idiot. Cer-
tainly, the writing men of to-day—writers of
note—don’t put her on a pedestal in their
books. I recall the remark of a Sydney
man who knows, anent this very question:
“If I had to choose between marrying a shrew
or an idiot, no matter how pretty were the idiot,
I would choose the shrew. I could reason with
her. Besides, all brainless women are jealous.”
As for the hints for the lovers’ dialogue I should
advise follow Carlyle’s advice: “Look within—
then write.” The most rancid line of baby-
talk would do for the wooden angel. Concern-
ing the other queries, a woman is a bride until
the end of the honeymoon. If she is a widow
and marries again, she ought not to put on any
brideship airs. She couldn’t ever be a debutante a
second time. She was Smith’s widow—now she’s
Brown’s wife—that’s all. “ Grass-widow ? ” Pos-
sibly the phrase had an equine warrant. She’s
at grass while her trainer is away.
Mr. H. A. James, hon. sec. for the horticultural
fete in aid of the Q. V. Homes for Consumptives,
has got out his prospectus and schedule of prizes.
The three days fete will be held in Prince Alfred
Park exhibition buildings during April—chrysan-
themum time. And, aptly enough, a fine “golden-
hair ” flourishes on the cover over a vignette of a
group of many cottages, the homes that will be
built from the proceeds of the carnival most likely.
There are numerous money prizes from ss. to
£lO 10s. to be won. Entries close on 9th April.
Mr. Denison Miller is hon. treas., and the com-
mittee’s office is in Macquarie-place. Mr. Walter
Hall, of Sydney, has donated the land, (some 21
acres at Wentworth Falls) that was required for
a storage reservoir, to be built some 800 yards
from the Home. Mr. Frank Grimley’s two
shelters (towards which he gave £5O) are in course
of erection. The Hugh Dixson shelter is com-
pleted and occupied.
How one may lose a valuable fragment of
literary property or memory on life’s dusty.high-
way, and —not even knowing it to be lost till the
moment of recovery—find it through the most un-
likely medium ! Last week a friend took me,
to see the bridal. robe, of a Sydney girl who
was to be married in a few days. This
wedding garment, with a lay figure inside it,
stood in its maker’s workroom, and as I gazed a
long-ago memory of Professor Tucker (you know
the Greek literature man now at Melb. Uni.) .lec-
turing in M.L. on Art to a class of girl students,
came back to me, and I heard the Prof, saying:
“The virtue of Art lies in detachment,, in seques-
tering one object from the embarrassing variety
until one thing comes out from the connection
of things ” There the fragment showed
jagged edges, probably because the beauty of the
class scribbled hurriedly, where we might read :
“So true. That’s why I always try to enter
a crowded room alone, or come out of church
just before anyone else. I’m so worth contem-
plating.” She was a little vain, that jjirl, but she
had much reason for the vicelet of vanity.
To return to the wedding-dress. Maybe I’ve
seen dozens of equally beautiful ‘ ‘ I will.” frocks
before this one, but they alwaysi had their brides
inside them and the bridesmaids around them
or the groom or his worst man confusing con-
templation. Anyhow, the robe of chiffon and
silk and rose-paint lace and lilies-of-the-valley
seemed the most art-like thing from neck
to hem in the matter of . frock pictures.
If it had had its bride inside it she would have
distracted attention from its wily design and
subtle curves and from its thousands—yes, there
must have been thousands—of chiffon puffs, each
with a spray of lily-of-the-valley in the centre,
around the cascade of skirt, and on the river of
train, and from its sleeves suggestive of silver
mist.
The owner of this gown (she was married last
week) is Miss Craven, of Waverley, said to have
been well dowered by a recently-deceased father,
who made much money in Charters Towers mines.
Her groom is something military, a son of Colonel
Holborcfw, and saw service in the late war.
Our old-young sometime visitor, Mrs. Brown
Potter, is going in for fantastic tricks these
days. She is starting a three-weeks “ politi-
cal campaign” at the provincial music halls.
That is, she will recite a set of verses, written on
the basis of Mr. Chamberlain’s recent speeches
and entitled “ The Pledge of a Britisher.” It will
be done in a kind of musical monologue, and 100
working men in their shirt sleeves (Mrs. Potter
will be in no sleeves at all) will join in the
refrain whilst a limelight portrait of Chamberlain
will be thrown on a screen.
Miss Thea Proctor writes from London that she
has been awarded a prize at the St. John’s Wood
School for the best original figure composition.
Prize was presented by Alma Tadema. She has
also taken an hon. mention at the Gilbert-Garrett
competition for school sketching clubs. Miss
Hatherell, whom Miss Proctor met, desired to be
remembered to her old master, Mr. Julian Ashton;
so did Condor, Lambert, Streeton, and others.
Altogether, Mr. Ashton’s ex-pupils seem to be
doing well and to be in good company in the Cold
Country.
A crowd of patient little patients from Sydney
Children’s Hospital witnessed the pantomime
matinee “ Sleeping Beauty and the Beast ” at the
Royal last Saturday at the invitation of Mrs.
J. C. Williamson, who thus commemorated
the birthday of her year-old daughter.
Some six nurses accompanied the young-
sters, who were mostly crippled, temporarily or
otherwise, and after the curtain fell they made a
pathetic procession carried by the nurses, Mr.
H. H. Vincent, the hostess, and theatre officials
out to a big ’bus.
Miss Bruce, eldest daughter of Mr. Baxter
Bruce, the well-known Sydney solicitor, was
married last Monday to Mr. Nesbitt, a civil
engineer and manager of the Westinghouse Brake
Co. They have honeymooned to Maoriland.
“Why Did They Build the Water Chute ? ”
a song. Words by H. Spencer, music by Cecil
Compton. A jolly little song, in which an erst-
while happy married man grieves comically over
his Matilda’s mania for shooting the chute,
tobogganing, and riding on the green dragon’s
tail.
A true artist must have been behind the camera
when some of a lot of photographs, sent by
the M.L. Govt, of Tourist and Health resorts
were taken. One ’graph, labelled Milford Track,
near Arthur River, is a fine composition that
might illustrate Whittier’s lines, “The mists
above the morning rills rise white as wings of
prayer; the altar-curtains of the hills are sunset’s
purple air.” Another picture shows a glimpse of
forest land with an antlered deer, his ears
raised and a pool fit for Undine, all under
a wet heaven and low rolling clouds. If
your imagination’s all there, you may hear
the thunder-organ of the clouds and see the
dropping tears of rain. Men stand knee-deep
in trout streams (M.L. is a finny place),
and pictures of their catches have printed state-
ments to the effect that the spoil weighs from 10
to 16|lb. The Department evidently thinks that
fish ’graphs ought to be authenticated, for these
have also the names and titles of their catchers.
There must be considerable rapture for some men
in landing a big trout. One told me he
was so mad on trouting that he wouldn’t
marry a girl who wasn’t freckled-brown like
a trout. Quite lately I heard he had gone
trout-hunting to M.L. and had incidentally caught
a wife, and that she was like a fish, inasmuch as
she was both freckled and dumb.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Mayor M’Eacharn did a record brisk pump-
handling of the ratepayers before the arrival of the
new Exes, at the Town Hall the other night.
Then he skirted along the rear of the crowd, to be
on the doorstep when the suite showed up; the
breathless Mayoress collected her bouquet and
her party smile, and thousands of colored electric
lights broke out, without provocation, on the
scene. It was Lady Northcote who did all the
smiling and nodding as the party, flanked by the
silk-hosed councillors and the blue, revered Aides,
passed in. The crowd didn’t properly sight Lord
Northcote till the dais stage gave prominence to
his couldn’t - help -it - don’t - blame -me - expression.
“The diamonds of Lady Northcote created
something of a sensation. Not even in the time
of the Duke of York’s visit did Melbourne see such
a spread of gems. The neck owned a wall of
them, the chest had a blinding star of stones, and
lines of pearls, with luminous diamond pegs, were
stretched from shoulder to shoulder. A sunrise
coronet dispensed more glitter, and the dress that
gleamed in its own quiet way, was a summer-sky,
blue silk, brightest of all tones to play foil to the
great gems.
“Lady Margaret Knowles showed a friendly
manner, a fine dress of a lilac hue, and a good bit of
dazzle on her own. The tiara and other outlying
diamond dependencies prove that blue-blooded
maidens no longer need desist from the gem
blaze, nor leave all the glitter to the dames. The
girl of this century may blaze ad lib.
“An American official kept himself busy that
night telling inquirers that Lady Northcote was
raised in Montreal, and was allowed £20,000 a
year for tooth powder, curling pins, and kindred
“The manoeuvres of folks to be trotted along for
Northcote notice were noticeable. Lord Dicky,
no longer a staff prop but a private lingerer at the
big Glass House, was chiefly assailed by the
hustlers to introduce them. And when the more
diffident society scramblers saw the hearty shake
Lady N. gave every presentee’s hand, they grew
bolder and pushed forward. The Federal For-
rests and the Fyshes were right on the train of
Vice-Royalty all the night. The Cliveden
dowager in grey and lilac tonings wasn’t far off.
The Huttons ditto, and Mrs. Edward Miller
again breathed the higher ether. Her moonlight
oonfeetion was the most gorgeous of the dresses.
“Telegrams had been pouring in before the
Northcote arrival breaking the news that the
Governor-General was ‘ very short and very
nervous.’ Not an exhilarating description ! We
wondered what he was nervous about, especially
as the reports went on to mention that his
nervousness had been apparent on the voyage,
and that, in consequence, his carriage-horses were
being rehearsed every day in city parades. How-
ever, prepared for the worst, welcomers found his
new Excellency seemingly normal. He appeared
unruffled by thronging introductions, and now
people think that perhaps he hoard tell of one
predecessor’s frequent fallings-off and of another’s
flurried flight, and began to suspect that there was
something slippery about the Commonwealth.
“ A pocket edition of a Gov.-General comes by
way of a novelty. His diminutive Ex. was nearly
swallowed up by the great dais chair provided at
the serving of the gubernatorial oath, in Queen’s
Hall, the other day, but doughtily and in erect
attitude his lady smiled from hers. She could
govern very well, if required. There is purpose
writ all over her face. By the way, Lady
Northcote wore some wonderful pearls at the
ceremony. The ear-pendants were as large as
muscatel grapes, and the fine loose necklet
represented a Federal Minister’s salary for
a year or two. One bangle was a blaze of
diamonds, but they showed up almost garishly
after the subdued glow of the pearls.
The swearing wasn’t an occasion of elaborate frills.
Above all the Federal dames, the dignified grey
head and incidental plumage of Mrs. Edward
Miller towered. Her lilac confection was the one
momentous item of the dress show. Near by,
Mrs. I. Isaacs did a characteristic languish, and
Mrs. Bob Best did credit to her Senator hubby.
Little Lady Fysh had been so animated in talk,
previous to the ceremony, that her bonnet drooped
to one side, and remained at that rakish tilt till
the affair ended. Miss Yida Goldstein contri-
buted a cheeky pink hat to the scene. Miss Lyne,
in mourning, was the only Sydneysider present ;
she was with her lugubrious popper.
“The Northcote Private Sec. —one, Bulkely
Johnson (he’s sure always to get the Bulkely)—
tops Dicky Nevill by an inch. What on earth
possessed a five-foot Gee-Gee to take unto himself
such a lengthy Private Sec. ? The pair will be a
standing joke.
“ The beauty of the Northcote staff is Captain
George Stephens. The chrome yellow or burnt
sienna of Indian suns has not tinted his blonde
hue nor taken the original crimp out of his fair
locks.
“The word goes forth that there are to be no
parties at Government House for yet awhile ; and
Society hies away for more sunburn and Neptune
frolics. On the other hand, the Samaritan dames,
who seek the fierce light that beats upon a well-
advertised benefactress, are basking in the hope
that the much-talked-of philanthropy of the Gov.-
Generaless may lead her to start the charity
rounds early. The Mrs. Jellaby of Australia is
happiest at her benevolent hobby when Vice-
Royalty stops and pats her shoulder.
“The ladies of the R.C. fold hereabouts have
not yet altered their giddy evening dresses to the
high-neck decency Rome prescribes. Nor has the
R.C. cleric yet withdrawn himself from the bare-
neck assemblages. Womenfolk talk hopefully of
a modus nudi vivendi. Couldn’t a female wear
evening dress and just whip up her wealth of
train and cover her chest pro tern, when a prelate
comes in sight ? Or a neat, adjustable screen to
be sported when holy men appear might meet
the case. Certainly something must be done. If
the Roman matron is not allowed to bare a little,
she won’t bear it and will become a Baptist (with
plenary powers of disrobing—on occasions) or
something.
“A daughter of Mr. Fitzgerald, the North
Melbourne draper, is to blossom forth as a beauty
next season. She is impressively tall and
handsome even now, and has only been a short
while out of pinnies. She is a Grace Palotta on a
big, statuesque scale, and her 18 ye.ars seem a
ridiculous joke. , _ _ , .
“ The coming and going of the Dan Frawley
00. provides a pathetio study in contrasts. On
coming, their arrival was trumpeted abroad the
heralds ran before. There was a big reception at
Her Majesty’s to introduce Miss Van Buren and
her mamma, and, incidentally, Frawley and co.,
to the smart folk. For a time the lady was
boomed. Toorak talked of her noble and history-
making progenitors, and wore its thatch and its
sashes ala Van Buren. The other day poor \an
and her associates left in a White Star liner, iiti-
honored and unsung. And the principals made
their own clatter in the blunt Yank fashion, ihe
Van’s luggage not being all aboard, the owner
used coon words. Then Dan Frawley, in a many-
colored suit, a gaily-soarved Panama and mustard
boots, swore some ; and the little pet soubrette of
the co., with her hair in a pig-tail, put on a frown
that was something blacker than bad language.
“ The Chief Justice’s wife writes to the press to
testify that Walter Kirby is studying his singing
diligently in England, and is improving m skill
and ‘ presence.’ Her relations at home tell her,
she says, that his sugary tenor is as sweet as ever,
and much stronger. The Madden clan always
made something of the honeyed vocalist in ques-
tion. In fact, all parents of pretty daughters
were apt to regard him indulgently, because he
habitually ‘sang at’ their decorative darlings,
with all the hopeless, humble adoration of a lowly
swain pouring out his soul at the feet of love and
beauty.
“Despite the counter-attraction of the
M'Eacharn ‘Welcome’ to the Northcotes, there
was a friendly crowd on hand to applaud and pass
up flowers at the Shakspearean Company’s fare-
well performance (Friday night). Baronet Clarke
occupied the manager’s box, in company with a
decorative companion, who had pink-roses in her
high-piled coiffure and a Pompadour curl drooping
over the shoulder of her white gown. Miss Kerin
got most of the farewell flowers, notably a cane
deck-lounge, wreathed with blooms. Said couch
was presumably a graceful reference to the reci-
pient’s stage-connection with ‘The bank whereon,’
&c. While the sometime ‘Titania’ trembled
prettily on the verge of a breakdown at the close
of the ‘Rosalind’ prologue, ‘Orlando’ Partridge
handed over her presentation posies. Society
journals state there is to be a Kerin-Partridge
alliance as soon as the young things concerned get
back to England
“On the stage a sprinkle of local talent added
to the interest of the performance. Dainty Miss
Unie Russell, one of Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis’ pupils,
suffered from too dim a stage illumination in
Juliet’s balcony-scene. She and Miss Rignold,
both worth looking at, would been helped by
as fierce a light as might be permissible in a night-
scene. As it was, their slim, youthful decorativeness
failed to score, and their somewhat mild, modern,
conventional demeanor cut through the gloom less
emphatically than would have been the case with
more robust and impassioned rapture-mongers.
The Russell-Rignold rendering provided an inter-
esting contrast to recent version of same passage
by Maud Jeffries and Julius Knight. ‘ Balcony-
ing ’ tactics of the latter pair seemed just as stage-
worn, blase and mannered, as the methods of their
juniors were pale and trivial. Ideal Romeos and
Juliets appear none too common. They need to
be old enough Jo be ardent and yet too young to
be jaded.
“Poor Antoinette Sterling had to die when her
time came, though she told us when she came to
Australia that disease was synonymous with lack
of faith, and that health showed the triumph of
mind over matter. When her child cried with
stomach-ache, Madame (so she told us) reasoned
away its pain by getting it to believe that it had
no stomach and therefore was anatomically in-
capable of colic.
“Massage is now brought right to the door.
A smart girl bearing credentials and a Gladstone
with all her apparatus, goes from house to house
and offers treatment for a mere trifle. This
casual visitor is a boon and a blessing—when you
want her. The only trouble is that mistress and
Betsy will want their wash simultaneously, for
Betsy is as keen on the beauty persuader as ma’am
herself. So the peregrinating masseuse must bring
some tact along with her vapourizer.
“The indigo blue veil has descended upon
lovely woman here. It must have been a She
troubled with a strawberry nose or many treacle-
colored freckles who invented the veil. At first
sight, even the smartest of the sex to affect the
fashion seems to have had her head transformed
into a blue-bag. It is tied up fore and aft, and
from its depths a flower-bed sprouts up, or a clump
of foliage is in leaf. At nearer view you find it is
just a fashionable face covered in a blue mist, but
minus the glamor the blue veils of Nature lend to
mountain range and river view.
“One place on the coast is all agog over the
fancy dip of a fresh widow, who goes out of
mourning raiment and into the scarlet striped
trappings of the fashionable French paddler when
bathing-time comes round. For an hour or two
she electrifies the onlookers with her form and her
spring-plank feats and her general sprightliness.
Then the scene is changed. She sheds her cling-
ing, wet garment in her bunk, and dons the
habiliments and suits of woe, gathers her children
and departs demurely from the scene. One is
reminded of clever Lottie Collins, who appeared
in a ‘ widow ’ song and dance at Mr. Rickards’
theatres. Lottie was in deepest mourning, until
she lifted her bereaved limbs and revealed petti-
coats of the wickedest red.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


BAD BACKS.
Bad backs come from bad kidneys—and bad kidneys come from bad blood. Bad blood clogs the kidnevs with
poisonous impurities that breed deadly disease. And the first sign of that fatal trouble is the dull dragging pain rmht
above the inflamed kidneys. Neglect that pain—and you will soon have the coated tongue, the pasty skin the peevish
temper, the swollen ankles, the dark-rimmed eyes and all the other signs of deadly kidney disease
Plasters amd liniments can never cure you. Kidney pills and backache pills can never cure you You must
get right down to the root and cause of the trouble in the blood—and nothing can do that so surely as Dr Williams’
Pmk Pills, because they actually make new blood. This new, pure, strong, rich red blood sweeps the kidneys clean
drives out the poisonous acids, and heals the deadly inflammation. That is the only way to rid yourself of vn,r hJv’
acho. And at the same time Dr Williams’ Pink Pills will steady your nerves, stiffe/your spi.m and ban I every
sign of weakness. That is just what they did for Mrs. Clifton, storekeeper, 30 Dowling-stieel, Paddington, Sydney 7
my back
nearly
had no
and ached
and healed
, , ,i, , , -J explained to me that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actunU v
blood—and so cured the actual cause of all kidney disease and backache. As soon as I could T <>-ot B om 3 *
The pain was much easier after I started or, the second box. And I noticed, too, that my were "Zd‘
these little blood-building pills did me more good than I can tell you. In a little while I was well and sTron- S, £?!
P m ie a People y '* aS Backache never troubles me - M -V good health to-day is entirely due to Dr. Williams' Pir k PiUs Tor
People.'
2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Accept No Substitutes.
:
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“Lord Northcote looks rather like a
Japanese consul.”—lmpression of a Melbourne
man.
Advertised that Mr. Justice Barton has
discontinued his telephone. It’s going to be a
quiet, unworried time with him evidently.
Admiral Keppel, just dead at the age of
91, was the sea dog who caused the 30 years’
estrangement between Hori Grey and his wife 40
years back.
Said, jokingly, but still with some truth,
mi support of B. R. Wise for the High Coni-
missionership that he can talk the English dialect
of the Australian language.
Peter Farrelly, manager of the Glenelg
(S.A.) baths, has saved 14 people from drowning.
He was helped in many cases by his dog, trained
to bring along a life buoy to assist in the rescue.
Nuttall, the artist, who painted a Common-
wealth Parliament-opening picture, has been com-
missioned to do a work on a similar scale in con-
nection with the final test match at the Melbourne
Cricket Ground.
VV. Wybergh, ex-Commissionei r of Mines,
Transvaal, who resigned because he complained
that the country was being run in the interests of
the wiine-owners, has been succeeded by H. Wel-
don, an Australian.
N. : lam surprised to read a genuine
biography of Tassy Dodery, M.L.C., having
thought him a mere invention of The Bulletin
as a type. [So he is. The genuine biography is
an invention.—Ed. B.]
Irish members of the House of Commons
made an organised effort on behalf of Arthur
.Lynch sentenced for treason, and his release, in
view of the balance-of-power position which the
Irish party has, was promptly effected.
J. De La Z. Sutherland, who in his early
days taught Senator ’Siah Symon law and lifted
Adam Lindsay Gordon into Parliament, died in
Adelaide the other day. He was Henry George’s
most notable S. Australian convert.
The Bible on which Hopetoun and
JSorthcote were sworn in, and which will probably
be used for similar purposes for many years is
known as “(Jritchett Walker” from the fact that
the deceased Under-Secretary’s name figures on
the flyleaf. The Bible is the property, by
purchase, of N.S.W. Government.
• A. Miller, leader of the Anglo-Aus-
tralian Prospecting Syndicate’s Expedition, who
recently perished in the interior of Australia
was the son of Major General Miller, of the East
India Co. He arrived in Q. in 71, and followed
mining pursuits for 13 years. In ’B7 he became
pastoral inspector to the Q. National Bank.
Luroa sends a scrap of biography ;
LORD DICKY.
Oar flagellator
and assistant
hangman put in a
few .years working
for an undertaker,
“boxing ’em.”
Tired of that, and
came out here
with his wife,
taking on odd
jobs and travel-
ling about. Wife
died and left
h i m with two
children—g iris.
A hanging coming
on, someone, pro-
bably as a joke,
advised him to
apply for the
hangman’s job, to
put in his spare
time. He applied,
and was appointed
assistant, and
afterwards got the
billet of flagella-
tor. Advertised
for a wife shortly
after. Got re-
plies, but found
none suitable.
Has onlj' had one
hanging, so far—
i.'3 for the job and
£1 for extra
clothes. Has been
promised the posi-
tion of first hang-
man next job.
Doesn’t care for
the flogging
much ; (it’s easier
to hang a man).
Gets £1 for every
job, no matter
how few the
strokes. Was
given a dummy to
practise on for a
week before his
first flogging, but
reckoned he was
able to flog with
the best of them
after the first
day. VV o u 1 d
hang his great-
grandfather, i f
living, and Law-
said so. Has
a few drinks after
a pay, and has
never been
gaoled. When-
ever seen he always has a cepy of a small “yellow”
sensational weekly in his hand and two miserable-looking
dogs cringing close at his heels.
In the press notices of the death of the
late Mr. Felton, great stress was laid on the fact
that he was a bachelor. Next day in the account
of the funeral, the Age stated that the three sons of
deceased followed the coffin as chief mourners ; and
a moral Melb. public began to wonder whether it
could take any of its gilded bachelors seriously,
until a humble correction appeared next copy—
the mourners were the three sons of deceased’s
partner.
A bottle, containing some coins and a copy
of the Northern Standard, of June 13,1879, was
resurrected, recently, from the foundations of the
Townsville (Q.) hospital, during excavating opera-
tions for a new ward. An examination of the
ancient sheet disclosed, among other things, an
advertisement that “ Mr. Robert Philp will be
prepared to furnish customers with a splendid
variety of the most delectable groceries, which
arrive by every ship.”
Given room to grow and fair air to breathe,
and late John Farrell would have been a fine
humorist. At “ Henry V.” one night in Rignold’s
palmy days, Farrell was sitting next to a lady
who admired ungrudgingly the great military
tableau, with Henry Rignold V. on his charger.
“Isn’t it splendid?” she murmured. “Waal,”
said John, “I reckon that horse thinks it’s just
darned foolishness.” The capacity for taking the
horse's point of view in such matters is rare.
Bishop Moorhouse, farewelling his Man-
chester “flock,” compared them with the one
he had in Melbourne. The Englishmen, he said,
were more steadfast and patient, and had more
respect for the past; but the Australians
“show more interest in things ideal
and external. They are less engrossed
in the struggle to get money.” All
tilings considered, one judges that
Moorhouse got better congregations
in Melbourne than in
Manchester. The
“ablest Bible schol-
ars,”he says, “ have
to talk in England
in cathedral side-
chapels, to ministers
and ladies.”
W.C. Walker, late
Maoriland Minister of
Education, died on
J«,n. sth, He
was the son of
William
Stuart
Walker,
of Ed in-
li u rgh,
took his
M. A. de-
gree at
Oxford in
1861, and
in January
of the next
year landed at
Lyttelton (M.L.).
Was elected in 'ru-
bor of Parliament
for Ashburton in
1884, and, being
defeated in the
’9O election, was
called to the
Upper House
two years later.
On VV. P. Reeves’
appointment to the
Agent-Generalship in
1896, deceased took up
tlie Education port-
folio, and clung to it
until the beginning of
last session, when
Pooh-Bah Dick lifted
the burden from fail-
ing shoulders on to his own
heavy load, and gays the ex-Minister the
Speakership.
Opposition-leader Darling is a brother-in-
law to Elijah Dowie, of Zion. They married
sisters, daughters of old Alex. Dowie, boot manu-
facturer, of Adelaide, and uncle to Elijah. Mrs.
Elijah is a stout, comfortable-looking body, who
does not look as if she found being wife to a
prophet quite as awesome a job as some would
think.
When he made his first unofficial visit to
Parliament House, Melb., after his return, the
very “swell ” new member of the N.S.W. group
got a reception that astonished him. An ancient,
patronising messenger called him “Sonny,’’and
asked him what he was doing there. Which was
a pertinent question, anyhow—what is he doing
there?
At present the Irvine Ministry is very
poorly. The doctors have ordered Mr. Sliiels to
his room and announced that he is suffering from
angina pectoris, and Mr. Bent, too, is ill and has
had to take to his bed once or twice a week for a
couple of months past. Cameron, of the Mines
and Water Supply, who is getting up in years,
has not been very well either.
Late John MTntyre, in the days of his
hot youth (’53), offered to lead 20,000 Bendigo
miners to Melbourne to beard Governor Hotham
in his den, and demand justice in the matter of
the license tax enormities. In the early seventies
he was reckoned to be worth £BO,OOO, chiefly
made by floating Bendigo gold mines, but he lost
his wealth in the following 15 years, and before
his death was painfully impecunious.
Died in England, at past 80, J. H.
Browne, the last of Sturt’s exploring party. Mt.
Browne, in the far north-west of N.S.W., was
named after him. Mt. Sturt is hard by, and Mt.
Poole—both now the names of sheep-stations.
Poole’s grave is there ; he was the member of the
party who died during that awful summer which
Sturt has described. Browne was the medical
man of the expedition. Afterwards he went in
for squatting on his own account.
The humorous Marshall Lyle, who is Con-
sul-General for Columbia in these latitudes, has
assumed an air of anxiety since Panama became
open to annexation by the United States. Al-
though he has never had any diplomatic relations
to speak of with the American Consul in Mel-
bourne, he feels that he ought, in some way or
other, to break ’em off. Lyle, in short, reckons
that, at the present political moment, his attitude
towards foreign Powers should be dark and
lowering.
N.S.W. Danyell O’Connor is a proud man
now that he has been made a sort of Papal
K.C.M.G-., and eagerly expects his elegant uni-
form by every mail. In honor, of the uniform
Air. O’Connor has taken to wearing the blue
riobon of a beerless life.
A BOLD PROGRAMME.
FAEMER’S WIFE : “ Well, my man, if I were to
give you a penny what would you do with it?”
TRAMP: "Well, mum, fust, I wud thank ye, then
I wud take a cab ter the Australia Hotel,
where I wud have strawberries and cream, a
tripe supper, and then retire. And in ther
morning I wud go and paint the blessed
city red.”
The late John Farrell abhorred all appear-
ances on a public platform. Once, however, he
was induced to take part in an amateur play in
Goulburn. Tt was “The Merchant of Venice,”
and Farrell was cast for Gratiano. Conscientious
as ever, he played well, but the crowd barracked
and yelled “Get back to your brewery.” That
was Farrell’s last appearance on the stage.
Died, in England, R. T. Firebrace, an
old-tiine Vic. squatter, and member of the Leg.
Assembly. He was unsuccessful in a divorce suit
with his wife many years ago, but the public
sympathy was with him. When the lady sued
him for alimony, he became an outlaw on the
continent of Europe rather than maintain her,
and did not return to England until after her
death.
Said that Rev. D. Laseron, whom Tommy
Walker shot in a railway carriage some years ago,
is deplorably hard-up. He has a fair claim to the
charity of his church, for he struck a particularly
bad streak of luck when he stopped the bullet of
the drink-mad Walker. It was years after that
the bullet was extracted, and the victim of the
shooting never got any monetary recompense for
his sufferings.
Harold Parsons, for a brief night a bright
star in the Westralian sky, shining as mining
magnate, lawyer, and politician (he was returned
as M.L.0.), is putting up a record for übiquity.
One of the brilliant men of his year at Oxford, lie
joined the Bar, became one of “ Henley’s young
men” on the National Observer, wrote a book
or two, then had his meteoric Westralian experi-
ence, was numbered among the millionaires,
landed back in London with nothing worth men-
tioning except a reputation, was just in time to
enrol for S’Africa, served right through there, got
back to literary work, and now turns up in Lagos,
on the African West Coast, where he helped pro'
mote the first agricultural show in November.
And all within 10 years.
A Westralian paper speaks of Miss Ada
Crossley as “the weeping warbler,” and collects
her tears:
“ Reaching Australia, Miss Crossley burst into tears.’
“On visiting her birthplace and school Miss Orossley was
speechless with emotion.” “In her trip through
N.S.YV. and Maoriland Miss Orossley was so affected by
her receptions that she gave way to tears.” “ Owing to
the fact that- Miss Ada Orossley always breaks down when
attempting to sing to her mother, the latter lady has
been debarred from hea'ing her daughter’s glorious
voice.” “At Bairnsdale Miss Crossley, who was driven
from the station in a bullock waggon, was so touched that
emotion overcame her-.”
“Old Jock” M‘lntyre was one of the
men who had a story to tell about a solitary six-
pence —the solitary sixpence that was left when
they landed. “Jock” took his to Bendigo,
tramping up there from Melbourne. After two
or three years’ digging and fossicking he went
back to his trade as a chemist. Angus Maekay,
of the local Advertiser, afterwards Vic. Minister
for Mines, and still later one of the original
founders of Sydney D.T., beat him three times
before he got into Parliament. Most of the men
who talk of an early solitary sixpence die worth
thousands; but this one died poor.
According to Canon Boyce, in Sydney
Morning Herald, Admiral Keppel, just dead,
aged 100 or so, was in Sydney in the roaring days
of the Fitzroys. The Canon journeyed on a
P. and O. boat with the Old Salt a few years ago
and, according to the Canon, who is a member of
the Historical Society, the O.S. was quite pleased
to hear that there was an Australian bay named
after him ; also that he was similarly honored by
a street in Sydney and another in Bathurst. As
a matter of historical fact Captain Cook anchored
on May 26, 1770, in the bay and named it Keppel
after the First Lord of the Admiralty. That Keppel
accompanied Lord Anson in his voyage round the
world, 1740-44. These facts the recently defunct
Old Salt must have known if Canon Boyce did
not.
Died recently at Wairarapa (M.L.),
Tamahau Mahupuku, one of the greatest of the
North Island Maori chiefs. The old fellow—he
was about 70 when he died—was a fine speci-
men of his race, and had all the eloquence and
gesture of the Maori orator. On great occasions
he always appeared in a Paris bell-topper hat,
frock coat, trousers, gaiters—Tamahau liked to be
thought a Maori bishop—and patent leather boots.
He also carried on such occasions a huge black
umbrella. He was in great demand by Seddon
whenever there was a show for the benefit of any
English visitors. Tamahau at one time had thou-
sands of acres of land, but he was mad on tangis,
and in his later years became a debtor to the M.L.
Government. He had spent his substance on hour
and potatoes to give his hungry-mouthed followers
a big feed whenever anybody died in Havvkes
Bay or the Wairarapa. Tam all au’s tangis frequently
lasted for weeks, as the old chief always supplied
any amount of food and drink at different localities,
and the corpse would he dragged over the country
till its interment would be ordered by a sanitary in-
spector. Tamahau offered a Maori carved house
situated near Martinborough (M.L.), and worth
about £4OOO, to the Dukelet of York, but greatly to
everybody’s surprise Edward’s son refused the
offering. Tamahau then offered the treasure to
the M.L. Government, and Seddon accepted it
graciously. The carving of the whare is older than
and quite as indecent as that in the Maori house
at Whakarewarewa, and much more beautiful.
Its caretaker is old “Jack” Payne, a whaler,
whose daughter Tamahau married. Tamahau
leaves behind him two wives but no children. He
was buried in the home of his tribe near Martin-
borough, and his tangi, which was attended by
King Seddon himself, was the most glorious and
lengthy feed since the days of cannibalism.
CAN’T SEE THE LOGIC.
“Reports show that the Indian population is steadily
increasing in Fiji. Latest returns showed that there
were 10,979 men, 4732 hoys, and 206) girls. Since the re-
turns were compiled there has been a further influx, and
the total is now computed at 23,000.”- News Item.
KANAKA (at home): “In Australia then impor!
me to grow sugar cane. Here they impor!
you to do it.”


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at
“ The Australia ” during Summer months, have
nothing but praise for this famous Hotel.
Ladies with families obtain every comfort and
attention at a very reasonable cost. The rooms,
furniture and appointments of The Australia
are unsurpassable. The general coolness and
airiness of the building are remarked by every-
one.
The winter garden is very popular with guests
and their friends.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney*
aAm
sdf
a
JEWELLERS
SILVERSniTHS
PAIR OF
STERLING SILVER
SWEET DISHES
in Case
£4
Otheis from £3 to £2O the
pair, acoo ding to size
and design.
Write for Hardy Brothers’ 1904
Illustrated Catalogue, sent
Dost Free to any address in
the Commonwealth.
HARO*
a
SHUNTER STREET,SYDNEY, 24T BRISBANE & LONDON.
Aboriginalities.
Chatham Islands are remarkable for their
great wealth of fish. A couple of native boats
recently secured 197 hapuka, besides blue cod,
terakihi, &c., half a mile from shore within a
couple of hours. In some spots near the shore
blue cod, weighing 71b., can be pulled up as fast
as lines can touch bottom; Trumpeter, a finely
flavored fish, abounds near the reefs, and the
lagoons inland swarm with eels and flounder—a
rich source of wealth, but there is lack of regular
communication with the central markets. A boat
plies between Lyttelton and the Islands every
two months, except during four months of the
year when it makes more regular trips for sheep.
This lack of communication is the reason for
the cheapness of splendid land there—under
£2 an acre. Until a few years ago wool only was
exported ; now 14,000 sheep are shipped annually,
as well as bullocks and fungus in large quantities,
and in a year or two pigs will figure in the list.
There isn’t the sign of a road on the islands, and
everybody jogs around on horseback.
AT THE TEXT MATCH. —THE ENGLISH-
MEN BATTING.
“Wake up, Joe, they’ve scored another run!”
. , XT r\ ,i . ,i
Sentence passed by a -North KJueenslana
J p_ of Irish extraction on a fellow-man who had
" ' , ~
“languaged : You are fouied tin shillings
with the alternative of the 12 hours you’ve already
done in the cells. Will you pay the foine or take
it out ’ ” He took it out
rtout. tie tOOK it our.
“ Polstan ” : Some little time ago a wood-
cutter, living in a tent near Gawler (S.A.), was
nearly killed by a tree falling on him while asleep.
Ninety-nine out of a hundred new-chums always
pick out the biggest and rottenest old gum they
can find to put their tent under. You can t get a
o-ood bushman to go near a big spreading gum
when camping. He knows the danger too well.
In hot weather these trees are extra treacherous,
the ponderous boughs breaking off for no visible
reason. I nearly had a fight with a mate on one
occasion, because I objected to sleep beneath a
big tree. Mate was abusive for hours after we
ha I shifted camp a hundred yards away, but shut
up when half the tree fell on the buggy 1 had
left, beneath it, being unwilling to cause more
indignation by pulling it away. You eouldn t
entice that man to camp near a gum, now, not
even with a flask.
* * * *
“ W..J. A.”: A very curious natural tragedy
may be observed in the big scrub in Northern
NSW The native fig tree will take root along-
side a giant of the forest. It will grow upwards
and entwine itself in the form of a parasite for a
distance, perhaps, of 30 or 40 feet not much
thicker than a man’s wrist. In growing it throws
out numerous tentacles, which form a network
around the trunk. As it flourishes, the tentacles
gradually grow together, and, eventually unify-
ing, form a solid easing around the original tree—
slowly but surely crushing the life out of it.
Looking upwards the foliage of the imprisoned
tree appears yellow and sickly ; that of the tig,
strong, green and vigorous. Eventually the tig
completely envelops the victim. No matter how
great its diameter, the strangling is inevitable.
On the Macpherson Range I have seen tins pro-
cess in every stage. The fig should be called the
bookmaker tree. The other one is the punter.
* * * *
“San”: “H.” (8., 7/l/’O4) is hyper-
critical in his complaint that Bulletin artists do
not correctly depict axes, picks, shovels, etc.
Surely, for the sake of artistic effect, a little
departure from actuality is as permissible to the
graphic art as to the literary. Also, as to the
absence of elaborate agricultural machinery from
Bulletin rural pictures, what chance would your
artists have of satisfying the exigent “H” in
that respect, when they cannot draw simple
implements to please him ? And here I am
reminded that “(5 x 8” and others, in finding
fault witfi Bulletin artists for their representa-
tion of the minutiae of swaggies’ outfits, appear to
assume that in such matters there exists an
unvarying fashion, which is by no means the
ease.
* * * *
Our black brother Bill will soon cease to
trouble us for sixpence. In 1881, when he was
first counted, there were 8280 of him in N.S.
Wales. Ten years later he had got down to 7343,
the decrease being at the rate of a little over 1
per cent, per year. The last census showed only
2880 left, so that Bill has been dying recently at
the rate of 8i per cent, per year, and at that rate
of going Bill’s final good-bye will come well
inside this generation. But outside N.S. Wales
William is still going strong—Westralia alone has
probably 70,000 of him, and northern S. Australia
probably 50,000. „ , .
“Periwinkle” : Looks as if some cookies
have caught the microbe of fatalism from their
guest, the Hindu hawker. Know one
who has lost three horses, worth £4O
each, in as many months, through a
strip of barbed wire placed on the
inside of the paddock - fence. The
nags, in galloping round, ran against
the barbed atrocity, cut their jugular
veins, and bled to death in a few hours.
Yet that strip of wire remains. Knew
another cocky who lost two fine children
within a week from pneumonia. The
doctor urged the father to alter the spout-
ing, and make the flooring and walls
damp-proof, explaining how this could be
done for £25. But it lias not been done,
and every winter since the man has lost
a child. The funerals alone have cost
him £BO, and the doctor’s bill, at £5 a trip,
will sop up a good part of his harvest.
“Gerald F.” : Re “6 x 8” and other
Bulletin writers on lyre-bird rearing. I beg to
contradict their statements, as I can undubitably
prove one instance of a lyre-bird being reared.
One J. Williams, known as “ Welsh Jack,”Upper
Bu old and (Vic.), reared a lyre-bird to the age of 10
months. He was then apparently full-grown, and
used to run about with the fowls, and was quite
domesticated. He met his death through misad-
venture in selecting a bulldog-ants’ mound as a
scratching bed. He died apparently from blood-
poisoning, but he damaged a good many ants with
h : s feet before he left the field of battle.
* * * *
“Croyez” writes on the lyre-bird, with
something about the platypus :
I lived in the Woods Point ranges for five years, and
found many nests, hut never one with more than a single
e>«o Nine out of ten nests were dug out of dead she-
fenis—the big, woolly ones. On Donnelly’s Creek, in ’6l,
I got a young bird which I kept for 12 months. He was
perfectly tame, would come when called, and could
whistle anything. I also had a tame one in the 70’s, in
the Strzleeki Ranges, Gippsland. I kept him over a year,
but he disappeared during the breeding season. Another
tame one belonged to a sawmiller, who shipped timber in-
Westernport Bay, Gippsland. This one ran with the
fowls, and any rooster who interfered with him had a
bad time ; he simply caught him round the neck with
one claw, and pecked out his brain. A peculiarity of the
bird is, that he does not scratch up the earth like a fowl,
but uses his claws or feet the same as we do our hands.
Picking up a lump, lie looks it over, and, when done,
throws it behind him as one would a stone. In ’62, on
the Aberfeldy (North Gipps and), while stripping ground,
we found numerous platypus nests, containing young in
all stages, and also eggs. 1 was young at the time, anil
did not know that it was a vexed point as to whether the
platypus laid eggs or was viviparous. In flood time I
have counted platypus by the hundred floating down the
Aberfeldy.
On the same subject “Blanketbush ” writes :
The nest which “6xB” found was not that of a lyre-
bird. It was a horse’s nest, or else a gorilla’s. The only
reason why the lyre-bird doesn’t build its nest of logs and
pile it 4ft. high is that it is only about the size of a small
hen and is quite unfit for dragging heavy loads. It isn't
restrained by its honesty from stealing planks and boards,
but solelv by its lack of haulage capacity. Young lyre-
birds, if hatched from the egg by an ordinary hen, do not
lyre, simply because the hen, being' an uneducated bird,
doesn’t know what to feed them on. Knew a man who
reared three of them at Brandy Creek, near Warrigul.
They were all cock birds and used to run in the garden.
They looked rather shabby, but that was on account of
assaults from the fowls.
OF DOUBTFUL SINCERITY.
STUMPY M‘GEE: “San, boss, any chanst of a
job?”
“Nym ” : If native animal, insect, and
bird portents go for anything, next season, and,
maybe, the one after that, are going to be good
ones. ’Possums are s’eeping-in longer than in past
seasons. Wallaby and kangaroo have disappeared
from many settled districts, and gone out back.
The birds are nesting low, espe iallv the magpies,
because their food is nearer to their bill. We may
have trouble with locusts and other friends, and the
birds want to be conveniently adjacent to then-
locust. The ants are not storing grass-seeds and
the dusty flotsam of the earth hereabouts, as in
years past, but sunning themselves and rearing
large families. There is a general frivolousness m
usually serious ant communities, and I believe
they dance every night. Other insects that were
in recent years too busy laying-in winter pro-
vender to increase and multiply--mosquitoes and
bush-flies always excepted—are now making up
for lost time. The fish of goodly size seek out the
clear, sandy, spawning beds without misgivings,
instead of hiding in the log-ridden deeps of the
creeks and rivers ; while ti e shrimp and water-
bug show themselves, knowing that the chance of
their deniolishment is almost gone, by reason of
the multiplication of their kind. Yes, the pro-
mise to those who can read the signs around
them, is for a good time ahead.
RACIAL PREJUDICE.
HOUSEWIFE : “ No, John, you too dear. Other Chinaman who comes he much cheaper .”
JOHN: “No fee, Missee; he no Chinaman; he dam’ mean Scotchman.”
“Bandar”: Out of eight or ten carpet
snakes I have killed during the past year or so,
six had lately swallowed some small animal.
Every one of these, on being opened, showed a
quantity of charcoal in the stomach, immediately
behind the animal. It would seem that, after dis-
posing of bis prey, the snake repairs to t.ib nearest
charcoal emporium, and there tops up with a
handful of coke as a savory. Is the charcoal
a digestive, or in the nature of a wad, or what 1
“Wer.” : Every now. and again the
skeleton of some unknown and unmissed
wanderer is discovered in the bn~h, with
indications pointing clearly to murder.
Some months ago one was found in a
scrub with the skull riddled with shot,
and the other day another came to
light near Goonibungte (Q-), having
the mark of a sharp instrument, suc.i
as an axe, on the skull, and a
similar mark on one of the shoulder
blides. Some decayed pieces of
clothing still clung to portions of
the bones, but there was nothing that
could be identified. Such cases start
one ponde.iug as to low many
Butlers there are prospecting about
the bush. In the lonely backblocks
of Queensland, for instance—where
the nariow tracks wind through
scrubs and gorges and lignum, houses
are anything from 20 to 50 miles
apart, police are scarce as princes,
and men travel for work where they
are unknown and unnoticed hun-
dreds of murders could be committed
with impunity* A s_wagn.au may be
well known at stations ; but when
he passes one place he is not expected
back, and is not expected anywhere
else, so he is never definitely missed.
How many mateshins are severed
with a knife, or a bullet, or a toma-
hawk—the result of a quarrel 50 miles
from anywhere, or the outcome of
greed when two prospectors have struck
it rich ? It is a gruesome subject, full
of possibilities, and inclines yon to treat
your casual mate like an aborigine—never
walk in front of him, and sleep with a bulldog
chained to your leg.
“ Via.” : The luck of drunks (B. 24/12/ 03).
Years back in a big Brisbane hotel, writer and
some others were gambling late at night in an up-
stairs room (approached from the back by a steep
(light of 32 stone steps) when a scnn-drunken
ruffian entered and demanded drink. Being
refused he denounced the barmaid in violent
language. This irritated an onlooker and he
smote the intruder, who reeled back, fell through
the swinging door and went, head over heels,
down the 32 steps. And what a joyful sound it
was to hear the ejected one’s voice as he touched
earth threatening to tear the interiors out of all ot
us ! I enjoyed the raucous sound better than
Melba’s best melodies.
* • * *
Dear Bulletin. —Cookies are not all
sweaters. Myself and brothers only ask our men
to do as much as we do ourselves, and we pay
from 15s. to £1 per week and keep, the men eat-
ing at the same table with us. We are trying a
little bit of socialism orr our own here, and we
find it works to perfection. We are quite content
to be the leaders in an industrial concern, and our
vote will always be on the side of advanced
socialistic legislation. Also, Bulletin, you battle
away on the lilies you are now following, and you
will find that the intelligent cocky will not be far
behind you.— Walpram.
“ Oeht” : Be aboriginal surgery (“N.M.,”
16/10/’O3). Knew a deaf gin in Thornborough
(X. 0.), whose right humerus had been completely
removed. Although her forearm was joined to
her shoulder only by a rope of skin covered
muscle, she retained the use of her fingers, guiding
them by taking her elbow in her left li md. Bhe was
too old and deaf to give any direct information,
hut, according to an old buck, the operation had
been performed, by the doctor of the tribe, after
a comminuted fracture.
WHEN BILLY SINGS “THE WILD COLONIAL BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the pipes are all a-glowiug,
And the sheep are in the break,
If the day has not been over haid and long ,
Then the yarns are set a-going,
And the birds are kept awake
By a burst of sound the drovers call a song.
It is not exactly restful,
Yet it’s strenuous and zestful,
Though the eighteenth verse is somewhat apt to cloy ;
But l don’t resent it greatly,
I can sit there quite sedately
Until Billy sings “ The Wild Colonial Boy.”
There are songs of British valor
(Twenty verses—all alike),
And a battle where the British win Ihe day ;
There's a maid whose waxen pallor
(This is one you’re bound to strike),
Touched a villain who was leading her astray,
They are marvellous and strong,
And sometimes they’re rather long,
Though they mostly lack the power to annoy ;
But mvheart is tilled with sadness,
Or with wrath akin to madness,
When Billy sings “ The Wild Colonial Boy.”
It is dangerous to grumble,
So I rise and sadly stumble
To my swag—spread out to leeward of the dray ,
And the singer’s days I number,
As I seek the land of slumber
Till the sweet voice of the singer fades away ;
But that ballad—unforgiven—
Haunts my dreams ; while, discord-riven,
My heart throbs with a wild, unholy joy—
Round his throat my fingers tangle,
And- in dreams—l slowly strangle
The man who sings “ The Wild Colonial Boy.
SPINIFEY.


FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
SALT
From Qrocera and Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
BRIDESMAIDS’
are often a great trouble
to young intendants.
THEY cannot get 4 or 6 articles of jewellery-
all alike—looking good and at the same
time inexpensive and in good taste.
WE specialise in these goods, and so remove a
harrass that is annoying.
OUR output, too, is such that our stock is
always fresh and right up-to-date ; while, as
manufacturers, w e are specially in a position
to make any design that is specially desired.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooches, exquisitely
finished, 32 6 upwards. 15ct. Gold.
London Prices
Plus Duty
Cash Only.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY
ADAMS’ HOTEL
hebt he at the harblf. bar.
PITT STREET.
AFTER A VISIT OF CONDOLENCE.
MRS. ROGAN: “ Och, sure, poor Mrs. Casey is bearin’ up foine."
HIMSELF: “And pwhat about Kitty?”
MRS. R.: “Och, divil fly away wid Kitty, the flash shlip wid her new black dress. But wait
a whoile, Rogan. Shure there may be a deat’ in our family yet, and thin I'll sthiffen
her wid invy,”
Pulpit-picture of a far-northern Queens-
land mining town, by a Scotch-Australian evan-
gelist :
The population comprises about 230 couples, half of
the men and women constituting which are not married
to one another. The women have been separated from
their lawful husbands by their departure elsewhere in
search of work ; and the men have got out of “ touch "
with their lawful wives by leaving them in the south to
go north. It is under these circumstances that the men
and women have come together. Of course, they cannot
go through the ceremony of marriage. In all other
respects, however, they are discharging their duties as
Citizens honorably an d well. Largely as a result of this
Incongruous state of affairs there were only three men in
the whole population who could be classed as regular
churchgoers.
A most pressing invitation has been sent south to
that evangelist to pay these 460 people a return
“Visit.
ON THE BENCHES IN THE PARK.
“My friends, half the sorrow of this world is due to
man’s habit of nursing his troubles.”— Melb. clergyman
to a pleasant Sunday afternoon assemblage.
How true that is when you come to think of it!
.
L.K.T. re flying fox :
to 3 r l hp J iii^o k f^ tl - 1 f flyin ? fox lsconfined to the coast, and
to the large fruit-growing centres, and will be surprised
to learn that I know a large camp on the Gwydir River,
about 30 miles above Moree (N.S.W.). Have also seen a
few’ on the M'lntyre River, some 20 miles below' Bogga-
billa. Once, when camped at a tank on Trigamon,
between Yetman and Warialda, was considerably dis-
turbed by numbers of flying foxes coming for water.
The tank was an excavated one, free from stumps and
snags, and as the foxes cannot light on the ground and
then rise again, they would make flying jabs at the
water and snatch a mouthful in passing-all the time
keeping up an infernal screeching, altogether a most
uncanny sound. These flights came from the' west,
about an hour after sundown, and returned from the
ea ?. fc , ab °ut an hour before dawn. Apparently the bats
called at the tank for water going to and from their
feeding ground.
* • • •
i< a tj t» » t> tv/t n i
A.P.K. : ite Mallee lunatlc(B., 24/9/03).
There is a district along the Castlereagh (N.S.W.)
that positively seethes with maniacs. One” de-
e 'T r 7 pas>ei -by is a spy trying to prove he is
a dum my, and he wanders about at night with a
f? un i taking pot-shots at “blokes watchin’ him
from behind gum-trees with field-glasses.” Next
to him a selector plays the concertina all dav
-topping occasionally to fire a shot hack at No. L
livesYmad'^fosstkef who vearT'a
three rushes from the town near g by through
discovering the leg of a brass bedstead, or some-
thing of the kind, buried in the ground.
“D.”: Re that poetical request to shut
the cocky’s gate mentioned by “J.C.G.” (8.,
5/11/’O3). A Cobar publican put a “fly’’door to
the bar one summer when the flies were ravenous.
The thirsty would not close it when entering, and
as every customer was followed in by 3000 flies,
Bung got annoyed. He commissioned a drunken
signwriter to put a notice on the outside of the
door, the artist getting a beer every ten minutes
as payment for the job. When he finished, Bung
went out to inspect and read the following:
Shut the door ! 0, dam your eyes !
Keep out the heaps of cursed flies.
Lock it tight, or in they’ll rush
And drink up all your blessed lush.
The artist wanted another pint, but Bung rushed
him into the street and the local trap ran him in.
The way of the poet and artist is hard.
“ W.J.A.’' : Concerning a house-boat on
the Darling. One of those unwieldy craft, as
depicted in Bulletin (8/10/’O3), was propelled by
an ancient female from Wentworth to Bourke, a
distance of 500 miles. Her husband smoked and
steered. The paddle wheels were worked by a
double-handed crank. I have some idea of the
terrific amount of labor involved in this journey,
for I was one of a syndicate of 10 formed at £1 a
head to purchase the vessel for fishing and turkev-
shooting excursions. The old woman, the owner
stated, urged it along on its wild career at the rate
of 4 miles an hour. We estimated that we could
knock about 8 knots out of her. Ten of us
boarded her, hung out a flag or two, and attached
a hank clerk to each crank. They wrestled man-
fully, urged on bya crowd of delighted inhabitants.
After a desperate struggle of half-an-hour, when
we had gone about 400yds. against the stream,
our motive power knooked off, gasping for breath.
Shouts of derision greeted us from the shore. We
decided to liquidate the syndicate, and ignored
the proprietor’s angry sporting offer to back his
old woman against the 10 of us. A number of
grinning townspeople offered to make similar
wagers and give a shade of odds.
* ♦ * •
A few cribs from a paper on Old Portland
(Victoria) in the Melbourne Spectator : When
explorer Mitchell got across, he was astounded,
like Crusoe, by the print of a hob-nail boot.
Then he found the Henty people gathered up to
receive him, with guns, fancying his party a gang
of bushrangers. Mr. and Mrs. Lightbody, early
residents, had to ride on horseback to Geelong to
get married, accompanied by Mrs. L.’s brother.
Thirty years after they were living at Bridge-
water. Lightbody was taken ill. His wife drove
him, in the buggy, towards Portland. He said,
“I’m going.” She helped him out, and laid him
under a tree, holding her umbrella to shade him
from the sun. There he peacefully died. In
1850, May 24th, little Freddy Heazlewood
went roaming, with boys and girls, for
cockchafers, green beetles, and butterflies. Ho
was lost. Search parties went out, but could
find no trace, except the prints of his feet in the
sand-hill, and one of his socks, with a green beetle
in it. Some years afterwards, Mrs. Badnall, a
friend of the family, was at Mount Gambier, and
saw a white boy with the blacks. She believed it
was young Heazlewood, but the blacks would not
give him up, and hurriedly went off with him.
Mrs. Heazlewood died of a broken heart. Her
last words were, “I’m going to find out what
became of my poor little Freddy.” The local con-
stable, Adamson, arrested two of the “ Nelson ”
gold robbers in Portland. They were taken,
ironed, in an open boat to Melbourne, convicted
and sentenced.
* * * *
“ Tothersider ” : Some curious people
adore caves, and find an ecstatic delight in
exploring anything at all in the way of an excava-
tion. There are some more or less ex-
tensive things of the sort at Wanneroo,
near Perth (W.A.) ; and to omit visiting
them is held by the Gropers a grave
misdemeanor. So I visited Wanneroo.
After, groping through a lot of unin-
teresting drives and winzes, constructed
by Nature in a mad or intoxicated
moment, I crawled solemnly on my
stomach through a wet, burrow-like
tunnel for what seemed to be seven
miles. “There,” said my friend, as he
scraped the moist geology off himself,
“isn’t it worth it?” “Isn’t what
worth which?” I said, looking tiredly
around at a deadly unremarkable ori-
fice. “ Why, the sight of this grand
natural temple, of course. Look at
the expanse of it.” I got down on
my knees again, preparatory to crawl-
ing back, and said, with my head in
the burrow : “ Yah, when / want to see
a big mass of anything, I look at the sea
or sky—there’s something like size about
them. I don’t look at the inside of something
like a dirty, wet egg.” But the maniac merely
sniffed compassionately and filled his pockets with
small bits of cave—“souvenirs” he called them.
*■* * *
“ Cockie-lunar ” : One aftermath of the
drought days that threatens to upset the long-
suffering cocky’s mental equilibrium is the aggra-
vating habit his old woman has of telling the kids
not to take any notice of the old man when he
reproves them. It got to be understood in the
dry years that the old man was a mild lunatic,
mentally capsized by drought, and the habit
remains. Nowadays, when the boys can guide
the plough and the girls can turn the separator
and cart the cream to the butter-factory, and
both combined can take off the crop—the boys
driving the combined harvester while the girls
sew up the bags—the old man doesn’t count for
much in the family. He’s too old and wrinkled,
and out-of-date, having aged rapidly during the
drought, to be reckoned on now the good times
are on the wing. Perhaps when the drought
comes round again, the back number in the mole-
skins will be again of some account by reason of
his large experience of dry weather, but just now
he doesn’t seem to amount to much.
* * * •
“T. 8.”: Are sheep colorblind? Was
drafting some ewes and lambs last year, after the
run through the yards. I particularly noticed a
ewe whose lamb was black, the only one of that
color in the mob. As the lambs came out she
would run up and smell each one. When her
own appeared she smelt it and went away
satisfied.
SALVATION BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
The queeres’ cuss y’ ever met
Wuz “ Salvo ” Bill;
Wouldn’t drink ’n’ wouldn’t bet—
’E’d make y’ ill.
Worked a claim along of us,
’N’ ’e grafted, too ;
Did ’is bit, ’n’ made no fuss—
Jes’ got it throo.
One day ’e sez : “ Larst nite I saw
The ’Eavenly King,
’N’ stood a while at ’Eaven’s door—
O, wundrus thing!
The King, ’E told me there wuz gold
In this 'ere claim ”
Sez Lanky Steve : “ Oh, well, I told
Yer just the same."
Well, after that, we ust ter graft
Like bloomin’ slaves,
And Bill sez prayers around the shaft,
’N’ almost raves.
We bottomed ’er—a flamin’ duffer,
Ez true ez sin.
Sez “ Salvo ” : “ Man wuz made to suffer ;
Let’s sink ag’in.”
But Steve an’ me we wants ter kno’
’Bout ’is ’Eavenly King,
’N’ Bill sez, kinder soft and low :
“ O, wundrus thing !”
“ The King ” (sez *e) “ sed there wuz gold—
We might ’a’ met it.
But, unnerstan’, I wuzn’t told
We wuz ter get it.”
Sox.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS:
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must apnear on .115. No liability is under-
taken in any ease re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no ease will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
J. J. -. But Tanqueray doesn’t lose much even ih
that case. The free portrait is not pub under construc-
tion until your money arrives....Twid.: We were tired
when “ Belmont ” worked that swindle on us ; since then
we’ve been much more tired by hearing about it: The
Bulletin is evidently a jealously read paper—W.J.S.:
Subject anticipated, except the Cole part, and Cole
is a potato who has been roasted too much already
for his size T.C.O. : Not bright enough....G.R.:
Diffuse ; that sort of notion should be put in two stanza 3,
not eight long gasps... .Masher: Singapore is off our
beat. Bulletin can’t police the grievances of the whole
world Iconoclast: You write it in kindness—in kind-
ness we’ll keep it out Stray: Just niissed CT. :
Not quite enough skill.... Lotus : You have a great deal
to learn yet-in story writing—almost everything, in fact.
....C.C. : It’s worth four lines, and you send a column.
....Pucha : We’ve already defined our attitude on that
point Emma : Rarely any use re-submitting rejected
copy Olmo : Guide-booky W.J.C. : Swift and
strong, but the race is not always to the swift and the
strong when, as in this case, they’re not quite smart
enough Robert B. : On the whole, no good in a con-
troversy on the point. . .D. : The cow-bell an Australian
instrument!—go to Switzerland... G.H. : You don’t
seem to have been striking it lately ; write less and
better Prooshan : That deep-breath question has
already been discussed in The Bulletin. ... R.T.M. : Well-
versed, but flat Rita S.: “Gertie” weak and flat
Flabby Paul : Too many technical faults... .S. P. Wood :
The receipt form signed by Bulletin contributors on
receiving payment amply safeguards that.. .Poneke: He’s
a dull crank ; we like cranks of the picturesque type
Waree: May be true that Bridget as a servant
discourages the birth rate ; but we doubt it: anyhow,
Bridget as a wife doesn't... .0.0. : Rather hackneyed
Benedict: A little information stretched over much
space.... Uloola : Been said already.... A.M.8.: Pro-
bably there won’t be a Commonwealth postage issue
until “ the book-keeping period ” has been exhausted.
... .Adelaide : You had better apply to London Era for
information re the age of the lady and date of her death.
Inquiries made from this ottice have yielded the informa-
tion that she is probably not dead, but living—in
America. Her age to-day would be “about 70.”...
Lady Klix : Descriptive power, but lack 5ki11.... Will S. :
Don’t think they’d have any chance of publication...
P.R.O. : Slumps in places... Gilrooney: Too unequal....
Alma : No space for your ingenious raptures over male
muscle S.D. :No “ presumption *’ in the matter. Very-
good, for firstattempt.... Imax : Pathetic, butunskilful...
P. O’Hara : Price, Is. Id. from Bulletin office.... VV. J.G.:
Ode to objectionable insects firmly rejected.. ..Alice J. :
You have some humor, and with more practice should
write good stuff. Try' to condense... .H.C.C.: “Syd.”
Gregory is all right; why throw poems at h m ?.... W.A.
Bushman : You make some fun, lmt too laboriously : a
humorist should not sweat visibly at his work.... B. : For
obvious reasons a paper should not have too familiar a
GEOGRAPHICAL.
BUSH MISSIONARY : “My little lamb, hast thou
ever heard of a place called Heaven? ”
BACKBLOX KID: “Ho. It ain’t about here no-
where. T'll go and ask dad if you like”
knowledge of gaol life. . .Alfred T. : Good in its wav, but
off our beat....G.B. : Smooth enough, but no “grip"
anywhere; and it is no use writing merelv to re-state
weakly what has been said strongly before Caro:
Ver - v Pretty album verse ; sometimes we wish we w’ere an
w;?, 01 ' 3,: .-R ont like small “suprise” poems....
f T ; J ’ : WiH consider suggestion... .Glenelg : The septio
tank system has been very far from a success, as worked
by Sydney Water and Sewerage Board ; and has been
responsible for vile nuisances at Middle Harbor. In small
private institutions it has worked very well E. Lowe :
Vague and formless Geraldine : Casual and straggly’
* • ••P-, L ’ R - : Go ° d } n , s P ots on| .v> and we "ke a goodly ail-
e'’'«h".ess' ’ v Penwl " kle : “dully,” however derived,
was first used by actors as a friendly term, and the
“ push” expression of incredulity is not “ Dickens but
“dicken!”—Exile : Tame and trite Hiphen : Both
ve, '- v unequal Glenara :No point 8.8. D. : Don’t
. think “ it; shows much promise.” Tenax : What was
lts btle?.. A..V.: To hand.... Drummer J. : Hardly
I doctors are but men Gecko:
100 vei biose. Tiy to get your stuff into about one-fourth
of the w0rd5....5.5.0. : You must use Indian ink, upon
Bnstol-board for preference 11.C.C.: No merit
r*:
Your fury is too close to fustian... .Hugh : Not amusing.
....M.D.: Better learn the elements of grammar E.S.:
bady, it is merely prose in uneven lengths, and not pas-
sion;lfce Side C. : All rhyme and no reality. R.A S ■
Vour exceptional words strike us—“ I kissed her into hell.”
But yon don’t explain why it wasn’t into heaven
F labby Paul: It reads like the wail of a dismissed official.


VfJO you my pore
you /"
If Sou bleAS* irjoin Im ttje Reform
Jorn Oh fM ( /
UcK on me £r I hi^c n' y£h\
\ x 'Criend in \ /// S/Mftß, v^V;]
N \ v/orld no Jk k /wffllhk
bobc nor . ;,I
>fWU/jKk ntl^i'iff. jlUjl I W^v^j
k.,1
p 1 yno
¥
Ve<l f
ff ise*pecM %+■ jk?<
, Sir Ale>^*rP^ c L ocK
member of % type* H° U W
lljf bUtKroJ:- Never
go up to "IFe «r
W no "^uo l •yo u KhoW
the Bfiiiwi libe-
ls r«v|)"
The orqw'rf on /r/>
Will deaj wijf/
pberty ovmeA J 1 (%
l<- / I
try to h^ ve .. / in
«|>wie<l- SKrtt / IT
1fj P
7r\s „,.fi.*.£ %«-
' |n a (ielb
on
\ H ow 're?
\ mi
"** .
fe-
of m
’ Wk,
//
Jfji coloured CreW v. / f
clwe \jL
fc-K£»<wv«;.
betwfetr k %* o,c|
to V
Wl V»)lftrr)^'iior 7^l
\)b^y
J h? kA,
L m 3 1l iesf w)Kt£.V|
" Will lqtfcny^
i butffic u?
„ , _ pA>'y
Ttye Sum 0| 'H
£6600 per aAinww M
15 \jj
divide I’rofortiorH
A 2\vqo«glbe- '
m b f& Yr 1 m Z
||\"feder Jl Y\.? K Cs
° n f , I
' StVl*.
V|(|j »r be
dene )>j '
IN ÜBO U r p ARTy - » The
HI c ( M,
%N, i
mc^ns
"to
%
Or,
{ the
J> Irji .'Urges tnri
Nounp rr)2\i Wtf o . enters \t
xn office to beQi»] wtfj) \
4e resolve- tWhe sljaJJ \
eijd pa^miersbip
ye ClcrKs
b# t>M‘ <
Senior 0! 5o -joti** cc -* lt \\
Hew b well. your h*. 1° >,
Wp ca j ”'TIkI ofh me V, rn-j wor<A ol«i cocK you w
W /mm; fingers LW
U Wll ° n u v\ a
which p'° m pt* \\'A,
\§|K tljlS tyommgr w*S Our w^er '^lA
A S-fow^V. Lite o%r
he h much strucK wilh'Hje
o{- R^SS ,a >— The, J*b*ieSe n&yy ii for jk
Superior' Ijf S\Js 1)4 in number* & '
A LOOK AROUND IN MELBOURNE.


JOSEPH LOSES HIS ONLY GARMENT TO MRS. POTIPHAR.
B eing a fragmen t o f papyrus found under an Egyptian obelisk (the one now used as a sewer ventilator at Hyde P ar k). The hieroglyphios (as explained by a Domain trogloyte, whose English is somewhat colloquial, but whose Egyptian, picked up at
Port Said, as from the pure Beerian spring): No. 1: A chaste youth named Jo. (sometimes called Carruthers) in a struggle with a bold, bearded woman (Jon-See) escapes with the loss of his Only One, which he left in he r bands,-No.2: Chorus of Jon See
Caw-Caws and Joseph-“Willo’th-ep-eople. I cannot lie. I did it with my little hatchet.”— No. 3: Same old bait!— No. 4: No more railways agin your back doors!-No.5: You killed the goose that laid the golden eggs.-No.6: Pathetic end of a
“reduced” member. No. 7: The Watchful Public-“ Keep your shirt on, Jo.” -No. 8: The superfluous politic an looks for a niche in life. He finds it in the Domain.— No. 9: Or, if he happens to have “inflooence,” he gets a Guv'ment job (at the
minimum wage).— No. 10: Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven!


A. SAUNDERS
FOR JEWELLERY. WATCHES. CLOCKS, OPTICAL GOODS, LEATHER
GOODS, AND SILVERPLATE OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 255,
80a, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
J. DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
sages
IK
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET. Silver-plated, C
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE. Fir.-t-elass English Fancy Glass,
pure Silver-plated frame, £2.
Single Pickle, ‘2ss.
Cfa4//nd&z4.
B« SYDNEY .
A. SAUNDERS.
'our o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated
on Hurd White Metal, ‘2os.
Siu lar style, l‘2s 6d. A bargain.
JAM.L.S DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
A . SAUNDERS.
«• LADIES.' COMPANION.” pure Solid Silver
mounted, 18a fid ; smaller, 15s 6d.
A NICE PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ New PURSE. REFERENCE, and
TICKET BOOK, 10s 6d, pure silver mounted,
huge size, l'2s tid.
Our own Special Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
0102.—HOT WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Silver-plated on White Metal,
Extra Chased, £2los.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 21s. Other styles and pat-
terns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2los.
il 1 tiij "
A. SAUNDERS.
White China, silver-mounted, 10s.
All pure Silver-plated, nicely chased and
engraved, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
ng®
A. SAUNDERS.
New Design, A 1 Quality, Silver-plated
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
DIXON and SONS’ Highest class plate.
3*
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,square, pure
S l\er electro-plated on White
'Metal, beautifully band-chased,
255; similar, 21s.
Child s Pure Silver-mounted
Nursery Rhyme CUP, 10s.
In ease, -with Pure Silver Spoon,
first-class Gent’s
SHAVING
BRUSH, 5s 6d;
extra mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
—■fr T 4LiAninncttg-=
ONDON- &fSMDNE*
CAB.VERS, KNIFE, FORK, and STEEL, Joseph Rodgers Sheffieidmake In silk lined
’ win kve every satisfaction, 20s. Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
Win give ev y RANTEED SATISFACTORY.
Specially made by JAMBS DIXON and SONS.
Famous English Silver-plated 4 O Clock jBA bI.TS,
£3, £3los, £4, £4 10s.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUK DISPLAY SHOW BOOMS.
A. SAUNDERS.
nSH SERVER and FORK, in Silk-lined Case, 20s, 255, 30s, 35s to £2 10s.
An Acceptable and ITseiul Present,.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6a, 7s 6d, 10s ; American Gold, 12; 6d, 15
Solid Gold, 255, 80s, 85s, £2. Scientifically adjusted to suit you.
S3x
A. SAUNDEES. , , o „
First-class English made, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
CAKE, £3 Bs.
Other styles, similar, 21s, 255, 80s, 355, £2, £2los.
A. SAUNDERS.
Double JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255,
In single, 15s 6d. Eure Silver-plated Rims.
» SAXrNDEES’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT OR CAKE STAND,
saver-plated Stand, with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDUUS
FLOW HR STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s rid per pair.
Larger styles Its (id, 15s 6d,
21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
m&m
H
im
Ml
a®"
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladie*’ Crocodi e Leather
WALLET and PURSE.
Silver mounted, 5> Hi ;
with shield, 7s (id.
SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bm.—Oak BISCUIT, Silver-plated
Mounted, 20s : Shield only, 15s ;
Fluted Rims, 25s ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
m
3
A. SAUNDERS.
■TAM DISH, White or Fancy
Coloured Glass, Pure Silver Plate
on hard White Metal hase,
Frame and Shield, 15s.
BUTTEB DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, £l.
Other Designs, ‘2ss, 30s, £2.
sd
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, good effect,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3,
and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
mmm
■if
; ! i
HI
mam
ms
SiSgs
« i
■ ■
A. SAUNDERS. T ,
First-class Cabinet Striking CLOCK,
hours and hilt’ houis, 15s, 15s 9d, 17s (id, 20s, 22s 6d, 2os.
Other styles, 25s to £2 10s. Add 2s extra postage.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class ENTREE DISHES, pure Silver on Hard Nic
£3. Will Fst >' lifetime.
A. SAUNDEKf.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver'
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, 255.
Other styles and Patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 2os, 30s, £2
£2 10s. ,
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ High-class English
plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
Salad 110 WD, Ornamented China, with Servers, 30s.
Similar, 255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
W y % &bL.% .-w l- •& m
BfiaßSSfesss:
Pure Silver JAM SPOON^ BUTTER KNIFE, and
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR ana CREAM, Pure Silver-plated on hard
White Metal, Gold-plated inside, with spoon, £ 5a
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
specially made by
JAMES DIXON aud SONS.
High-class Quality, 21s.
A, SAUNDERS,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
309, 811 813, 815, & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
• 9 SYDNEY, NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.


Money and Madness.
Is the wild scramble for the first of these things
responsible for the alarming increase of the
second? Physicians say that it is—that there is
nothing else to which they can trace it. Through-
out the world, but more especially in countries
where education is most advanced and commercial
rivalry keenest, the number of insane persons
under restraint is very great and constantly
increasing. The phenomenon is observed at its
worst in great capitals, such as London and New
York, while the dull, sleepy cathedral cities of the
old world almost escape it. We live too fast.
What our fathers were content to spend a life in
accomplishing we rush through in three years.
But nature objects. Sometimes that objection
takes the form of death, sometimes of madness,
most frequently of impaired digestion. The last,
fortunately, can be cured by Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. That medicine goes to the root of the
trouble, and by regulating the system and
generally stimulating digestion, makes food
nourish, and healthy vigor follows.*
omimiscia"
DISTANCE
AND
REGISTERED^*
READING
ONE PAIR NOT TWO !
Many folks always cany two flairs'of spectacles—one
for near sight and one for distance. Optical science ha«,
however, now given us “bifocal” or “double vision”
spectacles-that is, a single pair of glasses serving the
two purposes of distinct sight and reading—of which the
most modern form is the A. Saunders “ Omnicia ”
(registered). The older forms of “hi-focals” are not
satisfactory- some being made by merely sticking two
small thin extra lenses on to the back of an ordinary
pair of glasses; in others again, though there are two
lenses provided for each eye, these are joined by cement.
In the A. Saunders’ “Omnicia” (registered) “bifocal”
glasses no cement whatever is used, the two lenses b< ing
united solely by means of an exactly ground “tongue
and groove,” fitting into each other with absolute
accuracy. This improvement avoids both obscuration of
vision and the liability of the small lenses to drop out.
The A. Saunders “Omnicia” are quite reasonable in
price too, varying from 12s. fid. per pair upwards. One
word in conclusion, though —these glasses can only he
obtained from the well-known oplic an a d Jeweller, Mr.
A. Saunders, 809-817, George-strcet, Sydney, (opposite
the Railway .Station.
ONE HUNDRED and ELEVENTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT
OP THE
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House,
George Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 19th January, 1904.
THE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of
r the Bank on the 31st December, 1!)03, and present, the following report:
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, providing for land and
income taxes and bad and doubtful debts, as well as granting to the Officers a bonus
on their salaries, amounts to £85,2(14 8 7
Out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations—
To P;p m nt of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of JO per cent, per annum £50,000 0 0
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. 35,(,(J0 0 0
~ Balance being undivided Profit 20,'204 8 7
£85,204 8 7
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
H. E. KATER, Depot y-Chaikman.
Dr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
Cr.
s. d,
To Capita]
~ Reserve Fund
~ Reserve Capital
.. £1,000,000 0 0
.. • 1,020,000 0 0
.. 1,000,100 0 0
£3,025,000 0 0
£
To Capital Paid-up .. £1,0*00,000
~ Reserve Fund .. 1,025,000
~ Notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation
~ Depcs t- and other liabilities..
~ Profit and Loss Account ..
0' 0
0 0
2,025 000 0 0
454,321 0 0
.. 837,886 5 5
.. 10,998,307 15 8
.. 92,247 10 10
£14,407,662 11 11
£
s. d.
By Coin and Bullion in
hand .. .. £2,214,063 17 5
„ Cash at Bankers .. 135,625 10 7
~ Money at short call
in London .. 75,000 0 0
~ British Consols and
Government Se-
curities .. .. 1,209,700 0 0
~ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes .. 37,272 0 0
~ Bills Jtece cable in
London and Re-
mittances in tran-
sit 1,198.59 S 10 5
~ Notes and Bills of
other banks .. 36,463 16 1
£4,906,623 14 6
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank, including' Advances to
the Government 9,054,413 17 5
„ Bank premises, furniture, &c. .. 446,625 0 0
£14,407,662 11 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current Bills..
~ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the
rate of 10 per cent, per annum ..
~ Reserve Fund
„ Balance of undivided profit carried
to next half-year
£ s. d.
6,983 2 3
60,000 0 0
15,000 0 0
20,264 8 7
£-92,247 10 10
s. u.
By Amount undivided from last half-year 20,614 17 1
~ Profit for half-year ended 31st Dec-
ember, 1903 ' 71,632 13 9
£92,247 10 10
RESERVE
1903 —December 31st
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
FUND.
.. .11,025,000 0~0
15,00 > 0 0
£1,040,000 0 0
H. E. IvATER, Deputy-Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SfIUTAR, Accountant.
„ T . , Si/i.iWg, 11th January, 1,904.
We hereby certify that we have (Xinnned the hills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the Head
Office of Tins Commercial Baskins Comi anv ok Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Branches and
'have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet. \y L DOCK I-It i ’
’ | Auditors.
E. S. CAPE,
The Honorable H. E. Kater, the Deputy-Chairman of the Bank, in moving the adoption of the
Report, said :
“ I have again the pleasure of congratulating- the Proprietors of the Bank on the successful half-year as shown
in the Balance Sheet now submitted. Comparing- it with the figures of this period last year, you will notice that the
profit made this half-year shows an increase of £12,960. This satisfactory position enables us a-min to augment our
Reserve Fund £15,000, making it £1,040,000, or £lO,OOO in ex -ess of the paid-up Capital, and to carry forward to next
half-year £20,204 of undivided profit. It is the desire of the Directors to continue strengthening- our Reserve Fund
by periodical additions to it.
“ Our Coin Reserves and other liquid securities equal 40 per cent, of our Liabilities, which I feel sure you will
consider satisfactory. J
“ Since I last addressed you the rates of interest given for deposits have increased to 4 per cent for two years
The state of the London Money Market and the requirements of the various State Governments who are now - com-
peting for money at this rate, justified the upward movement which lhe Banks reluctantly in; de.’ I am <>-lad to sav
our business is in a flourishing condition, and has been well maintained.” " & ■ j
The following resolutions were carried unanimously ;
“ That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated anions
the Proprietors. B
“ That the thanks of the shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager and Officers of the Bank
for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
fl NEW BOOK on BREATHING & VOCALISATION.
By F. Matthias Alexander, Royal Chambers, c/r. Hunter & Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
Special Breathing: Method, as applied-(1) Treatment of Disease ; (•>) Cultivation and Development of
the Human \ oice ; (3) Physical Culture and Body Building. Only sufficient copies to be printed to supply orders
Send stamp for pamphlet giving particulars of full contents of book ; and special article on “The Prevention
and Cure of Consumption,’’ as published in Sydney Daily Telegraph, will be forwarded to anv address
Send at once.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
1
The London Medical Record
sa\s : —“ it u retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British, Medical Journal
says : - “ Header’s food lias by
its excc lence establ shed a
repu.at on of .ts own. ’
Benger's Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
The Inky Way.
A press friend of the late John Farrell writes of him:—
A quaint and rugged philosopher was Farrell —a man
who in his time was farmer, brewer, and goodness only
knows what, before he ultimately drifted into journalism.
He had too big a heart to be altogether successful as a
critic—except in Ruskin’s sense that all criticism is
appreciation. It pained him to condemn any book by a
new writer, otherwise there was probably not a better
judge of letters in Australia, and this, too, in spite of the
fact that he had had practically no scholastic training,
save what he gave to himself. But “the best part of
every man’s education is that which he gives to him-
self.” Farrell was an omnivorous reader.
In literature of Australia’s own he took a special
interest. “Australia in Literature,” was the subject of
one of the last articles that came from his pen. “ A
worthy record,” he wrote, “ that a people transplanted
from lands teeming with the romance of history, and all
the stimulus to imagination furnished by legend and
superstition, to a country without a past, and with its
future to be wrought by the tools of peace from raw
materials of Nature, strange to most of the workers
and obdurate, should have done so well in the writing of
books while vet its units hardly exceeded three millions—
it is almost wonderful.” Especially was he fond of Kendall,
and here is a bit of his word-painting : “He spoke for
that part of our land made green with the
running of rivers, and gracious with temperate air,
for the frowning mountains, the deep glooms of the
valleys, the domestic pathos of life, and the vision beau-
tiful; he sang of things intangible in notes of haunting
sweetness ; he was the dreamer of dreams among Aus-
tralia’s singing band—the man who walked in a natural
opium-trance of lights and shadows.”
And, as to his own literary tastes, he once said to me :
“ I never had opportunity to read systematically, with a
view to the appreciation or acquirement of style ; neither,
so far as I can remember, much inclination. ’ Most of the
authors commonly cited by capable critics as indispen-
sable to the making of a well-informed reader of sound
taste did not come within my reach in youth, and since
I have not sought them.” Nourished on Burns, and
with much reading of “The Bride of Lummermoor”
and “The Scalp Hunters’’—that was 35 years ago,
and his home was then in the farther agricultural dis-
tricts of Victoria—he was led to believe that Captain
Ma.vne Reid and Walter Scott were', in that order, the
greatest novelists among the sons of men. “I would,”
he said, only a few months ago, “give Scott precedence of
all the race of writers of romance, but yet lovingly re-
member Ma.vne Reid.” Dickens was, to Farrell, one of
the noblest of literary geniuses—more for his large
sympathy', his abounding enthusiasm of humanity, than
for his style. “Style is not everything,” said Farrell;
“kind hearts are more than style,” in which spoke the
heart rather than the mind. For this reason he regarded
Walter Besant s “Children of Gibeon ” as one of the
great novels; for this reason he agreed with Walter
Besant in setting Charles Reade on a high pedestal
for having written “The Cloister and the Hearth.” Two
of the liter American novelists—James Lane Allen and
Sarah McLean Greene—had Farrell’s fond admiration,
lie spoke of “ A Kentucky Cardinal ” and “ The Increas-
ing Purpose” as “ books beautiful.” No living novelist,
was held in higher esteem by him than Mrs. Greene.
Farrell had his limitations. One was that he could not
admire Meredith. He did not deny that Meredith had a
vast scope and comprehension of things, but very few, he
contended, would go on working and hoping for the best
until they learnt what his scope really was, what he was
driving at. “ I am either constitutionally incapable of
comprehending Meredith, or his style is pretty' uniformly
atrocious. He has cultivated a mannerism which amounts
to speaking in an unknown tongue, and much reading of
him might develop a pride of hardened intellect which
would flout Shakspeare. Brow ning I have successfully'
wrestled with, for the kernel ar:d inner significance of his
cranky', cryptograph utterances, and have been left in
some degree unpaid by him for work and labor done.”
Speaking of what an unread Australian should read,
he advised him, first of all, to take Australian writers,
starting with Rolf Boldrewood’s “ Robbery' Under Anns ”
and “ The Squatter’s Dream”; and Kingsley’s “ Geoffry
Ilamlvn,” principally for its dramatic force and historical
illumination. Then “A Marked Man,” by Mrs. Cross,
and Marcus Clarke’s novel of convict life ; then the later
group of Australian realists and humorists—Lawson and
Barbara Baynton on the one hand, Paterson and “Steele
Rudd” on the other. Then Henry Kendall, Adam Lindsay
Gordon, James Brunton Stephens, Victor Daley, A. B.
Paterson, Lawson, Ogilvie, Quinn, Dyson, and Brady, in
their different moods and qualities.
Genial, big-hearted John Farrell ! He ought to have
lived a long while yet. His name had been persistently
associated for a long time past with the editorial chair of
a proposed new labor daily for Sydney (which seems to
be as faraway in the clouds as ever), and others, too, had
sought after him. A tempting offer had been made him
from Westralia, but be loved his Sydney, and declined it.
And, among other things, Stead wanted him to edit his
Australian Review of REViEyvs. Nothing of which
matters now.
“B. Bill”: lie scarcity of editors “inside” (“Inky
Way,” 26/11/’O3). Thirty per cent, of the population of a
■ first-timers’” gaol told me, confidentially, they' were
journalists out side, although the prison books recorded
them as bricklayers, miners, clerks, etc. Their excuse
Ilo k having mentioned the fact when arrested was—
The authorities might make it warm for me if the.v
knew I was a writer, because I will take the first oppor-
tunity' on my release of attacking the system.” Poets
w-ere as thick as flies in summer. The governor had a
virulent poem dedicated to him daily by one of the
fraternity.
* » * *
Melb. dailies a few years back instituted supplements
to their issues of Wednesdays, and announced with a
flourish that said sheets Were to be devoted to the
encouragement of Australian literature. That lasted
about six weeks, and even four weeks out of the six
saw the pages partly occupied by huge cribs from
Cassells’ and kindred magazines. Then the pill advt.
got them. The fancy pages of Saturday numbers were
j“ 8 ° once supposed to encourage Australian literature,
but between the borrowed reading matter and the
clothes advertisement which rushes across the page like
a jobb'ing-office jim-jam, Australian literature is pretty
well knocked out there also.
• * » »
Melbourne, the marvellous city where the nostrils of
the marvellous citizens are inured to the ever-exuding
smell of the marvellous Yarra, has always posed as
the great Australian centre of culchaw. In the
good aid days, when David Blair delighted in de-
tecting the literary unoriginality of James Grinth,
then Parliamentary librarian, and when Marcus Clarke
was in the heyday of Bohemianism, Melbourne did
have a certain amount of intellectual life. But now
the culchaw depends upon the Argus, more particu-
larly' Saturday’s Argus, when somebody blossoms forth in
rhymes that jangle like a crooked cow-bell, and a classical
professor writes the “literary” leader, wherein Longi-
nus, the distinguished author of a manual on how to
write, which the ancient schoolboy had to cram what
time his eye was distracted by' the sun glare on the
legionary’s helmet, is always dragged in by the scruff of
his neck ; and no doubt if the linotype could print Greek
type, we should be regaled with Greek quotations which
one can see still in the London Times. For the rest,
Saturday’s Argus has about eight columns of miscellan-
eous culchaw in the form of clippings from English
papers, and the usual instalment of a syndicate-supplied
hack serial. The sparkle of the Argus is now like the
rippling Yarra as it tinkles along by the bone-mills.
“T.D.” : The Australian poet is a modest creature.
Was holidaying two or three years ago at Katoomba, when
I met one of the species, who was trudging Sydney wards
from a western town to which he had been sent as editor,
but in.which he got irretrievably drunk in a brewery the
first night of his editorship. Borrowed money and went
.on his way, presumably, rejoicing. Next day I went
along to see the famed tree initialled by Lawson, Went-
worth, and Blaxland as the furthermost point of their
historic attempt to cross the Blue Mountains. The
initials of two of those worthies could be found with a
little search, but there was no difficulty whatever in
discovering those of my friend the poet. They were
nearly a foot long and cut deeply.
4 s $ :jc :Ji
For surfeiting the reading public with the same old
literary hash, the proprietors of the Prkss and Lyttelton
li.mes (M.L.) take the paste. Each office runs three
papers—a morning, an evening, and a weekly. English
and Murkan magazine yarns or articles are scissored and
appear in the weeklies on Wednesday ; then they are re-
published in the supplements on Saturday night, and
finally they appear once again at intervals in the morning
papers the following week.
* * » *
“C.P.”: I was a happy little fact floating about the
landscape, fancy free, when a monster wearing spectacles
and an expectant look made me prisoner, and with a few
strokes of his fountain pen forced me to associate with
several dozen undesirable acquaintances in the way of
suicides, inquests, socialistic legislation items, and so on.
Being a superior sort of fact, I felt the position keenly.
I was at last taken to the office of the Great Daily. A
man with red whiskers and a bright and shining nose
was decorating one of my relatives, whom I at
once recognised, with a blue pencil, and common
language to match his nose. Jilkins—that was my
captor’s name—said he thought I was good. The man
with the pencil said, “Make a column!” and
continued to scratch and swear. Jilkins put me on the
table, looked at me sideways and upside down, and
scratched his head, while he bit the top of his pen and
gazed at the roof. Then he pulled, elongated, stretched
extended, expanded, exaggerated, broadened, painted,
and elaborated me until 1 was quite unrecognisable. I
was then pounded out on a linotype and was adorned
with a two-inch black heading. The editor and chief
both had a go at me, and wrote in lumps more
of exaggeration down the side of the proof. When
I made my appearance on page 5 next morning I created
a fuss that was most flattering. People wrote letters
about me. The women said it was horrible ; the fat men
said it was driving capital out of the country ; and little
knots of people obstructed the footpaths discussing me,
while two men were arrested for fighting. I was the most
important item that had been sprung on the public for a
long time. Questions were asked about me in Parliament,
and I was officially denied for several weeks. The corres-
pondent telegraphed me to London, and the Times had
half a column about me. But I seem to have seen my
day, for the parsons have got hold of me and passed reso-
lutions at the assemblies, and people are beginning to
speak of me derisively as a “pack of lies.” Still, I had a
great time while I lived.
Newspaper proprietaries are apt to be fire-eaters, and
crave for that “ Ber-lud,” which turns into showers of
What sells like war ?
* * • »
Howard Willoughby, who retired from the Argus
editorial chair on account of illness some time ago, is
back at work again, writing a good deal of matter for the
Argus and the Australasian.
AUSTRALIAN BARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If we would read the tales of woe—of pluck and trouble
met
In lands where bravest hearts are born, or strongest arm
is set;
Of snaffle bridle taken down to face the drifting rain,
Within the land of loyal help, where no one knocks in
vain—
If we would feel the hot blood stir at tales of ribbons
won ;
Of cheering crowds, and Love’s soft gaze, at tales of joy
and fun ;
Of brave deeds when the storm is worst, and night most
darkly starred—
We know her eyes are brightest blue, and Rainbow’s in
the yard.
If we would realise the woe of shimmering, scorching
plains;
Of dreary, wind-swept country, soaked beneath the
pouring rains ;
Of cities’ woes, and deathly hue of Faces in the Street,
In dens unseemly rotting out for lack of air and meat;
If we would hear the drums of years beat out their
warning tale,
Or see upon the ocean brine the lonely star set sail,
If we would read of friendship strong, and fierce,
unbending pride,
We know that men are all free-born, and that the World
is Wide.
On blackened rocks so wet and cold, with beetling cliffs
above,
We’ve watched the lashing waves enfold her who unwisely
loved.
“ Within the world, a second world that circles cease-
lessly,”
The sun, and stars, and argent moon, and all things
great that be,
“ At Dawn and Dusk” the grandeur of the golden morn,
and night,
And over sapphire bar and sea the red sun’s royal light.
The “earth of green,” “cerulean sky,” “white feet of
afternoon,”
By sleepy mountain ranges far the flowing waters croon.
We’ve read of social parties in the glow of private bars,
The smiles of dainty charmers, and the strolbngs ’nealh
the stars;
We've heard on race-courses the throngs, like roll of many
drums,
We’ve seen the lines of colored silks flash out among the .
gums.
We’ve heard of feats by stockmen done, we know how
they can ride,
We’ve met a sun-browned rider by the lonesome moun*
tain side,
Where silvery waters sing a song that singeth on for ever
Me knew him at a glance—he was the Man from Snowy
River.
“ We trust the stokehold’s fit to die ; the cabin’s sins are
shriven.”
It’s in the game, sir, you and I might shortly meet—in
Heaven.
We’ve seen the rocks loom sharp and high, with tide out-
setting strong,
And seen upon the foam-lashed shore the anxious faces
throng.
We’ve swung across Newcastle bar, to Callao away ;
What time the Southern Cross hung-out, below the Milky
Way.
In many a tropic port we’ve met the south land’s dark-
eyed daughters,
And strange tales have they told us of the Ways of Many
Waters.
N.S.W.
DAVID H. RICHARDS.


PHOTOS FROEVI LIFE.
for lovers of art and beauty.
In the most graoeful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, 5s.
Carefullv Selected Assortments, 10s., £1, £3.
‘ Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paria^-rance
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
M vital asse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- net- Half-dozen, free by post throughout
' J Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
8. MOUNTGASTIE & SONS BRISBANE.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
df
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-acourate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourseif the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George=st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
sd
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
fs
GrO TO HKX.J
l«i (>I,A Nl > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real jcood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gra
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . • Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
I', i moved that there will shortly be
anoclier resignation from the Federal Cabinet
over the Arbitration Bill.
The bill for making full blown engine-
drivers of Irvine’s blacklegs in Vie. railways will
probably stagger Victoria. An expert calcula-
tion puts it at over £lO,OOO.
There was a suggestion in Victoria, t othei
day, that the Federal Government should put up
a storage depot in London to push the sale ot Aus-
tralian products, and the “ anti -socialist fanners
greeted it with genuine enthusiasm.
Speaking at Dunedin, t’other day, Maori-
land Minister Joseph Ward gave out that a
“leading member of the English House of
Commons ” had guaranteed him a seat therein, it
he cared to avail himself of the offer. Perhaps,
when he goes to the Postal Conference, Mr. W ard
may give the offer a trial.
Seddon offered S’Africa troops, and the
papers headed the item —
A PATRIOTIC PREMIER.
Then Seddon offered S’Africa advice, and the
papers headed that item—-
A MEDDLESOME PREMIER.
It will help Seddon, anyhow, to form a better
judgment as to what the early praise was really
worth. The Empire didn’t want his brains j it
wanted his brawn.
IMPROVED.
THE MUSICIAN (one of the worst): “Ah, sir, and
when you first knew me I was playing
He-amlet
FRIEND: “ Yes. This is a vast improvement.”
John Haynes has been one of the disap-
pointeds in the making of several Ministries ; and
just as he had established an undeniable claim to
be included in the next Carruthers Cabinet he
takes up the secession folly, which will be seised
upon, as an excuse to shunt him. And John
Haynes is a man whom political leaders are glad
to shunt; he has ability*~.but it is an awkward
sort of ability.
Two items from one issue of the Argus :
Cranbourne, Tuesday.—An enthusiastic meeting of the
Farmers’, Property-owners’ and Producers’ Association
was held on Monday. The principal object of the associa-
tion is to oppose socialism and socialistic candidates at
Federal and State elections. .
Gran bourse, Tuesday.—Mr. F. E. Lee, of the Agricul-
tural Department, met about 25 farmers at the shire hall
on Monday afternoon, and lectured on matters relating
to the farm, more particularly on the benefit of artificial
manures for products.
At a meeting to protest against Malcolm
M‘Eacharn’s return for the Melbourne seat in the
House of Reps., speakers were Messrs. S. Barker,
T. Tunnecliffe, Prendergast, Ronald and Findlay;
and the chairman, Rupert Clarke ! The last sub-
scribed <£2s to a fund to dispute the validity ot
the election, which is challenged for alleged
breaches of the Elections Act ; he seems to be
taking quite a fraternal interest in the little
doctor’s campaign.
From “The Coining Reaction” :
The industry which has not the protection of a tariff is
like the State which has no armaments. It is at the
mercy of the foreigner; it may lie wrecked by foreign
bounties or by the deliberate onslaught of foreign pro-
tected manufacturers, who sell at a loss in order to
destroy it, recouping themselves by the profits which
they make within their home protected market. We
dread the loss of naval supremacy, yet stand indifferent
while commercial supremacy passes from us, though a
tariff is a weapon only second in importance to an efficient
army and navy.
There is a betterment tax provided for in
several N.S.W. railways, but in no single case
lias it been enforced.
It seems that there is a certain ambiguity in the
wording of the Acts which has operated adversely to the
collection of the tax, while the difficulty of making the
collection has also prevented a proper arrangement
being adopted to carry out the provisions of the
measures.
A dishonest, shiftless system of finance has made
tax-dodging quite the custom in Australia.
N.S.W. Premier See mooted the idea of a
ytate newspaper last session of Parliament with
characteristic clumsiness. It was to publish the
letters of members of Parliament and their
electioneering speeches at a specially low rate.
A newspaper of that sort —a kind of official oigan
of the political party in power—would be a tlung
of scorn. But a State newspaper with no politics
at all and no opinionative matter, giving the
news fairly and nothing but the news—that is fast
coming to be a practical proposal.
Enthusiasm is on the wane among Irvine’s
teachers. Not anywhere near the old number
attended the Melb. Summer school. Many who
did attend declare “Never again! Many
teachers are turning westward. One young man
recently applied for six months’ leave, and was
told he"could leave altogether but not have leave
of absence. Petty fines and extortions by the
’Berg increases the State’s credit (?) balance, and
also the dissatisfaction in the service. So its
“ Shift boys, shift, for the stations further out.
One of the changes already made by Q.
Mines Minister Browne relates to inquiries into
accidents. When a miner is killed or maimed on
a Queensland field the warden calls in four
practical miners to form a sort of grand jury, and
they report to the department. Hitherto, as
nothing ever came of these reports, Grand
Juries ” got into the habit of reporting nothing ot
any consequence ; and the Minister will not stand
that any longer. For the future every report
must state how the accident occurred, whether
any part of the law was broken, and those who
were to blame, if any ; and this must go to the
Attorney-General. Further, instead of the reports
being secret, the department will make them
available to the press.
Napier is another M.L. “port ” with a
Cj ,tly breakwater, for which the province
(Hawke’s Bay) not only pawned its
shirt, but its children’s and grand-
children’s shirts, pants, and socks.
Half-a-million was borrowed to be
cast into the sea in the form of
rubble and concrete, which is now
and then knocked to smithereens
by the great north-easters that
play in the bay; £25,000 is the
amount which the unhappy
community has to pay every
year in interest. There is to
show for it a broken-down line
of stones and concrete, and a
tiny wharf which rocks with
every swell of the ocean, and
twice or thrice a week a Union
Company or Huddart-Parker
boat tied to the jetty; never
by any chance an ocean-liner or
even a wool-ship.
The story goes in Mel-
bourne lobbies that Stanley,
present M.L.A. for Horsham,
will not run against ley Irvine
for that re constructed district,
on the understanding that Irvine
will not keep the seat for more than
two or three years. Apparently the
Icicle expects that within that period something
will turn up that it will be better worth while
freezing-on to.
John Haynes is in more trouble. The Gov.
prorogued N.S.W. Parliament by telegram;
whereupon John calls upon all sober-minded
people to rise up against an attack upon constitu*
tional practice.
It was a grave and a totally uncalled-for insult to have
our great institution—the Parliament of a free people—
contemptuously closed by a mere telegram. In my
opinion, the whole thing was a wanton insult to the
people of New South Wales.
There’s clearly only one thing to be done ; John,
as the guardian of the people of N.S.W., must
call the Governor out.
J. L. Nauson, editor of Perth Morning
Herald, who abandoned the leadership of the
Westralian Opposition a few months ago, partly
because of the hide-bound Toryism of most pf its
members, has now joined the James Ministry,
without a portfolio at present, though when
Treasurer Gardiner retires in a couple of months
he will have one. Nanson is a strong advocate of
a one-House system under present circumstances;
and in view of the Westralian Leg. Council s
recent dogged refusal of Constitutional reform, it
looks as though Premier James were going to
pluck up courage and go the Whole Hog.
Sydney Evening News :
The rapid manner in which the country is recovering
from the depression of the drought has been shown by
the fact that, in a ballot for land at Narandera, there
were 1179 applicants for 22 blocks.
By similar reasoning, there could be no better
sign of prosperity than the fact that 500 people
applied eagerly for one small hungry job that was
vacant. The land is out in the dry Riverina,
where farming or any form of small land-holding
is a gamble pure and simple. That 1179 farmers
can see nothing better ahead than that gamble is
a blistering commentary on the bad land policy
which has locked up the coastal districts—cer-
tainly not an indication of prosperity.
Wilkins, being the only prominent
Laborite “Fat” enough to qualify
for the Vic. Legislative Council,
is being urged to have a run
for Melbourne East “ pro-
vince ” at the next elec-
tions. If he should run
and win, his will be
the first Labor voice
ever heard in that
chamber.
Speaker Beazley’s Collingwood colleague,
JUMPING WITH THE GAT.
David , as usual, guards against being on the
losing side.
Mr. Plowden, the well-known London
magistrate, is endeavoring to have capital punish-
ment abolished in England. To ensure this, he
wants an execution to take place m public. it
that were done,” says Mr. Plowden, it would
excite such a feeling of repugnance and disgust
throughout the country that the public would be
content with nothing less than the total abolition
of the death sentence.”
Sixty years ago Governor Gipps made a
spirited stand for a White N.S. Wales, and, indeed,
for a White Australia. Sydney merchants, pas-
toralists, and the farmers on the Hawkesbury and
about Parramatta worked up an agitation tor the
introduction of coolies and other Indian laborers.
Gipps—at that time the Governor was a power-
set his face against the movement and anticipated
most of the current arguments for a White Aus-
tralia. The agitators, finding Gipps firm, drew
up a petition for presentation to the English
Government, praying to have the Governor s
decision set aside; but nothing came of it.
To carry through reduction of members
the See Government opened N.S.W. Parliament
for a record short and business-like session. Ihere
was no Address-in-Reply to the speech of the
Governor, and as soon as the business of the
session was over, a prompt prorogation put an end
to desultory chatter. And it was wonderful how
much outcry there was at “the insult to Parlia-
ment ” and the “ damage to the Constitution of
this procedure. Any departure from the usual
flummery of useless Addresses-in-reply to useless
speeches, and useless complaints of non-existing
grievances against a fictitious “ Crown w-mire-
sented as a grievous blow at ‘ the Constitution.
It would be a poor Constitution that needed such
props.
Some of the loval supporters of the Ice-
berg Irvine Ministry are talking reconstruct!, n.
They openly say they think that J ack
Murray* (Chief "Secretary), old Cameron
(of the Mines and Water Supply), and
Shiels should fall out and give others a
show. Mr. Watt, who was Post-
master-General in the M‘Lean-
Shiels Cabinet, is understood to
hold these views.
The lie that the Victorian
Public Service is shockingly
overmanned is being gradually exposed. Tl'.a
was the pet fiction of the Kyabrannte and lus
press and political heelers. It has now been
found that temporary clerks are necessar y m
the Lands Department in order to cope
with the work, and the newspapers have
been forced to publish a long screed
from Melbourne solicitors complain-
ing that the delays in the Titles
Office are caused by an inadequate
staff. These delays sometimes
stretch over 12 months.
The strongest “ argument ” that a
Cobdenite can advance against Protection amounts
to the charge that “once tried, it is always used.
Sydney D.T., Jan. 20 (leading column) :
John See is to be complimented upon his correct grasp
of the position shown through the whole of last night. s
debate, which at times caused the reforming zeal of some
prominent members of the Opposition to appear in the
fight of a somewhat strange and altogether surprising
contrast.
Same paper, same date, but the next column :
It is an objectionable word, but by far the ™ost appro-
priate to the present situation-a gigantic Ministerial
“ sinoo»-e ” Never has there been a inoi e complete
change o of front among the members of a Government
than "that brought about by the overwhelming vote in
favor of reduction of members ; never a more unblushing
attempt at purloining the political clothing of opponents.
The D.T. doesn’t trouble now to be consistent-
even for an issue.
By Gazette notice, dated January 8, Post-
master-General Fysh called for applications _ for
the billet of postmaster at Central Tilba
(N.S. W.). Whoever gets the job must
“provide centrally-situated accommoda-
tion,” besides performing “the duties
of postmaster, telephone operator,
money-order and savings-bank agent,
and telegraph messenger.” Also-
he “will not be permitted to
engage in other business,” and he
must have a good character. For
all this—character included—the
salary is £7O a year ! Fysh ought
to see that he gets plenty of good
character along with the success-
ful applicant, who will need _it all
to keep straight on that salary
Mr. Terry will be welcomed back to the
N.S.W. Parliament as member for Ryde. For
two years lie was one of its most brilliant lights.
The position of the mere private member did not
satisfy his ambition ; he thirsted for office—not
for the sake of its emoluments but because of the
good he might do. Often, when discussing of late
the evil deeds of the Owe’See, Mr. Terry lias
shaken his sagacious head mournfully, sighed, and
murmured “If I had only acted then, all this
would have been saved.” The reference was
to a crisis during the Premiership of Mr. Reid
when Mr. Terry was invited to move an
amendment to a motion of censure then being
discussed ; his following at the time consisted
of 65 members, who were bound by solemn
pledge never to refuse a drink when offered,
and who followed him to the refreshment-room
whenever he led the way with a fidelity which
even Parnell never won from his party. But Mr.
Terry held his hand. The time, he considered,
was not then ripe. The party needed a little
more of the mellowing influence of the refresh-
ment room before it seized the reins of power.
Then the jealous intrigues of political foes began
to tell on the solidarity of the party. Mr. Sleath,
a prominent member of the Terry party, was not
invited to a picnic given by the leader, and he
threatened secession. If lie were not invited to-
follow his leader when there was an effort being
made to put down the curse of drink, he would
refuse to follow him to attack the curse of inis-
government. Mr. Terry’s genius rose to the
occasion. He gave a dinner at Paris House, at
which all discontent was drowned in champagne ;
this dinner was notable for the fact that it marked
the addition to the Terry party of Mr B. R.
Wise. But events proved that Mr. Terry had let
occasion slip. Failing to seize Fortune by the
forelock, she turned to him a bare noddle,
and he never got to power. Subsequently, an
ungrateful constituency rejected him and returned
salt-fish Farnell ; and alleged no other reason than
that a little salt-fish was a good tiling between
drinks. Ryde has now a new zest for Mr. lerry
as its member.
A sign of the approaching elections is the
candidate who wanders through N.S.W. agricul-
tural districts, advising farmers who have had a
grant of wheat and fodder from the Government
to repudiate the debt: “ You fellows are the back-
bone of this bloomin’country, but vervain t repro-
seated proper in Parliament,
or yer would have got
the seed and chaff for
nothin’; if you leave
it ter me I’ll in-
tercede now
for yer.”
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
SHE: “ Bad-tempered people shouldn't be allowed
to marry."
HR: “ How are you to stop ’em? Hardly Anybody
gets really bad-tempered until he’s been
married three or four weeks.”
Justin Fox Greenlaw Foxton, whose-
father’s death at 93 occurred lately in London,
was born in Melbourne, and was a pupil of old
Dr. Bromby. He took early to the Queensland
bush but turned later to law and politics. Hia
encounter with Harry Foran during last general
elections was the comic incident of the occasion.
Foran had been sent from Sydney to help Foxton
to round up the outbacks, but the negotiations
snapped on Harry’s arrival in Brisbane, and
“ructions” ensued.


Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING'S.
df
We stock
only the
Best
Makes.
Italian and American. The
prices of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
Paling'*s,
338 George St*
SYDNEY.
Royal
Accordeons
at Paling's.
sd
We have the finest
selection in Australia of
these very popular instru-
ments. Prices are cut to
the lowest possible figure
at which a really first-
class article can be
supplied.
Catalogues and prices
are yours for the asking.
****
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Bandsmen
*
PALING'S
can supply any instrument
required trom a
CORNE'"'
to a DRUM
and all other Brass and
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues,
Post Free
****
Paling’s,
338 George St» B
SYDNEY
ARE YOU ANXIOUS
TO GET CURED? If so use
—VITADATIO—
You will be fully satisfied with
the result.
RHEUMATISM and SCIATICA
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Stav\ ell,
_ _ . July 14th, 1903.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I testify to the
wonderful effects of VITADATIO as a medicine. For
over twelve years I suffered from Rheumatism and
Sciatica. I became so bad that I was on the point of
giving up my employment, which I might state is that of
engine-driving. After trying several remedies, which
failed to give me any relief, I was induced to give VITA-
DATIO a trial, with the result that after taking twelve
large bottles I was perfectly cured, and now, after four
years, I can, without fear, testify to its permanency. I
would strongly urge anyone suffering as I did to give it
a fair trial.
I remain,
Yours gratefully,
G. W. DARE.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N.,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Svdnev
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
fs
W« are offering
Oldsmobiles,
Wintons & De Dion
Motor Gars
•t prices from
£100)
to make room for Large Shipments of 1904 MODEL
KNOWLES-SIMPLEX
cars just to hand.
Knowles Simplex Cars hold more records for reliability
and speed than any other make of French or American
car. Mr. O. G. S. Lane and party, of Sydney, recently
made a through trip to Melbourne on a Knowles-Simplex
over the worst of roads, in record time, Without motor
troubles of any kind.
SEND FOR LISTS.
THE KNOWLES AUTOMOBILE AND M6T6R
POWER CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY—Cor. Hunter & Castlerbagh Stb. ;
MELBOURNE— 3I6-318 City Road.
Sole Agents for—
Knowles-Simplex Motor Cars,
Knowles-Simplex Motor Launches,
Knowles-Chapelte Motor Cycle.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
Andjtt Oor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts.. Melbourne
DRUNKENNESS
Or the Liquor Habit and Ino&riocy fin ani
,and Rapidly Cured by the twenty jears
r form) Positively
world-renowned
GOLDEN SPECIFIC
prepared according to the formula of Dr. Haines.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food, either with
° r a W “‘ he koo , w ledge of the patient. It speedily causes
a decided distas e fo- strong drink. It is absolutely harm-
less, a* d wi 1 eftect a permanent cure, whether the patient is a
moderate dmiKtr or an alcoholic wreck. It never falls
Thousands prove it. It operates so quickly and with such
cettanty that the patient undergoes no inconvenience, and
ere he is aware, his complete reform is effec ed. The Golden
Specific supplies the place of the accustomed liquor and
prevents the absolute physical and moral prostration which so
frequently follows a sudden breaking off from the use of
stimulating drinks. Write for Book, sent with full particulars
and testimonials free by return. r
The Union fllfg. & Agency Go..
359 A 361 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
LOOK
CAREFULLY
AT
THIS
PICTURE
OF
THE
CALLAGHAN
BOOT
:
-
■v
ft
SENT
BY
POST
PREPAID.
THE
QUALITY
IS AS
GOOD AS
THE
-STYLE.
Gentlemen’s Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goloshed
Calf Kid Legs, Made-
to-Order Appearance.
SB ■ dOMd
han l°SfHS the most comf ° rtabie ’
are not “seconds.” They .are ne°ver"beWnTthe times'or^tale 0 * Bargain - counfcer Boots,. -They
{Delivered Post Free
and Duty Free to
any Address
In ‘T.°reSr““ 4 "r re “ ipt °' 23/6 *
S “ e reqS r °e f cl?” t ’ 1,80 if Poiuled - Mediu “ 1 ' or E ™«' To® are
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
“Selma ” writes re a deep-water port for
Rockhampton:
The late Queensland Government has displayed extra-
ordinary judgment in the matter. First of all, it built a
wharf at Port Alma, which was easily accessible from the
sea, but being placed in a low, muddy swamp was un-
approachable from land. Then it built a railway (cost
£150,000) to Broadmount, and improved the approaches
from land, but unhappily forgot to connect it with the
sea, and overlooked the fact that the muddy channel of
that port. would soon silt up. Now the momentous
question is whether a railway liable to collapse in a
muddy swamp will be made, to connect Port Alma with
the land ; or a channel, liable to be silted up, will be
made to connect Broadmount with the sea. Treasurer
Kidston is evidently in favor of economy, and declared in
favor of Port Alma first at £35,000, but afterwards,
finding the other cheaper, declared for Broadmount and
£ll,OOO. Of course his economy is to be admired, since
one port will be as permanent as the other ; but many
are mad because they prefer the collapsible railway in a
swamp to the choked-up channel in a sand-bank. The
Port Alma idea, however, seems to be merely a log-
rolling attempt to prevent a fair share of the commerce
of Central Queensland going to Gladstone, and the Glad-
stonians are protesting against the idea of a muddy flat
being preferred to the finest harbor in the State as an
outlet for Central Queensland.
Mrs. Emily Crawford, in her recent book
on Queen Victoria :
If there was a bad painter classed among', or near, the
eminent portraitists, the Queen and Prince Consort were
sure to find him out and give him orders.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
f Calling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week* thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. Z' 10 10 * oz *
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13s. to £31 10e.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
Ill William-street. . ,, .
Adelaide Agbnts : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle A Albany Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
m
BILLS
discounted.
asr.as.'W.
(Ijont deplete C OmCW*
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
rtA CASTLEREAGH ST.. 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Bank of Now South \Vulos.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ._.
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,330,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
lofcj 5,330,000 0 0
Directors: ..
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.U.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Ron. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uthbr, Esq. A. G. Milsok, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Tne Bank allows interest on fixed deposi ts; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and cbnducts all customary
also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A, YV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Sbe, Lt.-Col Burns (Burns,
Phifp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, P. Clyne ; Adelaide, YV. N.
M'Faiu.ane ; Brisbane, K. YVilson; Perth, A. YV.
FARquHAR. J. J.ALLEN, for MM*
Write for 'Prospectus. 131 Pitt sc,, oiuixcii.
-r-HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
I ✓ AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
A ' J 7 I 4« Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP , i. 90,000 0 0
BESKKVE FUND (used m Company s g
Direct It. Godfrey, Esq.', Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq,, C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Griee, Esq. .
C. M. Officer,
FUEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Heaitn, Fq Jj. WeekB by using
df
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
T VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy,
IS Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for ext
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. xte Q
£!«EE,'i Klo'" “LS. Mb.
SUpplng.
N. D. Ij.
(NOED-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
sd
•Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 2nd MARCH.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TH€ RB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natalt Capetown, Plymouth, and
London•
regular three-weekly service.
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
NINEVEH
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman
A. Robb
Noon, Eeb. 6
Noon, Feb. 27
Noon, Mar. 8
FARES:
, H .. S°°“' .. «««?£S <*■
Cape "and Natal .. m 10s .. **? 1I "'
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l-0.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will And every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Baisonsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
fIUIE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
JL the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, j-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
CBA.HTIC STEAMSHIP
A. AND A. LINE.
O O iso: 3E* A. IST ''ST.
PAST PASSBNOBR SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
~ „ St Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
PeC f\A.RES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CUKi>Z>, ’ ’ AND BRIUGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
*—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
11,1( ual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Inability.
Offices - ~ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. ROMM*
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305- assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses- equitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders oP O - 000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
The Bank of ||ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Mnnncrer- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
T P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL •••• WOO.OOO
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 260.5*00 ... £350.000
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution.— I Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BBOMOHITIS,
DIARBHCEA, *«•. beaM
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
yua ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 23 1895. eaya:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally usefulj to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlouodyne. I never travel
withoub it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailmenti forma
its best recommendation.
("HLORODYNE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LIME
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Feb. 1, Feb. 29, March 21.
The Route to England via
St. Louis.
Rocky Mountains, Niagara FailSi
AND THE CITIES OF
New York, Chicago, Montreal and
Boston En Route.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT HI). “
CAPITA!; PAID-UP
RESEItyE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS:. 1.5,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
G*n. Manager, Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Mnurr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 A3CH’jn3H LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
To Shipowners, Railway Companies
and all Users of Steam.
is m\
i
E=n
(9- !.)
B
Ample testimony ia given by expert
engineers that by the use of the
Spiral Steam Tube Cleaner Co.’s
apparatus best results are. obtained
in cleaning in a few minutes as
against hours by the old method
without wear or tear on the tubes. No
up-to-date FIRM or CORPORATION
using steam should be without this
appliance ; as an economiser of fuel
it pays for itself in a few months, and
the marvellous rapidity and effective- _ „
ness with which it does its work not only prolongs the life but leaves no excuse for dirty tubes.
NOTE.—SAVES TIME, SAVES FUEL, SAVES WEAR and TEAR on the tubes,
minimises risk of accident.
All particulars and numerous testimonials may be seen at the office of
THE SPIRAL STEAM TUBE CLEANER COMPANY, Ltd., 17 Bridge-st., Sydney.
J. 11. DECENT, Manager.
Why run risks of boiler
explosions? Loss of time
in long passages, etc., etc.?
{Vide extract of paragraph
re the sad disaster of H.M.S. Wallaroo in Herald
of 8/l/’04):—“ Constant patching, he said, was
necessary in order to keep the boilers in woiking
condition, and it was only with the greatest diffi-
culty that steam could be raised for anything like
J halt the
as s u in e d
indicated
horse
power.”
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMIT HD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POl;T PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping 1 at Fremantle
to all North Weatern Porta
5.5. Friday, Jan. 29
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne).
5.5. Yongala (Newest and
Fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, Jan. 30,
at 10 a.m.
BRISBANE
MACKAV
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims
5.5. atsp.m.
5.5. Rookton.Feb. G, atNoon
S.S. Innamincka, Feb. 13,
at Noon.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields .
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Messageries lVlaritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO anil PARIS.
Steamers of G5OO tons, under Postal Contract withtlia
French Government, callin'; at MELBOUBNE, ADE*
LAID!?, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
Steamer
DUMBEA
V.deIaOIOTAT
OCEANIEN ..
NERA
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India. China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £i~t to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLI3U
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meal)
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Ollices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . •
“E. and A.” LIKE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
fs
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. . _ .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe V',% Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st„ Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
&
m
i
C=3
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautiful! v Chased, OxydisecJ Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, ? -plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Pries 30e. (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Pre 1 . ented.
Neuralgic Head aclies & all N erve
Pains removed by BUNTEH'S
NEB VINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“Ar a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal, I have
used it successfully for years.’—Prof. W. Wilson. M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’Sworso l s PILLG
Are a certain Core for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache.
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, As,
Of all Stores.
A. child, more or less grown-up, of The
Bulletin's acquaintance writes:
I was readin’ a Bulletin story in which a bull-dog
bites a man sevril times. P’raps it was a datchund , a
bull-dog only bites once. Pa says there are two ends to
a bull-dog—the positive and neggytive. A bully sat on
our doormat once, and I played a brick on to his wicket.
He fastened to me. Ma looked from the window and
said, “ Herbert Baden Kitchener, stop that cake walkin ;
it looks hidius.” Ma is near sighted. Pa sez, Hon t
blame the bov ; a bull-snatcher’s got him on the off-side.
“ Take him off, pa,” 1 says. Pa said, “ Wait till I adver-
tise for a stump-extractor." Then pa walked me over to
the blacksmith’s. “ Take this bull-dog off my little boy,
he said, and the blacksmith smiled quite friendly at me.
Everybody was cool and collected. I was cool and col-
lected meself onee when a bully had another
fellow by the pants. Pa lit his pipe, and the smith
started to blow up the fire. Good season for
peas,” he sez. “The termaters’ll be eomin in next
month. How will you’ave the dog loosened ? he said.
“ Biled off or fried?” “ Fry him off,” sez pa, sittin on
the anvil. The smith put me on the hearth, and rested
the pup in the nice, cool ashes; then he started to blow
the bellowes. “ Mutton’s goin’ up this winter, he sez,
and pig-feed is in a delioite condition, and the smith
blew the fire until bully began to think the summer
wasn’t late after all. Then pa started talkin’ about John
Haynes and the plague, and Murphy the pliceman
rushed in and said that a smell of roast bull-dog was
divertin’ business in the township. When the bully
heard the p'liceman’s vice he let me go and started for
the crik. Pa says a p’liceman’s vice will draw beer or
bull-dogs. He said it was a p’liceman s vice what drew
up Jonah when he climbed into the whale out of the wet.


THEY MAKE YOU PEEL GOOD.
The pleasant purgative effect experienced by
all who use CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH
AND LIVER TABLETS, and the healthy con-
dition of the body and mind which they create,
makes one feel joyful. Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets are “Just What You Need.”
Sold everywhere. Is. 6d.*
THE
GOLINTON ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane River, hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
40,000 Acres
of Rich River Flats, and well-
grassed Ridges, cut into Dairy
Farms,
In Areas of 100 to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the HEAD STATION SALZi-
ROOM, on
EASTER MONDAY,
and followine Days,
sth to lOth APRIL,
at 11 o’clock each day.
Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., of Kensington Downs, a Director of the Q.N. Bank
and of the Queensland Meat Export Co. reported on Colinton on 7th April, 190.0:
“It is impossible to ride over the rich lands of Colinton without coming to the conclusion
that no just or accurate idea of their value can be arrived at by merely treating them a*
grazing estates, as the large proportion of arable land embraoed in them justifies the
belief that in the future a very much enhanced value must attach to them for cutting up
purposes.”
COLINTON is composed of a variety of sloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid percentage of Lucerne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Runs, as well as one of the beßt fastening Runs in Southern Queensland.
COLINTON Is magnificently watered by IS miles double frontag-e
to tbe Brisbane River, as well as by upwards of 48 miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
COLINTON has been kept free from pests suoh as lantana, thistle, and
burrß, and there is no nut grass and, above all, no ticks.
THE MAGNETIC TERMS:
One-Tenth Cash, no payments for 2 years, and the balance
up to 20 years at per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
IPF-A profusely illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may he
obtained from the office of this paper, or from
ISLES, LOVE & Co., Auctioneers, Brisbane
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
E BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
i
HOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, 3s 0,1 posted.
Magic Up-To-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
1 low to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
„ Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, I’opulaPv Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
,Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic's Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is lid. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
‘ls 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. MiNEßs’GuiDE(simple testsfor minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Bower (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chixiquy's Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■ltB&AOIN
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’ 1
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man Prom Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D«“ Established, SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
»
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BV RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made East, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Dove and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. 'Woltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. .Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s AtD.viaß.TO a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. \W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
J
l
df
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
❖
>v
$
sd
MORRISS
IMPERIAL
ointment
CURES
Brains - ,
ruletheWorld
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory. The memory-
must be trained if the brain is to do good
work. The memory can be successfully-
developed by proper training, just as an
athlete's muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
Is a practical and successful system which
benefits all brain workers. It willm *ka
a poor memory good, and a good one
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on apolication to the
Secretary. PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
Box 403. Ci.l'.O,
JIBLBOIIKNK.
And 4 Br-ooMSBURT Sr.,
LONDON, W.O.
f
IF YOU WANT IT
CET IT WITH A
KODAK
sd
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE ,\
Of All DEALERS OR
KODAK U p2a4COLL,N ' ssl
MELBOURNE
ME NT jON THIS PAPER J>
fs
mil JOSEF
\ the best natural
I Aperient- wafer.
df
RfINZ JOSEF
\ I’he best - natural
rAperienl- wal’er.
sd
RfINZ JOSEF
i the best natural
f Aperient water.
fsd
MHZ JOSEF
I lt>e best natural
1 AperienF wal-er.
S’African war medals are cheap to-day.
In a Sydney pawnshop there is a string of six for
sale, price according to the number of clasps.
Medal with ribbon 15s. ; medal with ribbon and
three clasps 255. Allowing the usual 200 per cent,
profit, Swaddie must have got quite ss. for his
farm-burning certificate.
“ Ne'er-do-well ” contributes a gruesome
reminiscence:—
I remember seeing Preston, the leader of a revolution
in Panama, in the early ’Bo’s, strangled—hanged, they
called it. Either they had no conveniences for strangling
in Panama, or else it was decided to give the inhabitants
of that awful isthmus a terrible example of the fate of
unsuccessful revolutionists who are fools enough to get
caught. Anyway, Preston—a yellow Jamaican lawyer—
was placed standing on an inverted champagne ease
(champagne was the ordinary drink in Panama in those
days) on a table-top truck on the railway line. A rope
loosely noosed connected his neck with a beam lashed
from one pole to another. Two soldiers leaned against
the truck smoking cigarettes. Preston’s hands were
fastened behind his back, but his face was not
covered—his eyes not even bandaged. A company
of soldiers kept a space clear round the stage and
performers, and the audience clustered thickly round
outside the soldiery. A dozen camera fiends
held commanding positions inside the armed cordon.
Preston made a speech a very good one—to the
assembled multitude, and urged one and all, when next
thov determined to revolute, either to make sure of
success, or to perfect their plans for escane in case of
failure—in any case, not to get caught. The officer in
command of the troops listened attentively for some time
and then began to weary. Suddenly he cut Preston’s
speech short by giving a signal to the two licensed
igurderers leaning smoking on the end of the truck.
They straightened themselves up and shot the truck
away from under the rebel, leaving him to kick —literally
—for h° had no drop to speak of, and his feet were not
tied. His struggles were awful and continued for some
-- considerable time. The camera fiends meanwhile secured
photpgraphs. Three dollars would afterwards purchase
a series of 12 rihotos representing Preston at various
singes; from addressing the crowd to hanging by the
neck —dead.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Tioclcyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
ver’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. every where.
The settlement of the Melbourne strike
in the Chow cabinet-making trade was a beautiful
heathen object lesson in Christianity which has
escaped the political eye of White Australia.
Chow importers and manufacturers have an
employers’ union of their ovn —a secret society,
entitled Bo Leong. The basis of Bo Leong is
supposed to be brotherly love. The society always
recognises its moral obligation to act on the
square, even though it may rarely act up to the
recognition. In the case of the cabinet-workers’
strike, the importing section of Bo Leong had
nothing to lose and much to gain by a prompt
settlement, on terms favorable to the toilers.
Therefore, when the strikers met the Bo Leong in
conference, the importers preached high moral
principles to the manufacturers, and reminded
them that fraternal strife blocks the way to
eternal life. “The good Joss loveth the good
boss,’’and so forth. By this means the struggle
between Chow labor and capital was brought to a
pious conclusion.


A year or two back it was a common occurrence
for cyclists to have blow-outs In their cycle covers owing
to dirt and water getting in between the rubber cover
and fabric casing, to the destruction of the latter. The
introduction of the Vulcanized Dunlop Tyre has stopped
all this, as the construction of this popular tyre prevents
all possibility of the rubber and fabric parting, as they
are pressed into one under an hydraulic pressure of
12001bs. to the square inch.*
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills make weak
women strong, siek women well. They promote
regularity, heal inflammation, and cure female
weakness. When these diseases are cured, head-
ache. backache and nervous weakness are cured
also. Packed in amber bottles, and sold through-
out Australasia.*
Australia now faces the dawn as an ex-
porter of proprietary medicines manufactured in
the Commonwealth. Mr. G. Hudson, of Ipswich
(Q.), in response to inquiry from the Cold Coun-
try, shipped 10 cases of Eumenthol Jujubes to
London last month, and reports that the demand
for this remedy is so great that he has found it
necessary to establish a permanent London agency
at 320 Regent-street, London, W.*
In these days of universal mechanical
power none can be of greater service to humanity
than the men following in the footsteps of Watts
and Stephei\son. The vade mecum of those valu-
able citizens whose business is connected with
steam engines, boilers, pumps and electrical
machinery is to be found in L. F. R. Schnabell’s
indispensable work, “The Enginemau’s Master
Key.” Schnabell’s book, which contains 301
pages and over 100 illustrations, is written in the
most simple and concise style and should find its
way into the hands of every engineman in Acs.
tralia.* . -
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE...
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES :* DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The V.R.C. waited on the postal authorities
the other day with a brassy request that they should
be allowed a censorship over all telegraph messages
handed into telegraph offices on racecourses. The
expressed object was to prevent the despatch of racing
results to hotels for the convenience of betters who don’t
go near the course. The impudent request met the fate
it deserved. Why not ask for the suppression of the
newspaper reports, so that all who are interested in
racing will be compelled to pay into the coffers of the
V.
* * • •
* ‘ Proans ” : Backed My Mistake for Caulfield
G. National Steeple, last year, with a V.A.T.C. registered
bookmaker. On going to collect my winnings I was
given my own money back, and told to take that or
nothing. I sought out the club’s official, who interviewed
the bookmaker and allowed me to call on E. G. Wright,
racecourse detective. The latter promised to investigate,
and, after a week’s delay, I was informed I could get
nothing more, as “ the gentleman who guaranteed the
bookmaker could not be found.” Now, in cases like that,
I think the club should be responsible. It seems to
license all and sundry who are able to pay the licensing
fee.
»*, * *
Told that thoroughbred Queensland mare Vixen
lost her four hoofs and was nearly starved to death during
the late drought. The hoofs grew again but she wasn’t
expected to prove any good except for breeding. Rain
and consequent good growth of grass brought her round
once more, and after being hacked about she was prepared
for Nanango Xmas meet and won a couple of races in-
cluding the big thing (Xmas Handicap l|m.) of the
gathering. Vixen is by Battailous out of Garuda (winner
of a Q. Derby) by Melbourne-Gamos
* * * *
A simple calculation shows that 10 jockeys
earned over £lOOO during the last English flat-racing
season, at the regulation fee of three guineas a mount
and two more for a win. Five of them earned over £2OOO,
and Otto Madden was top scorer with £2874. That is
simply the official minimum. What the most successful
among them got (quite honestly) in the way of retainers
and presents for winning is another story known only to
themselves.
* * * *
John Porter, the English trainer, had charge of
the great Flying Fox until the Duke of Westminster sold
that sire for the record price of 37,500g5. Porter has just
married, and Edmond Blanc, the present owner, gives him
a free subscription to the horse at the stud, in honor of the
occasion! More generous (the right is probably worth
£250) than appropriate.
* * * *
“Ku Klux”: The methods of the average
punter are mysterious. Tell him that your horse is not
a certain winner, but an absolute trier, and he will put
you down for a rogue. But tell him you know a man,
whose brother knows a girl, who dreamt that she saw
a horse all the colors of the rainbow dying of gripes on
the 1 flat at Flemington, and he will arrive at the con-
clusion that “ Botfly ” or “ Seldom Fell ” is a moral for
the Cup, and risk his cash thereon.
* » * «
At S.T.C. meeting at Randwick, Saturday,
Sopra easily beat seven others in the First Nursery
Handicap, including Scot Free, the favorite, and a full
brother to Great Scot. Graftondelle and Great Scot
made the running, and then Sopra went through them
and scored easily.
* * * *
Challenge Stakes (6fur.) at Sydney T.C. meet,
Saturday, was a good race. Suivre was favorite—had
been so for a week or two, best odds against her being
9to 2. Suivre, Myall and Orry jumped away at the first,
and then Bassini and Beauclerc got in front till joined by
Orry as they rounded into the straight, when Beauclerc
got right away, but was overtaken and passed by Ruenalf,
with Apsley just behind him. and in that order they
finished. Favorite failed badly, finishing tenth. Orry’s
erratic running cost rider Hood £lO.
* * * *
Sudden determination last Saturday of A. J.C.
stipendiary stewards to do something, resulted in the
winner of the Amateur Plate, Prince Lyon, his owner,
and the boy who rode him, being “sent up” for two
years because of the horse’s comparatively poor showing
at Rosehill two weeks before.
» * « *
Once well-known Victorian cross-country rider
John Nej’lon died the other day after a long illness. He
was practically the last of the old school of cross-country
horsemen.
* * * *
If up-country nag Waratah, by Invermay from
Civility, comes to Sydney he should be worth putting a
bit on. Last few weeks have seen him secure Trial and
Welter at Oorowa, and principal events at Tarrawingee
and Rutherglen, the double at Chiltern, and the big
thing of the programme at Wangaratta. Present owner
got Waratah for £3O. He was then an intractable brute,
apparently beyond all possibility of being trained.
* * * *
Westralian Turf Club’s much-vaunted £12,000
profit on its recent meeting isn’t so remarkable when it is
explained how it was done. Prize money was £6030, and
of that the registered bookmakers were made to con-
tribute 1 3035, and thus, with what the horse-owners had
to put up, the club stood on velvet from the first.
* * * *
Wednesday night, last week, saw the end of
the Cycling Carnival, and thousands rolled up to see the
final struggle between Major Taylor and Ivor Lawson, in
the International Test. Of the original 20 competitors,
only 12 survived the half, four and five mije tests, and
these 12 were reduced to four by four further heats over
a mile—Major Taylor, Ivor Lawson, Hardy Downing and
W. M’Donald, the first three being Yankees and the
fourth the Westralian rider. Two pacers were put on.
M’Donald sprinted three-quarters of a lap from the line,
Downing flashed onto his wheel, and Ivor Lawson glided
up without apparent effort. Passing the members’stand
Taylor and Lawson shot out from the bunch, and battled
together down the straight. Ivor Lawson made a
tremendous effort, but the negro seemed to lift his wheel
from the track and fairly leap away, and crossed the line
a length to the good. M‘l)onald was five lengths away,
and Downing behind him again. Then Taylor sprinted
round the track for the honor of his calves and the glory
of his soul.
* * * »
When the parson opens his moutli on a subject
outside the collection-plate or the Hereafter, he generally
provides fun for the unregenerate. At Wesley Church,
Sydney, the other day, Rev. F. Colwell “ sermoned ” on
the subject of sport to a pious collection of bikists who
had paraded to the holy edifice. After being suitably
horrified at length at almost all other forms of “sport,”
Rev. Colwell remarked : “ Bicycle sports, so far as he was
able to judge, were manly and helpful to the young men
generally. The spirit of gambling did not enter into
cycling—in fact, it was prohibited by the cycling authori-
ties.” (!!!) One can imagine the pious suddenness with
which the cyclists gazed at the roof at this naive sim-
plicity. Fortunately, “suitable music” opportunely
appeared just there.
* * * *
“ F.” : The blind worship of negro cyclist Major
Taylor by N.S.W. cycling authorities is beginning to keep
people away from their race meetings. The holy Taylor’s
notion of a race is simple : he is to hang behind for pacing
until near the end, then make a spurt; every other com-
petitor must make way to give him the inside running
when he spurts ; if he is not given the inside running,
and has to go outside like any mere white rider, then he
whines that he is “ pocketed.”
* * * *
Predicted that O. H. Brook, the youth who
won the big 1 Dunlop New South Wales road race from
Goulburn to Sydney last July in record time, will develop
into a champion. Young Brook, who hails from Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), is showing good form on the Sydney track,
and with a little more experience will prove that he is as
good on the racing track as the road.
The final inter-State match of the season between
N.S.W. and Victoria was being played at Sydney as The
Bulletin went to press. Victoria won the toss, but it
did not bring luck, and the South State’s innings ended
for 163. By stumps draw on the first day N.S.W. had
lost three wickets for 207, and before the last wicket fell
its score reached 389. At moment of writing, Vic. in
the second innings had two wickets down for 54, those
outed being Bruce and Trott. The feature of the
match was the bowling of Cotter, from Glebe (Sydney)
club, who clean bowled Bruce, Trott, Stuckey and
Armstrong for 14 runs in all. He was rushed in at the
last moment to take the place of Howell, who was
suffering from a strain. His bowling is of the light-
ning variety, and he is the sort of bowler who
should never be kept on too long, which was, apparently,
done the first day, for his 4 for 14 finished up 4 for 50. A.
J. Bowden also did good work with the leather, bagging
4 for 33. Of the 54 made in Vic.’s second innings, 16 were
made off Cotter for no wickets ; M'Beath had 6 scored
off him, while Hopkins had got two wickets for 26, Bruce
being ruled out l.b.w. and Trott clean bowled. The
match has been, so far, interesting and reasonably fast.
* * * *
The third test match ended on Wednesday of
last week in a decisive win for Australia by 216 runs.
England started the second innings with the almost im-
possible task of making 495 to win, and only succeeded
in getting 278 of them.
* * * *
For Adelaide test, the wicket remained perfect
to the end, and Warner, in sportsmanlike fashion, said it
was the best he had ever played on, and that losing the
toss had made practically no difference to his side.
* * * *
Hill made his 10,000 th run in first-class cricket
the other day ; and he only got in to first-class cricket in
’94-5. His score includes 26 centuries. Average for the
lot, 43-44.
* * * *
Syd Gregory quite restored himself to the affec-
tions of the Adelaide public (who almost to a man had
thought that Gehrs should have displaced him in the
team) by his great innings in the third test. With
Trumper, Hill and Duff gone and the total only 103, the
crowd was gloomy, and the Welshman’s innings was
responsible for the greatest display of enthusiasm ever
known on the Oval. Off-theory stuff that others merely
looked at he belted for fourers, and the approach to his
century only made him hit harder.
* * * *
S. A. has asked George Giffen to stand down
from Inter-State cricket. He might have lasted longer if
Clem had not succeeded to the captaincy. The friend-
ship between Clem and George is great. So great is the
youngster’s admiration for the old warrior that he is
partially blind to George’s falling-off. So Giffen got almost
as much bowling in Inter-State fixtures as he did years
ago, with mostly dismal results.
* * * *
The success of trial trundlers Cotter and
Bowden, in N.S.W.-Vic. match, gives color to the asser-
tion that there is plenty of latent bowling talent in
N.S.W. if it were but recognised. Since it is trundlers
that are needed in Australia, perhaps the selection com-
mittee will give other bowlers of proved first-grade worth
a chance ; it is only by trials that talent is unearthed.
* * * *
By compiling 370 runs for the loss of 13 wickets,
N.S. W.-Vie. first day’s play made a commendable contrast
to the miserable dreariness which has o’ershadowed the
three test matches. Inter-State matches—although not
drawing immense crowds like the tests—have been by
far the better spectacular displays.
* * * *
“Paddy” Carew, playing for Paddington
(Sydney) the other day, was kept bowling from 2.30 to
6.1.5 p.m., sending down 43 overs for 124 runs. It was a
wonderful exhibition, but didn’t show good sense on the
part of the captain.
* * * •
At Gloucester recently the Lawrie family
played Gloucester cricket, and beat them by an innings
and 130 runs, notching 237 to Gloucester’s 52 and 55. Two
members of the family combination were 60 and 55 years
of age, and there were four generations of the Lawries
present.
* * * *
Recently dead (cetat 97) Mr. M. Willmer of
M.L. claimed he was xhe oldest active cricketer in the
world. He reached M.L. in 1851 and in 1889 brought the
Veterans’ Club (for players over 50) into existence. Mr.
Willmer had a game three weeks before death.
* * * *
Comparison of time performances makes the
coming of Victorian and Maoriland swimmers to Sydney
in March seem farcical. H. A. Creaghe, of Dunedin, won
the M.L. 100 and 440 yards supremacy at Lyttelton in
1.7 3-5 and 6.56:) respectively, and last Saturday the Vic-
torian 100 went to M. G. Robb in 1.11 2-5. At least three
Sydney reps, can cover the 100 yd. in less than a minute,
and somewhere about a dozen can burst the Maoriland
record, which is seconds ahead of Victoria’s. Cavill’s
world’s best for 440 yd. is 5.28 1-5, and there are probably
twelve more who can beat 6.56 easily. Queensland wiil
probably make a better show than Victoria or M.L., but
will not get near the Cornstalk reps.
* * * »
“Splash”: Am not impressed by the diving
ability of the Sydney swimmers. Judges give the prizes
to the men who enter the water in the position nearest to
perpendicular and with the least splash ; the real art is a
clean and shallow shoot. The dive well done brings the
head out of the water almost simultaneously with the
disappearance of the feet.
* * * *
N.S.W. quarter-mile swimming supremacy, as
anticipated, went to Dick Cavill at Balmain on Saturday.
At one time a surprise seemed possible, the quite un-
known Sobraon boy Reran suddenly assuming the lead
and taking a lot of shaking off ; he was finally beaten by
eight yards in one second outside George Read’s (not the
Dry Dog man ; he doesn’t swim yet) time—smin. 42sec.
The boy was timid ; Cavill’s mana had got on his nerves,
but with capable training and the loss of nervousness
when swimming before crowds, he will challenge Cavill’s
position.
* * * *
Sydney City Bowling Club exhibited remarkably
consistent form in the Pennant competitions last week.
The captain, A. Coker, against Parramatta, made 42
to the other captain’s 11, which gave the whole team a
majority of 17. Next round, he scored 34 to Randwick
man’s 10 ; and in the third round he gathered 39 to Red-
fern captain’s 10—a total of 115 to 31 points. This is
surely unequalled in the history of Australian bowls.
* * * *
London is revelling in a wrestling boom.
Turkish, Greek, Jap, French and Yankee champions are
showing to crowded houses. Purses given are heavy.
Ahmed Madralli, the genuine “Terrible Turk,” said to be
the favorite strong man of Sultan Abdul, and who has
never previously been out of Constantinople, has been
hurling all competitors about like ninepins. He is said
to literally lift them up and hurl them out among the
audience. Sporting London was wild to see Madralli and
Hackenschmidt, the “ Russian Lion,” grapple, but the
Turk is a catch-as-catch-can man, and the other fellow
professes the Graeco-Roman, and neither would concede
anything. Meanwhile Yukio Tani, the Japanese, was
imploring either or both to wrestle him: a match
between the Russian and Jap, each as best was able,
would bring a fortune as a show.
» » * *
J. Blackmore (Syd.) and E. Williams (Melb.)
middleweight fight at Sydney National S. Club last week
was a disappointing scrap. Blackmore judged distances
so badly that his vicious swings and stabs missed by
whole feet. Williams’ footwork, too, was slim. Black-
more’s speciality is in-fighting, and punching hard and
quickly when breaking from a clinch, and Wili ams
played the brother of the shadow so effectively that the
speciality was off for that night at least. In the 13th
round Williams got to the floor three times, and the third
time was counted out, after which the referee announced
that the police had interfered, and that he declared the
fight a draw—a decision as unsatisfactory as the struggle.'
Lightweights Hock Keys and Ed. Jessop, well-
trained and clever, fought vigorously and determinedly
at Sydney Gaiety A.C., before a big house, on Monday
night. Betting was 5 to 4 on Jessop, who proved the
sturdier and more aggressive of the pair always. Keys
showed skill, but lacked power, while every blow of
Jessop’s told. In the 15th round Keys picked up remark-
ably, and the 16th and 17th were all his, but it was only a
flash in the pan, for the 18th saw Jessop at work as
effectively as ever, with Keys on the defensive, till Jessop
was declared winner.
THE LATE GRAHAM BERRY.
The last flicker of Graham Berry, the stalwart
of the great Liberal fights in Victoria of 20 and
30 years ago, died out in Melbourne on Monday.
Beginning his political career in 1860, when
already well on to 40 years of age, Berry was soon
where the fighting was hottest; and for the glow
of it he was mainly responsible. He joined Pro-
tection with land-settlement; and over the latter
he roused Victoria as it had never been roused
over anything since the days of Eureka. And, by
a striking coincidence, just as in his later years
the fiery hero of Eureka found his last public place
in the Speaker’s chair, so also did this other
hero of as great and even more dogged fight.
More than anyone else Berry imparted to
Victorian political life that Liberalism which
characterised it for many years, establishing the
State firmly in the principles of Protection, and
founding a school in which such men as Deakin,
Isaacs and Trenwith, and to some extent Turner,
were taught—the school which has been respon-
sible for most of what is best in the State’s middle
history. Altogether, taking into account the long
period over which his career was spread, Berry was
the greatest force that Victoria has known ; and,
for by far the most part, a force for good.
At Poverty Point.
Said that Mr. and Mrs. Norman Menzies (Dolly Yane)
will go to England, from Japan, and probably bring out a
comic opera company, of which Dolly V. will be the star.
The once successful artist of the stage can rarely- keep off
it permanently afterwards. She breaks out into a
professional engagement again or is miserably consoled
by amateur performances.
Senator Findley, who has some notions as to the
drama, intends to bring up the question of a national
theatre in the Federal Parliament.
“ H.M.” : Re the disputed supremacy in England of
contralto Clara Butt and Our Ada, The former’s fee is
stated at 100 guineas per concert; the latter’s, 50. After
all, figures—not engagements—are the only reliable indi-
cators.
The difficulty of re-ascending the London concert
platform 1 Phil Newbury was once a popular London
tenor, but, being absent in these parts several years,
thought it wise to cable in advance his return to
three leading London agents. Arrived, he called round
to ascertain terms, but they had quite forgotten him in
Fogtown, and it was a long time before he was engaged,
after competing with eight other tenors.
Mrs. Columbus Doubleday, who discovered Amy Castles,
has now a promising contralto pupil in Lilian Adams.
America has seemingly outgrown the tendency to
national provincialism as regards stage artists, but is
still pronounced in its little local prejudices. Nance
O’Neil is quite disheartened by her latest failure to
establish herself as a tragedy queen in America, “ The
only city in which she drew uniformly good houses was
’Frisco, which is her native place.” American artists
make a point of appealing to birth-town sympathies by-
means of personal paragraphs in the loyal local press,
unless they had the bad luck to have been born in New
York, where people are too numerous and busy to make
sentimental distinctions between “townies” and non-
“ townies.”
General Ben Viljoen is to be married in America to
May Belfort, a popular song-and-dance girl. The music
hall artist capttfred Ben whilst he was stage managing a
series of Boer war scenes for the St. Louis (U.S.) Exhi-
bition.
Widow of Walter Baird, who was killed while super-
vising work at the Manly Water Chute in the early- days
of that popular aiiiuseinent, is a member of the Green-
wood family of well-known theatrical people. This
partly accounts for the earnestness with which “the
profession ” took up the matter of a benefit to the widow
and carried it through so successfully at Steyne Court
(connected with the chute) on the 17th inst. Further
help is still being received and welcomed.
A new thing in stage management. At His Majesty-’s
(London) two large gramaphones were used to indicate
the roaring and cheering of far-off crowds, heralding the
approach of King Richard to the Lists of Coventry-.
Miss Bertha Faning writes to a'Sydney friend (dated
London, 18th Dec.): “ Have now spent five weeks and
many more pounds in this sunless city-. London impres-
sions on my Australian mind are yet vague and tangled,
but I chiefly- dream of endless mist, mud, shops, and
murky dwellings. ‘ That homesick feeling ’ got me rather
badly- at first, but the fog now threatens to lift. I have
sung to Santley and Madame Guy D Hardelot, and have
crept under the latter’s tutorial wing. I found she
enjoyed great ‘ maria ’ here as a teacher. Met several
rival songstresses from Australia, and hope dwelt serenely
in all our vocal breasts. I omit all marmalade about ‘my
magnificent voice,’ leaving time to tell its own inexorable
tale.”
The management of Her Majesty’s, Sydney, should
revise the studio scene in “The Eternal City.” Miss
Maud Jeffries, as Roma Volonna, works away on a cold
white plaster bust of her lover, David Rossi Miss Roma,
in the play, is a sculptor, and David Rossi turns up to
give her a “ sitting.” Sculptors do their moulding work
in soft, moist clay, and a plaster cast is then made. At
Her Majesty’s the “modelling” is continued after the
bust has reached the plaster stage. Yet very few in the
audience noticed the blunder on Saturday night, and no
one laughed. Lest there should, be any doubt on the
point, Miss Jeffries shows that the bust is one of plaster
by smashing it to pieces with a mild, womanly blow when
the police want to take a photograph of it, so as to bring
about the arrest of David, who is a dangerous and daring 1
demagogue. Under ordinary circumstances the fair
sculptor would have been obliged to beat the bust out of
recognition by a series of assaults, like a pushite attacking
a fat policeman. For dramatic purposes it is best that a
plaster cast is used. The shattered plaster makes a fine-
sounding and nerve-affecting crash. But the manage-
ment should leave out the modelling make-believe.
Edward Farley, who takes rank next to Armes Beaumont
as an Australian operatic veteran, has decided to try his
luck in the United States. Farley'started as a chorus
singer in Lyster’s Italian and English Opera co., and by
1870 lie had worked his way to the front as one of the
principals. Those were the days of great voices, yet in
bass and baritone parts Farley was able to hold his own.
From Italian opera the Australian artist glided into opera
bouffe, and was associated with the successes of Fanny
Simonsen, Emelie Melville, and the somewhat different
Emily Soldene. He locally created such parts as General
Boom in “ The Grand Duchess,” Massouk in “ Girofle-
Girofla,” and Larivaudere in “Madame Angot.” When
the charming Emelie Melville returned to Australia in
1882 Farley did some more character making in “Fati-
nitza” and “The Royal Middy.” In the palmy days of
the Montague Turner English Opera co. the basso can-
tante was one of the stars, and a firm public favorite.
Apart from the operatic stage, Farley sang in Berlioz’
“ Faust,” and several oratorios with ttie Sydney Philhar-
monic Society, and he has twice filled the position of
choir-master. Subscriptions to a “ testimonial” which is
to be presented on the eve of the veteran's departure are
being received by Mr. Southwell at Paling’s, and by Mr.
Macleod at The Bulletin office ; and every theatre-going
Australian with a sense of gratitude should send along c.
mite.
“ Vulcan” : Went to see the Royar Panto., t’other
night—up with the “ bloke ” and the bloke’s best girl and
their joint peanut ; and there met Dad Rudd in theflesh.
He was a large, hairy individual; his pants were held in
suspension by a rawhide belt; his hat had the droop and
the circumference of an umbrella; his collar was a
multi-colored handkerchief. With the delivery of the
most obvious gags he exploded into wild roars which
shook the whole gallery. But it was the Amazons’ March
which finished him. When the charmers appeared with
their conspicuous absence of suitable apparel, he gave a
gasp, stood up open-mouthed, sat down suddenly as if
shot, darted an embarrassed glance at me from under his
shaggy brows, took hasty, furtive, and uneasy glances at
the people around him to see how they took it. theu
settled down to drink in the sight with the attitude of a
man whose mental balance had been completely and
suddenly upset by a spectacle which he had never
dreamed of in his wildest moments. When that turn was
finished, “They cornin’ on agen ?” he asked. Programme
showed that they weren’t. Going down the stairs later
he kept asking the public in general : “ D’yer ever see
sich wimmin ?” Reaching the street he wanted to know
if I’d “be there termorrer night.” I thought not; would
he? “My oath!” said he, forcibly, and his whiskers
were bristling, and there was in his eye a light which had
no right to be in the eye of a man whose white whiskers
were half-way down his chest, and isn whossa facw showed
the lines of a grandfather.
Perfect Health
Is within the reach of almost every woman. TFie
weakness, nervousness and irritability from which
so many women suffer is in general due to disease
of the delicate womanly organism. When the
disease is cured the general health is re-estab-
lished.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 24 Princess-street, Sydney,
tells how Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills saved her
from a life of misery, and restored her to health
and happiness. She writes :
“Some years ago I suffered from headache and
biliousness, which finally ended in liver complaint,
so the doctors told me. I underwent treatment
from various ones, but no relief could I find ; my
back got worse, and I had to work hard with a
family. My back got considerably worse, and
finally I had to give up work. At the same time
I was badly affected with the various ailments
that women are subject to. I really began to give
up all hope, and felt that life was not worth
living; but relief came when I was persuaded to
take a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills ;
from that hour I have never been without them.
I can say without fear that they completely cured
me, for I am now able to work without trouble,
regular in habits, and I confidently recommend
them to all women similarly troubled, and I know
there are hundreds. lam only too glad to be able
to give this testimony. I may also state that my
husband has derived great benefit from taking the
Pills.”


Franz Josef Lager
. . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
The Latest Novelty in Gentlemen's Dress Watches,
11
THE THINNEST WATCHES MADE.
This wonderful piece of mechanical skill represents a Keyless Lever
Watch with works no thicker than a five-shilling piece. It is a
marvel of accuracy, and it is specially adapted to the fashionable
man for dress wear, as it does not bulge out the pocket. Made in
Oxidised Metal Oases, £2 2s. Polished Steel Cases, £2 ss.
Solid Silver Oases, £2 15s.
Gold Oases, ISct., £lO 10s. ; 14ct., £6 10s.
These watches are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
2 years (breakages excepted).
f
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA :
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd.
90 KING ST., SYDNEY
(Immediately next door to the Fresh
Food and Ice Company’s Tea Booms).
Q.
va
G
/,?
H
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
QOoaaaooQ
yd
®»aoaoo*o
H
MAKERS OF
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1903)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output-NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT at
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
BRAHOHEB ih ALL states. 97a Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents -For Australia
HESSELMANN & CO.
34 Queen St.,
W- THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model RED BIRD BICYCLE
Built for Speed and Strength. Every part of a RED BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearing’s and Chain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for vears. Cash or terms
SeC0 t n a^ a in d Part y plTment. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St, Sydney
Up in Kanakaland, The Bulletin is told,
quite seriously, a cane-grower submitted to the
Government a plan of his farm in order to obtain
the white-labor bounty. A couple of paddocks
being overrun with that shrub, he marked them
“Lantana.” A few days after, he received a
peremptory note from the Department that, if
the Italian, Lantana, who occupied subdivisions
64 and 66, did not at once register his name, he
would be liable to a fine of £5O.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*.
“ C.R.” : In a recent issue you say —
“How John Haynes would adorn a pike ! ” You
omit to say which end of the pike. I think that
John Haynes, with a red glare in his grey eye,
and a red cap on his round grey head, would make
a fine Santerre on a small scale. He is too stout
and comfortable-looking to pose as a St. Just or
a Marat. In other words, he is not in earnest.
He is merely asong-and-dance revolutionist. But
why you should object to him, or anybody else,
making a stir about anything in these stagnant
days is beyond my comprehension. For myself
I would rejoice to see John Haynes, with a scythe
in one hand and a bundle of his own printed
speeches in the other, riding down George-street
on a white horse and calling himself “Death,”
with Teddy Foxall in front of him waving a skull
and cross-bones flag and blowing a ramshorn
trumpet— or his own. Anything for diversion.
When an Adelaide horse tram is full it
takes the best part of five minutes to unload.
Getting off at the Oval for the first test match a
burly up-country man vociferated from the second
deck :
By the ’oly geebung if a fire wus ter break out on this
’ere motor wot a massacre of 'uman life there’d be.
From S.M. Herald, 16/l/’O4 :
WESLEY CHURCH, Regent-street.—ll, Rev. F.
’ ” Colwell ; 7.15, Cyclists' Parade, arranged by the
Britannia Club. Major Taylor and international
riders will attend. Cyclists invited. Soloist, Mr. A.
E. Austin, official handicapper of the League of Wheel-
men. All seats free. Everybody welc. C'try vis. inv.
A mile heat round the churchyard will possibly
be the next attraction.
PAIN IN THE STOMACH.
It is most annoying, as well as disagreeable,
to be troubled with pains in the stomach, and
there is no use to be annoyed, for one dose of
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy will
allay the pain. Try it once, and be convinced.*
TTIOB the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
£ ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every ease
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap'(each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF 114 lbs
sdf
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRIDE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.
SNAPSHOOTING
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
sd
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nbtt.
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF. you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GRicliid’s
World-Renowned GUhIS and RiFi.iiG,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
817 Collins street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
U
E
E
N
S
T.
fs
STOCKTAKING SALE
FINISHES
Saturday, January 30th.
All orders reaching me by this date will receive the full
benefit of the substantial reductions already advertised, and
will be posted carriage paid, as usual.
If you want anything in Men’s
Wear or Juvenile Clothing you can’t
afford to miss these Bargains,
Write to-day for Samples and Self-measurement Forms.
I guarantee to please you with fit and workmanship, or
return your cash.
Did you read my offer in this paper on December 24th ?
df
sd
The man on the land is always in trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business
in the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results, no fees, is his business
shingle.*
Mr. J. E. HOISLEY, Proprietor of the Halsey
House, New Holland, Ohio, writes :
“ I had a severe attack of LA GRIPPE. It ran into
PNEUMONIA. Doctors failed to give me relief. I
became so weak that I could not turn in bed. Finally
ray wife got a bottle of Jayne’s Expectorant. Before I
had used one half of it my Cough was easier, and I was
soon restored, I have no hesitation in saying that
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT SAVED MY LIFE.”*
fs
DUNLOP
GARDEN HOSE
Docs not Kink or Durst.
Lasts for'Yesrs.
Manufactured by
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC
TYRE CO., of AUS. LTD..
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Pertft.
Brisbane. «> Christchurch N.Z.
Dunlop Hose
IS ALWAYS FRESH and FREE FROM PERISH
A BIG ADVANTAGE.
BEND FOR 3AMPLC.
Sydney House-
-150 Clarence Street.
“ 0.K.”: Swearing a Governor in is a
brief ceremony if the vice-regal person likes to
rush it, but there was no indecent haste on the
occasion of Lord Northcote’s official cuss. He
was somewhat previous in his arrival at the
Federal Parliament House, and his first trouble
was to kill time. Before entering the building he
went through the form of inspecting the line of
troops arrayed at the foot of the steps. Anon lie
slowly proceeded to the Queen’s Hall, and there
he sat enthroned, staring at the clock until the
hands pointed to the hour of 3 ; Then the mum-
mers spoke their lines. A military official secre-
tary, with a distinctly good opinion of himself,
read the commission appointing the litcle person-
age on his left to be G.G. of the Commonwealth.
He read the document badly in all respects.
His Ex. next gave his voice a chance. The voice
was not weak, but it had no edge on it and the
elocution of the newchum Gov. began and ended
in a johnny drawl, which is the vocal equivalent
of the Piccadilly crawl. My quite adjacent ear
could catch little or nothing of what the noble
Baron said, except “So help me, God.’’ There
are certain familiar phrases that come easy to
everybody’s hearing even when ill-spoken, and
“So help me, God ”is one of them. The official
secretary made some more announcement, growing
worse as he went along. Then he shook his fore-
finger at somebody as a signal for distant guns to
be fired, and this was accepted as a satisfactory
intimation that the small personage in the
Windsor uniform had been duly sworn. Regard-
ing the ceremony as a theatrical entertainment I
went away disgusted by the incompetence of the
leading performers. A pair of more imposing-
looking fellows, better able to speak the parts,
could be chosen from Bland Holt’s army of supers.
And how much more reasonable they would be in
their charges!
Said that at the Wyalong (N.S.W.) rail-
way opening the beer flowed so freely that even
children were allowed to get drunk. v
“ Plain Bill ” gives a plain, unvarnished
description of a G.-G., as seen by him :
Lord Northcote is about the smallest and meekest item
in Governors that Australia has imported to date. Stands
about sft. 3in., and is a small man all ways. Face rather
florid; small, beady, black eyes; retreating chin ;
straight, black hair ; wrinkled temples ; moustache of no
particular variety—he might be anything from a debt-
collector to a genius. Was pleased to notice an absence
of “Haw” about hitn, and an apparent desire to be nice
and agreeable, and to appear quite at home. He failed
in this last, however, and wore an air best explained in
the schoolboy phrase—he looked as if he couldn’t help it.
“ B.” : Moralists who cry out over Tatter-
sail’s sweeps, church bazaars, charity lotteries,
and plain cash betting, should say what they
think, if they can think and are not mere parrots,
of the land lottery system of N.S.W. No bleaker
gamble goes on this side of Monte Carlo. Men
have gone mad trying to get a block, and failing
season after season and year after year. Some
have attended the ballot five and six and seven
years and missed every time. It is no small work
to spy out the land thrown open, compare block
with block, make choice, and deposit the applica-
tion. But forty, fifty, a hundred applications are
in for the same block, and the substitute for
George Adams’ barrel comes into play. The
defeated hayseeds in many cases take to liquor.
They curse the Government and fight the police
and vow they will never court another ballot. But
they will be there again if alive. These land
ballots are the deliberate work of Parliament, and
not one of the braying anti-lottery moralists opens
a mouth to condemn them.


The achievements of Havelock, in India, have brought undying
fame to his credit. The defence of Cawnpore and the relief of
Lucknow are both stirring events in the history of that awful
Mutiny. The name of HAVELOCK will be remembered as the
greatest name in the long list of heroes that helped to save India to
the British nation. ......
And in the realms of commerce, no less than of war, the
name of ..•••••
HAVELOCK
will be remembered as the title and distinguishing mark of a great
achievement.
Not many years ago ** HAVELOCK” Tobacco was
unknown; to-day it is spoken of and smoked throughout the
Commonwealth.
The determination of the proprietors to succeed, the efforts
towards perfect manufacture, the almost heroic attempts to secure,
amidst the greatest competition, the finest selected leaf, the
incessant study of the taste of the Australian smoker, and, finally,
the constant daily effort to procure for “ HAVELOCK” Tobacco
everything that was of the best —from the leaf in Virginia to the
most skilled workmen and the best machinery—has built up for
“ HAVELOCK” Tobacco an enduring reputation that few will be
found to question. It is no exaggeration to say, that . •
“HAVELOSK”
is the best pipe-smoking tobacco in the world—best made, best
material, and best in all those qualities that the intelligent smoker
looks for. •
“ Havelock” is sold in plugs or tins—Aromatic or Dark.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
nil chenvsts throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, Eng’and.*
QALLARAT SCHOOL OF MINES
WILL RE-OPEN 9th FEBRUARY.
Chemistry, Assaying, Metallurgy, Geology,
Engineering, Electricity, Mining, &c.
Ores tested by Battery and Amalgamation, Cyanide or
Chlorination. FRED. J. MARTELL, Director.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
REYNOLPS’S
NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Vigorous Articles.
PRICE ON€ PENNY.
3
df
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
Ml Selects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in ail the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
330 Pages over 100 lllusrations 6/6, posted,
he L F R SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
} ' ' under the Mines Act in Victoria
Adi ROURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
THE
“LONDON*
f.O
42/- TO ORDER.
SMART
CLOTHES
For Summer are what we are showing—they are
the best and dressiest that it is possible to make.
There must be extraordinary merit in these
“LONDON" 42/- SUITS
to have gained the reputation they have a mo: g
smartly-dressed men for style and quality o"
material. We guarantee a perfect fit if you send
for one of our Measurement Forms, together with
a selection of Patterns—Post Free.
LONDON TAILORING
DEPOT,
OPP. G.P.0., fIELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES).
DO yOU DRUNK LIME JUICE ?
PUHEUME-FRUr r JUICE
sd
fsd
THEN DRINK TNE BEST
Artnts — Elliott Bros., Ltd . J "onr.ell S. Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen &. '-j, .-e wcastle.
" CORDIAL'-M^
VANISHED VIGOR
From any cause Speedily
and Permanently
RESTORED.
TOO WRITS. I CORE
SOU IPS TOR’S
IMPROVED
f
S H
Has completely
Cured Thousands of
SUFFERING MEN.
IS NOT A BELT.
ILL NOT BURN YOU.
Here is Nothing to Wear
It is Sure, Safe,
Speedy, Secret, and Simple.
For All Forms of
NERVE BLOOD, AND
SKIN DISEASES
Consult the Only Qualified
Specialist who has no Record
of Failure.
Let me give you back your
Manliness.
VARICOCELE CURED
Without Operation or Pa.n.
SURGEON LiUHSTON,
) M R.C.S , ENG.,
129 CO.LINJ ST.> MELBOURNE
1
References throughout Great Britain and Cetenii7,
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cu.ed, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
R liefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: DR. P. RaROLD HaYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE*
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
USHMAN and BUCCANEEK,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
London correspondent of Liverpool Post
says that it is generally recognised among diplo-
matists that the Triple Alliance is at an end.
Italy has unostentatiously withdrawn from it.
Germany and Austria are now left as two mem-
bers of this military partnership. The Austrian
Empire is so much weakened by internal diffi-
culties that it hardly counts, and Germany is,
therefore, left in a state of “splendid isolation.
Cabled that some of Herbert Spencers
disciples are shocked at the sentiments of a
po-thumously published letter, in which the great
philosopher urged Japan to exclude foreigners
and keep them ever at arm’s length. But
Spencer’s advice was reasonable and philosophic.
Nature has planted in various countries peoples
of widely varying types, and these types, follow-
ing a natural process of evolution, would, if left
undisturbed, gradually perfect themselves. Some
are far less advanced than others. If these are
made the victims of some Imperialistic power, or
are misled into imitating some nation which is at
a different stage of evolution, the purpose of
Nature is frustrated. It would undoubtedly be
better from every point of view if the Jap, the
Chinaman, and the Kanaka were left to work out
their own destiny—better for them and better for
the white races who “ take up their burdens.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound! that Discharge or otherwise, perhapj »ur-
roundcd with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre a your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impul-
sion ? It so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Per haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others hate failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Sendatonce for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
ie. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
AI BERT, 73, Earringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ,'CLLIOT'T BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look (01 Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
gicen lalel on each box. (Kegd. copyright!.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
m
DAY i
nn
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘ Viyella * has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ELDJ?,IIDG-E & CO- 7
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Missing Friends.
Thomas warman bathe, of
England, who about 55 years ago went to
or his descendants, are requested to write to
signed, when they will hear of something
advantage. JOHN T. S. COLE, SHAY
SWINDON, WILTSHIRE, ENGLAND.
Wiltshire,
Australia,
the under-
: to their
V FARM,
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\ea away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Ib. bottles. Made in London.*
m
i
0)
u-.
Q\
RE
m
m
=fek
'NATURES
PLEASANT!
LAXATIVE*
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE*
California Syrup of Figs acts
gently, pleasantly and most benefi-
cially on the Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, and permanently overcomes
Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advice
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS,
and see that the package bears the well-
known Name and Trade Mark of the
California Fig Syrup Co. Imitations are
numerous, but as you value your health
cannot risk taking a substitute. Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs is sold in Aus-
tralia in two sizes at 13 and 1/11.
Worthless substitutes are often offered
at less as an inducement.
California Fig Syrup Co., 32Snow Hill, London. Australia— 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
SOME CURES.
Exemplifying the curative effects of Wamerce Safe Cure, a few letters from people who have been
cured are subjoined. As millions of bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, however, have been sold in Aus-
tralasia, it is easy for anyone, by making inquiry amongst personal friends, to hear of many similar
cases.
Kidney Complaint. Mr. John Lovell* of 45 Balmain Street, Richmond, Victoria, says:
"It is with pleasure that I write in regard to my recovery from a very bad attack of Kidney
Complaint. I was taken so ill that I had to be brought home and laid on the couch. I thought that
I had a paralytic stroke, as I seemed to have lost all muscular motion in my back. I had been hale
and hearty up till that time, and could only account for my attack as being caused by a sudden chill
in the kidneys. I received advice, and was duly prescribed medicine, but I derived no benefit. Then
a friend recommended me to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and the relief was speedy and wonder-
ful. In two weeks I was out and about my work again. Since that time I have had no return of the
complaint, and am now in the best of health.—l9th August, 1902.”
Stone in the Bladder. Mr. James Grant, Grocer, 126 Young Street, Annandale, N.S.W.,
Bays :
" Some ten years ago I was attacked by great pains in the back and groin, which at times were so
severe that I almost screamed with agony. I was treated by doctors for fully five years, and also
tried several patent medicines, but obtained no relief. lat last, despaired of ever getting well again,
but was recommended by a friend to try Warner’s Safe Cure, as it had given him immense relief in a
similar case. I followed his advice, and, after taking the medicine for a while, I passed a stone about
three-quarters of an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide. I am pleased to say that, after this
stone had come away, my sufferings were at an end, and I have not suffered in the slightest degree
since. Many of my friends know of my case, and I always keep the stone I passed. I can confidently
recommend Warner’s Safe Cure in cases like mine, as I am thoroughly convinced that it saved me
many years of agony, if not my very life itself. —12th February, 1903.”
Bladder Disease. Captain W, J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg,
Victoria, says :
"It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of the great benefit I have derived from
taking Warner’s Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a chill, which turned to a very
severe attack of Inflammation of the Bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examining me each
said it was a disease common to men of my age (I am over 60), and that I could only get relief by
using an instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I positively refused to let either of them
use an instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I conscientiously and
truthfully declare that before finishing the first bottle I got absolute relief, and began to feel better in
every respect. I have continued to take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully improved.
My previous troubles have entirely disappeared, and I am no longer disturbed during the night. I
am in as good health now as I can ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to Warner’g
Bafe Cure. I carefully observed the diet directions given in your book. I most strongly recommend
Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved in-
valuable.—6th April, 1903.”
Liver Disease. Miss lima Ross, of 198 Archer St., North Adelaide, S.A., says :
“Some four years ago my general good health failed me, and I suffered from severe headaches at
least once a week, constant debility, and loss of vitality. At times I had pain and weakness in my
back. My appetite became poor and digestion bad. I consulted medical men, who pronounced the
cause of my illness to be Disease of the Liver, and gave me medicine to take, but, as weeks passed and
I was getting no better, I became alarmed, and decided finally to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I con-
tinued to take this medicine for three weeks, and felt better each day. My appetite returned, weak-
ness and pain left me, and in about a month I was as well as ever. Had I taken Warner’s Safe Cure
at the commencement of my illness, I feel sure I should have been cured sooner, and so have saved
doctors’ bills. —11th December, 1902.”
Dyspepsia. Mr. T. H. Cook, Belleview Street, Parramatta, N.S.W., says J—
“ I have been a great sufferer for about 20 years from Chronic Dyspepsia. During that time I can safely say that
I have spent £2OO on doctors, and the best of doctors, and only got at any time but slight relief from their medicines.
I suffered terribly with pains in the chest and stomach, and also across the shoulders and kidneys, besides suffering
from constipation. I always felt very drowsy, but could get but lit tie sleep. I have lived for years on slop food;
meat, cabbage, potatoes or pastry of any kind would almost kill me. I was recommended by a friend, about 12
months ago, to try what Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills would do for me. I took the advice, and can
truly say that since that time I have felt like a new man.—4th March, 1903.”
Rheumatism. Mrs. Nellie Davidson, 32 Keig Street, Newtown, N.S.W., says :
« When living in Boggabri, about 18 months ago, I was laid up for nearly the whole winter with Rheumatism’
and could not obtain any relief from any of the several medicines I took. One day I saw a pamphlet, issued by you,
in which was described a case similar to my own, and I decided to try whether Warner’s Safe Cure would also benefit
me. I took three bottles of the medicine, and am very glad to say that I was completely cured and could go about
my work cheerfully. I have not felt the slightest symptom of the return of any rheumatic pain since that time.—
10th February, 1903.”
Warner’s Safe Cure
Cures Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel and Stone, Bladder
Troubles, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Persistent Headache, Anaemia, Gereral
Debility, Blood Dicorders and Bright's Disease, simply- because it restores the kidneys and liver to
health and vigor, w-hen the urinary and biliary poisons, which cause the diseases, are expelled from the system
in a natural manner. Treatise, post free, on application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
V'\w
\
SEND NO MONEY.
TX7E hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
” Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE j-
The only condition is that, if’your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**S T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to orr address
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt r,t„ Sydrev.
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
Pos ed to my State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
Polly’s Home.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Polly was as nice a little woman as the country
could boast of. At least I thought so. I was
farming “next door” and boiled my own duff
under a few sheets of bark, and had no company
except the big dog, a profane galah, and the
heroine of a faded novelette. Men in circum-
stances of the kind are apt to regard any woman
as above the average. I envied Jim Bailey
ardently.
Jim, like myself, was poor. “ I’ve got every-
thing but money, ” he used to say. The trouble
with Jinr was that he was minus a good deal
besides money. He had a very poor house, for
one thing, and that’s just what Polly didn’t care
for. She was a dainty little woman, and I
believed she must have had some “ bringing up ”
m her time. Jim had always promised her a
nice house, with heaps of new furniture and fancy
things, and Polly, for her part, had vowed to
work like any two men out of gratitude. The
seasons had been anything but passable, though,
and the old mud-humpy still had to do duty
because of lack of funds.
VVe had gone through eight years of bushel-
crops and water-carting, and the country was just
on the verge of ruin, when a wet time set in, and
sheets of water swooped down on the crops and
grass-paddocks for a week. Didn’t Igo wild, and
act the lunatic ! The harvest I got was one to be
remembered, and Jim’s was a little better, if any-
thing. I wondered whether Polly’s grand home
would now become a reality, and if she would
think as much of my company as ever.
What merry evenings I had spent in the mud
home, card-playing, cake-eating, and wine-drink-
ing 1. It would come hard on a lonely man like
me if she went in for mixing with the cocoa-
sipping crowd.
“You needn’t fret,” she said one day. “This
picturesque paradise has to do another year, and
when you feel mournful, stroll across, or I’ll be
tempted to come and fetch you.”
That was Polly all over—so droll, and seeming
not to care, or know, disappointment; but I felt
I had to be worried or burst.
“ Good Heavens ! ” I began. But she saw
what was coming, and told me it couldn’t be
helped. Jim—l was situated alike, and should
have known better—had had as many debts to
wipe off as a merchant, and his wheat cheque,
big as it was, had slipped through his fingers like
an eel. A man couldn’t have ploughs, and horses,
and credit at the store without being called upon
for settlements.
Next year was just as muddy. The drought
was clearly going to give us a show at last. Teams
were always getting bogged, and six draught
horses to a light dog-cart was about the right
thing. As for cropping, the too-fortunate cockie3
some days found it out of the question. It was
too sloppy to be a laughing matter, but we got in
every acre we wanted to, and the result a few
months later, gave us a sense of security, and for
sights and songsters there was no need for a man
to go further than the door. Polly seemed to go
back to 17, and stay there. I began to keep an
eye open for a woman like Polly.
Jim was in hospital. I don’t know what
prompted him to lay up just on the eve of strip-
ping time, but that’s what he did. Polly came
to me in a state of great alarm—quite a new thing
for her.
“What’s to be done ? ” she asked.
“You’ll have to get a manager, Mrs. Bailey.”
“But where’s one to be found?”
“Well, there’s one here that might suit,” I
said. “You won’t have to wait at all. Both
crops can come off together—yours and mine.”
I think Polly thought me a hero straight away.
She brightened up as if nothing was troubling her
at all, though all the time she must have been in
a fever of anxiety about Jim. She was a good
wife to Jim, and he, poor fellow, deserved it. I
fell to wondering how she would take it, if Jim’s
complaint was a fatal one, and he “threw it in.”
Then disaster came in another shape. I sprang
off the bunk—l’d been waiting for my tea to cool
—and ran to the door. The crackling sound had
been no mere delusion: Bailey’s crop was in
flames.
In ten minutes I was there, expecting to find
Polly in a state of collapse. But the horses,
stabled for stripping preliminaries next day, were
already harnessed, and there was Polly, hitching
them to the plough. Farmers rolled up from all
quarters. Women and bits of kiddies, everybody
able to use a bough, came with them. The alarm
of “Fire ! ” had been raised from one end of the
district to the other, and all were volunteers in
the brigade. Traps were lined on the windward
side in scores, each with its water-bags and demi-
johns, and everyone struggled to get the blaze
under, and save the living of a sick man and
stricken wife ; but it had to go—every straw.
Things then went “anyhow” with Polly. Jim
got to hear of his loss ; they kept it from him till he
was out of danger and recovering, and the poor
fellow went right back to where he left off in his
downhill career of typhoid, and the next thing
was a telegram.. The task of breaking the news
fell to me, and if ever I saw human misery it was
that day. A fund was started for Polly’s relief,
and reached a lively figure, but it didn’t keep her
out of the hospital for all that, and more than once
it was nearly all up with her.
In spite of my own prosperity, I couldn’t
somehow help feeling miserable. The wheat-
buyer had winked and looked mysterious
when handing me a cheque for three figures;
the auctioneer had a habit of sidling up
and passing remarks about the weather; the
storekeepers beamed upon me; and agents of
all sorts got so “ chummy ” I couldn’t go into the
township without getting more cheap beer than
was good for me next day. But the black waste
t’other side of the boundary fence used to kill me.
A thought of what had been, and the curse that
now rested on that selection, deprived me of peace
in the day-time and sleep at night. I hoped that
time would lift the shadow; but one month was
like another, no more joy in them than if I had
murdered a man. Even after the crops were in—
I was still Polly’s manager—l had a sensation
under the breast pocket that was anything but
lively. Meanwhile Polly had not ‘ ‘pegged-out,”
but was living—rather humbly, I thought—in
town, where her kiddies were picking up the rudi-
ments of arithmetic.
It wasn’t a bad year, so far, as years go in Aus-
tralia, and the district —in September, I think it
was—saw the last of me for a while. I went to
town. I had always stayed at an hotel as far as I
can remember, but this time I went to a cottage
in a southern suburb. She was looking Al, and
sent the kiddies off for something special in the
way of fish, biscuits, and wine. At night she
made up a bed in the parlor, and altogether I was
well looked after.
When I’d been there a few weeks, and backing
horses, play-going, and all the rest of it was
getting a bit tame, I said I must be goirg.
“I think I’ll go too,” she said, in her old
manner*
Then what I’d been dying to say yesterday, and
its yesterday, crept into my throat like a hard
lump. I wasn’t fool enough to believe that she
wanted to go back and live with Jim’s ghost and
the ’possums.
“I suppose you won’t mind me going with
you ? ” she added.
“Well, hardly,” I said, pulling her on to my
knee, “but you’d better wait till I get the house
built.”
She didn’t have to wait long.
VIC.
WILL JARHATT.
“ D.” : Consider the effect of keeping a
“ front room” on the premises. It is the kennel
of bilious respectability, the sanctum of squirm.
It engenders an “approach me reverently” idea
in the youthful mind that is disastrous. The
Family Bible, “ Pilgrim’s Progress ” and “ The
Life of Our Queen ” 101 l on cushions on the table,
and scatter microbes of Toryism. Its £6 10s.
Genoa velvet suite suggests deference and crawl.
Did one ever read of a successful democratic
movement being planned in a “front room”?
No: Respectability would fall from the cheap
furniture and the nasty oleographs, and smother
the voice of freedom. The “Front Room ”is the
citadel of suburban stupidity. Couldn’t the Labor
party make its abolition a plank of its platform ?
But, alas, I forget. Some of the Labor party
have front rooms.
Few Australian men have kept so many
commercial irons in the fire without being burned
as the late Alfred Felton did. First there was the
Felton, Grimwade wholesale firm, founded close
upon 40 years ago, with its drug warehouses in at
least three States and its interests in all of them.
He put up most of the money fcr the Melbourne
Bottle Works, held stations, and farms in at least
four States, was interested in half-a-dozen chemi-
cal works, and took an occasional hand in mining
deals. When the Commercial Bank of Australia
wanted to get out of Broken Hill, after the boom
and the collapse of values, he took over its fore-
closed properties there, and became the silver
town’s biggest landlord. But, then, his business
concerns were his wife and his children —he never
had any besides. And he let his partner, Grim-
wade, M.L.C., give all the time the firm could
afford for politics. Books and art-collecting and
the Old Colonists’ Association were his only re-
laxations. He gave away thousands during his
lifetime, and still was able to leave half-a-million
to the Melb. Art Gallery and other Vic. insti-
tutions.


The Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute,
which has been established for many years in Sydney (Dr.
Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., physician-in-chief),
notify, in an advertisement appearing in this issue, having
opened a branch establishment in Melbourne, at the cor-
ner of Bourke and Elizabeth streets (op. G.P.O.). In con-
nection with their business they publish a 570-page book,
entitled “Clinical Experiences,” containing general
medical information and particulars of electricity as
applied in medical treatment. —Melbourne Argus, Jan.
23, 100/,.*
The hon. sec. of the Benevolent Societies’
Fete and Art Union advertises that the value of
the golden kangaroo is £150 net, at the Mint; the
price of kangarooing the metal is thrown in as an
extra. The drawing of the Art Union will take
place publicly on or about February 27th, and will
be duly advertised in the dailies.*
On the 13th inst. Goldsbrough, Mort, and
Company Limited submitted in Melbourne a catalogue of
about 6,000 bales of wool, and the sale was a remarkably
successful one, deserving more than passing attention.
Included in the offerings were some 3000 bales of scoured
wool, an unusually large proportion of staple so treated,
and the sale in consequence attracted widespread interest,
and was largely attended by buyers. In the past the
custom, both in London and the States, has generally been
to offer scoured wool as it arrived, the wool so treated
formin'* but a small percentage of the daily offerings, and
callin<*°for no special notice. For the last three years
Goldsbrough, Mort, and Company Limited have been
gradually adopting the procedure of holding the bulk of
scoured wool entrusted to them for sale until they bad a
considerable parcel to offer. This year’s accumulations
assumed dimensions, however, greatly in excess of former
periods The scoured wools offered on the 13th included
clips from central and southern Queensland, Riverina,
and the West Darling, and the shown portions filled three
of the company’s large rooms in Bourke-street.
sound judgment displayed by the company in holding
this special sale was abundantly confirmed by results.
From start to finish competition was brisk, and a
clearance effected at rates highly satisfactory and
remunerative to owners, and greatly in excess of the
prices realised in London for similar wools scoured at the
same establishments. The bidding emanated from buyers
representing manufacturers in England and various parts
of the Continent, Japan, and the United Kingdom, and
was very general; in fact, in the history of the Australian
wool trade no better distributed demand has ever been
met, and no more conclusive proof should be wanted of
the fact that Australia is the best and real market for its
own wool.*
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES
Steyne Court, MANLY,
A Pronounced Success.
AND DON’T FORGET
THE FIERY DRAGON.
Amusements.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY
OF N.S.W.
grand Commonwealth Shorn.
30th MARCH to 7th APRIL, 1904,
PRIZE SCHEDULES
MAY BE HAD ON APPLICATION.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 1 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. GKO. STEPHENSON.
FIFTH WEEK of the FA VORITES,
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
AMERICAN COMEPY COMPANY.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 30,
First Production in Australia of the Brightest Jewel in
Comedy’s Crown,
BROWN’S IN TOWN,
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRIOES-Is., 3s., 2s., and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at A.
Mr. TREE’S COMPANY, including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNIGH ,
in Hall Caine’s Great Work, with Mascagni’s Music,
THE ETERNAL CITY.
A MAGNIFICENT PLAY—A NOBLE PERFORMANCE.
A GORGEOUS SPECTACLE-A HUGH SUCCESS.
63T Box Plan at Paling’s. Carriages at 10.40.
HEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening at 8 p.m. Wednesday Matinee at 2 p.m.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 30,
Grand Revival of the Musical Comedy, the
BELLE OF NEW YORK.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Lyceum theatre, sydney.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and E V ERY EVENING,
THE LATEST DRAMATIC TRIUMPH,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
New and Novel Sensational Attraction,
Saturday Night in London.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
QUEEN’ S HALL, S YD N E V.
Under the Direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
LAST NIGHTS, LAST NIGHTS,
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER.
AN ARTIST WHO STANDS ALONE.
MEL. B. SPURR will make his First Appearance in
Tasmania at the THEATRE ROYAL, HOBART, on
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5. t
PRICES—3s, .2s, and Is. Doors Open at
Matinee Every Wednesday at 2.30.
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
Pupil of Madame Rende Richard (of the Opera), Paris.
CENTENARY HALL, Y0RK-ST., SYDNEY,
FEBRUARY 10. FEBRUARY 10. FEBRUARY 10.
Plan at Paling’s. 5s, 3s, 2s. J. EDWARD SYKES.
the MUT0SC0PE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
•nd OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manasrer — Mr. Harry Rickards.
A Brilliant Reception Accorded Our New Artists,
MDLLE. VULCAN A and MONS. ATLAS.
Magnificent Success of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Marvellously Trained Troupe of °ATS and DOCS.
Enthusiastic Reception of MRS. SIMS REEVES.
Brilliant Reception of Mr. Rickard’s Latest Importation,
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWERS and Miss MAUD FANING.
Miss JENNY GREY. Mr. ERNEST FITTS.
Op ER A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS,
Specialty Artistes and Dancers.
THE TWO BELLS, Duettists and Dancers.
Great Success of CLARK and HAMILTON, Comedy
Sketch Artists, and JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical
MISS RAY JONES. THE COLLIERS. J. W WINTON
DAISY SYLVESTER, ELLA WELLINGTON, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, IRVING SAYLES.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
FIFTH WEEK.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager O. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
in Reproduction of the Interesting Domestic Melodrama,
IN LONDON TOWN,
by G. R. Sims and A. Shirley.
p r i ceg 3a, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
glJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE;
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Mr. TOM PERM AN.
LAST NIGHTS of the
Magnificent Spectacular Comedy XMAS PANTOMIME
little red riding hood.
NEW SONGS, NEW DANCES.
MATINEES, MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Broken Hill Sulphide Corporation’s annual
figures show that very little, if any, improvement is being
made in the extraction of metal by the concentrating
process. Figures for successive Jan.-June half-years have
been :—
Lead Extracted, Silver Extracted,
pwc. of contents. p.c. of contents.
June, 1899 .. 70 41 .. 49'44
», 1900 .. 68-34 .. 48-05
„ 1901 .. 68-34 .. 48-05
„ 1902 .. 69-6 .. 51
„ 1903 .. 68-7 . 48*6
So that approximately one-third of the lead and one-half
of the silver go into the tailings dumps. In the past
four or five years many additions have been made to the
concentrating appliances, but they have barely kept pace
with the increasing refractoriness of the ore as greater
depths are worked.
V * * *
Mount Boppy, near Cobar (N.S.W.), produced
about 25,C00oz. gold last year, and paid 5s. 3d. per share
in divs., or a trifle over £30,000. representing about one-
third of the product. The proportion of divs. to product
is extremely low considering that the ore averages nearly
loz., that there is a massive body of it, and that the mine
i3 well equipped ; but there may have been extensive
writing down for depreciation, or a reserve-fund may
have been created to meet the cost of doubling the mill-
ing plant. Current local report is that the new ore-body
is marvellously rich—so rich that occasionally it isbagged
as broken and carefully watched. This report is evidently
a wild exaggeration. Anyhow, it is not confirmed
by the manager’s messages. The latest intimation which
has reached Australia is a cable dated 12th Dec.; “New
ore body, 100 feet point; the lode stuff consists of low
grade ore carrying several stringers of high grade ore.
Two one-ton samples from the whole width of 42 feet
average lldwt.” At other points on the course of this
branch lode, much higher assay results have been
obtained, and the chances are that in the aggregate it will
pan out better than the main lode. Shares have nearly
doubled in value since the beginning of last.year and now
stand at about £3. The ill-luck of the Anglo-Australian
Exploration Co. attended it to the last. It held a large
parcel of Boppy shares (as consideration for the Gally-
mont plant), which it disposed of not long since for, it is
said, less than 30s. per share.
* * * . *
Efforts are being made to effict an amalgamation
of part of the Mount Boppy co.’s holdingand the leases to
the south held by a Oobar syndicate. As a prospecting
venture the project has much to recommend it. The
points for the local men to be careful about are, that Bull
puts up his quota in solid cash, and that they retain a
certain degree of control, because, despite the sneers at
Australian “tinpot methods,” the latter have the
merit of showing profits where the English method
would show losses. Cobar itself gives striking
evidence on this point. Cobar Gold Mines, for example,
treats twice as much ore as the Occidental does, and the
average value is nearly twice as much ; yet the Occidental
is a regular div. paver, while Cobar G.M. bas never
figured in the div. list. Similarly, if Mount Boppy dis-
bursement accounts were minus big fees to consulting
engineers, who “consult” nothing more than plans sent
from the mine, and fees to directors, who, in a practical
sense, “direct” nothing, and princely salaries to a big
clerical staff who simply transfer to books the tabulated
statements prepared by the mine clerks, its div. record
would make a more respectable showing.
• * * *
What quantity of ore Occidental, Cobar, treats
and how much gold is won are profound secrets.
Directors’ i lea is that it is enough for shareholders to
know that the 3d. div. will be paid as usual. Fact is that
the ore is so poor that directors are afraid to stale its
value lest a panic might be created. There is really
nothing to be afraid or ashamed of; on the contrary,
there is something to glory over —the cheapest mining in
Australia. The battery is to be increased by 20 stampers.
There is an abundant supply of water, and there
will be no cessation of operations during the current
year. But the life of the mine with present
systems of treatment is within calculable time,
and that is not far distant. Prospects are that in the
copper zone—already tapped in the main shaft—the mine
will be extremely valuahle. New systems will then have
to be adopted, and in view of this the policy of paying
away the last pennv in divs. is questionable ; at least 25
per cent, of the profits should be set aside. Directors
would act wisely if they created a reserve fund out of the
extra profit which they expect to make from the extra
crushing power. “ Sufficient for the day is the necessity
thereof ” is not a sound mining motto, more particularly
in a case like this, where future necessity is so distinctly
disclosed.
* * * *
Between the Occidental and Jhesney mines at
Cobar masterly inactivity prevails. The only sign of
animation is at the Young Australia cyanide plant, where
Chesney tailings are being treated. There is no pretence
of work at the Young Australia mine. Last report
suggested : “ We are in justice entitled to some con-
sideration from the prospecting vote.” For sublime
assurance this would take a batch of buns. The Great
-Western is supposed to be in the possession of tributors,
whose intentions are said to be very large—a fortnight
since there was no indication of anything other than the
intentions. Only past-masters at the business could have
succeeded in shepherding blocks in this section of the
field for so many years. It would seem as though the
best way to ensure “ security of tenure ” is to
do nothing. There is no reason why the area of
ground—which is as valuable as any in Cobar—should not
• give employment to hundreds of men and remunerate
investors as well; hut neither investors nor workers can
get on to it. On the Australia, Western and Occidental
area there ought to be not less than 250 stampers con-
stantly at work, and there would be if labor conditions
were not honored more in the breach than the observance.
All practical and economical considerations point to this
area as one which should be worked by one corpora-
tion. There is a proposition here somewhat akin to the
Alaska-Treadwell and the Dakota-Homestake, but violent
. company antipathies, aided by official supineness, stand
in the way of its accomplishment.
* * » »
Bee Mountain, about 15 miles east of Oobar, is
justifying its name. Great energy is being displayed by
the Cobar men who own the copper mine there. Large
quantities of high-grade ore have been shipped, and it is
repoited that arrangements are being made to erect
furnaces to treat the big accumulation of seconds. The
best testimony to the owners’ faith is the fact that the
property never has been for sale ; the owners don’t agree
with the assertion that “ fools work mines, wise men sell
them.” What a view it is from the summit of Bee Moun-
tain ! What visions of wealth are in the mind’s eye as it
wanders along the long chain of ridges—in places un-
broken for miles—extending southward to Nymagee,
Shuttleton, Gilgunnia and on to Mount Hope ! The back-
bone, this, of one of the most extensive and richest
meta’liferous areas in Australia, if not in the world.
* * * »
On present prices, or thereabouts, Perseverance
last year gave the highest return, 17£ p.c., amongst Wes-
tralian front rank mines. Others—Northern, 15 p.c.;Sons
of Gwalia, 12£ ; Oroya, B.H., 111 ! Boulder, 11 ; Horseshoe
and Ivanhoe, 10 ; Kalgurli and Fingall, 91 ; Associated,
Among the smaller ones, the Cosmopolitan showed
20 per cent.
* * * *
Paddington Consols’ (W.A.) main shaft is down
720ft., and a level has been started at 700ft. Should this
not prove more remunerative than the 500ft. the mine
will probably be abandoned.. The Paddington is the
last of the litter selected for the London and
Globe, and afterwards amalgamated as the Standard
Exploration Co. * * •
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W. A.), cut the
reef at the 640ft. about the middle of December at 89ft.
from shaft. Since then some driving has been done, and
stone was reported to be worth from 8 to lOoz. As this
was not sufficiently good, the crosscut is beingcontinued,
and has reached lioft. without anything better or quite
as e-ood being found. Some months ago it was reported
that the manager had found the reef at 530ft., 4ft. wide,
and worth from 3 to lloz. Apparently this was too poor
to pay too, as nothing has been heard of it since. Efforts
are being made to boom the stock but without much
result Co. is in 80,000 shares, and paid three divs. of
6d each in 1898-9, since when numerous calls have been
made and the co. was re-constructed in June last. It
seems to be a pretty hopeless proposition.
* * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) looks like turning out a
good thing for the local syndicate which now holds it,
8709 tons have been treated for 9832oz., monthly returns
averaging 700oz. from a 10-head mill. The mill is being
duplicated, and a cyanide plant erected, so very shortly
the returns will be at least doubled. No divs. have, so
far, been paid, all gold going to improve the property.
When the additions to plant get to work Is. divs. should
be paid monthly. There are 31,200 shares. Property is
10 miles east of Kalgoorlie, and is to be provided with
water from the Government scheme shortly.
* * * *
Peak Hill (W.A.) is in a state of suspended
animation, there being trouble with the men over the
searching business : they were asked to pass from one
change-room to another without even a fig-leaf. Hence
the temporary closing down of the mine. Ex-Governor
“ Jerry ” Smith has recently resigned his seat on the
Board, for what reason rumor saith not. The promoter
and chairman of the co. is George Darlington Simpson,
who has had some curious experiences—and so have his
associates. The co. should soon be declaring another
div., as the last was paid in April, since when mine has
been producing nearly 3000oz. monthly.
North Boulder (W.A.) is still crosscutting from
the 950ft. level. Prospects are very poor, as the Oroya
East, immediately adjoining on the north, crosscut
its ground from boundary to boundary without any
favorable result, although Brown Hill Extended lode was
cut, and has now shut down under exemption. Oroya
East is to await further developments on the Brown
Hill Extended before restarting. Under the circum-
stances resumption of operations seems very remote, as
the latter co. has not yet struck a pay chute in the
eastern lode, and, in any case, doesn’t seem in any great
hurry to push on exploration.
Ivanhoe South Extended (W.A.) has resumed
sinking its main shaft by contract, to test the lode cut by
drill at 1920ft. Mine is now controlled by Sutherland, of
the Horsehoe, and, as all work is done by the
Horseshoe staff, expenses are reduced to a. minimum.
The testing of this property has a distinct interest for
the Horsehoe, which holds the 60 acres immediately to
the South. These were purchased from the defunct
Golden Treasure, for £39,000. The testing of the ground
will take from 18 months to 2 years at the least.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.), if Manager Moss’ advice is
followed, will increase its plant by 50 per cent., and
then treat nearly 7000 tons monthly. The mine
is opening up splendidlj r in the lower levels, and it is
estimated that there is now quite 5 years’ ore in sight, or,
say, 230,000 tons. As the co. had a credit balance of
£30 000 odd clear of last year’s divs., and the increase in
plant is estimated to cost £15,000 only, the extension can
be made without interfering with the 2s. 6d. quarterly
divs The developments at the 1000ft. and 1050ft. levels
are among the best in the mine, and, when properly
opened up, will largely add to the reserves. Manager
Moss has informed his directors that he anticipates
getting the underlay of the Oroya rich chute 90ft. inside
the Kalgurli boundary at 1000ft. level before it makes
into the Associated. The run of this chute is so irregular
that it is hard to say where it is, but its trend, on the
whole, is towards the Associated.'
* * * *
An important discovery has been made by
Victorian Mines Department in a series of bores put down
north of Bendigo. Between Eaglehawk and Raywood—
about 20 miles—there were very rich shallow alluvial
workings, and many reefs have yielded rich returns in
patches. Five miles north of the Moon group of mines
the bores have proved a deep lead over 120 feet wide, and
the wash brought up has shown payable gold. There
is undoubtedly a big possibility in deep alluvial
mining here, as well as in quartz reefs which may be dis-
covered in alluvial workings. The lead should be con-
tinuously good for a long distance, as it has not been
fed from one main lead-source, but has had innumerable
branch feeders. AnotherOreswick added to Bendigo would
liven up the old field. The continuation of the Huntly
deep lead ought also to be searched for by the Depart-
ment. This was one of the most productive deep alluvial
fields in Victoria in the sixties. The lead was worked for
many miles, and when last tried it was in a swamp where
it became so wide as to be unpayable. Where the ancient
valley narrows again the lead ought to be payable.
* * * *
Horatio Bottomley is a man of large imagina-
tion. He told the shareholders of the Loddon Deep Lead
Co., near Talbot (Vic.), the other day, that before the
end of the year (1903) “ gold-laden gravel ” would be
going through the puddlers, and in a few months divs.
would be paid. As a matter of fact, there is no possi-
bility of the puddlers being set to work for many months,
and Bottomley should have known this. Incidentally he
attributed delays to the slowness of the managers in Vic.
The latter resent the imputation, and explain that delays
have been caused by the dilatoriness of the London
people in sending out money. Same old story—the last
thing that Bull does is to “ part.”
Costerfield is one of the interesting mining
puzzles of Victoria. Thirty years ago it was going to do
great things, but they haven’t arrived yet. There is
only one certain line of reef there—a succession of
antimony blows, a mile or so long. With antimony
a good price and 50 per cent, ore showing, money was
made. Afterwards as a gold producer it failed ; the
chutes were shorthand there was just enough antimony
to spoil the amalgamation process, and the original
people got out only about half the metal. Since then
many people have worried the tailings ; long ago Chinese
cradled most of the heaps twice. Then Robert Beeston
tried chlorination, made a plucky fight, but failed too.
Since then the ground has been sometimes held legiti-
mately enough, and sometimes shamelessly dummied.
There are supposed to be 50,000 tons of tailings and
10,000 tons of slag, with perhaps lOdwt. gold in it still ;
besides plenty of low-grade ore below the 300ft. level-
still with just enough antimony in it to spoil amalga-
mation. Now new pegs have been put in, and the old
stuff is being attacked in a new fashion : the sand is to be
briquetted with clay, kiln-roasted, then put through
the battery in the ordinary way. But so far there is no
sign of trying the mine itself.
... * * *
Charters Towers figures for 1903 are now reason-
ably complete : —
1902. 1903.
Stone Crushed .. .. 221,098 tons 247,481 tons
Gold from Stone .. .. 229,375oz. 268,872oz.
Cvanide 320,245 tons 268,411 tons
Gold from Cyanide .. 140,092oz. 144,438oz.
Smelters £62,973 £43,8/0
Total Value .. .. £1,121,976 £1,203,/38
Dividends .. .. -. £415,563 £460,395
Calls £109,404 £129,679
Excess divs. over calls .. £306,159 £330,716
* * * *
So far, the Dee rush, outside Rockhampton (Q.),
has given, all told, 2100oz.—a bare average of £1 a week
to the men who have been there. But, as more than half
of it has been in a few good-sized nuggets, it is certain
that the greater number haven’t averaged anything like
tucker.
* * * *
The Kulamadau, the chief of the Q.-owned
Woodlark Island mines, has got about £2800 to the gocd
as the result of its last year’s work. Twelve months ago
it was nearlv £800 in debt; now it has a credit balance of
£1500, with about £500 coming for concentrates. The
Kulamadau stuff is worth about loz. 2dwt., is mined
cheaply, and ought to give a better profit while,!t lasts.
But Woodlark Island is a casual place. The auriferous
■■■round has a way of slipping over a neighbor's boun-
dary ; the Kulamadau people reckon one slide cost them
400oz., but the manager advises them not to worry, as
probably quite that much has casually slipped into their
ground from the Woodlark Island Co.’s property. The
tailings are also allowed to run down the gully, though
they contain a good deal of gold—more than has been
got out of them in some cases, it is believed ; for it isn’t
easy gold to save.
* * * . * *
“L.O.W.”: The Peruvian Government is
attempting to boom mining in that country by sending
to Australia publications describing local mineral re-
sources, and a Towers (N.Q.) paper remarks that the
liberality of the laws is shown by the fact that the pay-
met of 30s. every six months is all that is required to
hold a mining property. This is the sort of liberality
some people would like to introduce into Australia. Yet
what sort of a place would Charters Towers be if Queens-
land laws were equally “liberal”? How many copper
properties worth re-opening are locked up in Australia
owing to the liberality of the old regime, which gave
freehold titles over such properties to the holders .
Would not someone long ago have re-opened the old
Peak Downs (Q.) show (which paid over £200 000 in divi-
dends, and has lain idle ever since) if it had been lease-
hold instead of freehold? And this is only one example.
Liberality, for the wrong person, does not always pan out
profitably, and liberality to lock up means disgusting
meanness to the legitimate miner, capitalist, and wages-
man alike. „
* * * *
“P.” : The miner's almost proverbial “ pig-
headedness,” as illustrated in the recent troubles at
Newcastle, doesn’t always pan out to the disadvantage_ol
the mine-owners ; in fact, pretty often, if it wasn t for
that “ pig-headedness,” the owners would go down
badly. In those cases, though, the owners and the papers
that sav what the owners want them to say, don t call it
by that hard name; they call it “pluck,” or persis-
tency,” or “indomitable courage,” and head the para-
graphs “ Brave Miners”—just as the Sydney D.T. headed
a leader two or three days before this row started, re-
counting what the Moonta (S.A.) men had done when
the fire broke out in that mine. The same quality that
makes men defy courts makes them defy smoke and
gas ■ the same obstinacy which makes them hang on to a
strike for weeks, in spite of friendly counsel, makes them
plug away saving life in a fallen-in chamber until they
have to be dragged out to air and nursed back to life by
a doctor. Stubborn the miner generally is; and if he
wasn’t he wouldn’t be worth what he is to either the
owner or the State.
A doctor on the Adelaide City Council has
had the courage to suggest that “undesirable
houses should be licensed and confined to one
locality. The question came up as one of finance,
various respectable citizens applying for a reduc-
tion of assessment, on the ground of decreased
letting value through too lively neighbors, I he
Finance Committee proposes to avoid loss in such
cases by simply increasing the assessment of the
undesirable neighbor.
In comparing the first Federal Parliament
with the Houses which will meet on 2nd March
next, noticeable how much larger a proportion
of Senators than Reps, have fallen by the way.
The Senate has lost 11 of its 36 members, one
by death, five by retirement, and five by electoral
defeat, although only 19 faced the electors. In
the Reps., 19 out of 75 are missing from the
second House, two by death, seven by retirement,
and ten by defeat. Victoria is the only State
where notone of those in the Reps, who sought
re-election was defeated. P.O. Fysli is now senior
Rep. Crouch, who was the youngest, was born
some years earlier than Frazer, from Goolgardie,
who is aged 25. In the Senate, curly-headed
Keating still remains the most juvenile member.
Dr. Finselbach, at the German national
fete last Saturday, accentuated a phase of the
preferential trade proposals that must not be
overlooked :
A calamity to Australia, it appears to me, would occur
should the Commonwealth Parliament be deluded into
accepting a possible preferential tariff by which the peace-
ful commercial relations now existing between Germany
and Australia would become disturbed, and which would
prove disastrous not onlv to the local German mercantile
community, but also to the whole of the Commonwealth,
within a short time after its imposition. A preferential
tariff may be excusable in colonies purchasing more from
foreign countries than they export to them, or which buy
less from England than they do from foreign countries,
but it certainly is not advisable for the Common-
wealth — which during 1902 exported to Germany
over £6,000,000 worth of products, while it im-
ported from Germany £2,500,000 worth only, in
other words, besides getting all goods “ made in Ger-
many.’ and sold in Australia, received still £3,250,000 in
cash from Germany for local products. Of these Aus-
tralian products imported into Germany more than
£5,000,000 worth were admitted absolutely duty free.
What great disturbance in the Australian export trade,
what detriment to our producers would accrue, should
Germany in case of acceptance of a preferential tariff by
the Commonwealth, impose a duty on those still duty-
free goods 1
It would not be well to take this as a final
argument. Rossibly it would not suit Germany
to retaliate: possibly the advantages of a pre-
ferential tariff arrangement with Britain would
outweigh any disadvantages that Germany could
impose. What is to be kept in mind is that the
matter should be argued and discussed purely as
it affects Australia. No other argument but that
of benefit to Australia should influence the issue.


The Freeman & Wallace
Medical Institute.
OPENING OP A MELBOURNE BRANCH.
The medical progression and popularity of the
■c reeman and Wallace Medical Institute, Sydney,
proves the truth of the proverb that “the
good_ that men do lives with them.” Since
the inception of the Institute at Sydney, over a
quarter of a century ago, it has attracted world-
wide approbation _ through the greatness of the
cures affected by its Specialists, whose names are
household words throughout Australia, in the
treatment and cure of Nerve, Blood, and Stomach
Disorders. The volume of business accruing from
the Southern and Western States of the Common-
wealth has so greatly increased of late years that,
on the 14th inst., a Large and Scientific Branch
was opened at Melbourne, a t the corner of Bourke
and Elizabeth sts., opposite Gr.P.O., in the
presence of Senator Findley, Dr. W. Maloney,
and gentlemen representative of the commercial
and professional ranks of life. The opening was
fully recorded in the journals whose reports appear
below:—
“The opening of the new premises of the Freeman and
Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute was the
occasion yesterday of the gathering of a number of
gentlemen at the invitation of the directors of that
undertaking. There were present many representatives
of the commercial firms of the city, augmented by well-
known members of the medical, artistic and other pro-
fessions. After an inspection of the building, which has
been fitted up and furnished in a luxurious style, the
company were asked by Mr. W. Beck to drink success to
the new Melbourne branch of the institution. Mr.
Howard Freeman, in responding to the toast, gave a
short history of the inception and growth of the Institute,
which had now assumed proportions that necessitated
branches in each of the States of the Commonwealth.
The toast of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of
Australia was proposed by Mr. W. Maloney, and replied
to by Senator Findley.”— Melbourne Age, January lh,
im.
“The new premises of Messrs. Freeman and Wallace’s
Electro-Medical Institute, at the corner of Bourke and
Elizabeth streets, were yesterday formally opened. The
rooms of the Institute are on the upper floor, and have
been decorated in an artistic manner throughout. The
furnishing, which is effective and elaborate, in the
modern style, was done by Messrs. Robertson and
Moffat. The opening was made the occasion of a little
social gathering, in which leading men in the commercial
and professional life of the city took part. Refreshments
were served in what is to be the reception room. Mr. W.
Beck took the chair, and after the formal toasts Dr.
Maloney proposed “ The Commonwealth ” in a brisk
speech, which was suitably responded to by Senator
• Findley. The chairman proposed success to the Mel-
bourne branch of Freeman and Wallace. In responding
to the toast, Mr. H. Freeman cited some striking figures
indicative of the extent of the business of the Institute,
both here and in New South Wales.”— Melbourne Herald,
Jan. lUth, 190 k.
“ A pleasant evening was spent by a number of repre-
sentative gentlemen on the occasion of the opening of
the Melbourne Branch of the Freeman-Wallace Medical
Institute at the rooms, corner of Bourke and Elizabeth
streets. The premises are thoroughly up-to-date, in
fact, a revelation to the Melbourne public, and very
extensive.
“The invited guests were shown around the premises,
and finally assembled in the waiting room, a spacious
apartment, beautifully furnished, and magnificently
decorated. At the inception of proceedings, Mr. W. Beck
was voted to the chair. Among those present were Dr.
W. Maloney and Labor Senator Findley. The chairman
opened proceedings by proposing the usual loyal and
patriotic toasts, which were heartily cheered.
“ Dr. W. Maloney proposed the next toast, “ The
Commonwealth of Australia,” in a very fervent, charac-
teristic speech. He dwelt on the signal victory achieved
by the representatives of Labor in all States of the
Commonwealth at the recent elections, a victory gained
by men who will be true to their platform principles of
Democracy and advocacy of the equality of humanity.
.... Dr. Maloney, in proceeding, remarked his inten-
tion of refraining from airing what were after all his
own opinions, his action being probably inspired by con-
templation of the Liberal and Democratic scope of the
Freeman and Wallace Institute. Doctor Maloney con-
cluded a fine speech by wishing that that success,
which had been the feature of the existence of the
Institute in Sydney, might be repeated in Melbourne,
adding that the satisfactory manner in which the work
of the Institute was carried out was evidenced by the
unassailable nature of its reputation.
“ Senator E. Findley responded, expressing his pleasure
at being present for the first time in his official capacity,
and having the privilege of responding to the toast of the
Institute. He had had many business transactions in his
private life with the partners, and had always found them
competent, businesslike, and independent, their fame
having spread throughout the Australian continent.”—
The People’s Paper, March Ik, 'Ok.
“ One of the few visible and beneficial effects of Federa-
tion has been the expansion of enterprise on the part of
business men throughout the States. . . . One of the
most recent among the leading firms from Sydney to
make this forward step is the medical firm of Messrs.
Freeman and Wallace. Last Wednesday the firm formally
opened their new premises at the corner of Bourke and
Elizabeth streets, which is known as the Electro-Medical
and Surgical Institute. The chambers occupied by these
well-known Specialists have been luxuriously furnished,
the surgery being replete with modern scientific instru-
ments for the cure and amelioration of the diseased and
suffering. A number of the representative men of Mel-
bourne, including members of the commercial, medical,
and literary worlds, assembled to wish the firm a prosper-
ous venture in the Commonwealth spirit, and * Good luck’
to inter-State enterprise. Mr. W. Beck occupied the chair,
and after toasting the King, the Commonwealth followed.
Doctor Maloney, of Melbourne, dwelt upon the Federal
spirit that must ensue from the closer inter-State friend-
ships that were first made through business relations.
Senator Findley replied, and said he was there to bear
witness to the esteem in which he held the firm of
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace. It was within his
knowledge that it had relieved a great deal of suffering
that the flesh of humanity was heir to. They were keen
men, and above all things they knew their business and
were to be trusted. He also saw in the expansion of
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace’s Institute another link
between the cities of Sydney and Melbourne, trade
connections repeated again and again in all branches of
commerce which in the sum total of effect must be of
inestimable value to the Commonwealth.
“ Senator Findley’s remarks were frequently applauded,
specially those relating to the enterprise of Messrs.
Freeman and Wallace.
“ Success to the firm was drunk with musical honors,
and Director Freeman replied, giving a short history of
the expansion of the business and how the correspondence
business in Victoria had assumed such proportions that
they had decided to establish a Melbourne branch, to be
in touch with their numerous patients.”— Melbourne
Truth, January 15th, 190 U.
Specialists for Men
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.,
Pliysician-in- Chief.
MEN! REMEMBER THIS!
Ninety per cent, of those
peculiar cases afflicting the
Male Sex, and which threaten Premature Decay of the Nerve System,
followed speedily by Early Death, are cured radically and permanently
by the famous Medical Experts associated with the Professional Staff of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute.
Many Australian men are within Coo-ee of the Grave to-day and are
ignorant of it. Their Vital Strength is fast ebbing away, a continuous
drain upon the Vital Power
sapping and undermining the
once stout constitution, goes on.
They grow weaker each day,
restless, dispirited, strengthless
and hopeless. “WHAT IS THE
MATTER WITH ME?” the
victim asks. He is in the throes
of an insidious disease as his
Lack-lustre eyes, his Cadaverous expression, his Thin Body and Muscleless
limbs attest. He is but a Burlesque upon Robust Manhood, a Shadow
of a Man afraid of the Society of Either Sex, Lacking Energy and Power
to fill the Mission in Life for which Nature intended him.
When in this condition any man should call or write on the above
famous Specialists, who are Medical Experts in this class of disease, and
who rarely take a case in hand which they do not cure completely. Their
opinions or advice are given FREE, either personally or by letter. Do not
discard your chances. Life is at all times uncertain and disease is an enemy.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institute.
the FREEMAN & WALLACE medical INSTITUTE
One of the greatest Medical Institutes in the World, famous for the great cures it has
effected throughout Australia to suffering mankind, is The Freeman & Wallace Institute,
Sydney, a large Branch of which has been opened at BOURKE and ELIZABETH STREETS,
MELBOURNE, opposite Gr.P.O. Associated with either of these great Health Centres are
Medical Experts of international renown in the treatment of grave Nerve and Blood
Diseases. Each Specialist is under a Bond of £lOOO for the completion of all medical con-
tracts undertaken between Physician and Patient. Cases classed as ‘‘INCURABLE” by
the average medical man, of Insomnia, Hysteria, Epilepsy, Bad Back, Weak Digestive
Powers, Mental Impairment, Dyspepsia, Kidney Trouble, Bladder Inflammation or
Weakness, Varicocele, etc., have been cured in three months. Any man suffering should
send in particulars of his case, A prompt reply will be received in a few days, and all letters
treated with professional secrecy. The Specialists’ Home Treatment System is invaluable.
Over £lOO,OOO has been
expended upon this Institute
in making it the
Most Scientific in Australia.
The Physician-in - Chief,
DR. R. WALLACE, M.D.,
is Registered by the
Medical Boards
of
Australia, England,
and America.
The Freeman and Wallace Institute, Sydney.
Patients residing in Southern
and Western States
of the Commonwealth
can consult the Specialists
at the
Melbourne Branch,
Corner of Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne,
Opp. Q.P.O.
AH Letters are at once
professionally replied to.
ces
I
Gene
Dise
ECMAN&
qMmic&l*
One Shilling Only.
Some of the Literature Published by the Medical Staff.
SUBJECTS TREATED IN THIS BOOK.
Insomnia
Epilepsy
Hysteria
Kidney Disease
Rheumatism
Neuralgia
Sciatica
Paralysis
Heart Disease
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Sunstroke
Apoplexy
Burns & Scalds
Liver Diseases
Throat Complaints
Ear Ailments
Invalids & Care
Wounds & Treatment
Fevers
THIS BOOK CONTAINS 750 pages of instructive
letterpress, 150 graphic anatomical medical plates, 31
chapters upon General Diseases. It is described by the
Australian Press (comprising 200 leading Australian
Journals) as “A WELCOME ADDITION TO AUSTRALIAN
LITERATURE.” Anyone desirous of possessing a first-
class medical work, graphic and instructive in every
detail, full of interesting matter for the house and home,
should call on the Specialists at their Melbourne or
Sydney address and secure one. Special chapters on
Fevers, Management of the Sick Room and In-
valids, Sunstroke, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite, Rescuing
Apparently Drowned, Brain Affections, etc., make it
invaluable to country residents where medical men are
few. It may be obtained Post Free on receipt of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch: Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts. <opp gpo>


KEEP QUIET.
No better advice can be given to anyone
troubled with diarahcea than to keep quiet and
take CHAMBERLAIN’S COLIC, CHOLERA,
and DIARRHCEA REMEDY. A prompt and
complete recovery will quickly follow. It never
fails, and is pleasant to take. It is equally
efficient for children. Only Is. 6d. and sold every-
where.*
Dr. Martin, M.D., of Elmley House, 151 Ehza-
beth-street, Sydney, has now made arrangements for
the reception of six resident patients in his private
hospital at that address. The doctor himself resides on
the premises, which are lofty, well-lit, scientificallj
ventilated, fitted with hot and cold baths, medicated 01
plain Dr. Martin will be pleased at any time by appoint
ment to show visitors to Sydney over his hospital 01
presentation of their visiting cards.*
Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
Gentlemen,—
I want to tell you how delighted I am with the
Pianola. It is altogether wonderful! In an accom-
paniment to several of my songs it has given me
splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Ye.-y truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one Pianola.
Sold Only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRCE & CO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
W; will mail you a Catalgue of th: Pianola free if yea
will write us. Ask for Catalogue B.
Informal Recitals daily 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
You are cordially invited to attend.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sdf
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
STRAWBERRY
CONSERVE.
IN 1-lb. FLAT TINS.
Manufrs.-JOHN MOIR & SON, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE. Head Office : 9 and 10, Great Tower St., London, E.C.
Dr
POOR MAN’S
friend
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years' world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/I J4,
2/9. 11 /-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ ALTERATIVE PILLS
r>m>ify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
'• 40 in a box, 1/ 1 % ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by —
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIdPORT, ENGLAND.
C. L. ROBERTS, Tf.D.
PROSPECTUS
Western Australian Government
FOUR PER CENT. DEBENTURES.
ISSUE
£500,000.
Price of fame, £lOO per cent. Interest payaMe Ist January and Ist July.
5 months’ Interest payable on Ist July, 1904.
Principal and Interest received and paid in any Capital City o£ the Commonwealth
Principal repay.l,l. at par on Ist Jannary. 1924. wi«, right toj mdeem or cdl up on Ist Jranary,
1914, upon twelve calender months’ notice, expiring on such date, being given by either sid .
The proceeds of this loan will be. applied to the
■CSX’ Railway , the Lave,ton Railway
and Additions and Improvements to Open Lines.
The Loan Authorisations of the State to 30th June last W*PS
Issued by Crown Agents for conversion purposes ».
Floated to Ist November, 1008
Balance of old Authorisations ... • • ••
New Authorisation authorised since 80th June last..
Total of Authorisations available for flotation
£15,040,029 11 3
323 16 0
£16,941,263
16,908,998
32,266 0 0
1,682,000 0 0
£1,614,266 0 0
rm., atnfnment hereunder sets forth the position of the State’s Loan Expenditure on 30th .Tune,
of this money has been spent on reproductive public works.
£ s. d.
8,905,868 0 7
276,721 7 0
2*128,118 3 1
65,798 10 8
2,971,803 4 11
Water supply ana .sewerage, lucmums -"■ sqs 196 7 7
Development of Goldfields and Mineral Resources .. •• •• 143’424 9
Railways and Tramways
including Frsmantls Harbor
Water Supply and Sewerage, including Goldfields Water Scheme
1 1 ' . ~ , in 1 1 J 1 Dnrivmpoaa
Roads and Bridges
Development of Agriculture
Immigration
Miscellaneous
Loans Unfloated at above date
Total Authorisations to 30th Jane, 1903
143,424
385,528 7
28,854 11
63,385 4
£15,807,698
133,655
£15,941,263 7 3
Expenditure of £8,905,868, and this year the result will be quite as favorable,
other Harbors in the State.
» S e“. d y
date there is every justification for the expectation that the schemes will pay full interest.
On the 30th June, 1903, the total amount expended on Public Buddings, Roads and Bridges
amounted to £2,850,000, but of this large sum only £209.208 has been expended from Lo ,
balance having been paid from Revenue.
The Exnenditure under the Heads of “Development of Goldfields --- * .
j? ij _ „i 4 PKAn aca ,xrU i/vV, id Hirp.ct.lv reDroductive. The balance can only be
and “Development of
Agriculture” contains about £500,000, which is directly reproductive. :r iveneBB of “ the
classed as indirectly reproductive, although each year increases the direct repioductn eness
• • j.: — ..rvfAc onomfiofl is nnw nn.in from KeVGnue.
r e, aitnougn ea>uu yvai iuudoopo , Wft<a
The bulk of this expenditure was incurred some years ago, and was
renaerea necessary days of the Goldfields and Agricultr"" 1 TW “ I W "" pver ‘
increasing proportion of the votes specified is now paid from Revenue.
The State is constructing from Revenue a number of public d jjjp° a^
ductive From this year’s Revenue provision is made for Railways, £87,000, ? being : tor p
year’s Estimates for similar works.
Every industry in the State is solidly prosperous. Nearly £9 000 000 worth of gold was produced
for the year ended 31st December last. The agricultural and pastoral industr,Xr £ ? n Copp er an d
&SBBZ&SZSGT 1 to
the mines now working at £30,000,000, this is over 6} per cent, per annum on that sum.
Three facts stand out prominently in the Finances of the State:
1. The rate of Interest on our Loans is £>3 9s.
Australia.
6d. per cent., the lowest of any State in
2. The proportion of Interest on Loans to total expenditure is £l3 19s. per cent., or including
the State’s Sinking Fund (amounting to £177,000 per annum) £lB 11s. 4d. per cen ~ ■
against the next lowest Australian State of £26 per cent., or the average of Australasia
of £29 per cent.
fcssSrte fiiWuS? & °V¥F>' th « It
lurid at i Discount ranging from £4 to £l4 The annual oontr.b.rt.on to th» fund w now
£177 000 and. at the end of the present Financial Year, the fund will total £1,012 000
or nearly one-half of the total amount provided by all the Sinking Funds of the whole of
the Commonwealth.
The Stock now offered will rank pari passu with the Stock issued and sold under “ The Loan
Act, 1891,’ and all subsequent Loan Acts.
The principal and the interest will be payable at this office, or if desired in any of the Common-
wealth free of exchange ; or will be sent by post to any address at the stock-holder s risk.
Animations addressed to the Colonial Treasurer, must not be, for a less sum than .£lOO, and
Applications, aao multi Dies of £5O, and be accompanied by a deposit of £5 per cent.
Payment in in f°ull will be required on the 10th February, 1904. Applications will be received and
interim receipts given at
The Treasury, Perth. , .
The National Bank of Australasia, Sydney.
The National Bank of Australasia, JVlelbourne. .
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, Brisbane.
The National Bank of Australasia, Adelaide. . , .
The Bank of Adelaide, Adelaide (as Agent for the Western Australian Bank).
The List will close on the 3rd day of February, 1904.
Allotment will be made according to date of applications.
JAMES GARDINER,
Colonial Treasurer.
The Treasury, Perth,
9th January, 1904.
Applications can be made through any Registered Broker of the Stock Exchanges of Sydney
Melbourne. Adelaide. Brisbane, and Perth.
J. H. Abbott, who planted the Hospital
Saturday and Sunday idea in Victoria, if not in
Australia (the Hospital Sunday came first), has
been secretary to the movement at Bendigo ever
since he first took round the begging-box 30 years
ago.
It was an orderly of the Army Medical
Corps, named Tomkins, who, while serving in
India, found that wounds kept constantly sprayed
with carbolic acid solution did not fester, rle
told his captain, who told several of his colleagues;
and in the end the news reached the ears of Ur.
Lister, who, after a long series of exhaustive ex-
periments, was led by it to the discovery of
antiseptic surgery.
A. Singapore resident writes to a Bulletin
man about our late unlamented visitor Jackhore:
Things are mixed at Johore. The old Sultan got messed
up and mortgaged all round, and the young fellow hasn t
cleared things." One firm here pretty well owns Johore,
and several Chinese are big creditors. The Sultan has
been fooling round the world, and has managed to get
into no end of nasty scrapes, which have caused serious
annoyance to the Straits Government. Now a protector-
ate is to be established, Johore will rank with Selangor,
Perak Sunjei Ujonp, and the other federated Malay
States’; there’ll be a big financial cleaning up, and the
Sultan’s claws will be clipped for good. The Straits
Government has stood a lot from Johore—largely, I sup-
pose, for sentimental and diplomatic reasons. It was a
Sultan of Johore—a mighty man in his day—who ceded
the island of Singapore to Stamford Baffles, as repre-
sentative of the English. Raffles called the Maharajah
“ Sultan ” in his despatches, and the silly title has stuck
ever since.


FROM OVER THE SEAS.
show here some Illustrations, with prices, of New
Arrivals—all worthy goods of standard quality and
priced as only big selling can allow. Since the Ist of the
month we have opened up many cases of choice goods
in Solid Silver, Silver-Plate, Purses of English make, Gold
Jewellery of every description, and we will gladly point out
their many excellencies to callers.
sd
No. G 297.— Oak and Hloke! Inkstand. 2 Bottle.
Stationery Braver. £1 la.
,V/
mm
:
BBH
#■
Solid Silver-Mounted Lady’s Hair Brush, Cloth Brush, Powder
Jar, Scent Bottle, Tooth Brush Bottle, Comb, Mirror. File
Nail Cleaner, and Scissors, in Leather Case, £6 68. *
No. Gl4l4.—Embossed and Silver-
plated Hot-water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, A 2 15a.— Special value.
■sWS»*=i!
No. Gl<s7.—Case of 6 Pairs Good Silver-
plated Fruit or Fish Knives and Forks,
m2*
THE “TRIUMPH” WATCH.
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths, is
rightly named the “Triumph,” inasmuch as,
although sold by us at such a low price, it is a
gigantic “ Triumph ” in quality over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. It has a very
fine-finished, full-jewelled keyless short-winding
movement, and the case is made of a very hard
nickel, beautifully polished, fitted with unbreakable
crystal glass. Our price for this most excellent
timekeeper is 18/6, and we can recommend it to
those requiring a cheap but reliable Keyless Watch.
In Open Face Solid Hall-Marked Silver Cases, JEI/10/-
Write for
oar
Catalogue,
The Balance
Pepper,
Silver-plate,
4/6 and 6/6.
No. F2B76.—The Shell Butter Dish
and Knife, First Quality Plate,
13/6.
ppointment^
DAY
WED
THU
FRI
SAT
SUN
No. F6s3l.— Solid Silver Appointment Frame, 17/6.
No. Gl427.—Silver-plated G ass-
lined Butter Dish and Knife, 6/6.
No. F6o9'!, Cut Glass and Solid Silver Salts Bottle, 12/6.
No. Fl2Bs.—Full size Tea Pot, nicely engraved
and Silver-plated, price 18/6.
No. F47lo.—Child’s Set, in case, Silver-plated. Knife, Fork, and
Spoon, 14/6. New and dainty styles, in solid silver,
35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 42/-, 45/-, 50 -.
No. F7963.—Very Handsome Silver-plated Presentation Inkstand, £3 10s.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “ Gounod " M. PLANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“ Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALVE
To Anthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... ... ... MADAME YIALTZEVA
Andante “Favourita” ... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “Harold” ... ... MADAM FLUSTER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how ? The answer is ready
at once By means of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
oui nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a mall can get his family is a
GIvAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type,
£4.
fs
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYBES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MABSHALL & SONS, Bundle-st., Adelaide
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & 00., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOBPE BBOS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WEBTHEIMEB, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENILLS & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia •
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One!Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January. 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each 5&
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 100,000 at 10/2.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 100,000 at d/1.
DONCASTER HANDICAP. Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 50,000 at 5/1.
SYDNEY CUP, ittandwicK;, H.S.W., April 4, 50,000 at 5/L
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, 1 tobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
SMELTING » REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Fates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearne’s
ure.
thh famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
too ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CUBE.
Mr. Tf. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about tha wonderful cure your medicine ha* effected in
my cage. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, 8.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE,
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
It. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonoe,
and “can’t be licked."—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
▲ SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. <3. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
tniall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl oannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid inedi-
ein for bronohitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Ylotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Kearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now', and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night's rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distrtss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made lip here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never "kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
gent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did net require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Tears' Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLEL
Mr. W. G. Hearrie. —Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, youra respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CUREDt
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Chaileville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
»»unoh office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
SmaU Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally .


NATURE’S GR
Constipation, indigestion,
BLOOD PURIFIER.
and Liver
Troubles Removed.
The “Medical Journal, November, 1902, says
concerning: KUTNOW’S POWDER:
“ Disorders of the liver-whether arising from excessive or deficient secretion of
bile, with such well-known characteristic symptoms as headache, nausea, pain in the
abdomen, diarrhoea, and low spirits, or with the important symptoms of dyspepsia such
as constipation, a feeling of abnormal fulness or emptiness, heartburn, an offensive
taste, foul breath, a furred tongue, flatulence, irregular heart action, an emaciated
countenance, drowsiness, and languor—these are now most successfully treated by
Kutnow s lowder. r lhis preparation is a natural antiseptic aperient. It acts as a
solvent, loosening all hard faecal matter which may have accumulated, and eliminating
the same without any suggestion of griping or pain. Amongst the many eminent
specialists who have commended Kutnow’s Powder in the highest terms we note the
names of Sir Andrew Clark, M.D., Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D., and Professor Lawson
lait, M.D. We may add that Kutnow’s Powder, although containing no sugar, is
pleasant to the taste, decidedly refreshing, and is well sustained by the most delicate
stomach. It produces an immediate sense of relief, or to put it in the words of a patient,
‘lt seems to at once take away a load of trouble.’”
Kutnow’s Powder can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine
Vendors throug-hout the World.
A WARNING TO THE PUBLIC I
There are some unscrupulous chemists who, knowing Kutnow’s Powder to possess such rare medicinal,
curative, and healing properties as have secured for it a world-wide popularity and a phenomenal sale, do not
hesitate to palm off closely imitated substitutes, got up to appear to the eye as nearly as possible like the genuine
article. These substitutes, however, generally offered as something “cheaper ” and “just as good,” are absolutely
injurious to health, and therefore dear at any price. If you value your health, then accept only the
GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
EXACT SIZE
ofthebolil£
i KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
I
iHirschensprung or Deer Leap.'
London:
bß *ru 4I - FARRINGDOM ROAD, e.c. ■
Registered trade mark. .1
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
Proprietors— S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
[6—l2]
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd, 853 Broadway, New York
Between the Lights.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Steady the whaleboat down the ways,
And ship the oars—
The singing oars,
That will grip and swing till the ripples bla-'e
In the light as they sweep to the sandy shores.
The steer oar bends, and her head swings round
To the golden light on Somes’;
The long blades churn with a roaring sound
Till the sharp cutwater foams,
And e ich heart quivers as each blade bites,
For tis good to be speeding between the lights—
The glow of the sunset, the flush of the moon,
The harbor lights that will twinkle soon,
And the light-o’-love in the soft, bright eyes
Of the girls who are with us between the lights
When the white, white water flies.
Full and deep-throated the music rolls
From the heavy oars—
The crashing oars;
.And it lifts the weight from our town-tired souls
As its cadence rings and soars.
Ahead past the lighthouse the sky is pale,
Foretelling the coming moon,
Marching, a queen, through a purple vale,
Down a path with red stars strewn.
And far astern, where the thin wake shows,
The daffodil glory of sunset glows.
Daughter and song and the rush of oars
In a stillness that reaches to Lethe’s shores—
What can a strong man wish beyond ?
Does a maid dream more when her tired eyes
close
And she glides to dream-islands of fount and
frond ?
Lift her, and swing to the glory-song
Of the merry oars—
The laughing oars—
As they wrench and spin us along, along,
And the bright prow-smother pours.
The harbor-lights, like timid stars,
Show one by one in the dark,
And stab it with tiny scimitars
The course and the channel to mark.
The ranges rise so clear ahead—
The Somes’ light flashes from white to red,
And from red it turns to white and green—
Pencarrow burns white, and we’re swinging
between,
Down to the island that parts the tide
Where the steamers creep with plunging lead
And the shoal-buoys sway and ride.
Quicken the stroke ! The oars are wild
“ Ha ! ha ! ” cry the oars—
The rollicking oars—
That are racing us on where the rocks are piled
With kelp when the mad sou’-easter snores,
Awaking from sleep in the ice and snow—
To-night it sleeps like the dead,
To-night there are eyes and hearts aglow,
To-night soft lips are red. . .
With laughter and jest we have moored our boat,
And the moon rolls up, like the last grand note
In a sweet, wild song that is prayer and praise—
Land and water and jewelled haze !
My heart cries out, yet it speaks no word,
For there is a grip on the strongest throat
When the deep of a soul is stirred.
Push the whale-boat over the sand,
And ship the oars—
■ Reluctant oars,
That scarcely yield to the tardy hand.
Slow —so slow let us drift and pause,
And sing and dream while the banjo tells
Of a Kalmuck bold and a brave Ameer.
The water is noisy with chiming bells
And we want no course to steer,
As we swing and we float between the lights.
Ah ! this is surely the queen of nights
Jewelled in gold and rubies and pearls.
And you—you are truly the queen of girls
With the love-light glowing in merry eyes.
Let us love—let us dream between the lights
Where the gleaming water lies.
Homeward slowly between the Guides—
Pencarrow Light—
Somes’ Island Light—
We will glide to the sob of the moaning tides
That tell their woes to the night.
Somes’ Light changes—green ! white ! red !
Pencarrow’s behind the hill.
It seems that the throbbing world is dead
So still it is—so still.
To the sound of story and laughter and oars
We have passed away to Lethe’s shores.
Song in the bows, and slack astern,
The sea-oar drifts where the sea-stars burn,
What do we reck of speed or tide ?
Wj have passed where no Time-lash stings and
scores,
On Jie River of Peace we glide.
Full and deep-throated, the music swells
From the swinging oars—
The heavy oars.
From afar comes the chiming of midnight bolls.
Clashing in measures of fours ;
The tough blades churn to their tempest song,
The circling eddies foam,
And the timbers thrill as they tear along,
Bearing their burden home.
The stars wink feebly above the heights—
Ah, me ! to be floating between the lights—
Light of beacon and moon and stars—
Lovely Venus and angry Mars—
And the light of love, in the drowsy eyes. . .
Between the lights 1 Between the lights !
Heigho ! How the sweet time flies.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
Rev. Dill-Macky is proud of those calves :
his paper carefully reprints in its leading columns
recent Bulletin remarks thereon.
The Expert.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS boarding afc a village hotel in the northern
areas of S. A. when the mining craze was at its
height. Nearly every man for miles around had
a “show ” in the hills or on his farm, and carried
an assortment of stones in his pocket. Farmers
shooed their dogs off with pieces of alleged copper,
carbonate, cobalt or manganese, or even with
hunks of alleged pure gold.
One evening enthusiasm was rampant. An
expert from Broken Hill had arrived to inspect
and snap up any good '* show ” in the district. The
news spread like scandal and the cockies and the
villagers converged to the pub.
It was a very cold evening. The Expert
occupied the middle chair of the semicircle at the
fire. He spoke fluently of iron and quartz
“blows,” of fissure lodes, pyrites, and honey-
combed gossan. His worshippers spat on the fire
and poked it into a blaze again. Methuselah
said, aside, to me:
“ What the devil are iron praties ? I’ve heard
of Warrnambools, and Circular Heads, and Mt.
Gambiers, but, blow me if I’ve heard of iron
praties.”
I was just about to explain when there was a
sound of galloping horse-hoofs and spreading
slush. Then a knock happened to the door which
promised a wreck.
“Hades! what’s that?” said the Expert, look-
ing a bit displeased.
The landlord opened the door, and a man
pushed his way into the room, hair dripping, eyes
ablaze, his face besmeared with mud, and wearing
a look of fearful anticipation. He gasped once or
twice, puffed a few times, and then said :
“Chaps, would you know gold if you saw it—
are any of you judges ? Tell roe what that is ? ”
He planked on the table with a thundering
plank a hunk of stone full of a real yellow
mineral.
“You’re in luck, mate,” said the landlord,
proudly. “We’re honored to-night by the
Eresence of an expert from Broken Hill. Perhaps
e would—a—a—er — ? ”
The Expert turned to the fire with a corrugated
brow, but better instincts prevailed. He faced
about and patronisingly extended his hand for the
stone, conferring a look of withering contempt
upon the new arrival. His eyes then wandered
casually to the specimen. The tick-tock of the
clock seemed to fill the room. A gasp of surprise
escaped his lips. His eyes dilated, and his hand
and voice trembled as he said, sharply :
“Where did you get this?”
“In the hills, 10 miles out,” said the man with
the wet hair.
“Is there any more like it?”
“A two-foot lode. Hundreds of tons in sight.
I might say mountains of it, and that’s not the
best of it.”
“Well, all I can say is, if you’ve a two foot lode
of that stuff you are a millionaire. That’s flakey
gold.”
There was commotion. One man bit the amber
off his pipe, and swallowed it; another dropped
his glass with beer in it. Some said “Gawd!”—
some said sundry things. Methuselah kept auto-
matically repeating, “flakey gold !”
The man who had brought the stone clapped
his hand on his wet and tangled hair and reeled to
the wall. Tears welled to his eyes :
“Chaps,” he sobbed, “I’ve spent me life trying
for this; starving sometimes; sometimes almost
naked. But something beckoned me on, saying,
‘lt will come ! ’ Chaps, it has come ! ”
They crowded round him, exhorting him to
cheer up, for the worst was over. Two of the
crowd firmly grasped his hands, no doubt with
the intention of making a future boast that they
had shaken hands with a millionaire.
The landlord got on a chair and shouted,
“ Boys, there’s free drinks here to-night !” for he
foresaw a great business in the near future.
“Hurroo!” from Methuselah, and cheers from
all.
An hour later some were singing, others were
weeping. The fighting-beer had not been served
out yet.
Then it dawned upon the millionaire that he
wasn’t selfish ; that he had had darned hard luck
himself; that he would run his show into a syndi-
cate, composed of those present, just to get enough
shekels to start or float—say £lO a man.
The row was deafening. Such a roar had not
been heard since before the drought, perhaps not
since the flood. The Expert drew up a brief
agreement. Some signed their names on it; some
smeared it with massive crosses ; some signed
cheques; some ran home to raise the mouey ;
some borrowed. The Expert collected, and there
was another rally to the bar.
By 3 a.m. the fighting stage hal been success-
fully negotiated, and a dense calm hovered round.
It •was during this calm that the Expert and the
millionaire signalled a passing stock-train,
leaving a note explaining that they thought
it would be better to get away as quickly as
possible in order to “float.”
* * • »
When a week passed without news, the
syndicate simply surmised that the Expert was
Iriving a good bargain. When a month had
passed, nods and whispers and suggestions went
round. At the end of three months confidence
jave out, and cursing set in.
Then they sent the stone to the School of Mines,
rnd got a sarcastic reply to the effect that an
issay was unnecessary, as the stone obviously
held yellow mica.
You can raise the devil any time in that
township now by mentioning the word expert.
JOHN GOFF.
General Evelyn Wood, before the war
commission :
“ All found ” is the keynote—so much pay and no
stoppages at all. At present we do not give the soldier
his socks, except a pair which are supposed to last him,
if he serves, 21 years. And I say as much underlinen as
the soldier requires yearly he should have given him.
That is my idea of an army, and I am quite certain it
would he found to be a cheaper army than that we have
at present. When the army is worth stopping in, then
we shall not want prisons for deserters, and we shall then
send men away much more readily when they misbehave.
Mr. Cruickshank, employers’ representa-
tive on the N.S.W. Arbitration Court, told the
Employers’ Federation on Monday night:
His opinion of the position he held was that he was
placed there as a judge, and that any other conception
of his duties would be wrong. He, therefore, stated, in
distinct and plain language that, whatever his colleague
and others might say and do, he was determined to
adhere to and carry out the same programme as hitherto
until the expiration of his term of office.
Which is exactly right. The more thoroughly
Mr. Cruickshank and Mr. Smith understand that
their duties are judicial and not partisan, the
more respected will the Arbitration Court be.


LIVER AILMENTS
Hospital Treatment Failed to Cure.
THE following case of Mrs. Ellen
Moore, of 12 Bray-st., Erskine-
ville, Sydney, is a fitting illustra-
tion of the marvellous efficacy of
Bile Beans in curing the most severe
forms of liver disorder and the multitude
of ailments arising from such. This
lady says:—“Some seven years ago I
was troubled with very severe pains in
the small of my back, accompanied by
constipation, a poor appetite, and a
worn-out feeling, making me feel very
miserable and entirely unfitted for my
household duties, and in time my system
became completely debilitated. For
some time I was an out-patient at the
hospital, but I was told I could only be
patched up, as I had a congested liver.
It was then I decided to give Bile Beans
a trial, having heard of their great
efficacy for liver disorders. The first few doses made a great improvement in my condi-
tion, and, continuing with the course, the pains left me, I regained my lost appetite, and
was quickly restored to health and vigor. Asthma has also fallen to my lot, but I find
Bile Beans afford me great relief, and have every hope that by continuing with them 1
will, in time, be rid of this distressing complaint. One of my daughters suffers occasionally
from Neuralgia, and I find a dose of Bile Beans speedily brings her relief. I will never be
without such a valuable medicine in the house, and always recommend Bile Beans to
fellow-sufferers, and will be glad at any time to answer any queries in regard to my state-
ments which might prove of value to others.”
QU7P«t.CNT3
(NT(JAKf£
BILE BEANS are a speedy and permanent cure for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK-
NESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA,
LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG, and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin
to defective bile flow, assimilation and digestion. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all
medicine vendors, price 1/li, or 2/9 large box (contains three times the quantity of the
1/li size) —THIS SIZE IS SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED FOR GENERAL
FAMILY USE AS BEING MORE ECONOMICAL—or post-paid from the BILE
BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
He
eans
ONE
BEAN
ONE
DOSE
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY.
’tS
A. F.
AR.S,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Slot ice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd.
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels>
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ud ‘
The Lagoon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Far away out in a hollow, lying low between the
ranges
With its cool and quiet surface glinting brightly
’neath the moon,
Undisturbed by all around it, knowing naught of
time and changes,
In a long unbroken slumber lies the old deep grey
lagoon.
Undisturbed—ay, save when wakened by the
lonely curlew’s calling
To its mate amid the brushwood on the near low-
lying shore;
Or when startled into ripples by some casual dead
branch falling
Or the soft caressing pinions of the wild duck
winging o’er.
And the dark scrub all around it seems to have it
in its keeping
And to guard it like a rampart from the lust of
human ken,
Whilst the tender maiden hair smiles down in pity
o’er its sleeping
And the ranges frown defiance at the rude
approach of men.
As I stand upon its lonely bank my thoughts fly
back in wonder
To the city’s troubled harbor where the steamers
come and go,
And I seem to hear the hissing of the waters, and
the thunder
Of the hurried rush of traffic ever plying to and
fro.
And to gild the silent moonlight I can see the
lurid gleaming
Of the lights from countless windows on the
harbor’s crowded shore,
And above the scrub’s deep silence, and the calm
lagoon’s sweet dreaming,
I conjure up an echo of a city’s mighty roar.
And I think of all the thousands in that anxious
town a-fretting
For the glory and the pride of place of which the
poet sings,
All the sweetness of their being and all simple
joys forgetting
la the bitterness of conflict that the march of
Progress brings.
And I wonder whether some day, in the rush of
new endeavor,
Men will find this lonely hollow and for all time
here abide.
Will the silence of the ranges and the bush be lost
for ever ?
Will a thousand tawdry villas mar the scornful
mountain’s side ?
Nay, I know not what the mys’try of the future
may be bringing,
But I pray that I may ever find my lonely dear
lagoon,
Lulled to slumber by the music of the breezes
softly singing
’Midst the silence of the ranges ’neath the silver-
tinted moon.
ENG.
BIG BEN.
Was it Bigamy?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Way back in 1864, when there were no Courts of
Conciliation and Arbitration, Alec Ritchie built
a kitchen for Yandilla Station. The house that
Alec built was a little out of plumb, but, like the
leaning tower of Pisa, it stands yet; stood through
the drought of 1902, though that event knocked a
squadron or two of us over. Owens, the super.,
didn’t like the angle at which the house was built,
and gave Alec the choice of making it assume the
perpendicular, or going without the price con-
tracted for. Alec nursed his grievance for a
couple of days ; then he loaded up a musket,
borrowed Reuben Lucker’s horse (when Reuben
wasn’t looking) ; and—well, when Owens and
Parson Thackeray were driving round a clump of
yarran, a shot was fired. Owens fell out of the
buggy a corpse; the horses bolted; and when
Thackeray picked himself up he was lamed for
life. There were four in the camp—Ritchie,
his wife, “Stuttering Jack” —I never knew his
other name—and Reuben Lucker. It fell to
Reuben’s lot to turn Queen’s evidence when he
and Ritchie were arrested. Parson Thackeray
swore to the horse, and Reuben had to explain
the animal away. Alec was duly sentenced to be
hanged on the 31st July.
Toowoomba, or, as it was then called, “The
Swamp,” was scooping in all the notoriety it
could manage, and petitioned the Government to
let Ritchie hang in its new gaol. The Govern-
ment consented, and Alec awaited his despatch.
“Stuttering Jack” and Mrs. Ritchie had the
camp to themselves —Reuben was hunted out —
and they made fairly good use of the opportuni-
ties thus thrown in their way. They agreed to
marry on the 31st July, at 3 p.m. ; Alec would
leave her a disconsolate widow at 8 a.m. on that
date.
But just here the difficulty arose. If we had
any railway in Queensland on that date, it didn’t
get as far as Bigge’s Gamp, now Grandchester,
and the mode of travelling was by Fraser’s coaches,
or horseback, or “ padding the hoof.” The hang-
man lived in Brisbane, and one of the Ipswich
police escorted him to Gatton. Word was sent
to Toowoomba that a Government official awaited
escort at Gatton. Constable Dick Murphy got
the job, and on his road down, leading a spare
horse, Dick kept wondering what rank that
Government official held, and how much his
(Dick’s) escort was worth above his pay. Arriving
at Gatton, he was saluted by the publican (Jack-
son Curry) with, “ Hello, Murphy ! come to bring
the hangman up ?” “ The what? ” gasped Dick.
“ The hangman. He’s been waiting here for ”
But Murphy waited to hear no more. Slinging
the reins of the spare horse over a post, he rode
off at a hand-gallop and didn’t draw rein till he
passed the “Dinner Corner.” An investigation
was afterwards held into the conduct of Constable
Richard Murphy, bub a reprimand was deemed
sufficient punishment under the circumstances.
The hangman made an attempt to do the journey
on his “ own, ” but as he got bushed on the Range,
he did not arrive at “The Swamp” until the
night of the 31st July, and then managed to
flounder into the east branch of it. Some good-
natured brickmakers fished him out, and escorted
him to the gaol, on learning that he was a
“ Government official ” who had half-a-sovereign
to give away. When the governor of the gaol
accosted him by name, and they realised whom
they had conveyed, they fled camp-wards without
the reward.
Ritchie was duly executed on the Ist August,
and the Chronicle, then a demy folio, devoted
two columns to a recital of the sensational details.
But the disconsolate widow and ‘ ‘ Stuttering Jack ”
thought that everything had gone on without
accident, and that Alec had become one of the
things that were, at 8 a.n;. on the 31st, and their
nuptials had been joyously celebrated at Ley-
burn at 3 p.in., as per agreement. Now, I don’t
want to raise an argument about the matter, but
I have always held that the said marriage was
perfectly valid. Alexander Ritchie’s life was for-
feit when the sentence was pronounced, and if
the law, through accident, did not carry out the
sentence on the day set forth, despite this, in
its eyes, Alexander Ritchie was dead at 8.20 on
the morning of the 31st July, 1864, and the same
law must uphold the validity of the marriage of
his widow. The law provides for marriages and
hangings. If it gets its marriages and hangings
mixed-up that is its own affair.
CABEB.
Lock’s Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two loved him.
It was presumption in the Governess (according
to Mrs. Carter), and sinful in Mrs. Carter (in the
Governess’ opinion).
Mr. Carter’s point of view is of no consequence.
Lock “ thought the more,” and was silent. The
Carters dwelt in a township where town visitors
were few and far between, and cornstalks grew
tall and silent.
Mrs. Carter and the Governess were good
friends until Lock took lodgings next door, bring-
ing trunks of English clothes and an accent to
match.
Mr. Carter called. Even a husband has his
uses. Lock returned the visit, and was enter-
tained by Mrs. Carter on the verandah. He
quoted Rossetti under the roses, while the Gover-
ness made soft music indoors.
Now, Mrs. Carter was a man’s woman. She
understood the animal and its needs. She knew
the moment to pat, and the time to furnish
the bone. In Lock’s case it was a very sympathetic
pat and a most substantial bone. Among other
virtues Mrs. Carter was an excellent cook. But
the Governess had her points. Her eyes were
very blue, her mouth very red and arched. Her
pretty hair curled on the nape of her neck, and
she had two charming dimples.
Lock used to draw a very “ long bow ” for the
sake of waking those dimples. When the
Governess laughed, it was impossible not to laugh
with her. And Lock had laughed seldom.
“You’ve had such a sad life,” sighed Mrs. Carter,
gazing at the fire.
Lock did not waste time on the fire. He ab-
sorbed the frothy frills under the black voile skirt,
the openwork ankles, and “ patent ” toes so cun-
ningly displayed in the ruddy glow.
“ A sad, sad life,” she repeated.
Lock began to feel sorry for himself. Even a
little bitter—rather inclined to curse Fate and his
luck generally. He usually did miss the ’bus.
“ More kicks than ha’pence. ’’
Mrs. Carter’s eyes turned ceilingwards. She
sighed. The upward curve of her warm, white
throat was admirably defined by a scarlet cushion.
And she said, “ Poor boy ! ”
Mrs. Carter’s hand hung invitingly over the
arm of her chair. Lock stretched his own towards
it. The hand retreated, then hesitatingly laid
itself in his.
“ Sorry for a poor devil ? ” queried Lock.
The little hand clung faster. All Lock could
do under the circumstances was to raise the
caressing fingers to his lips.
It was just Lock’s luck that the Governess
should walk in, and catch him in the act. He
didn’t altogether like the Governess’ smile.
The days grew warmer. There were no more
firelight hours. But the sweet moonlight ones
came to fill their place. The heat brought
mosquitoes, and Mrs. Carter sent to town for
hazeline to anoint Lock’s bites. Mr. Carter suf-
fered miserably—but Mr. Carter always fussed.
The Governess became irritable and forgot to
sleep. She said it was mosquitoes. Dottie told’
her papa that she didn’t think it was the mos-
quitoes. She believed the Governess was in love
with Mr. Lock, and was jealous of mamma.
But Lock was tiring of hazeline and sympathy.
It no longer thrilled him to touch Mrs. Carter’s
lips. He wanted a change of diet—something
piquant. So he developed a cold, and looked
plaintively at the Governess. Mrs. Carter was
distracted. She administered cough-mixture, and
eucalyptus jujubes, in small doses, also steaming
toddy.
The Governess only laughed.
So Lock’s cold recovered.
“ Little de-vil! ” he drawled, gazing at the
Governess’s back.
But “little pest” was his inward murmur as
Mrs. Carter appeared with her jujubes.
And Mrs. Carter became irritable and forgot to
sleep (she said it was those wretched mosquitoes).
One night Lock kissed the Governess under the
roses. It was the Governess’ first kiss. She had
been brought up by her grandmother (who was a
Methodist). She was dreadfully shocked, as well
as deliciously thrilled. The Governess hung her
head. Lock kissed the baby-curls on the nape of
her neck.
He came very near falling in love with her.
It was just Lock’s luck that Mrs. Carter should
appear, and catch him in the act.
* * * *
Next day Mrs. Carter gave the Governess
notice. The Governess wept piteously, and
trembled at the thought of her grandmother.
Lock rode to the station to see her off. He bade
her p tender farewell, and forgot to arrange a
futu.c meeting. On his way back he saw Mrs.
Carter standing among the roses.
Mrs. Carter did not acknowledge his bow.
Next day Lock left the township and several
unsettled bills behind him. Mr. Carter remarked
that the township was becoming too hot for him.
Besides, there were the mosquitoes ! Lock himself
was regretful, because he was just beginning to
enjoy himself.
But what else could you expect? It was just
Lock’s luck.
MOTH.


We All Use It
Ke T^sl 6 * d u ici !i® on Hand - Don't Wait till Sickness r, mQ o
Mr w ® Disease Early and Cure Promptly. Keep Well." '
graph Of his an^say sll^ 16 ° f Vict ° ria ’ a Photo-
horJe? r W?ena e n a yof W L h r e f ne r er been I without A yer’s Sarsaparilla in the
right. My wife savs it ?« tee \ m S poorly just a few doses will make us all
are 1S a g ran d medicme for children, esneoiaiw
Mv poony, just a tew doses will make us all
are growing f? a £ raudmedicme for children, especially when they
g faSt She * of great benefit, herself, when she gets tired
and worn out from overwork. The same
medicine cured me once of a severe
liver complaint, pain through the kid-
neys, and impure blood.”
,
w \
w.
%
judgment™ ke°Sl C iv!lf' 7 < i b 0 ° f Ms famil y- And *• shows good
givS Ha hnoL it
the heart y a pps«to so
All otherWpLi“ Ed £?£ s£*£Sf
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest Family Medicine the World Has Ever Known
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
iJht 20 Rr N I M ! NT ' S ffuarantee d to cure any case of
hotZ’ Tj- m * edln *> ° r *"*"««"* «>«. no matter
casesh !v h refunded ‘ Cures ordinary
onlv Pile Reinedv sol(Ton a neW f-' SC °' ery ’ a ' ld ifc is the
SORE MUSCLES.
.correct treatment of sore muscles is verv
simple. First take a good warm bath before
going to bed, and be sure to rub yourself dry
ihis opens the pores. Then rub Chamberlain's
a^m into the pores, keeping up a brisk
rubbing for several minutes. If you have time
when you get up in the morning, rub in some
more of the Pam Balm. This cures sore muscles
caused by hard work or severe exercise of any
kind Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is the favorite
rub down of all prominent athletes. It keeps the
relief^ ** mn6 s^ape- ® ne application gives
recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
tin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
try it in your bath.
df
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
Remove* Clean i'"S Preparation for the Hair.
AlHv C S + l am . S and . Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Restores th a o . lnv in Hot Climates.
olour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
or Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
tri i ,™ Wiolesale Agents for New South Wales-
ELUOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ft
Worth a Guinea a Box.
GUM’S
mis
are composed of vegetable drugs of great purity and
medicinal value; have been in almost universal us e
for over half-a-century, and are without doubt an
CORRECTIVE in all cases where a
corrective is needed, as they act directly upon both the
Digestive and Nervous Systems.
BEECHAM’S PILLS assist Assimilation,
Banish Biliousness, Cure Consti-
:ion, Develop Digestion, Liven the
Liver, Strengthen the Stomach,
Correct Unhealthy Conditions.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price Is. (56 Pills)
and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills).
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
Have a greater sale than any other shot-gun cartridge made,
because they are manufactured of the best material, and
cost no more than cheaper-made brands.
GUARANTEED SURE FIRE AND REGULAR.
Specify NEW CLUB, and accept no Substitute.
I
Consults by Letter, £l,
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ledicines (appropriately packed) for,varied over the Commonwealth and to the
THb BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CA rtD .
sd
M.D., M. 8., C.M L.R.C.P..E., L.R.C.5.,E.,
t, . , . L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 EIiZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street
Qualifications, fpe/iaHst’ inwall Prfvafi, Nervo h , oidinB, aM the above
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout AustraHa andfn air cal,s e and all those Contagious
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis Piles Chrnnh Tndi<w-‘ ihro " ,c . Creases of Men and Women,
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. ' ohronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
“ ,6 ssißsnrasrsstfass? i * ar •** rm •*>■■«*«•
* naan <«-»#«■ Free from Observation to
Dr. MARTIN has with him all the Latest EurfnV™ t™ l f nt ® pe ? ,d j n *f hl the States. C °
Lhluur, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all kSS SkS lS ir'" 0 “ t' I!? the Br °wne-Se<)uard, lirafft-
Pnvate Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has hpl n .f’, ? ea . rt ’ , Llver > Sidney, Bladder, and all
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN vou receive th hls , 24 years’ practice in Australia
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliahle a< ! vic . e of . a thorough, competent and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. loSat 11 ' ° f moderate char S* s . rapid and
DR. MARTIN. MI.D., ** Elrnlev Knnsp » tcv cp . ,
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL 7 n ° US€ / 151 Elizabeth St.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
laide r thromrh n^ SafcUrrtay thS an,use,,lents offered Ade-
small mirin’" n, .° rn " ,s: P tt P ers consisted of the Zoo, a
small marine excursion, and a quoit match !
luatWn” : T I le fire bHjra ' ie insi,ector of theatres has
] n expatiating' to an interviewer. A theatre stores
Sg’txsffg?''"' ZX££ m J!3?xSS,
®ssss ms
vades the’hussv fche T l in “ 10vernen t or repose, grace per-
weak hv«fpnnoi* • * n character impulsive, intelligent,
o&^ S t U^/ hon ’ M that is abominable g and
as M the°Vade’ties ea n re^ reS Were Ied off at the Place known
was burnt about w,?® Present Opera House site. It
destroyed hS%. 3 } Ta apa The Theatre Royal was
again is d aSr e8 en e t ar h y vP 1S72 ’ Goppin had it bulk
“ Milkv W h r o e . ent 'A£ u P ni *? ht > when it opened with
theatre camrht T ° 0bli^e Benson.” The old
of New Tort ” after a Performance of “ The Streets
tLt pieTe proved “M* that the fire scene in
Havmarket fata t t0 the hoi,s *'- The Melbourne
time unoccupied t d °' Vn> after bein l? for some
Bijou The old Van 1 y i f here was the Burning of the
Princess’ was a , ‘ haCk 1 le J W . 00den matchbox of the
but escaped Nor P ro P bec )' for burning,
way. H h's been a ™ tb6 Queen’s Theatre suffer tbit
table manufactory. h fa ° t0ry ’ and is now a billiard
Cinquevanrwas SS kifo f okpd mi *V P r u e P o, ' ts that Pan
theother eek when .™ sense e SS by his cannon-bal
ud as ~, i -l. . appearing ln London. He threw it
it P on the of catchin «
to a slip of <j, t , f or J ttween the shoulders, but owing
in the nW-W t’- a miscalculation in the throw, or
on his neck! fTunon'Thp < : i , n ' |, ' eV ' alH f ' r ° t , the ball
taken awav to the nen-!, , n , the . sta « e as one dead, was
remained unconscious for niam'hom^ft 8 Said t 0 have
at Providence mfta\ m, • \ hOUIS - Some years ago
the way to receive the J u K^ , er rashly put himself in
suffering froman ba , ]l ° n thje neck ' He was
shock it into Jubject on OnTh^ 0 and ‘ hou * h ‘ to
him low Ki.f kJ ° ' ° that occasion the hall laid
folTy This time he" reCove ™ d Urim the effects of his
risk i r m le was D °t deiiberatelv taking anew
sistent Cinauevalli on
Biulwin.SlShones Z or other - The
much worse than'a was. ” th&t lt mi S ht have been
Bert Royal has been saying hurtful things about
Ohristchurch as a show town. He says that during the
past ten years Williamson’s and Musgrove’s companies
I have lost-something like £7OOO in that., citv—a persistent
St&J? eao u h case-and that while Wi'so-, Barrett cleared
£2OOO on his New Zealand tour, £70.) \ < dropped by the
energetic showman in Christchurch. William Anderson
auring four short seasons admits a loss of £I2OO. So the
Cathedral City is to be skipped by some of the leading
touring companies in future. '
month Walter Lonnen, brother of the late
leddv Lonnen, and almost as popular a comedian
Consumption killed both the Lonnens long before the\
touched ,00, not because they were, incurable eases but
because an actor, suffering from lung disease, can’onh
save himself by resting ‘mm work and whisky. If he’s
popular performer he .refs no rest this side of the grave
London Academt on Mark Hambourg and the ner
*?"? of , colon i al tours: “though his popularity
thfnk U~i "° W ’ S t abafcCd in fche interi « T scarceli
think that his playing has improved. It has often beei
observed when actors and actresses pla.v for any lemdl
of time before provincial or colonial audiences that thei
art is apt to suffer—to deteriorate in subtlety and refine
merit and to come by qualities of the ad cavtandin,
order. Something-of the same kind would seem to hok
good too often in the case of musicians. The thing is not
makfn 6aSt dlffioult t 0 understand. Your pianistic athlete
making an appearance ‘ for one night only ’in Arizona’
or Minneapolis, or San Francisco, as the case may be h
naturally tempted under such conditions to try’to
as" auh and & h aUure r t 0 fcake Potion b -
And this F ra i her - than b > r antler methods.
And this, I fancy, from the signs of it, is what Mr Mark
Hambourg has been doing. The thing is the
regrettable in his case since his quite suf-
ficiently ‘ rojousttous ’ before.” .as quite sut-
The question which side of a cross-street
trams ought to stop at, the near or the far, is bein-
discussed again by municipal and railway-traffic
people. Sydney cars stop on the near side : Mel-
bourne and Brisbane ones on the far side ; while in
Adelaide they’re so tired that they will stop any-
where. The same discussion is “on ”in America
Ihe rule there used to be in favor of the far side
mainly on the ground that it gave people in the
cross-Streets a better chance of not missing the
a ew ave lately gone over to the near
side theory on the ground that a car just starting
is under better control than one slowing down,
and that a car can’t be under too good controi
when on a crossing.


FRUIT
Best Quality.
All Fresh Stock.
Will not perish.
•“MASON” //A
Extra thick..
“LIGHTNING” ..
Extra thtuk..
iISOOT
-<*s&***; :
E->r!ra thick..
“ GILCRIST ”
Extra thick„
PERDRIAU & GO.,
Rubber
Merchants
ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
-270 George Street, Sydney.
LADIES*
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free.
!
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTH INQTOM.
!&£
TRADE
Boiler Feed Pump.
p- SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
Janies Simpson & Co., Ltd.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, «.o»uo*
Warren Webster 8t Co. *»•**
Enquiries Invited fob
Worthington Pumps
Webster Food Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
fsd
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-ICniwes,
and Scissors
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
c QkIE
WOLF
or
AX
). ft J. MAXFIELD Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At th# Showroom*—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
■v SYDNEY
Also at—
“TKII 8L0C31,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
■74 Clarence st., Sydney.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
f
n®
sd
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens Min.) and the other ‘for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Addp.ess o»
PARKE & LACY DO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines*'and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., eto.
fsd
fs
df
T. M. GOODALL & CO.,
have in stock and to arrive- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. NBW and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
sd
Sub, 51" x 3J" x 5"
f
and Have
for Sale—
DUPLEX
(a. 13 sizes
for a. 11
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R.L
1
TTUN
07 CLA.REKTCE STREET, SYE»KrE'Sr
Ltd.
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
MAKE THE BEST
ROCK DRILLS ><° AIR COMPRESSORS
sd
IN THE MARKET,
UNEQUALLED for SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION, DURABILITY,
ECONOMY OF
H.ITTL.E GIANT DRILL.
WORKING AND MAINTENANCE.
The Little Giant and Slugger Drills.
The Imperial High Speed Compressors.
The imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coal-Cutting Machines.
Particulars arid Quotations from the Agents
ence St., Sydney.
Nb GUTHRIDGE, 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
