

MctEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC W AISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout,
The Bulletin
Vo] 25.—N0. 1248.]
[Thursday, January 14, 1904.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
R. Car. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
5?
THE
Cl
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven by Steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the Jjocomobile Co. of America.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further particulars to
SOLE AGENTS : GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 85 Pitt Street, Sydmy, N. S.W.
AMUSEMENT for OLD anti YOUMC. X
*** ' WONDERFUL VALUE.
J&KET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out tolife-size —cause* roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing o er 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of vour character—very superior for parlor
entertainment's), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox, the Great Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Di*.inpearing Coin Trick (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHI <JBON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY■
CY FOR THE
Price, 6d.; Posted, Sd.
m§
*VvA*.kv
HOBART,
—xm
ladley’s Orient ptel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
wBELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
0
-LOWEST PRICE.
HIGHEST CLASS
-OUR TRAVELLING REPRESENTATIVE IS NOW IN N.S.W.-
1! to 1000 h.p.
ENGINES
J as. me Ewart & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
Briscoe & Co., Ltd.
Sydney
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
The National Mortgage & Agency Co., Ltd.
Dunedin.
t.
9 jo
EROOM’S
iniiAU
POLO, STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Cejdon
4
and used by all the best players in India. Aj?ent9 wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddler*
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
0 o
0.0
EROOM&CO.,
BALCUTTA, INDSA-
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
If-*-*
m
0.1 o
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
12 diswan - Lamp
:
mm
iff'l
KE
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Save no Worthless
Imitations.
IBS mil SWAB
United Electric Light
Go., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Cavrington-streeti
WYiNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildin
THE
‘PLUM’
HI
THE
‘PLUM’
/GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
M like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edu-e that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
\ THE “PLUM’' RAZOR STROP, specially niade for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Oa'se, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
Price Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the Wordd.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
solo Agents : CRAiG & AlTKEifol, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
Price Is. Id
■•••• I
is Distilled under the supervision
of the Federal Excise Department
which is a Guarantee of its Purity.
*
U'tJ^OISXBIREJD./
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
3readful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
A. C. LUMSDEN, KKV.o'&.e.
HERVEYS
iIACKAROCK
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
COOL
ROOF
50
OOF
mjvß*
AtiENTS: Leading Ironmongers
everywhere.
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
-^jSEETRADEMARK
EACH C'A •;? *C
r.'.CTCR.ES : For these two lines address—
“AßAßlC” DEPOT, MELBOURNE
Cheapest
•OIL
PAIIMT
ow V;
Earth l !
Helidon Spa Water. A Natural Liquid Food. From Helidon, Queensland.


THE RED PAGE.
A SONG OF FLEET-STREET.
Fleet-street l Fleet-street! Fleet-street in the morning.
With the. old sun laughing out behind the dome of Paul’s,
Heavy wains a-driving, merry winds a-striving,
White clouds and blue sky above the smoke-stained walls.
Fleet-street l Fleet-street / Fleet-street in the noontide.
East and west the streets packed close, and roaring like
the sea.
With laughter and with sobbing we feel the world’s heart
throbbing,
And know that what is throbbing is the heart of you and
me.
Fleet-street ! Fleet-street! Fleet-street in the evening,
Darkness set with golden lamps down Ludgate Hill a-row.
Oh ! hark the voice o’ th ’ city that breaks our hearts'tvith
pity,
That crazes us with shame and wrath, and makes us love
her so
Fleet-street! Fleet-street! morning, noon and starlight,
Through the never-ceasing roar come the great chimes
clear and slow.
“ Good are life and laughter, though we look before and
after,
And good to love the race of men a little ere we go.”
Alick Werner, in The Speaker.
Journalists in London.
TTf OW and again an aspiring youth writes or
calls to say (for example) that he has
l learnt reporting with The Border Post,
spent one year with The S.A. Register,
and two with The Age; The Bulletin and The
Australasian have printed his occasional sketches,
and General Hutton has said that an interview
about military matters was —good.” Here
are divers specimens, certain testimonials.
Question : How would he get on in London ?
Well, if he is a clean, healthy, energetic
youngster, with good address and a cheerful
temperament—and if he lands in England with a
minimum of 100 Z. to his credit, to be spent at the
rate of 30s. a week —he would probably do very
well.
Australians of that type generally do very well:
one can cite Bull, Thompson, Donohoe, and
others. These men ranked as good average
journalists in Australia, or possibly higher than
the average. Their salaries ranged probably
from 4Z. to 61. a week. They got their claws into
London and hung on because they were decidedly
more capable than the average London journalist.
Bull, to some extent, has drifted out of pure jour-
nalism : he is press representative for the
Alhambra music hall, and I should guess his
income, after some half-dozen years of London
experience, at about 800 Z. a year. Thompson also
is in and out of journalism : after holding a good
place on The Daily Mail he became a free-lance
with his pennon fluttering over a dozen roads to
fortune. He should earn nearly as much by dint
of sharp wits and a persistent battle. Donohoe
is interviewing and reporting on the staff of The
Daily ChrcM.de, and has probably improved his
Australian salary considerably.
Or take a man like Brient, in a higher class.
After editing The Daily Telegraph, Sydney, he
went to London some two years ago, and almost
at once was put in charge of The Daily Chronicle’s
colonial column. Now he is a night sub-editor,
with a good income and good prospects.
(These gentlemen must pardon us for thrusting
fame upon them thus : personal illustrations give
point to the argument.)
Now, such Australian journalists do well
because, taking them all round, they are brighter
than the usual English specimen. They are
fresher, alerter: have more original initiative:
meet responsibility more readily and- sacrifice
themselves more heartily. There is no reason
why others should not follow them.
J*
But, Question: Is it worth while going to
London ? Certainly; even if one comes back
again. Go—not to London only, but to Europe
and America; go to gather experience and to
adjust your valuations of life and affairs ; go for
the sake of new sensations and fuller sensations.
Every young Australian journalist should see the
elder world before he is thirty, if possible before
he is twenty-five. Let him spend his savings
cheerfully : he will get value in an enlarged mind
and increased capacity.
Yet again : Is it worth while going to London?
That is a matter of taste. After clean Australian
air and bright Australian sunshine, London filth
and gloom are depressing things. For some
people, London has not enough compensations.
It is all right as long as you can leave it when you
wish ; and of course you leave it easily if you can.
There is a gay Continent a few hours away, and
any number of cheap week-end and holiday trips
which can be turned into a continual feast.
As a perpetual residence (speaking always from an
Australian journalist’s standpoint, fixed as nearly
as possible), London palls. Of course, in a sense,
a higher value of life can be reached there. Good
music, good pictures, can be heard and seen. You
are close to the art-pulse of the world at Paris.
Club-life offers pleasures, and the bustling crowd
whirls you along.
But most London journalists are not interested
in books, or pictures, or music ; and they travel
rarely. Their life is a mill-horse round, and when
the collar is loosed they fly to whiskey. (Here
again sober Australians have an advantage : yet
presently they too, doleful in the murk and
struggle, are apt to woo the same consoler.) The
London journalist’s diversion is sport in the shape
of race-course lotting— or the “ The
office,” whiskey, and the music-halls sum up the
life of many, with possibly a suburban wife and
family, laboriously slaved for, cherished anxiously
in continual dread of disaster.
For loss of employment is a more terrible thing
in London than in Australia. London is a bad
place to starve in. The struggle for life in
English cities is harder than in Australian cities,
and hearts harden to match. You can afford to
sympathise both less and more with the man who
is “ down,” for to-morrow you may be “down”
yourself. Comrades acquiesce tacitly: the fact
that you are beaten proves you were fit to be
beaten: they need all their strength to sustain
themselves. Professional chivalry will not pre-
vent them from applying for your job. London
journalists walk in a grim procession, each man
keeping his place with knees and elbows, and
with the breath of the next man on the back of
his head to remind him that if he drop out he may
drop out for ever.
The implication covers Australia too, yet not
to the same extent. Mediocrity’s row is possibly
hoed more easily in London, as long as a man has
a billet ; but when a man loses his billet
mediocrity’s fate is often ghastly.
Somebody held up to me six fingers, for six
London journalists in a small acquaintance who
had married barmaids. There is a hint in that.
J*
. One point in London’s favour is that the grind
is not always so severe. The papers are not
understaffed: on the contrary, an Australian
waved hands of surprise after seeing the sub-
editor’s room of a morning paper. “Why, he
rarely touches anything himself. He has six or
seven men around him, and as fast as the copy
comes in he passes it over to one or the other to cut
or revise. Very different from Australia !” Then
the news-agencies save a lot of tedious reporting
work ; and a bright man, whose matter is thought
well of, may soon be leading a varied and interest-
ing life in the field of special commissions—-with
no exaction of so much space, per diem as long as
the field is covered. (This merely seems to con-
tradict a previous paragraph.)
London encourages camaraderie. The Press.
Club has some half-thousand members, and a
genial man soon makes friends. For the higher
branches of the profession there are clubs like the
Yoriok and the Savile, with a more restricted
membership, and there the company is often very
good indeed. London gives, in fact, in propor-
tion as you give to London. The more you
deserve the more you will get all round. Aus-
tralia has fewer openings both for work
and diversion. And, after all, the strug-
gling crowd is a crowd of mediocrities.
“There is plenty of room at the top.” The
wit and humour that pass for ordinary in many
a Bulletin sketch would be accounted unusual and
delightful in London. Most Australian press-
men have a literary turn : they attempt stories or
verses. The London pressman stioks closely to
his rut.
Or, if he leaves his rut, he becomes a business
journalist. Agency or representative work
offers more opportunities for money-making, and
is eagerly sought after. Not long ago, London
journalists were envying Lincoln Springfield,
news editor of The Daily Mail, who had left
journalism to become press representative of a
combination of tobacco companies at (it was said)
1500 Z. a year. (Presently the tobacco companies
combined anew, and Springfield went back to the
Mail at a lesser salary, some hundreds in pocket.)
Another well-known journalist, J. C. Foulger,
became a political agent for the nonce, and was
credited with winning a seat for Cecil Harms-
worth. There are so many London trusts and syn-
dicates desirous of getting publicity, by dexterous
advertisement, that a shrewd reporter, not too
scrupulous, may add to his income an acceptable
sum in windfalls. London holds plenty of money,
if you can open the purse.
J*
Poor journalists are poorly paid all over Eng-
land. “Beporter wanting change” is a common
advertisement; and 30s. a week is a common
salary in the provinces. Many provincial sub-
editors, on the smaller papers, are thought
to be well paid at 3/. In London, a
reporter who does not earn 4Z. or 51. is a
failure. But once a man gets on the
editorial staff, and is appreciated, hardly
any salary is beyond him. London editors
are very large potatoes indeed, and leader-writers
at 1000 Z. a year are not exactly rare. One can
only aim at giving a general impression of the
prospect to our interrogatory young man : details
vary vastly. Yet he may be sure he will get what
he earns: brains, style, and trustworthiness are
always in demand.
There are so many papers, written to so many
ends, in so many ways, that London offers a
market for every kind of talent. Once a reputa-
tion is made, it clings, and you can trade on
it for a long series of barren years. “The Man
Who Was” is always reverently regarded in
London. People point him out: “Very clever
chap that—wrote ripping things—l don’t
remember what they were: it was before my
time ; but he’s reckoned one of the smartest men
in Fleet-street.”
As to papers—you will see when you get there.
A knowledge of sport is greatly prized : the turf
writer is a power: he “sells papers” to the ale-
and-tipster-ridden millions. Any speciality is
useful—Westralian mines and stocks, say. Aus-
tralasia, indeed, is a specialty in itself : Seddon,
for example, has fearned a lot of paragraph-money
for our men in London, and you can write him up
from both the Liberal and Tory points of view,
and sell him twice over. African contingents and
Imperialistic dreams have opened many columns
to Australians : the English stand ready to pat-
ronise and be bled.
Take introductions: the best you can get.
These will open the doors, and once your foot is
in your work must justify you till you have Won
credit. Then you live on your credit. English-
men regard you askance at first: they thaw
slowly; but, once thawed, they rarely freeze
again—good fellows in their British way. Always
they regard you as some kind of an outlandish
curiosity : England is a narrow little place, and
few people there swing elbows like “Smiler”
Hales. They don’t understand Hales; they
wouldn’t forgive his indecorous attitudes in
an Englishman; but with “ He’s an Australian !”
it all passes. Ex Austro,lia semper aliquid novi—
to be regarded with friendly pity.
This seems a good place to take breath at.
♦ :
The Way of All Flesh, by Samuel Butler (Lond.,
Grant Riehards; 2s. 6 d.). An exceptional book:
recommended to people of culture and leisure who
have reached five-and-thirty years or so. Younger
readers, ope fears, will relish it impatiently, if at all.
The author, who won some vogue with the almost-for-
gotten Erewhon, died in 1902 at the age of 67. He is
good literary company. The Way of All Flesh, in the
guise of a family history, contains his philosopher’s com-
mentary upon life. The attitude is a last-generation
scholar’s, humanely poised. The narrative is laden with
wisdom, lightened by satire : its current is both full and
nimble.
; V* A;
Book
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Crosland, The Five Notions, 3s, postage 4d.
Lord Wolseley, Story of a Soldier’s Life, 2 vo!s.,lBs,p. Is 3d.
Swithinbank & Newman, Bacteriology of Milk, 30s, p. Is 6d
Maud, Rising Generation, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Compton. The Queen Can do No Wrong, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Montgomerie (Florence), An Unshared Secret, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Crockett, The Adventurer in Spain, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Duff, Nyasaland, Under the Foreign Office, 9s, postage Bd.
Grain or Ohaff, A. C. Plowden’s Autobiography, 7s6d,p, 9d
Stott (Beatrice), Rosemonde, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Meade (L.T.), By Mutual Consent, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Lei Feuvre,. The Making of a Woman, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
White (Stewart E.), Conjuror’s House, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Harvey-Brooks, Marriage and Marriages, ss, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &‘at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
MEMORANDA
H. G. Wells’s Tivelve Stories and a Dream,
like the Anticipations, shows a loss of power. His writing
grows flat, his style verbose. The new story of The Food,
of the Gods, now running serially, goes of itself once
the initial conception is given ; and though Wells
shows his usual ingenuity in the variations, they
are rather too obvious to be interesting. He has
given us an extraordinary range of ideas, but he is
never likely to surpass The Time Machine, with its
shivering picture' of humanity seen against the cinder-
sun, gathering flowers till doom comes out of the earth
and swallows them. The big Brain in The First. Men in
the Moon is another fine conception. Then but when
one recollects all Wells’s fine conceptions it seems un-
gracious to disparage him.
The best way for Sydney people to read books
like the Twelve Stories, and similar new fiction which is
not quite worth buying, is to pay threepence a go at
E. W. Cole’s, 333 George-street. Every mail brings a
tribe of new fiction which it is pleasant to glance at,
yet which is not worth the investment of money or shelf
space. The threepenny principle is the right dilet-
tante principle to apply to this class of literature:
if you pay large yearly sums you fare no better
in the end, you waste your substance, and you take your-
self and such books too seriously for a borrower. When
books are taken seriously they should be bought. It is
unpleasant to be driven to reading literature you don’t
want to read, when you don’t want to read it, by the
inward monitor that saj’s the circulating-library proprie-
tor will best you otherwise. In Melbourne, the same
threepenny principle is applied at the Book-Lovers’
Library. And at Brisbane? Adelaide? Perth? Doubt-
less.
They are practical people, the Americans, and
McClure’s for December has a frontispiece entitled “The
light that never was on sea or land.” The consecration
and the poet’s dream is given by a touch of white chalk on
a lady’s eyeball—making a high light that certainly never
was on sea or land. However, Wordsworth is dead.
In the December number of The Magazine of
Art, a Glasgow evening paper, W. H. Spieleman sets Phil
May to rights with all his familiar cocksureness. As May, it
appears, “ found himself in Australia engaged on the Syd-
ney Bulletin —a daily paper which necessarily could not
provide ‘fine printing’—he gladly took a hint from
those who knew, and frpm his colleague, Mr. Ashton, he
probably learnt more than from any other man how to
produce his effects in the fewest possible lines. It is not
only this extraordinary economy of means that Phil May
picked up from Mr. Ashton, but also his manner of
boldly drawing in the forms and shadows of face or
figure, or what-not, in clear and unmistakeable lines.”
Whether this tissue of blunders refers to George Rossi
or to Julian Ashton, it is absolute fiction.
The book of Phil May in Australia makes the pub-
lishing business quite exciting; and booksellers with sport-
fhg instincts are having as good a gamble as if they had
taken twenty tickets in Tatt.’s sweep. Until the day
of publication, the book is sold to subscribers only at
10s. 6 d. net, but after publication the price will be
raised to IZ. Is., with the customary trade discount.
The bookseller has therefore to decide how many copies
he will take at the lower price before the sword of
publication descends to shear his profits; and the
calculation is nice enough to turn Marcus Clarke’s
business man’s hair green. And if the list of sub-
scribers fills, there will not be any copies upon which
to make even a reduced profit of 6s. Btf. ; and considera-
tion of this aspect is enough to turn a business man’s
hair blue.
“ M.G.” on the population question: I fancy
that the large family, at least in Australia, is unnatural.
For this reason : In the colder, and therefore harder,
climates the whole physical being has a greater struggle
to live than here. Children that die there, live here ;
those who are puny there become robust with us; those
who are less than average there are normal in a country
in which climatic influence is benign.
Because in the colder climate the physical being is
forced to work hard, to fight hard, to fend itself warily,
the habit of fighting—of the strenuous —is set up in its
atoms, whatever and however they are. Being set up, it
continues after coming here, though not. necessarily in
the same degree. The result is an intensifying of
physical gain without vital waste. With acclimatization,
of course, the big fight ceases, and the physical gain
drops accordingly—say in the younger members of the
second generation.
In England there is much vitality and comparatively
little physical gain. In Australia, much physical gain
and less vitality. Nature gives nothing for little asking ;
she gives only on demand, at times only when a thing is
wrenched from her. If we want more vitality we can
only gain it by fight, and why should we fight when we
can live easily, individually speaking? Why should we
increase and multiply a degenerating people ? Does any
cne believe that through and through, morally, mentally
and physically, the best type of Australian is as good as
the best types of the North ?
In the Australian Colony in Paraguay (Cosme) I noticed
it the rule that puny English Ghildren arriving there
grew strong and robust in spite of the want of fats in the
food, while the Australian children, on the other
showed all the weedy characteristics of the North
Queensland-born, being particularly remarkable for their
small bone. Indeed, on the same food that built up the
English-born they were decidedly ricketty, one haying
its teeth decay before they came through the gums,
many having the large head and rolling walk typical of
rickets, and hardly one a set of sound first teeth. All
the little Australians, born in the colony and other, cried
with.tooth-ache. The children of the North did not.
As far as I have seen, Australian-born people having
large families show the same deviation from the normal
in their families as is the case with English people
debased either physically or morally. The children come
too quickly. The elder ones are small and weedy, the
middle ones decent, the younger puny, diseased, de-
formed, or otherwise abnormal.
RECEIVED
An Unshared Secret and Other Stories, by
Florence Montgomery (Bond., Macmillan, 2s. 6 d.).
Pleasant, insipid, and reprinted from various polite
magas. One spark is struck on p. 328 “ Mind, Dicky,”
she said, “ never do it. If you cannot have the thing you
long for, go without altogether. But never take some-
thing else instead.”
Steele Rudd’s Magazine, No. I (Brisb., Steele
Rudd and Co. ; 6 d>) Attractively printed in 24 Bvo.
pages of reading and illustrations, with a coloured
cover. Published “in the interests of Australian
Literature and Art;” promising “nothing but first-class
work both as regards writing and drawing,” and
“will be edited by, and as regards its literary part, be
under the absolute control of the well-known writer,
whose pen-name it bears, ‘Steele Rudd’ (Mr. Arthur
Hoey Davis). He will also write the greater part of it,
while most of the drawings will be the work of one of the
best black and white artists in the Commonwealth,
Mr. E. Ashton Murphy." The contents include “ Sandy’s
Selection,” one of “Steele Rudd’s "famous Bush sketches;
verses by G. E. Evans; a Bush story by “Tarboy”:
Bush yarnlets and and literary notes. Tjhere are several
illustrations of Bush scenes by E. A. Murphy, the vignette
of a deserted humpy being particularly g:>od. One hopes
the maga. will wax strong and prosper.
. Figaro, Nos. 1 and 2 (Kalgoorlie, Wallace Nel-
son ; 3d.). A bright little illustrated weekly. Nelson
was lately editor of The Sun (Kalgoorlie), and formerly
of The Worker (Kalgoorlie) and The People’s Newspaper
(Rockhampton). Figaro gives 24 4to. pages and a tinted
cover for threepence, and contains a crisp commentary in
prose and verse on goldfields men and affairs.
The Magazine of Commerce ; December, Is. A
good number of this honest British maga. Contains an
interesting article about the new Blickensderfer elec-
trical type-writer, in which the typist has but to touch
the keys, and a small electric motor does the work of
pressure. Also, always learning, one finds that Tasmania
is a luxurious beggar for soap. The average price of all
British soap supplied in 1902 was : “ To Tasmania (the
holiday resort of rich Australians), 655. per cwt. ; to Vic-
toria, 555. per cwt. ;to W.A., 465. 6 d. per cwt. ; toN.S.W.,
40s. 6 d. per cwt. ;to Queensland, 38s. 6 d. per cwt.” S. A.
paid only 355. 6tZ. per cwt., being A King in Yellow. The
manufacturing gentlemen think this export is chiefly
toilet soap, and supplies evidence of comparative luxury
in the States ; for they point out that most of our house-
hold soap is made locally. And why not toilet, oye of
little enterprise?
The Nehuly Coat, by J. Meade Falkner (Lond.,
Arnold ; 2s. 6d.) is a novel with a background of music
and architecture—and is itself raised like a tower and
sustained like a fugue. The motive (blot on the scutcheon
of an Eng. county family) is not remarkable ; but the
story is fair reading.
A.O.S.
Cfte Bulletin Postcards.
In three series of twelve subjects each. Series I, Designs
by Phil May. Series 11, Designs by “ Hop.” Series 111,
Designs by' Australian Illustrators.
Price Id. each card ; Is. each series of twelve cards ; 3s.
the set of three series. From all Bulletin agents and
booksellers, or posted direct from The Bulletin office.
£3?" Thirty comical and interesting pictures. The-
best possible Australian cards for friendly greeting.
VVholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane.
George Robertson Proprietary Co., Ltd., rielbourne,
Sydney, & Brisbane.
Pbil may in Australia.
An edition de luxe of a book under this title, con-
taining nearly one hundred pages of reproduc-
tions of the best and most interesting drawings
made by Phil May in this country, will be pub-
lished by The Bulletin Newspaper Company on
17th January.
The contents are examples of May’s work in
portraiture, caricature, social and political car-
tooning, and humourous subjects. Many of the
pages contain three or four drawings ; so tha‘ j
the total content is more than two jiundrei /
separate subjects.
These drawings are of unusual interest to
artist and connoisseur. They exhibit the develop-
ment of the talent of the most brilliant pen-
draughtsman of his generation—possibly pf any
generation—in the various phases through Avliich
he reached his unrivalled original style. Apart
from the artistic interest, they have a unique
Australian interest, in that they contain portraits
of most of the Australian celebrities of the
’eighties, and of many who are still living to-day.
Most of the original drawings reproduced were
recently sold at an average price of 3 1. 3 s. each.
A few others, not exhibited or sold, are now
included. Three hundred and fifty proofs of some
of the subjects have been sold at from 'ls. (id., to
7s. 6 d. each.
The price of the present volume, to subscribers
whose names and remittances are received before
January 17, is 10s. 6 d. net. The edition is limited
to 975 copies. The special copies (25) at 1/. 11s. (id.
each have been subscribed, and are already quoted
at 21. 2s. and over.
On publication, the price of the 10s. 6d. edition,
if any copies remain not subscribed, will be raised
to It. Is.
The book of Phil May in Australia is printed on
art paper, and bound in half-cloth with a decora-
tive panel. The size is demy folio (18in. x 12in.)
—that is, the full size of The Bulletin, and the
book has been printed in first-class style. Other
features are a special end-paper (Australian
landscape) designed by Percy Lindsay ; a very
full iconography ; and a prefatory account of the
life and work of May. $ ■
The book is one of the most ambitious* 'and
interesting yet attempted in Australia, and the
publishers’ cost for engraving and printing will
scarcely be repaid at the subscription price. On a
comparison of relative values with similar im-
ported books by foreign illustrators, the book is
well worth a guinea.
The book will not be reprinted in its present
form, and subscribers will thus obtain a. rare
edition, which is practically certain to be en-
hanced in price and value as the years pass.
Rough sample copies may be seen at The
Bulletin offices, 214 G-eorge-street, Sydney, and
Old Exchange, 369 Collins-street, Melbourne,
where subscriptions will be received. Owing to
the size and weight of the book, delivery will be
made at these offices, or as arranged. Where
copies must be sent by post, it is'necessary to add
2s. 6 d. for postage.
A NEW BOOK on BREATHING.
Ry F. Matthias Alexander (who has imparted his new methods for 10 years in Australasia).
See Bulletin, December 17, for Full Particulars and Order Form. Only sufficient copies to be printed to
supply orders received. Read article on “ Prevention and Cure of Consumption ’’ in Sydney Daily
Tele raph, Saturday, December 12, page 16, by the author. Pamphlet and Article on Consumption will be for-
warded to any address on receipt of Stamp. Address—
ROYAL CHAfIBERS, corner HUNTER & CASTLEREAQH STS, SYDNEY.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. , THB . . '
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Lxffirax, or organ ol
voice.
B. The Trachra or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one ©f the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poieonoue Druse.
all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich Queensland postfreeonre-
stamps. Sydney Depdt: 5& 7 Queen's Place. Made in Australia. Agencies m all Australian States ana a •


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
■irfn SYDNEY.
nINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OF
Kangaroo. Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
IN) EVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
I' 'lr viii;. t 1
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, cz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEJNPS LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d,. 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATS / 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS, \ No. 3 4 5 6
Cane— J 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s Pd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
All Cane— J9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s Od
MEN SCAN E / y4 s gj u )s 15a 6d,
EATS- 18. «, 2 »».
16s 6d
25s
Send for Catalogue, Pc s': Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG- GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 108,
15s set.
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s Od, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
bEfc&Y
3s 6d
Handicap
5s
STANbARb
7a 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever ofFered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 63, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &c.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered..
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion
4s 6d doz.
9s 6d „
10s ~
16s ~
8s 6d „
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
TAYLORS,
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
ONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
CUR
en
Painful Sprains or Aches of the Arms,
Legs, or Body, Backache, Sciatica,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, &c.
miIERE is no class of Disease in which Treatment by Electricity
1 h as achieved more marked success than the various affections above
_ described. Whether they are acute or chronic, Electricity is alike
efficacious in effecting not only relief from pain, but a permanent cure. We
have had cases where the patient could not walk, but after a couple of
days application of the Belt and Attachments to the weak parts they were
walking about as well as ever. Other cases, we have had under treatment,
have been using Lotions, Ointment, and Drugs for years but without
relief, who have been positively restored by us within a week or two.
There are innumerable cases of Stiffened Joints, painful and enlarged as
the result of Chronic Rheumatism. This is exceedingly common among
the aged. How many are there whose declining years from fifty upwards
0 *
J
b
%
sJ
nupu
W
die tendered miserable by affections of the joints? Some cannot walk without pain and inconvenience, because their knees
seat of this most obstinate disease. Others can make little or no use of their hands and fingers, and the most disheartening tl
is the utter failure of drugs to effect relief. Marvellous results have been obtained by
and ankles are the
ing to those afflicted
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
With Free
Attachments
and Electricity is recognised by the leading psychologists of the old world as the only true Remedy for Diseases of this nature. One of the most
brilliant men of the day recently remarked before the Members of the Psychological Institute of Paris that Electricity will bring about a thera-
peutic revolution, and that its effect on Skin Diseases and all Functional and Nervous Disorders was most powerful. Take Sound AtiviCO ! If
rou are affl cted call or send for our Advice, and if you can't be cured by Electricity nothing will cure you !!
See the Great Benefits that have been Given to Sufferers, Thousands of Letters of a Similar Kind can be seen on application.
CO3LABAH, N.S.W.
Gentlemen, —I have never had any pains
since I commenced to wear your Belt. Before
I wore it I suffered greatly with Rheumatics in
my hands and feet, also in my back ; when I
used to sit down it was hard work to get up
again. I am now in perfect health, and I
have left the Belt off fort e past three weeks,
as I don’t feel the n et of it any longer.
Yours truly, J. w. CARNEY.
MOLONG, N S W.
Dear Sirs,—l am greatly pleased with
the Salt. The Indigestion left me entirely
after I were the celt the third time. I now
feel grand, and cannot express my thanks
in this small letter Wishing your fit m a
long life of happiness and prosperity, and
thanking you for past favors,
I beg to remain, ycurs faithfully,
JAMES PEDEN.
EUCHAREENA, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I have been using: your High-
grade Belt, according to directions, during the
last four weeks, and the first application com-
pletely banished, as if by magic, all the muscular
twitchings from my legs, I also feel a vast im-
provement in my back, and, in fact, I feel better
and stronger ail over. I have done more work
during the last three weeks than for months past.
Yours gratefully,
CECRIE CARTER.
23 Argo-street,
SOUTH VARRA, VIC.
Dear Sirs—l am glad to tell you that
my troubles have left me, and I haven’t
felt batter for years. My chief trouble
was stricture-and bad at that, also
sciatica, and my back was very bad.
Constipation has been a thing of the
past sinca wearing your bait, and I have
put on over a stone in weight.
Yours truly, A. D. CRANT.
DO MOT BUY AM ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
WHttrt
JUSI
RfQUW f
-M
\nmn
lor the benefit of all sufferers we issue an Illustrated
■nook, which deals exhaustively with the use of
JUeetrieity as a Curative Agent. It tells of our 25
years btudy of the Wonders that can be accomplished
, >y '.said for most ailments, with which it deals in
etaij. It is also full of Engravings showing how the
e ri 1 -* wo ? n f° r various ailments. Everyone should
o/f explains the only way to Health and
v “• It costs you nothing. We will send it to
' ’ P°. st age paid and closely sealed, to any address
of a post card or letter.
CALL AND LET US MAKE YOU A TREE TEST AND
EXPLAIN THE WORKING OP THE BELT.
The Dr. McLAUOHLIN CO.,
IOOW. Market Street, Sydney
Melbourne Offlce-167E. SSwemstoxi St
3XT.Z. Offlce 54 Willis g*., Wellington!


' «?
PROFESSOR /V\UDD’S —
c^fNTMOS
Cto ps 7i a i_r fa lung out-
pREVENT5 BALDNESS
PRICE ■ £'/$ —POSTED 3/3-
■ - ROMO
n » v eS L Tf l t ; C d L o H TO G RLY h At R
CONiAIN) m> AC.IDS. -■ mv
4'w^' Up i 317
Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey, Ltd.
Lapidaries ....
Gem Merchants and. .
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
6
7
8
9
10
No. 1.—3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.— 5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.— 3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4. —1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.—3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No, 6.-3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
Ne. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as the
Diamond), £4.
No. IS.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 109,000 OEMS ON HAND.
! Obey the Scriptural injunction:—
BE STRONG.”
“acquit you as men:
THE GRAND OLD DOCTOR.
Surgeon
Langston
M.R.C.S., Bag.
Late Surgeon in Imperial
Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, formerly
Government Health Officer,
Tasmania, registered in Eng-
land and Australia, and
authorised by Act of Parlia-
ment to practice in all
branohes of Medicine and
Surgery.
m*.
The OLDEST and MOST
RELIABLE SPECIALIST
in all cases of
Nervous Disorders,
Varicocele,
Rheumatism,
Kidney Troubles,
Lame Back,
Rupture*
HIGHEST HEALTH HONORS.
INVENTOR of the LATEST and GREATEST STRENGTH RESTORER.
N»>
7/
i^Z
THE TRIUMPH OF MEDICAL ELECTRICITY.
It is NOT a BELT, but BETTER than ANY BELT.
For Forty Years I have
been curing Thousands
suffering from the same
Weakness
as you.
Let me Cure You.
Many Benefits are lost
through hesitation.
It is easier to give you back
your
Health
now than it will be later on.
SURGEON
LANGSTON’S
Combined Remedies
FOR
Nervous Afflictions
AND
Associate Complaints
ARB THE
Reigning Remedies.
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sana.”
A treatise on Nerve Diseases
anrl Ailments of Men. The latest
medical thought put in the most
instructive and interesting form.
Teaches how to gain and retain
a sound mind in a sound body :
post free for six stamps.
“Rupture: Its History and Cure.’
A valuable work, showing the
certainty of Restoration without
operation ; post free four stamps.
“Diseases of Mankind.”— A
handy compendium relating to
the symptoms, dangers, and cure
of Nervous Complaints, Kidney
Troubles, Nasal, Throat and
Lung Diseases, and associate
evils ; post free four stamps.
They tell you what you should
know, and what you want to
know.
Consult me FREE, either Personally or by Post.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
129 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne. Victoria.
THE LAST OF SIX
oe Bd.,
Post Free.
ROBERTS' HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
UKB.—V/iSitorS ©ply pay for wl>at tbcy actually Ijayc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying; for a
room on arrival and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
■X’o iDBirY coiMEPxaxxTioixr.
WINES **• B “‘ °“‘ v SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral waters, CORDIALS. &0.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The UniTersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFCRDS
MAGNESIA
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
gip There’s SECURITY in
Barter's
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUCH the LIVER
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prief.
Be Sure they are
AN OFFER TO MEN
WE have always given proof of anything that we
claimed for our Electric Belt, because we know
that there are people who claim a great deal more for
their remedies than the truth would justify. If you
want a remedy which will oure you, it seems wise for you
to take the one that has cured others. We have published
thousands of testimonials from cured patients, and we will
pay in gold for evidence showing that we have ever used a
testimonial which was not true and honest.
Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
cures Rheumatism, Lumbago, Pains and Aches in any
part of the Body, Weakness in any part of the Body,
Tired Feelings, Sleeplessness, Premature Old Age, Weak
Stomach, Weak Kidneys, Loss of Vim and Ambition.
We don’t ask any man to buy our appliance on a specula-
tion. We know that it will cure these troubles, and we
want our pay only when the cure is complete. If we fail
in our task it’s our loss, not yours. All you lose is your
time, and if our Belt fails to cure you, you will have the
satisfaction of knowing that the best, strongest and finest electric body appliance in the
world-one with 50,000 cures to its credit—has failed, and that there is no cure for you in
electricity. Remember our terms are
PAY WHEN CURED.
Free Book.-We have just completed our Beautiful Illustrated Book, descriptive
of our treatment. It is worth reading. We will send it free upon request. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. M-
-49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. |
New Zealand Branch: 19 Princee Street, Dunedin.


s
That liarc}
cough of
yours—*
what are
you doin£
for it?. Look
out, or it
will bind
you with
all the
strength of a powerful chain.
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
cures coughs and colds, even, hard
coughs and old colds.
Mrs. A. White, of Fitzroy, Victoria,
says: “I had a very hard cough night
and day. I tried many remedies, but
without relief. I thought my lungs
were nearly gone. I then tried Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. I began to improve
at once, and only one and one-half bofc
ties completely cured me.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them ! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULJPHURie a GIB.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt , which lie had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £\ for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, 1 thought, " Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £1 and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt , with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
60-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W. FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Send to THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
100 W. Market-st., Sydney ; 1071 Swanston-st. Melbourne
54 Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
C. E. Frazer, the new member for Kal-
be the infant of the Hou.se of Reps.
The Message of the Breeze.
When the sun is slowly fllt’ring thro’ the banks of
rising mist ;
When the golden light is streaming where a beam
' has gently kissed ;
On the turquoise wings of morning, rising up
from o’er the seas,
Comes the faintly-calling message, the message of
the breeze.
In the wooded land the songbirds have caught the
tidings sweet,
And they sing them—ah 1 so gladly—e’en the
sparrows in the street;
From the lazy, waving cornfields, and the softly
swaying trees,
Comes the faintly-calling message, the message of
the breeze.
When the moon is peeping shyly, and its fair
beams flood the land ;
And the stars encircle Heaven with a silver,
twinkling band,
You can hear the soft wind whispering, and you
hold the golden keys
To listen to the message, the message of the
breeze.
VIO.
D.M.R.
The Haunted Shore.
By a knoll I cherish well,
Near the waves,
Where the owls and vampires dwell
In the caves,
Pine and cedar mingle scent
And the sea-spray whips the air,
And you hear the weird lament
From the mermaid’s hidden lair.
While the soughing sycamores,
Gnarled and gray,
Watch the eea-hawk search the shores
For its prey,
Waving grass is live with elves,
Flitting in a mazy dance,
And the mind of Fancy delves
In superlative romance.
There I often took a book
Good and old.
And the sea-gulls came to look,
Shy and bold;
Heard the music of the page
Chord with rhythm of 1 he sea,
Saw the touzie-bearded mage
Lash the waves to savagery
When the stricken sea-witch moaned,
Breakers vast
Breathed a sullen, monotoned
Organ-blast ;
Screams of tempest-driven gulls
Rose above the seething spray,
And the weather-beaten trulls
Trailed their sodden skirts of gray.
And I sometimes with my love
Loitered there,
While: the golden ore above
Flecked her hair;
Then were scarlet lips my wine,
And my pillow, wistful breasts ;
Then was heaven’s violet-shine
And the bliss of ended quests 1
Ours was not the love of mere
Deviltry,
Nor was built with straw of sheer
Imagery,
For it stood the comrade-test,
Yet it wavered not a tithe,
And when tear-flow dewed the breast
Sought with song to make us blithe.
But by that now haunted shore
Tears I’ve shed,
And I roam the marge no more—
She is dead !
But I sometimes, when a-dream,
Stand and watch the sea-gulls pass,
And the wistful blue eyes gleam
In the rank, untrodden grass !
n.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Palling Stars.
Only a falling star !
What was it to him
If millions of mortals were
Hurled down the dim
Dark void to the abyss ?
His world was this.
Only a falling star !
The Earth was sure
To outlive him at least:
Whatever were
Their fates who yonder passed,
His star would last!
Only a falling star !
What if some day
The Earth, as in a flash,
Too, passed away,
Would, say, a Mars-man sigh
As we flamed by ?
Only a world gone out
With all its care—-
God ! but a speck at most
In Thy great air,
As ’twere an insect’s breath
Breathed out in death.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established is 49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the Joan during any year, without notice or payment of any One.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SANKEY, Ltd.
Occulists’ Opticians, and
Manufacturers of Spectacles •• •
Brisbane and Rockhampton
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHAS. SANKEY FRASER, F.S.n.C., Etc., Etc., who holds
the highest qualifications as an Optician in all Australia, viz*: Diploma Appliea Optics, Northamton
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optica, Northamton Institute, London ; Diploma of the British Optical
Association, London ; Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers of London, and Freeman ol the
City of London ; Author of “ The Human Eye.” Send far Copy—Post Free*
Correspondence Attention Assured.
Recommended by Leading Occulists. “a®
The Best and the Cheapest.
Double Seated
Turnout Seat
Buggy - £lB 10».
With Brake and
Lamps.
Bulklee - £8 10a.
Send for a
Catalogue.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex St. ( Sydney.
BoardßtJggleS
Reliable and
Strong, £0 OT&.
Large Stocks of
all light vehlclte,
Buggies, Sulkies,
Phaetons. Send
for a Catalogue.
H. HILLIER,
ISO Sussex-street
Sydney, H.B.W,
SMITH
BRISBANE
£=3
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Qunnedah,,
N.S.. Wales;.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Himting Watch, 21/-, in good
order [ it keeps perfect time and'is
splendid value-best in Austral-
asia*.
Tours truly;,
JOSEPH BENNETT.’.
Posted Free to any partt aC
Australia..
Send' ttor niUsttatfed. Catalogue;.
Queensland Leading: Jewellert.
H. F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWQUMBAV
RIFLE AND PISTOL
CARTRIDGES.
“ It’s the shots that hit that count/* Winches-
ter Rifle and Pistol Cartridges hit, that is„
shoot accurately, and strike a good, hard, penv-
etrating blow. They are loaded with great
care and precision, and made in calibers'
suitable for all kinds of game, from rabbits I
to grizzly bears. If you want reliable amm?a-'
nition, buy the time-tried Winchester makeu
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for oar Rifle Catalogue* Post Free.
PERRY BROS.
HARDWIRE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
‘FRUIT
SALT/
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—S« Capsule marked ENO’S -FRUIT SALT/ Without it you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. EN O, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNO.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere •


A NOVEL PRESENT.
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
Tn 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
r /L£crm
v
2
a/i
Which we send FREE
TO ALE explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STRONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explains their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CURED by
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TROUBLES, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. Ib is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFEERING and the WEAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Efizabeth-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
Si
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Sufitlon. The best"
safest and most convenient.
lt Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.V.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, seeled
“ ACTS LIKE A CHARM.”
JONES’
Iheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CORE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
2s. 9d . PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
aad 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soao
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of .crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set Is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when ail else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Pals,Paris. Potter Drug
and Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated Hquid Ccticuba Resolvent, as well asvfor all other blood Purifiers aud humour
cures Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses, cuticura i are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
Tht Healthiest and aoit Comfortable Underwear far Mai, Wanes an.
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Acrtex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as “just as good as Aerte*."_
e sole AGENTS i
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 King: Street.
mv
HIVH GQQ-0
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ’ Price—3s., 45., 5s Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
tag- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE,
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul, & Co..
Pilt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASE 3 OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
w J Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coll ins-street, MELBOURNE
ANDRADE’S
LIST OF
BOOKS
BOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by Or. Faulkner, illustrated
with over f>o engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Datk, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Don blly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9.1 and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. ' Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is /
' 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2. ij
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great ~
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
-Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In- I
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwivk’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancing, Is. Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3 :
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
.’S EXPECTORANT
URES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PIIiLS
Is the Great English Cure for GuUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint- of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J. LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following are some of our best kn-wn Machines
In use :
The “Challenge” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill) —3d. Slot—
pays value in goods.
The “ Australia”—6Slots Spots and P. Machine—3d. Slot
—pays value in goods.
The Monlgi Carlo —6 Slots Machine—Sd. Slot—pays-value
in goods.
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
IST Our Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, vrill forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Free for Asking:
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-nien. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
i BEFORE GOING TO BED I
| USE 1
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth
Powder
instead of leaving your teeth exposed
all night to the spread of decay.
It Is antiseptic, pleasant and
refreshing, and has the largest sale
of any dentifrice.
CALVERT’S
Prickiy-Heat Soap
(10% Crystal Oarbollo)
is a pleasant antiseptic soap, specially suited
for bath and toilet use in hot climates.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester
ENGLAND.
IVEN
KIT
AWAY
To Advertise
our
OSTREOH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch,
l J cst Free
3 Tips with 03preys.
Black, Cream, or Black tipped with 77hit§«
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Write To-Day. Send Postal Tote's.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts.. Molhouraa
Mention The Bulletin.


Sixteen Years Martyrdom.
Sallow, Shrivelled and Emaciated.
Saved from an Untimely End.
The Case of
Mrs. A. H. FULLAQAR.
(BT A LOCAL REPORTER.)
There are some branches of study which
cannot give the information which the
reader is seeking, even though the amount
of useful learning may be increased by the
theories therein contained, but the follow-
ing singular story may be safely regarded
as one which should be stored in the
mind of every person in the community. It
commences with a brief reference to an acci-
dent which befel Mrs. Alice Harriette Ful-
lagar, of 83 Mitchell-street, Glebe, in de-
scribing which the narrator said :
“ I can trace all my physical trouble back
to the day that I was thrown out of a sulky
through the horse taking fright at the noise
of a passing train and bolting down the
street. * The animal was galloping at full
speed when it suddenly fell, and I was
hurled with great violence on to the hard
road.”
t: It is a wonder you were not killed,” re-
marked the reporter.
“ Indeed I was lucky to have escaped as I
did, but the accident itself wa* a mere trifle
to what followed,” continued Mrs. Ful-
lagar. “ You see, I was in a delicate state
of health at i he time, and that made matters
much worse for me. I had to keep my bed
from the 3rd of February till the 14th of
March, and even then I had to be lifted like
a child from place to place, as I was too
weak to hold my head up. My doctor ad-
vised me to take a sea trip, and I went to
England, where all my relatives live; but,
after staying there some time, I returned to
Sydney no better than when I went away.
The pains in my legs were something never
to be forgotten, and my stomach was so
weak that I could not keep down even the
lightest of food. I consulted one doctor
after another in the hope of meeting with
one who could successfully treat my case,
but I found no benefit resulting from the
use of their medicines. That they under-
stood what was wrong with me was quite
plain, for they all said that I would have to
go under an operation, and also that my
liver and kidneys were out of otder. What
with one cause and another I was in a
chronic state of misery. Instead of falling
asleep like any other mortal when night
came I could only twist and turn in aggra-
vating restlessness, and all the time I was
thinking of things which made me cringe
with fear. If I slept at all I dreamt such
horrible dreams that when I awoke I forced
myself to keep awake to avoid dreaming
again. As for being nervous, well, lam
sure you could not possibly guess how I
used to shake when I heard any sound, and
I would not stay in a room by myself for the
world. My appetite was so poor that I
never felt hungry, while in the mornings,
when my mouth had a taste as if I had eaten'
a stale egg, the smell of food made me sick.
The expectoration of an ill-smelling phlegm
was of frequent occurrence, and I was
almost tormented to death with frightful
headaches and 1 harp pains in the side and
between the shoulders. My heart pains and
palpitations were a constant worry to me,
and it was because I felt certain that that
organ was too weak for me to undergo any
operation.”
“Did the doctors express an opinion on
that matter ? ” C-
“ They said my heart was weak, and that
an oper .tion was t 1 e only thing to save me.
I did not think I could stand it, and as I
thought I would never get better, I pre-
ferred to die as I was, without being hacked
about hy doctors. Another reason for my
timidity was that I suffered severely from
fits, which used to leave me prostrate for
two or three days. I was thoroughly weary
of life, for a heavy despondency robbed me
of any remaining comfort that I might have
otherwise enjoyed. The smallest particle of
food made my stomach so painful that I
could not bear the weight of my clothes,
and the paiDS in my chest seemed to take
my breath away. All the medicines, pills,
and ointments I had purchased during my
sixteen years’ martyrdom were quite use-
less, and all that was left of me was a sal-
low, shrivelled face and an emaciated body.
This wretched state of affairs was changed
in a most extraordinary manner by Clem-
ents Tonic, and I have no hesitation in
stating that by using that medicine I was
saved from an untimely end. ”
“ How came you to take Clements Tonic,
Mrs. Fullagar?”
“Through the advice of my grandmother,
who had half-a-bottle in the house, which
she gave me, and when I had taken it I felt
slightly better, so I sent for three bottles of
Clements Tonic on my own account. Then
a little disappointment was experienced, as
my condition after drinking the first bottle
was not altered much ; but instead of giving
way to despair, I went on with the second
bottle, and then my appetite commenced to
come back. Such a strange, happy feeling
of hopefulness then stole over me that I
felt quite a different woman, especially as
my stomach was so strengthened by the use
of Clements Tonic that my food digested
and nourished my body, thereby giving me
increased vitality every day. Then I started
to take a new interest in life, for by easing
my body pains and giving tone to my brain
and nerves, Clements Tonic restored the
health-giving sleep which I required so
much. Another supply of that remarkable
remedy was obtained as soon as the first lot
was finished, as past experience taught me
Clements Tonic was my only chance. And
shall I ever forget how thankful I was when
the pains in my side and shoulders stopped ?
and when the distressing palpitations of my
heart were remedied I realised that I was
out of danger. Each day I ata more
heartily, but I now had good reason to eat
freely, as there were no pains—not even in
the chest —to deter me from doing so. The
cleansing and regulating influences of
Clements Tonic were shown by the entire
disappearance of my headaches, and the re-
moval of my internal disorders. The re-
storation of my nervous system to a sound
condition makes me ever grateful to
Clements Tonic, as it ultimately had the
effect of giving me entire freedom from fits,
and my health has not faltered in the least
since 1 took my last dose of Clements Tonic
two years ago.”
“ Was your recovery complete in every
detail ? ”
“ Yes; Clements Tonic left nothing un-
done, and as I think, an account of my cure
will undoubtedly assist other sufferers, you
may publish it in any way you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alice Harrietts Fullagar, of 83 Mitchell-
street, Glebe in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic;
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements —which I give volun-
tarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, ana by virtue of the
provisions.of the Oaths Act, 1900.
/if
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twentieth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
W. T. TATE, J.P.
WOMEN, BEAD THESE FACTS.
Many of you live far in country parts, where you cannot procure the necessities for the
NURSERY, the BOUDOIR, the HOME. By writing to us you can be certain that your
wants will be supplied. FACE and TOOTH POWDERS, Toilet Requisites in Variety,
Soups, Perfumes, Patent Medicines, or any indispensable necessity, may be received by parcel
post a few hours after writing. We have an excellent assortment of Bath Requisites suitable for
Summer requirements. Write to us for price lists, sent free on application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cnre. —The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
2s 6d post paid.
Dr. Hughes’ “Pits Epilep.”— A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use. 6s p. paid
Fincham’s Capaline. —A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle. Is 6d and 2s 6d, post paid.
Fincham’s “Fearline” Face Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c. 2s 6d post paid.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
It is so effective that the worst cases are relieved
in six hours. See you get the Gr. 5 remedies,
3s. 6d. p. paid.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic. —Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
2s. 6d. and 55., post paid.
Dr. Clarkson’s Great Re-Invigorator.
—For weak Dyspeptic men, a splendid Nerve
Tonic and RejuVenator, promotes Digestion,
increases the Appetite, enriches the Blood, and
gives vital strength. In bottles, 7s. 6d. Tnree
bottles (a course), £l.. Post paid.
AH these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCH AM, M.P.S.,
Pe £wl §rug (Store,
227 Elizabeth Street,
Hyde Park. SYDNEY.
ONE FILLING LASTS FOR DAYS*
ONE PEN FOR YEARS.
From one
End to the Other
There 19 not one bad feature about
the Swan Fountain Pen. From
one end to the other it is as good as
money and brains can make it.
Made of.the very best material
and fitted with most famous gold
pen on earth.
fouHTAIrt JSejmT
has the most perfect ink feed
known to the science of fountain
pen making. It never blots, balks
nor skips. Try the Swan for a
time.
MABIE, TODD V BARD,
London & Manchester,
England.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
JJOTICH TO WWSC.BOURNO VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEOROE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE GOGOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRISCUIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, flelbourne.
'/lights
Wealthy Snftsids
TRY **
RIDGES
it: FOOD
Refuse a// fm/faf/ons
Satiftfyuiit. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGFA'fS FOR SYD/VFV,
SAYfRS AllPO&r * POTTFA
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON.Enc
DEBILITATED
TJf7'EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
VV trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Viotoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Da. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANCSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HO'IE CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
siriDiisriEir.
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFOIM’S
COCKROACH . ..
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of &.M Chemists.
Ask for —r
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Boot. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
“ rilTrylt.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer..
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLS AGENTS.
3
The Remit.
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Direotlona for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
1 II
1
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severs
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send, for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
3 6 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ‘ '
NOTICE j
To sufferers from Gout,RheuTnatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of ilead, Face, or
Limbs.-
The Old Reliable English Remedy .
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinqdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World.- Js sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies..
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body. '
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6cL
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold. bv' all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies." *


9
Insist
Upon
Having:
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
A
'-Mi
t
i
IS
-
lit
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishments.
GORDON MARE, Secretary■
EUssJS
©
I
0
I-©-
Concerning Elgin Watches^-
. XV*
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PEIGES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
As the Years roll on,
we learn sense, we gain experience, and build up successes “ out of our failures.” The
experience and the wisdom that we have accumulated during the past year have
taught us that
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES ARE GOOD
particularly good in flavor, and reliable in quality.
This confirms the World’s Verdict.
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN 1 DOCTOR
writes thus: “The action of
Golden Flujtex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Good for INFANTS and AGED alike. .
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS. Obtainable Everywhere-Box, 20 Tablets, Is 6d.
Head Office for Australasia—3l7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
COVERS.
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
4b
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOB LIST.
BUZACOTT
&f n T M 7& 9 MARKET STREET,
Wtt J-flU** S3TDKTBY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
tion to The Manager.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
f
v*-
0
ft« 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers :M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
YZk.
XL
Or
I
&
2
33!
c
!
■a*
Smoke
itYSTONf
Tobacco
As upon the
KEYSTONE "
of the ARCH depends the success of the building,
so upon
“KEYSTONE” TOBACCO
depends the success of the Smoke.
F/S MOKE
Wills'*
KEYSTONE
Tobacco
CUT or PLUG


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1248.
THURSDAY. JANUARY 14, 1904.
Pbiok 60.
A STUDY IN BLACK AND WHITE.
L.B.M .: " I DON’T SEE WHERE ANY COOD IS GOING TO COME FOR ME WHICHEVER WINS. BUT, ANYHOW, I
RECKON I VOTE FOR WHITE!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
" Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for Thk Bullkti
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wale
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... £l6
Half-yearly ... OIS i
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 \
EOT ICR.
By tending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin postec
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques; Drafts, etc., and all Business Communication
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor
Special Entice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressl j
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketchet
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing Hvo columns in length, or, say, $OOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable). Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and sUonvs are enclosed. But we
desire those segiding MS. to dist inctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White .
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit, and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e. , any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo Newt Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1904.
The War Cloud in the North.
Thk threatening war in Asia would justify no
alarm in Australia were the Commonwealth self-
governing in its foreign administration, and not
infected by an anti-national leavening in its own
population. But two circumstances make the
position dangerous—the Imperial connection, and
the existence of a large section (a section, too,
rich and influential and able to carry with it much
unthinking opinion) devoted not to Australian
but to external ideals, in no sense national, look-
ing for its dearest rewards not in this but in
another land, hoping to pass its final wealthy
ease in London, towards which it looks as to
an ante-room of Paradise. For in this
matter the interests of “ the Empire as
interpreted by a British Jingo Tory adminis-
tration, probably only too willing to triumph
at another “ kharki election ”—and the interests
of Australia are absolutely antagonistic. To
Australia, assuming her independent of all out-
side ties, the result of a Russian-Japanese war
would be in some regards a matter of indifference.
The bogey of a strengthened Russia threatening
from the Far North gives no tremor to any
sensible Australian. The experienc(Tof England
in S’Africa shows that the subduing of a white
race of 5,000,000 people from a far-away base is a
practical impossibility: and the experience of
modern history suggests that no European Power
would attempt such a wanton and dangerous
enterprise as an attack on Australia. But in one
respect a struggle between Japan and Russia
would touch our interests closely and enlist
Australian sympathy for Russia. The tight
would be between European and Asiatic, between
a white race the assistance of which in developing
this continent Australia is prepared to welcome,
and a race which we deliberately and with the
almost unanimous voice of the people, bar from
our citizenship. And whilst a Russian victory
would mean to Australia no threat and no danger,
it would remove, by humbling the growing.arro-
gance of a mushroom Asiatic power, the danger,
which some regard as considerable, of an effort by
China and Japan allied to win Australia for the
yellow races.
* * * »
The Australian attitude then, presuming that
the Commonwealth had the right to declare its
attitude' and presuming that there was no
po.\verfiil anti-Australian section sharing Aus-
tralian citizenship without giving a thought
to the duties of that citizenship, would be of
neutrality modified by sympathy with Russia.
The British Jingo attitude is altogether the
reverse. Of late years Britain has been following,
and setting other Powers the example of follow-
ing, a mad Imperialism of the Roman type. For
a while Britain had a monopoly of the “expan-
sion ” ambition, but naturally soon communicated
it to other nations, who began also to look for
greatness, not in making their own people happy
and prosperous but in extending their boundaries
and conquering the countries of the less powerful.
It soon became an article of Imperialist faith
that whilst one’s own Empire may expand inde-
finitely, for any one other Empire to try.to
expand is a cause of quarrel. Then began the
era of gigantic armaments and destructive wars.
The black and yellow man has been more than
revenged for the wrongs he has suffered from
Imperialism by the woes it has brought on
his European oppressors. In the present
position in Asia, English Imperialism is
intensely interested, though England, as a
matter of wholesome truth (which the English
Government will not recognise), is not necessarily
interested at all. Russian Imperialism wishes to
expand in China; English Imperialism insists,
with reasoning that is difficult to follow, but is
nathless accepted without question by Imperialists,
that England, and England alone, must be allowed
to expand there. Hence the wholly unnatural
alliance between Britain and Japan, the first
entered into between a European Power and an
Asiatic nation, the purpose of which is to check
Russian expansion in Asia and the almost certain
effect of which will be to drag England to the side
of Japan in any war with Russia which may break
out. And if England goes to war to help Japan
Australia will be expected to follow meekly after,
and to let flow blood in the championship of
people who are jealously excluded from Australia
lest they contaminate the Australian race.
• • • •
That wicked absurdity would not be expected
if Australia had not shown, very recently, in the
S’African war that no consideration of right or
wrong, no sentimental regard for the liberties of
others, would weigh in the balance against the
glittering bribes of Imperialism. As a matter of
reason and good sense, Australia has the right
to demand that England should consider, to an
extent, Australian interests in foreign policy:
that that right is not exercised and not in
any way conceded is shown clearly by the
very existence of this Anglo-Japanese treaty,
by which “the Empire” is bound to friendship
with the only possible foe that this section of
‘ ‘ the Empire ” has reason to dread. But accepting
the treaty as an accomplished fact and as not
likely to be disturbed, allowing it as fitting that
“the. Empire” should range itself in war against
the vital interests of one of its component parts,
Australia should be at least able to demand with
confidence that, in the event of a struggle between
Russia and Japan and in the event of England
joining in the contest on the side of Japan, the
neutrality of the Commonwealth should be pro-
claimed and recognised. It is understood that
Canada makes this stipulation in the event of a
war between England and France—that the
Canadians, racially almost as much French as
English, should not be called upon to take either
side in a campaign which to them as a people
would be fratricidal. Quite as reasonably
Australia might insist that her forces should not
be used to aggrandise the Asiatic people whose
vanity and arrogance constitute the only war
shadow on her future, and against whose participa-
tion in her citizenship she has passed drastic
laws. Such a demand would be reasonable.
Advanced firmly, it would probably be granted.
But it will probably never be even hinted at—by
the present Federal administration, at any rate.
• * » »
The Imperial connection merely exposes Aus-
tralia to the humiliation and the danger of having
to support Japan in an Asiatic campaign. It is
the treachery to Australian interests of soi-
disant Australian public men and newspapers
which changes the threat to a fact. Were
Australians true to themselves, properly
sensible of their national responsibilities, pro-
perly hostile to the men who seek advancement in
Australia that they may barter Australian in-
terests for Imperial gauds, the attitude of the
Comnjon wealth during a war in which Japan
led one side would have been defined before
this. It is not any tyranny on the part
of Britain that threatens Australia. The
majority of the British people may wor-
ship blindly at the altar of Imperialism, but
not so blindly as to allow them to attempt to
coerce Australia into fighting by the side of an
Asiatic power. Were Australia to be pro-Aus-
tralian always (and therefore necessarily anti-
imperial, as Imperialism is understood by Mr.
Chamberlain and Mr. Rudyard Ktpling), it
would probably cause no quarrel with Britain;
rather would it have the tendency to add to the
large minority of the British people who loathe
Jingoism ; and the argument from Australia
thus help to put England on to the right path.
There is, however, no argument from Australia.
The influential daily newspapers speak not for
Australia, but for the draper and auctioneer
coteries of the big cities. Most of the influential
public men—their thoughts on the miserable
baubles which England manufactures for her
local mayors, for colonial politicians and other
persons of inferior intelligence, their minds in
constant fear of the draper newspapers—dare not
speak for Australia. The case of the nation goes
by default for want of expression in the right
quarters. But the ideas which are not expressed
by Governments, the complaints which are not
uttered in official despatches,. exist nevertheless,
and the great body of Australian opinion, lacking
definite utterance now, but not so lacking always,
will be altogether against any Australian aid to
Japan in a war with Russia—aid either of Aus-
tralian blood or of the fleet paid for by Australia.
A few swashbucklers, their national feeling
drowned in the blood they shed in S’Africa, may
volunteer for service with Japan in the hope of
getting another term of riotous idleness at five
shillings a day. But Australians, as a people,
will in time, if not at once, declare for the Euro-
pean, and not the Asiatie, side in any war in the
North. If the Imperial connection and the faith-
lessness of our own public men lead Australia
into a campaign as the ally of Japan, so much the
worse, ultimately, for the Imperial connection.
The Call is for Kingston.
The Federal political situation, though issues are
slowly becoming clearer and personages insen-
sibly finding their true positions, is still somewhat
in the shadow of uncertainty. Mr. J. C. Watson
has to an extent declared for his party with a
pronouncement that it will insist on an Arbitra-
tion Act, plenary in power, effective to operate
even against an Irvine. An attempt was made
to frighten the Labor party from this declaration
by the specious representation that Federal
Arbitration would mean to the railway workers
of N.S.W. a reduction to the lower conditions of
the railway workers of Tasmania and other small
States. But the" attempt failed. The Labor
movement in Australia, distinctly federal
in its aspirations and ideas, fails to be
frightened by the scarecrows of the provincialists
and is serenely confident that a levelling-up
rather than a levelling-down of wage conditions
would result from Federal control of industrial
arbitration. Mr. Watson’s declaration pins his
party to the Federal attitude in this issue. At
the same time it runs clear counter to the
announced intentions of Mr. Deakin, who, before
the elections and since, has pledged himself to
limit the Fede.al Arbitration Act by excluding
from it all public employees. Before the elections
h&d the fear of Kyabram in his heart
that Mr. Irvine had fche popular
following in Victoria that his press backers credited
Imi. with. The polling has shown how utterly fal.
lacious that idea was, has proved that Labor with
little help —such help as an alliance with genuine
Progressives would give to it—could sweep the
polls as cleanly in Victoria as it did in Queens-
land. Still, Mr. Deakin is obstinate, and will
not revise his attitude. The truth is that he is
now a tired, and never was a particularly vigorous,
man. The office of Premier has not such fascin-
ation for him as to make him view with pleasure,
or even with contentment, a struggle to hold the
post. So far as is known, Mr. Deakin’s personal
opinion was at one time in favor of a full and
complete Federal Arbitration Act. When, how-
ever, Mr. Baiiton listened to the voice of Mr.
Irvine, Mr. Deakin inclined his ear that way
too. It seemed to his mistaken judgment
to be good politics to do so. Now that
it is clearly good politics to go back to his
original attitude, Mr. Deakin refuses—or is un-
derstood to refuse. This may be from a sense of
dignity on his part; it may be from that tired
feeling. More probably the latter. If rumor be
correct, Mr. Deakin was ready, when Mr. Barton
retired, to stand aside and let another man form a
Ministry, but circumstances intervened and the
present Premier took up his burden—with a good
deal of unwillingness. Now he is prepared to
stand aside again. Mr. Deakin learned the bad
habit ot standing aside when the opportunity
came to him, equally as to Mr. George Turner, to
lift Victoria out of the rut into which misgovem-
ment had brought the State ; he left the work to
Turner, and he has been prone to stand aside
ever since.
• • • •
A continuance in office of the present Cabinet,
with its present personnel, does not, on
the face of it, appear probable. It is not
desirable that it should. Were Mr. Deakin
and his present colleagues to continue in office
with a following—counting both Houses —of some-
thing less than a third of the members, by the aid
of the Labor party numbering a full third, the
position would be humiliating to him and mis-
chievous to the country. The Labor party would
have all the power and none of the responsibility.
Its commands Mr. Deakin would have to obey,
and for its mistakes, if it made any, he, and not
the real authors, would have to bear the brunt.
Almost necessarily—in spite of the very high
character of the Federal Labor party—under such
circumstances, mistakes would be made. The
Labor party would be always tempted to make
(and would be sometimes driven by its
constituencies into making) demands under the
circumstances unreasonable, and the Government
would be forced at times into making wholly
wrong concessions, or else would be driven by the
humiliation of an unnatural relationship into a
needless quarrel. There is no reason why the
Deakin party and the Labor party Bhould
not co-operate to achieve certain results —
results not representing the final aim of either
party, but a fair compromise on lines of mutual
agreement—but the co operation would need
to be on lines of mateship, not of master and
servant, of driver and driven. For its own sake,
as well as for the sake of the country, the Labor
party must share in the responsibility if it shares
in the rule. When a Labor party, as in
New South Wales, has aoted as the
power behind the throne without accepting
any constitutional responsibility, it has been led
into grave errors. Where, as in in
Queensland, and to an extent in South Australia
under Kingston, it has accepted a share of office
the results have been uniformly good. The
Bulletin would not care to see Mr. Deakin con-
tinue in offiee with his present colleagues, as the
administrative hand of a Labor party governing
but not appearing to govern, though it would wel-
come a Deakin-Watson coalition on democratic
lines which would bring Mr. Kingston back to
the Cabinet. But, as appearances go, Mr. Deakin
does not much care to continue in office under
either good or bad conditions. It is necessary
then to discuss alternatives.
* • • •
Mr. Reid has been energetically pursuing coali-
tions since the elections, with the only result, so
far, of showing how hopeless are his chances of
office. He has spread the snares of his flattery
before the Labor party, and it has not
responded. He has been to see Mr. John
Forrest, perhaps with the idea of talking coali-
tion on the platform of a trans-continental rail-
way, and nothing much has come of that. Even
among the members of his own party Mr. Reid is
now hardly more than tolerated. A Deakin-
Reid alliance on Conservative lines —talked of in
some quarters—is obviously improbable. Mr.
Deakin has an objection to taking the {rouble to
coalesce with the Labor party ; he would object
still more strongly to an unnatural alliance
with Mr. Reid ; and the leader of the party
which calls itself Freetrade and never hints at
practising Freetrade, would not be able to carry
some of his following (Mr. Conroy, for instance)
with him in such an arrangement. All things
point to Mr. Reid’s early retirement from Federal
polities—probably in time to cut Mr. Carruthers’
throat and sweep into the N.S.W. Premiership
on the shoulders of the Rev. Dill Maoky at the
next State elections.
* * * •
There are other aspirants for the Premiership
which is not yet vacant (and which, by some at
present unlooked-for development, maynotbecome
vacant), but on a full survey of the position there
does not seem to be any more reasonable and
proper outcome than a Kingston administra-
tion, embodying much of the present Cabinet
and including at least two of the Labor
party. With Kingston at its head in
place of Mr. Deakin, and Mr. Watson and
another Labor member to replace Mr. Forrest
and Mr. Fysh, the Cabinet would not be as good
as might possibly be formed with no claims of
? resent office-holders to embarrass the position.
t would not perhaps carry with it the vS-hole of
the Protectionist party. It might even cause the
breakaway of one or two members of the Labor
party. But, on the whole, it would fairly represent
Australian feeling at the general elections; it
could hold office without fear of challenge: and in
its legislation and its administration it would
assuredly be prqgressive and honest. The call
now is emphatically for Kingston.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Secession Behind a Mask.
The Johnaynes secession agitation can be treated
with amused contempt; it’s simply johnaynes ; that
and nothing more. Dangerous to an extent,
though, is the Daily Teleghaph campaign
against equal representation in the Senate, which
is really a revival of its old discredited and de-
feated anti-federal attitude. Since the last elec-
tions scarcely a morning has passed without an
article in the D.T. pointing out that it needed
so few votes in Q. to put a Labor member
in the Senate, a&d so many Dill Macky
votes iij N.S.W. to return a Freetrade member,
and stating that this is a new and very serious
question.” This is merely Johnnvnesism in
disguise. The Federal Constitution provides for
the equal representation of all the original States
in the Senate, and sets a special barrier against
any change of the arrangement by its last clause,
which enacts that no alteration shall be made in
the representation of any State unless with the
approval of the majority of the electors of that
State. It is impossible to'imagine that any one
of the small States would surrender voluntarily
its right to equal representation in the Senate, and
so the situation which the D.T. says “is new and
very serious ” could only be solved by the breaking-
up of the Federal compact. The newspaper re-
presentative of the old “Cabbage-tree mob,’’
the _ champion of the bitter larrikinish
provincialism of the Sydney “wealthy lower
orders,” thus talks secession under "a very
thin disguise; but, thin as it is, that disguise may
deceive some unless it is promptly torn away
The equal representation of the States in a State
House—the Senate—is the very essence of the
Federal pact. In time it may be abrogated, but
not until we are all Australians—and no longer
Walers or Victorians or Tasmanians—and are
ready for absolute unification ; and then only with
the full consent of the smaller States. The way
to that end is by loyalty to the present Federation
and by a steady cultivation of an Australian
national feeling. If the D.T. is seriously con-
cerned about equal State representation in the
Senate that’s the way to the change. It’s a way
that it is not likely to follow.
Attracting' Immigration.
Federal Premier Deakin proposes to the State
Premiers that they should meet him and talk over
the question of attracting immigration; and most
of them have replied that they are willing. What
lines the talk will run on has not, however, been
so much as hinted at, though Queensland Premier
MORGAN adds to his consent that he can only talk
about desirable immigrants with some money. A
good point to start from would probably be an
inquiry why immigrants don’t come now in any
large numbers. For that purpose the Premiers
will have to see what is happening elsewhere.
From the beginning of 1891 to the end of 1902
the increase of population in the Commonwealth
States by excess of arrivals over departures was
26,570. In the same period the increase in Maori-
land alone was 39,324. Taking the populations of
the Commonwealth States and of Maoriland in
1890 as a basis, if the Australian increase had
been in the same proportion as the other, it would
have amounted to 196,620 instead of 26,570.
Maoriland, therefore, seems to have been doing
something during the past 12 years to attract
population which the other States haven’t done ;
and, on the face of it, the Maoriland lead ought
to be a good one to follow. Canada, which has
likewise gained enormously in population, will also
probably be suggested in the same connection ;
but it isn’t so good for the purpose, because it is
so much nearer the congested European centres
of population. If, however, Canada is considered,
the United States will also have to be reckoned in
at the same time. One thing, certainly, that all
these three have in common is a thorough-going
Protectionist tariff. Dissimilar in most other
respects, they agree at least in this. Neither
Maoriland nor the United States has made any
deliberate attempt to “attract immigration”;
they have both simply set out to provide work for
their own people, and the immigrant has come to
share it. The Foreign-trader, on the other hand,
gives the work to the foreigner, who doesn t
have to immigrate to get it—he gets it by staying
where he is. Under a thorough-going Protectionist
tariff he doesn’t get it unless he does immigrate ;
so he immigrates. That is the theory of it, and’
that is the practice, as the experience of Canada,
the United States and Maoriland proves. A
thorough-going Protectionist tariff—that, then, is
the first essential for the attraction of immigrants.
And stringent laws for shutting out low-living
colored persons, and criminals and other undesir-
ables, will not stop the desirable worker from
ooming. Such a man, before he immigrates, wants
to be satisfied that he will do well in the new
land. He looks at the matter from the point
of view, not of the foreigner, but of the
colonist. Will he have to compete with the
cheap man, who lives on a ha’porth of rice or salt
fish a day ? Then that is no place for him ; he
might as well stay where he is. Will he have to
support, as well as himself and his family, a host
of criminals, who will do no honest producing
and of derelicts, who cannot do any ? In tha,
c.. 53, also, he might as well stay where he is. Nu
flower, if it had the choice, would struggle :'n a
“Five Bob a Day."
Suggested Anthem for some (alleged) Australians.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A number of Australians have written to the Japanese
Consul volun eering service with the Japanese army in
the event of war. Many of them have seen service in
other parts of the world.— News Item.
God send ua men to kill,
Give us of blood our fill,
Someone to slay;
Strangers to stab and shoot,
Homes to make destitute—
All else we ask is loot,
And five bob a day.
Send us each year a war,
IVI atters not near or far—
To Thee we pray ;
Let them be black or white,
Be their cause wrong or right,
Give us but men to fight—
And five bob a day.
What did’st Thou make us for,
But strangers to kill in war—
Say us not nay 1
Peace, Lord, is much too rife ;
Stir up, we pray Thee, strife;
We thirst for our fellows’ life—
And five bob a day.
And when the w’dow cries,
Then from her throbbing eyes
The tear wipe away ;
Tell her, 0 Lord, that we
Thy chosen murderers be,
Earning a cut-throat’s fee
Of five bob a day.
So shall the heathen see
Wh 6 Christian men are we,
And turn Thy way j
So shall Thy Kingdom come
(Roll now the warning drum !)
And we shall carry home—
Eive bob a day.
S.H.P.


garden where weeds were as welcome ; nor will a
desirable immigrant seek a country where unde-
sirables are as free to enter as himself. Neither
theory nor the experience of Maoriland and the
United States, which have stringent laws in this
respect, justifies Australia in relaxing by the
least atom its own present immigration laws.
Then, considering Maoriland alone, as being the
country nearest the Commonwealth which has
attracted immigration, its land laws ought to give
the Premiers something else to talk about. Both
the Commonwealth and Maoriland suffered from
the. early grabbing in large lots of the bulk of
their good land ; but Maoriland is to some extent
getting out of that difficulty by recovering part of
it and cutting it up. Further, what it has nob
recovered yet, it is, by graduated land-taxation,
forcing into more intense cultivation. An immi-
grant has not to go into semi-desert country with
a small and uncertain rainfall, so far back from
the markets that freights eat up all his small pro-
fits ; if he cannot select for himself land that has
been repurchased by the State, he finds that the pri-
vate landlord is gently encouraged by taxation to
let him have the use of land on something like
reasonable terms ; and, paying only a reasonable
amount by way of interest or rent himself,, he
can then in his turn afford to pay his hired
immigrants something more than the starvation
wage which the tenant farmers of the fruitful
N.S.W. South Coast offer. There are other
things that will attract immigration, but these
things are enough to go on with ; and no scheme
that does not include these three can succeed.
It is no use merely hanging out a sign “Immi-
grants Wanted.” Bland Holt and Anderson
may hang out their gory posters, but they must
do something on the stage as well. On the
strength of the blood in the pictures they may
fill their theatres one night, but not two; and
there would probably be trouble even the first
night. So with immigration. It is no use
hanging out the sign while there is not full and
plenty for the people who are here already. It is
no use hanging out the sign and then advertising
for a loan in order to provide relief work for
those who have already immigrated. Every
unemployed meeting and every such advertise-
ment- amount to the same thing as the weird
marks which the Chinese cook , paints upon the
back-gate post to warn other Chinese cooks that,
though the “missus” has a “wanted” in the
S. M. Herald, the place is no chop.
4
The Pay of the Politician.
Results of the Federal elections emphasise again
the urgent necessity for a revision of the con-
ditions under which our politicians are hired. At
those elections the choice of all parties, was to an
extent narrowed by financial considerations —and,
of all parties but one, very seriously narrowed.
The Labor party found itself still able to com-
mand, in most cases, the services of its best men
as candidates, partly because the Labor party has
more real enthusiasm than other parties, partly be-
cause its advocates are, from theirpositions, usually
used to a cheap standard of living and, from their
unselfishness, are content to go into Parliament
and still live the life of the navvy and. the hod-
man. But the Freetrade and Protectionist parties
were hard put to it to find candidates. The Free-
trade party in part solved the difficulty by accept-
ing any sort of candidate, such as the rabbit-
brained religious fanatic and the wealthy
“johnny ” anxious for a new dissipation ; and it
was further helped by the fact that its calico cause
attracted very many of the bagman type, to whom
a Parliamentary position meant not loss but gain.
The Protectionist party suffered most. Its advo-
cates —professional men, small manufacturers and
so on—in most cases could not possibly afford the
loss of income which a seat in the Federal Parlia-
ment would entail, and so the Protectionist cause,
to a very large extent, had to go to the electors
undefended, or defended only by some stop-gap
■ candidate who filled the breach at the last moment.
But, apart from all question of parties, the intel-
lectual standard of the new Federal Parliament is
unquestionably lower than that of the last. In
N.S.W. this is most marked. This profit and loss
account does not on the whole snow a credit
balance: —
FntsT Parliament.
Barton
O’Connor
Chanter
Clarke
Cruickshank
M’Lean
M'Millah
Sawers.
Second Parliament.
LtDDELL
Gray
Blackwood
Leh
Webster
Johnson
Kelly
Lonsdaijl
' The total of brains of the one list far exceeds thatof
the other. And, in several cases, it is threatened
by front-rank members of this Parliament that
with the next dissolution they must retire. The
Australian Parliament tends, thus, to fall into
the hands of two classes—the young man with the
motor car in search of a new distraction for
his idle ease, and the free-counter-lunoher
to whom any sort of a bare living is wel-
come. That tendency must be opposed, and
it can only be done by business-like methods.
The Australian Parliamentary system has been
modelled too much on that of Britain. In Britain
there is a huge leisured class, to. members of
which a seat in Parliament is a sooial distinction
of high value, and carrying no great.responsibility
of work. As an M.P. the Englishman is not
expected to know anything of politics, or to speak
—merely to vote occasionally as his party whip
decrees ; and the sittings of Parliament are. care-
fully arranged to suit his social convenience,
seldom trespassing on the grouse or any other
shooting season, but always accompanying “the
London season.” His Parliamentary work, too—
such as he does—is almost entirely of a political
nature; the British Government has few of the big
industrial enterprises on its hands which make of an
Australian Parliament an industrial board of
directors. And, with all this, if the Britisher
cares to go in for politics seriously, and is a poor
man, he can always rely upon a fairly good billet
if he wants one and a pension to keep his old age
•from penury. In Australia, we pay the politician
a bare expenses allowance—just enough to enable
him, with parsimony, to meet the direct-charges
of his office and to live as a road laborer ; and for
this we expect him to work nine months out of
the 12, to manage not only political but big in-
dustrial issues, and to submit to the poisonous
abuse of the newspapers. And it is being
brought home to the Australian aspiring
to be a public man that the game is
not worth the candle. The Bulletin suggests for
the Australian Parliament a doubling of the pre-
sent allowances, and a provision for a pension of
at least £250 a year for any ex-Minister, after a
certain period of office, who makes affidavit that
he is in needy circumstances (Britain provides
£9OO a year pensions for prominent ex-politicians).
It may be objected that, with the lapse of a few
more sessions, the Australian Parliament will not
have much work to do; but the inevitable passing
over to it of the debts and the railways and
other matters will mean plenty of work for
the future. Proportionately the State Parliaments
should be graded up as to salaries as they are
graded down as to numbers. Then there will be
hope of creating a good steady class of profes-
sional politicians who will give up their whole
energies to the study of political and social pro-
blems, and won’t need to absolutely beggar them-
selves the while. There is no sense in a country
which has a debt of some hundreds of millions to
be dealt with, and railways, public buildings,
roads, harbor works and estates worth further
hundreds of millions to be administered, trying
to save a few thousands in the fees it pays to its
boards of directors, and thus getting as its ad-
ministrators the motor-car and counter-lunch types
of genius.
Greater Sydney.
The Mayor of Sydney complains that the Greater
Sydney idea is “ still a dream,” and it might be
added that it is a more misty-looking dream now
than it was two or three years ago. Yet it is
capable of being aroused from its sleep at any
moment, if N.S.W. had a live Government in-
stead of a rather ill-tempered corpse. Even now,
if the See Government would seize this question
firmly, and do the thing required, it might gain
enough popularity to save itself at next election.
When a Ministry which has just done something
large goes to the country a lot of its old sins are
forgotten. There is still one session left of the
present Parliament, and in that time (there is no
sense in confining its work to reduction of mem-
bers) a Bill might be passed to this effect:
(1) All the 43 or 44 municipalities of Sydney to be com-
bined as one municipality governed by a council of, say,
100 members elected by adult suffrage.
(2) Each existing municipality to form, for the present,
a ward of Greater Sydney, returning one or more aider-
men (or two or three wards returning one alderman
jointly) according to population.
(3) Each ward to be credited with the value of repro-
ductive or saleable municipal property transferred to the
central authority, and paid for it by the central authority
taking over a corresponding portion of that ward’s
debt. The balance of the debt to be the separate debt of
the ward.
(4) A special tax, larger or smaller as required, to be
paid by each ward, for the extinction of its separate debt,
this tax to be so graded that all the separate ward debts
shall bd extinguished at the same date.
(5) When these separate ward debts are extinguished,
the city to be re-divided into wards on a more convenient
plan.
(6) All new debts to be the debts of Greater Sydney.
(7) All the debts of Greater Sydney to carry a sinking
fund.
(8) If a ward has no debt after being credited with the
value of its transferred assets, no special tax to be levied.
If it has a credit balance due to it, its ordinary municipal
taxes to be reduced until the amount which it gains by
the reduction of taxation covers the amount due to it by
Greater Sydney.
(9) The municipality of Greater Sydney to have the
largest possible powers to make new streets, widen or
improve old ones, to resume, build, and own property, to
build bridges, to own and manage ferries, gas works,
electric lighting and power works, water and sewerage,
tramways, wharves, and almost every other kind of
property or undertaking.
If a bill, including these main features, and a
number of others of smaller importance, were
put through Parliament without any circum-
locution, and with no reference to aldermen or
mayors, and submitted to the people of Greater
Sydney at next election for acceptance or rejec-
tion, the advertisement thus gained might save
the See Government from extinction after all.
♦
The Methods of the " Reform Farty.”
The real attitude of the Joseph party and its
press backers in N’.S.W. towards economy and
reform was shown during the campaign for the
Illawarra seat. During the progress of that cam-
paign, the D.T. published this:
A prominent local question here is that of the Wollon-
gong waterworks, and some anxiety is felt as to what
attitude Mr. Allen, the Reform candidate, will take
on the question. Amongst his supporters, his opinion on
the matter is pretty well known. It appears that the
estimate for the waterworks was £26,000, with 10 per
cent, added. Subsequently the work was extended, in
order to provide a supply for Bulli and Dapto, and, in
consequence, the cost ran into £40,000. After a time, the
works were taken over by the Water and Sewerage Board
in Sydney. The residents of Wollongong now desire to
get control of the works, as they affect their own town.
They object, however, to being saddled with a greater
expense than the £26,000, with the additional 10 per
cent., and they ask that the difference between the
£26,000 and the £40,000 be ear-marked by the Govern-
ment, and charged, plus part of the cost of the dam, to
Dapto and Bulli respectively, when these towns assume
control of their water services. Mr Allih takes the
same view.
Practically the Wollongong people wish the pre-
gent—which is the most economical, and consider-
ing the interests of the State as a whole the best —
arrangement abrogated, and waterworks which
cost £40,000 handed over to them for £26,000.
This South Coast water supply has the same
catchment area as that of Sydney, and efficiency
and economy are best served by it remaining
under the same control. But to gain a seat, the
“Reform” party, with the D.T.’s approval, is
willing to destroy—or promise to destroy—the pre-
sent arrangement, and further to practically make
a gift of £14,000 from the general taxpayers’
money to the town of Wollongong. It is
“Reform” of that kind which has brought
N.S.W. to its present financial straits. Bribed
constituences breed a bankrupt treasury.
4
George Reid’s Railway.
The following circular was widely scattered in
Westralia during the recent Federal election, and
gained many votes for the Reid candidates,
though on the eastern side of the continent it
hasn’t enjoyed anything like the publicity it
deserves :
TRANS-OONTINENTAL RAILWAY.
Federal Electors,
Will Mr. Deakin’s Government give you this Railway,
which is essential to your well-being and prosperity ?
NO ! THEY WILL NOT.
Mr. John Forrest complains : “ The Federal Govern-
ment only says, ‘ We will see about it.’ ”
BUT GEORGE REID WILL BUILD THE LINE.
Mr. John Forrest complains : “ The leader of the
Opposition, Mr. George H. Reid, has absolutely promised
to build the Railway,” therefore
VOTE FOR GEORGE REID’S SUPPORTERS EVERY
TIME.
IF YOU WANT TO GET THE RAILWAY
You must turn the present Government out, and put
George Reid’s Government in. To do this,
VOTE FOR PLEDGED SUPPORTERS OF GEORGE
REID’S POLICY.
Don’t Let the Candidates Quibble.
Insist on a Direct Answer.
IT IS YOUR ONL Y CHANCE.
Every vote to any other candidate is a vote wasted. A
Candidate who professes to support the Railway but
opposes George Reid
IS NO GOOD FOR YOU.
VOTE FOR THE PARTY WHO WILL REMEDY
WESTRALIA’S ISOLATION.
Don’t trust a candidate who pretends to advocate the
Railway but will not pledge himself to turn Dbakin’s
Government out of Office.
HE IS A HUMBUG.
VOTE FOR REID AND THE RAILWAY.
And on this same question George Reid, who is
now evidently fishing for a Rkid-Forhest alliance,
spoke on his recent visit to Westralia :
Touching the transcontinental railway he felt bound,
though sitting on a different side of the House, to stand
side by side with his friend Mr. John Forrest. (Cheers.)
He had been pronounced on this question, but he and
Mr. John Forrest could only do their best. A generous
policy in the Westralian Parliament would assist them in
getting the railway.
Now the Transcontinental Railway, including
most assuredly a connection from the W.A.
Goldfields to Esperance Bay, ought to be built as
a Federal undertaking. More than that,
the other Transcontinental line from Adelaide to
Port Darwin, should be built as an Australian
undertaking, and the whole railway system of the
Commonwealth should be taken over by the
Australian Government. But money is wanted,
and the Deakin Government, which has to find the
money, can’t slosh around £4,000,000 worth
of Westralian railway all at once. Neither
could a Reid Government. To build and
equip the line, as a Federal undertaking,
either it will be necessary to borrow about
£4,000,000 (out of which N.S.W. will be respon-
sible for £1,500,000), or to raise £4,000,000 by
taxation, out of which N.S.W. must pay
£1,500,000. George Reid in Opposition doesn’t
need to raise 6d., so he can hand out theoretical
Transcontinental railways from his tail-pocket
cheerfully. But George Reid in power, depend-
ing principally for his majority on N.S.W., a
State which is always taught to believe that it is
being wronged, swindled and traded upon by its
neighbors, would be a different person ; and the
spectacle of Premier George Reid, dependent
mainly on N.S.W., and informing N.S.W. that he
is going to spend £1,500,000 of its money to build a
line which will principally benefit S.A. and
Westralia, is something quite improbable. There-
fore George Reid, in N.S.W., keeps a very con-
siderable silence about the Transcontinental
Railway, and doesn’t tell N.S.W. that what votes
he has secured in Westralia have been secured by
promising to instantly build a huge and costly
public work there, to a great extent with N.S.W.
money. The railway should be built as an Aus-
tralian work, and all Australia should find the
money out of revenue. But, at the same time, all
Australia should have a clear idea of what it is
doing. Probably, considering George Reid’s
old-time promise to establish local government, to
reform the Upper House, and to abolish the un-
employed in 24 hours, Westralia will get its
Transcontinental line a good deal sooner from the
cautious Treasurer Turner, who never promises
till he knows where to find the . money. The
flaring mountebank who produces imaginary rail-
ways out of a hat, and extracts harbors out of a
bottle, is apt to be more ornamental than useful.
♦
A Word to Mr. Watson and Others.
Very shortly the annual conference of the N.S.W.
political labor leagues meets in Sydney, when
proposals will be brought forward for the reform
—so to speak—of the N.S.W. State Labor party.
That party has now for some two years wandered
in the wilderness, worshipping at the shrine of
extravagance and mal-administration, and giving
an unworthy support in return for no con-
cessions of any particular value. It has been
the servant rather than the master of the See-
O’Sullivan Cabinet, and has been misled
into approving some strange doings. The
drift to the dogs has finally alarmed some of
the Labor members, whose sense of political
honesty and uprightness was not dead but sleep-
ing, and, it is believed, a resolute effort is to be
made to put the party again on a platform from
which it can with confidence appeal for the sup-
port of the democracy. That effort is of direct
interest to the N.S.W. section of the Federal
Labor party. It is not possible that the mass of
the electors can ever be taught to distinguish
between the Federal and the State Labor parties.
The Federal party may continue to be a party of
honesty, of high administrative ideas, of solid,
political virtue, but it will certainly be punished
for all the sins of commission and omission
for the extravagances and for the subserviencies
of the State Labor party. It must carry
the burden of their misdeeds to the electors
next Federal appeal, if the State Labor
party continues on a downward course. Self-
preservation then, if nothing else, should
suggest to the N.S.W. Federal Labor members
the advisability of supporting, with the utmost
weight of their influence, any effort to bring the
State party back to the right lines. They should
avoid anything that might be resented as an im-
proper interference, but use the powers of persua-
sion and diplomacy they certainly possess to
swing the conference around to a solid, honest
progressive polioy for the coming elections. It is
their own house which is being burned down in
the interests of Owe’Sullivanism —though they
occupy a different floor from that held by the State
Labor Party—and it is as much their business as
anyone’s to see to the rescue.
4
A “Young 1 Australia” Farty.
“L.8.E.” writes on a political subject with an
air of positivism and radical “ uppishness ” that is
in a measure refreshing:
I feel lost in politics. I can And no party to which I
can give any genuine support. The Conservatives are im-
possible. They have absolutely nothing to say—and they
gay it in Melb. Argus and Synney Herald in three-and-
a-half columns. The Liberals are really the same party,
the only distinction being that the Conservatives wear
belltoppers and the Liberals boxers. The Labor party,
practically Ibsen’s “ d compact Liberal majority,” is
not our party. The aesthetic difference between us
is too great. The Trades Hall makes too much of
the " workers.” The “ worker” is useful and necessary,
but he is not the end of civilisation ; he is the beginning.
His intellectual perceptions are necessarily undeveloped.
He prefers a dummy, decorated in duck pants, which will
vote in a certain way because it is told, to an indivi-
dual man—or woman. He hates ideas, metaphysics,
and embroidered waistcoats.
Yes, we need a Young Australia Nationalist Party that
will be more radical than the workers and more cultured
than the Conservatives. We need a state of society
wherein the man who thinks will be more esteemed than
the man who only works, and wherein Victor Daley, let
us say, will be considered more valuable than, let us say,
Mr. John Madden. The new party I have in view should
contain university and professional men, scholars, artists,
reformers, radicals, socialists, and Bohemian poets—in
fact, all Australian nationalists. But its strength should
lie, chiefly, in the better trained and better thinking
younger men, who ought to get a step in advance of
their predecessors.
A Young Australia party, containing the best fresh
intellect of the State, would have a firm conviction that
such a place as Australia is on the map, and would
endeavor to advance its interests. A painter relative of
mine, who some years ago took over a farm (now defunct
—the farm), painted over the shanty door the figure of a
young pioneer, with a decorative background of jack-
asses, magpies, and wattle blossom. Underneath were
painted the brave words, “The New Republic.” That
figure should occasionally cross the crowded intellect of
our politicians. To kindle the flame of Australian
nationhood—that should be the aim of the new party.
The Saturday Review says that Australia is of no interest
to Europe. That is because Australia is not Australian ;
it is a bad photograph of Europe and America. It
impoits tall hats, Tit-Bits, and beauty actors from Eng-
land, and has no pride in the local article. But like
other old world fetishes— Freetrade, unrestricted compe-
tion, the law of supply and demand —they should be
vetoed like Mr. Reid’s circus menagerie. We want to
live an Australian life, create our own fashions, and have
a literature and an art and a philosophy of our own.
Australia is not a bad country ; and with a more scien-
tific system of wealth production, but especially with a
more scientific system of wealth distribution, it ought to
be able to support a few millions of people without undue
exertion. The abolition of the present competitive, capi-
talistic system, which is obviously absurd and illogical,
and the socialisation of the land, mines, manufactures,
ships, machinery, and means of production and distribu-
tion, should not necessitate a particularly wild revolu-
tion. Co-operation or Socialism is the coming policy
throughout the world—and surely there is no country
which has a better opportunity of indulging in what is
termed “ rash, experimental legislation ” than Australia.
But it wants a Nationalist party to dominate the political
laboratories. Q.E.D.
4
Public Works and the Debt.
An interesting addition has been made to the
recommendation of the N.S.W. Public Works
Committee as to the proposed North Coast
railway. The Railway Commissioners believed
that the line % would not pay ; nevertheless, as
there was ground for believing that it might
develop some good country in one of the better-
watered parts of “the State, Labor-leader
M‘Gowen proposed, and it was agreed, that
the line should be built from Maitland to
Grafton, “ provided a betterment tax was imposed
on the alienated lands benefited, and that half
of the revenue from Crown lands within the bene-
fited area was devoted to writing down the capital
cost of the work.” The proviso with regard to the
betterment tax is, of course, not new, but the
other one is ; and both are good. In comparatively
new countries nearly all those company-owned
lines, which have been held up to Australia as
examples of successful private enterprise, have
worked upon either a State land-grant or a State
money-guarantee; and the present proposal
amounts simply to the State giving a land-grant
to itself under similar conditions. But when the
State’has taken half the Crown land-revenue as
proposed, what will it do with the money? If it
merely writes down theoapital cost by the amount
collected, and then applies the money to ordinary
services which ought to be paid for out of ordi-
nary revenue, or if it uses the money to carry
out other unremunerative works, the real benefit to
the State will take some looking for. The money,
if it is to do any real good, must be nailed down.
It must be applied not only to the writing down
of the capital cost, but also to the reduction of
the actual debt. If it is a mere book-keeping
transaction, the Railway Commissioners’ accounts
will look better, but the State’s real position will
not be better. It is not the Commissioners’ repu-
tation, but the State’s actual position, that has to
be looked after
4
“F.S.”: There has been published a book on
the New Hebrides missions, written by missionary
Frank Paton. Paton was born on the islands,
and should know what he is talking about. Here
is his testimony :
The labor traffic has had a dreadful effect in depopu-
lating these islands. I have studied the question for six
years, from the island standpoint, and I am convinced
beyond all shadow of doubt that this is one of the main
causes of the dying-out of our people .. . The labor
traffic is mainly responsible, for it sucks out the young
life-blood of the community, breaks up family ties, and
everywhere leaves desolation and bad feeling behind it.
I have seen a whole village emptied of its young men by
the visit of a Queensland labor vessel, and most of their
wives then recruited by a French vessel for Noumea.
It is about time for Parson Watsford and the
other godly men who prate about “our colored
brethren ” —and support a trade like the above —
to give up that repulsive bit of cant, and to say
straight out that their trouble is not about
the well-being of the brown man, but the
pocket of the white capitalist? Why can’t
they at least be honest, and drop the “color”
business altogether, and admit that it’s just the
old question of cheap labor? How any person
with even the fragment of a human heart—and
the parsons claim to be pretty well all heart, the
balance being collection plate and stomach —can
support the continuance of the Kanaka trade is a
mystery.
London Daily Chronicle reminds the British
public of the obligations to which it is pledged
and which may at any moment cause a war:
1. Britain has guaranteed that Belgium shall form an
independent and perpetually neutral State.
2. By Article IV. of the Treaty of April 4, 1846, it has
undertaken to protect Chusan.
3. By Article 11. of the Treaty of May 11, 1867, it has
guaranteed the neutrality of the Grand Duchy of Luxem-
bourg.
4. It is under a guarantee to the German Kaiser for
the possession of that portion of Saxony ceded to his
ancestor by the Treaty of June 9,1815.
6. It has guaranteed the integrity and perpetual neu-
trality of Switzerland.
6. It has guaranteed the territorial integrity of both
Sweden and Norway—by no means a light undertaking,
in view of recent events in Finland.
7. It has guaranteed the independence and territorial
integrity of the Ottoman Empire.
8. It has guaranteed Greece and the perpetual neu-
trality of the lonian Islands.
9. It has guaranteed Turkey in Asia against Russia.
10. It has pledged itself to respect the integrity and
Independence of Persia.
11. It is pledged up to the hilt in alliances with
the rulers of Portugal and with Japan.
For a country that has a muddle where there
ought to be an army, it is a pretty big B.N. to
have backed.
♦
S.M. Herald on the S’African labor trouble -
Public opinion in the Transvaal would seem to be
largely in favor of the importation of Chinese for work
on the Rand. Sir George Farrar’s proposal to that
effect was carried in the Legislative Council by 22 votes
to 4, all the Boers present except one voting with the
majority. A petition is now being prepared in support
of the policy proposed, and has already been largely
signed.
The Legislative Council doesn’t profess to repre-
sent “public opinion”; as for the Boers, it
practically represents none of them but the
hands-uppers. Neither will the petition tell any-
thing—except, perhaps, the tyranny of the mainly-
foreign Jew plotters. Mine-manager Cresswell,
who dared to state his honest opinion before the
Labor Commission, was sacked, and Mines Com-
missioner Wybergh, who shared his views, was
also forced to resign by the Government. That
indicates how much the petition will be worth.
A referendum vote would get at the truth about
local publio opinion; but the yellow-labor plotters
won’t risk that.
♦
The loss of the Bill which was to have put mining
tributes on a decent basis and given inspectors
power to insist on the proper ventilation of under-
ground workings illustrates the disgraceful way in
which Irvine allowed the Vic. Parliament to fool
away most of last session. The Bill was the result
of a conference held early in the year. It was
drafted and brought in by the Mines Minister
with the first rush, but was hung up and otherwise
played with so long that the second reading was
not carried till November 11. Then the Govern-
ment decided that the Bill wasn’t what was
wanted, so it withdrew some of it and then aban-
doned some more of it, and on December 17 rushed
the rest through Committee in three quarters-of-
an-hour. After that, the remains were sent on to
the Council, where Irvine apparently expected
that what he had taken about eight months to do
could be done in the one sitting available; and,
as the House of 48 Rich Landlords isn’t the sort


®f Chamber to rush through measures to protect
the lives of miners at the expense of owners, it
grabbed at the pretext and threw the Bill aside
“for six months.” Now Irvine lias gone away
for a much-needed rest, while the Bendigo miner
is still working in an atmosphere filled with frao-
teur fumes and drill dust. Still, he has much to
be thankful for ; for isn’t there the pool of water
on the plat for him to “ cool off ” in when he oan’t
stand the heat of the workings any longer ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Beauty and the Beast.”
Her Majesty’s “ Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Lyceum “ Great World of London.”
Criterion “ For the Sake of a Woman.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Queen’s Hall Mel. B. Spurr.
Palace... “Mama’s New Husband.”
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s Theatre... Shakespeare Comedy Co.
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Theatre Royal “A Desperate Game.”
Bijou “ Little Red Riding Hood."
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
Manager Rickards is back from foreign
parts after having made arrangements running
right through this year and next. Dewar, with
the dogs and cats that play the melodrama, is the
first of the stars to arrive—the Dog-star, so to
speak. After him comes Vulcana, the lady
whose hot-weather portrait, published in last
week’s Bulletin, has added to Australia’s weird
expectancy. The lady, who arrives in Sydney
pretty and soon, will he fol’owed by somo of the
wrestlers who are now the biggest attractions at
the London ’Alls. Just at present the before-
mentioned Dog-star and his 19 animals are doing
all that was expected of them, which was a good
deal; and Mrs. Sims Reeves and the Cirnocs, and
the fighting toads, and Whitburn, and others
make up an interesting Tivoli bill.
** * *
The Pantomime at Sydney Royal, with
its many attractions of ingenious scenic effects,
beautiful child dances and humorous comedy,
continues to boom. There is nothing funnier in
its way than Graham’s lecture on man “to
women only”: few things more ingenious than
the bush-fire and snow-fall scene ; and certainly
nothing prettier than the songs, by children",
“ The Sparrow on the Tree” and “ Keep off the
Grass.” During last week Miss Sara Hyman
took the part of Miss May Beatty (indisposed) as
principal boy with conspicuous success.
* * -*■ *
Audiences at HerAlajesty’s show no sign
of weariness of Monsieur Beaucaire, lover, duel-
list, and good all-round gay dog. Julius Knight’s
wig continues to “glisten yellow in the candle-
light,” and Maud Jeffries is as proud and
maidenly, and curtseys as gracefully behind iier
red roses as the romantic creator of her role could
wish. Beaucaire will draw his sword until further
orders.
’** * *
Mel. B. Spurr, at the Queen’s Hall, is still
showing large audiences “how they propose,”
“how they laugh.” “ how they speak,” and what
good-humored fools they make of themselves
generally. On Friday Mr. Herbert Flemming
(who would make more money than Mel. B. Spurr
if he would tell the secret of how he keeps his fine
crop of hair) announces a professional matinee, to
which all members of the theatrical and musical
profession are invited.
** # #
At the Criterion, Charles Holloway, in
“ Why Woman Sins,” is still upending the early
chapters of Genesis and* doing violence to the
traditions of Eden. Instead of Eve jumping, into
the stream and coaxing Adam in after her, *he
Criterion dramatist’s idea is that Adam pushes
Eve in (the modern Eve, that is) much against
her will, and that she doesn’t lake it a bit. But,
in the end, the ancient version seems to come out
on top ; for even though the Criterion’s Adam
pushes Eve in, in the first v place, the lady doesn’t
take any trouble to swim out. Onvthe con-
trary, when her first Adam leaves her, she
simply picks out the likeliest-looking johnny
on the bank, and beckons him in for
company. “Did you think I was going to
die when you left me ? ” she says to the first Adam
when I she meets him afterwards. “Oh, no 1” she
goes on ; “ I’m not built like that. I had good
looks, I liked luxury—and I've had it.” So,
barring the first plunge, it is Eve that does the
mischief after all. The stage-setting, as befits the
subject, is gorgeous in parts ; a ball-room scene on
hoard a man-o’-war is cons’j’iicnous in this respect.
The piece will be superseded at the end of the
week by “For the Sake of a Woman.”
** * *
“ The Great World of London ” still fills
the stage satisfactorily at Sydney Lyceum, and
there is no talk of a change. The public is more
than satisfied with the rich crop of murders,
robberies, false accusations and vindicated charac-
ters which are displayed as growing in that
world.
# * * ifc
“Mania’s New Husband,” after three
weeks at the Palace, isn’t quite so new a husband
as be was ; and manager Duval is being bom-
barded with inquiries as to whether lie can’t pro-
duce some other member of the giddy family.
This is really a compliment to the company ; it
means that the people who were surprised at the
merits of the show don’t want to have to wait
much longer to see them in something else. So
the chances are that the something else will be
forthcoming pretty soon, and that tne last oppor-
tunity of laughing at the present gay absurdity is
drawing near.
As regards “A Country Girl,” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), there is nothing new to report.
Lauri continues to shine humorously as the
irresponsible Barry, and Miss Rose Musgrove is
the same winsome dressmaker that she was in the
beginning. Bantock and Miss Ghiloni fit their
respective characters; the voice of Florence
Young never wearies of well-doing ; also the
chorus is still going strong.
* * * m
“Twelfth Night” at the Princess’s gels
Eretty solid support from such as take their
hakspeare admiringly, and from others who
take it medicinally. The least willing patients
are bound to admit they feel all the better for
a dose of “ Twelfth Night.” In the anti-
rechabite portions of the comedy the humor is
made clear to the foggiest understanding, and
as regards the poetry, the management spared
no expense to set it out with music and,extras. The
stage production of the Bard’s melo-farce is poetical
all the time, whereas the dialogue and the situ-
ations savor of brown ale and pickled herrings
more often than not. E.ven the spectacle of three
drunks stretched upon the floor, two of them
“blind speechless” whilst the third man hath
music in his drunk—even this sad picture of
Elizabethan dis-respectability is poeticised by the
stage manager until it acquires a sweet solemnity of
its own. George Musgrove gives Shakspeare a fair
run for his (G.M.’s) money. He has done his’best
to deserve the patronage of all the Melbourne foot-
ball clubs. If he has failed to persuade common
or garden Jim citizens that the Immortal drama-
tist is “ any bloomin’ shakes” the fault must be
charged to the difficult language and incredible
statements of the long-deceased literary person.
Present commentator wishes to speak gratefully
at the “ Twelfth Night ” production as an all-
round entertainment. Nevertheless he winks his
other eye when the depressed duke accepts Viola
as a bona fide boy. When the inflammable
countess makes the same mistake it is time to
wink more sceptically than before, and when that
blazing beauty can’t tell the difference between
the female Yi. and her twin brother the only suit-
able exclamation is “Rats!” These being the
last nights of the Shakspearean season the ad-vt.
is a thing to be watched.
* * * *
The rival weight-pushing pretensions of
Pagel and Atlas might have been brought to a
fair and square contest at Melb. Opera House last
Friday night had Atlas stood by the terms of his
statement as reported in the Herald. The meet-
ing of the two men led to nothing more than an
ordinary wrangle, but the honors of the wrangle
were certainly scored by the burly German.
Pagel was bold and businesslike in his challenge,
anyhow. He staked £lOO with the editor of the
Age, the money to be given to Atlas, or anybody
else who would come along to Wirths’ circus and,
in the words of Pagel’s ad. —“push my heaviest
dumb-bell with either one or two hands at
arm’s length above his head, and hold it there for
ten seconds with body erect, as I do with one
hand.” This was surely a fair chance for the
other showman to shine at Pagel’s expense..
Aspirants were under no obligation to disclose
their identity. Atlas oould present himself in a
sham beard and a Chinaman’s jumper, and having
worked the dumb-bell to the audience’s satisfac-
tion, could tear off his disguise, and cry “Beheld
your Atlas ! ” or words to that effect.
* * * ♦
When interviewed by a Herald reporter
on Tuesday morning, Atlas excused himself from
accepting Pagel’s challenge on the ground that
his engagement with Rickards prohibited him
from appearing at the Circus; but he said, “I
will give Pagel £5O if he will come to the Opera
House and lift my bar bell, weighing 3361 b., with
one hand, slowly, from the floor to the shoulder.
This is the bar-bell that I am in the habit of
lifting with one hand from the floor to arm’s
length above the head.” In reply to this offer
Pagel, who made a point of saying that he “didn’t
expect Atlas to do anything which he couldn’t do
himself,” turned up at the Opera House in the
evening, and went upon thp stage with a view to
having a “go” for the £5O. Whereupon Atlas
backed down from his offer to give the money,
and demanded that Pagel should covet 1 the
£5O with a like amount before touching the
big dumb-bell. Pagel wouldn’t risk his coin
under the circumstances, and the affair, which
was stage-managed by ventriloquist Winton,
ended in boots and howls from the audience.
The Pagelites argue that it is absurd to suppose a
9st. expert capable of rivalling the expert Pagel
at certain feats of strength in which a good big
’un has great natural advantages over a good little
’un. Judging from the countenance of little
Atlas, when the giant bearded him on his own
platform, he also felt that some men are born
stronger than others —and that he is one of the
others.
** * *
The reappearance of Clarke and Hamilton
confirms the favorable judgment passed on their
“turn” when it was first introduced at Melb.
Opera House. Clarke (or Hamilton ?) _is a
comedian who plays the piano quite brilliantly
and transacts extravagant “funny business” in
an unaggressive manner. The turn includes a
change of costume on the stage and some clever
dancing, and the lady, who is probably Hamilton,
but possibly Clarke, helps to make it the one
thing needed at the Rickards house. The pro-
gramme just now offers considerable atonement
for recent shortcomings.
*# * *
The Bijou panto, still travels at the rate
of nine times per week, and the average size of
the audience is larger than at first. Melbourne
in general made careful inquiries about “Red
Riding Hood ” before beginning to recover its lost
confidence in the Bijou. The panto, has had
prejudice to contend with, and prejudice needs a
lot of knocking but. A more heavily built show
might have failed where this has succeeded.
The success is nether stupendous, overwhelm-
ing, nor unprecedented, but like the hole
that Tybalt made in Mercutio, it is
enough. Consequently, Harry Shine, who
plays the same amorous old woman as usual, will
continue to bathe an inhuman baby for another
two or three weeks, and the wicked Baron will
drive his motor-car with a beer-engine for the
same indefinite period.
** * *
Bland Holt’s white Australian melodrama
supplies the chronic want at Melbourne Royal
until further notice. “ A Desperate Game ” will
not be withdrawn until The Bulletin’s constant
readers have received due warning.
*» * •
The Biograph at the Athenaeum Hall is
showing a new series of pictures, also the inci-
dental entertainer is different. Last week he was
a not unpromising young man who imitated Mel.
B. Spurr in a small way. This Week he is a con-
juror named Clifford Eskell, which is a highly
ornamental name to conjure with.
Most sailors, when they come ashore
To figure in dramatic story,
Profess to love the winds that roar,
Likewise the waves “in all their glory.”
The babble of the jolly tar
Who calls his Poll his guiding star,
And poses as a dauntless fighter—
The tar, supreme in word and deed,
Who sings about his Bull-dog Breed—
Oh, how he bores the present writer!
All hail! to one who takes the floor
And ridicules the ooean’s glory,
Who loathes the winds and waves that roar,
And answers to the name of Lauri.
His comments on the bounding sea
Possess the charm of blasphemy—
He even dares to call it “greasy.”
A captain’s boy—a tar, in short—
Who sails his saucy craft in port,
And shows the older fashioned sorb
A better way of being breezy.
ANNUAL BONUSES IN LIFE INSURANCE
ANOTHER WORLD’S RECORD
PUT UP BY
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York,
In 1903 Mr. Charles H. Booth paid a premium of £l2 Bs. 9d., and received an ANNUAL
DIVIDEND of .£6o—nearly five times the amoiiLt of his premium.
In 1843 Mr. Booth took out a Policy in the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York for ... ... ... £4OO 0 0
Total Dividends declared to date ... ... 1152 12 11
Original Policy and total Dividends declared £1552 12 11
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK still issues Policies
with Annual Dividends, Dividends every five years, or with the first Dividend at the end of 10,
15, or 20 years.
On Annual Dividend Policies the Bonuses VEST AT END OF FIRST YEAR, and may
then be drawn in cash or applied to purchase additional insurance.
Full particulars, with Illustrations adapted to present conditions, on application to
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
MUTUAL LIFE BUILDING, Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE GREATEST COMPANY IN THE WORLD. ASSETS OVER .£8 5,000,000.
The Wild Cat Column.
New South Wales :
Six
Six months Six months’ months’
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1902 .. £5,364,602 £6,070,898 £706,296
1903 .. 5,310,413 6,063,933 753,520
Dec. £54,189 Des. £6,965 Inc. £47,2?A
That is to say, the State’s finances, in spite of the better
season, are £47,224 worse than they were this time last
year. A month ago, however, they looked much worse
even than this; the December figures show a great
improvement:
Revenue Expenditure Deficit
for Dec. for Dec. for Dec.
1902 .. £994,173 £1,311,585 £317,412
1903 .. 965,664 1,097,156 131,492
Dec. £28,509 Dec. £214,429 Dec. £185,920
The decrease of expenditure on revenue account for the
month is very considerable ; we shall have to wait till
next month to see whether it was a legitimate reduction
or not, and may not be able to tell "even then. The
Treasurer, indeed, says that he charged up in December,
1903, £lOO,OOO to the sinking fund, which for the previous
year was not charged up till January. There was, on the
other hand, a heavy increase in loan expenditure as com-
pared with the preceding months of this financial year ;
and that may account to some extent for the milk in the
cocoanut —services may have been charged to loan
instead of to revenue. The loan account for the half-
year stands :
Loan Money Loan Money
spent on spent on Total.
Resumptions. Works, &c.
1902 (i-year)..£1,112,757 £1,673,558 £2,786,315
1903 (*-y ear).. 331,388 1,086,546 1,417,934
Decreases £781,369 £587,012 £1,368,381
So the State which has left off borrowing, and has
decided to be self-reliant for the future, is still tapping
the money-market at the rate of £2,173 092 a year, apart
from what is necessary to pay for relumed properties.
This adds, at present rate of interest, nearly £90,000 a
year to the State’s burden.
* * * *
Victoria:—
Revenue. 1902. 1903.
Six months .. £3,296,790 £3,238,828 Dec. £57,962
For December 678,526 583,603 Inc. 5,077
No expenditure returns are available; Victoria tiusts its
Treasurers so completely' that it is content to know
nothing till the end of the financial year. As (o revenue,
the railways ha.ve earned £51,857 less than in the first
half of 1902-3 ; if Irvine’s estimate is to be reached they
will have to earn £203,574 more in the next six months
than they have done in the past six months. The falling-
off in Commonwealth (mainly customs) receipts is more
than counterbalanced by the extraordinary' increase of
£81,936 in probate duties ; Mr. Irvine’s railway reform
may be,expected to keep this branch of the revenue up
to the mark.
* * • *
Queensland :
Six Months’ Six Months’
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1902 .. £1,806,779 £1,864,521 £57,742
1903 .. 1,818,180 1,840,563 22,383
Inc. £11,401 Dec. £23,958 Dec. £35,359
For December alone £591,599 was received, as against
£318,983 in the previous year ; for £232,337 of this terri-
torial revenue was responsible, this extra amount having
been received by way of rents due in September but pay-
ment of which was this year deferred. Though the
position has improved slightly, it still leaves a heavy
deficit a practical certainty of the ‘ future. The
first half of 1902-3 showed a deficit of £57,742, and the
year ended with a deficit of 1192 000. In the sam- pro
portion, on the half-year’s deficit of £22 383,- the ye i s
deficit would be about £7s,'xw. 1* *»-->4ab y, h wewr,
will be more; because, while le enue • !.* dly moving,
there is a heavier bill for interest to »*. tM year; and,
further, this Government cannot sell land and put the
proceeds into revenue as its predecessor did. As to ex-
penditure on loan account, the figures are
Loan Expend. Loan Expend,
for Deer. for J-Year.
1902 .. .. £88,511 £483,628
1903 .. .. 76,348 340,289
Dec. £12,163 Dec. £143,339
* * • *
Westralia, to the end of November only,
official figures for December not being yet available
Five Months’ Five Months’
Revenue. Expenditure.
1902.. £1,592,240 £1,446,653 Surp. £145,587
1903.. 1,392,341 1,436,448 Def. 44,107
Dec. £199,899 Dec. £10,205
Compared with the position 12 months previously the
finances have deteriorated to the extent of £189,694 in the
five months. So far this year this State, with its
enormous taxable resources, has drifted into debt, on
revenue account alone, to the amount of 4s. per head of
the entire population. This, of course, is quite in-
dependent of loan expenditure. For the month of
November alone, £288,681 was collected and £289,368
spent—a deficit on the month of £687. The correspond-
ing month of 1902 showed a surplus of £1265.
* * * *
South Australia publishes quarterly state-
ments of revenue and expenditure, but the expenditure
figures are delayed. Revenue figures follow :
2nd Quarter’s Revenue.. £549,840 £551,513 Inc. £1,673
Half-year’s Revenue .. 1,062,624 1,081,527 ~ 18,903
The improvement has thus been considerably less in the
second than it was in the first quarter. Compared with
1902 the railway returns are better, but in almost all other
respects there is a falling away. The Customs collections
(Commonwealth refund's) for the half-year are about
£20,000 less than half the total on which the State
Treasurer based his year’s estimates ; and, as a good deal
of belated railway repairing has now to be done, the
prospects of a clean balance-sheet at the end of the year
are not bright.
• * * *
Tasmania, for a full year—Tasmania being the
only'State whose financial year starts on January Ist
Revenue Revenue
for December for Year.
1902 .. £74,236 £734,663
1903 ... .. 81,454 858,209
Inc. £7,218 Inc. £123,646
The principal sources of revenue for the past three years
have been: —
1901. 1902. 1903.
Commonwealth Surplus ~ £377,782 £264,702 £304,857
Land Tax 42,209 41,862 50,881
Income Tax. .. .. 17,538 11,862 37,529
Railways 206,997 232,744 248,024
The year’s revenue got pretty close up to ex-Premier
Lewis’s estimate of £867,000; his estimate of expenditure
was £864,000, as compared with an actual £850,684 in
1902. Some small economies have been made during the
year, so it is probable that, as the result of this year’s
unusual agricultural prosperity in Tasmania, the
accounts will about square ; that is, without counting in
the expenditure on the smallpox outbreak (about
£20,000), which has not been charged to revenue, The
previous year there was a ghastly deficit of £116,021.
* * *
The last little M.L. half-million loan floated,
and that is about the best that can be said of it. Not an
offer was got from Australia, and only £677,000 was
offered from M.L. Now, M.L. having itself provided all
the money, M.L. politicians and papers are boasting of
their “ self-reliance.’’ There might be something in the
boast if the State hadn’t tried so hard not to be self-
reliant. If it is self-reliant, it is not its fault. The
Lyttelton Times, one of the leading Seddon papers, says ;
“ We have already transferred nearly four millions from
the Consolidated Revenue to the Public Works Fund,
and in this way show,n that the self-reliance preached by
Mr. Ballance and Mr. Seddon is something more than an
empty boast. The appeal to the people for a direct loan
is only another way of applying the same principle.”
Ballance died in 1893, and Seddon became king ; and this
is how the annual loan expenditure has grown since then
(Ooghlan’s figures for each j'ear) :
1895 £600,657 1900 £1,571,604
1896 972,195 1001 1,746,141
1897 1,089,590 1902 2,890,767
1898 1,134,812 1903 2,283,1.97
1899 1,543,683
Total (9yrs.) £13,832,646
Ballance’s three years’ figures were :
1891 .. £398,817
1892 .. 618,348
1893 .. 488,781
Total £1,405,946
Or at the rate of £4,217,838 for nine years, as against
Seddon’s £13;832,646 for the same period; and the
farther Seddon has gone the worse in this respect he has
grown.
Apparently also the M.L. politicians and papers
don’t see any difference between paying for works out of
revenue and out of local loans —they both embody “ the
s ime principle.” The only difference between the two
plans is that in the one you pay the bill yourself and in
the other you pass it on to your children to pay. The
children will probably see considerable difference between
the two.
* * * *
The Australasian Trustee Co. s’ records for
the year, with profits for previous year for comparison
Melbourne.
Added Total
Profit. to Re- Re-
, N Dividends serves serves
1902. 1903. (1903). (1903). (1903).
£ £ £ £ £
National .. 2,407 2,408 8 p.c = 2400 8 23,912
Equity .. .. 4,465 2,864 8 ~ ~2000 864 9,130
Trustees E. &A. 5,219 6,867 5* ~,,5400 1467 11,044
Union .. .. 2,886 2,848 4 „ ~2953 1,088
Perpetual (a) .. 1,864 1,940 2| „ „ 825 8,777
Ballarat.
Ballarat .. 3,000 2,639 10 „ ~1500 1139 4,368
Bendigo.
Sandhurst .. 2,365 1,452 6 „ ~1200 252 4,024
Sydney.
Perpetual (6) .. 4,754 7,237 10 ~,,2500 4737 26,657
Permanent .. 2,302 3,939 8 ~ ~2000 1939 7,573
Brisbane.
Queensland .. 3,929 2,546 8 „ ~2121 425 4,797
Hobart.
Perpetual (c) .. 2,107 1,473 8 ~ ~ 840 5,422
Launceston.
Tas. Perpetual 1,091 980 6 ~ ~ 630 350 2,631
Adelaide.
ExecutorT. &A. 1,833 2,836 6 „ „ 921 1915 5,102
Dunedin.
Perpetual .. 1,799 1,359 12* „„ 1016 343 3,768
Wellington (M.L.).
Wellington (d) 10,040 12,372 8 ~,,8100 4272 26,192
Perth (W.A.).
We..»alian ..1,499 2,028 10 ~,,946 1082 7,346
(<\) Perpetual (Melb.). —Written off, £2040.
RABBITS!
are they to be
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with c"-r se tiers v nether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue Ihe wai vh ' has been waged against “bunny ” for yearspast,
whether fliov will take the tro o turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and .ro'Vit * employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Ihc-ewarne Packing Coni]*' - huh, is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandei a and Sydney. T -*• sbest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For f urther particulars, address-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFi'iCE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.


(b) iaoJ ) ? t . U v al (Sydney).—The figures are for 1901 and
> l the , accounts are published early in each year.
r \ It 1 "? 1 (Hobart).—Written off, £713.
{C) Wellington.— This co. does also an agency and
investment business.
On the whole the Trustee co.’a have had a good
year- Not one of them has had to reduce its dividend;
and the following increases in the year’s dividend have
been made Equity 7| to 8, Melb. Trustees 5 to SJ,
Melb. Perpetual 2£ to 2}, Sandhurst 5£ to 6, Sydney
Perpetual 8 to 10, Sydney Permanent 6 to 8, and
Adelaide 5 to 6.
*■ * * »
The complete Custom-house returns for Sydney
for 1903 are significant. For two years past they com-
pare as fallows :
1902. 1903.
Imports .. £21,249,702 £20,570,889 Dec. £678,813
Exports .. 17,120,316 20,456,123 Inc. £3,335,808
There was this large reduction of imports in spite of the
fact that £924,807 more of wheat, flour, and produce was
imported. The decrease in soft goods and “other mer-
chandise,” the largest items, amounted to just upon
£2,000,000. Here is a result of that increased activity in
local manufactures of which the M’Millan firm’s trade
circular lately spoke—an activity due, as the same circu-
lar showed, to the tariff. On the other side the increase
in exports shows either that, in the aggregate, there was
not last year that withering stroke of adversity which
was made the excuse for a burst of borrowing, or that, on
account of the State’s former huge public and private
borrowing, exports had to be maintained in order to
pay interest, no matter how little was left for the State’s
own uses.
* • • •
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building,
and Investment Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Nov., Profits Dividends Reserves serves
1896 £39,682
1897.. £452 Nil £452 40,134
1898 .. 477 Nil 477 40,611
1899.. 140.1 1} per cent. = £lO9O 311 40,922
1900.. 2344 3 „ „ „ 2201 143 41,065
1901.. 2369 3 „ „ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902 .. -2922 3 2308 614 41,777
1903 .. 2590 3 „ „ „ 2430 160 41,937
The reserves consist of reserve fund £33,150, reserve for
equalisation of dividends £5OOO, contingency fund £l5OO,
and undivided prefit £2287. An equalisation of dividends
reserve is always an unsatisfactory feature in a balance
sheet; it suggests a time when the co. which owns it will,
by drawing upon it, appear to be more prosperous than
it really is, and when under cover of that seeming
prosperity the people who know the facts will get out.
In this case a consolidated reserve fund of £40,000 would
be much better. The profits (which do not include £1270
of rents due but not collected) are equal for the year to
£3 Is. 3d. per cent, on the paid capital, or to £2 Is. Id.
per cent, on the whole funds of the shareholders as at
the beginning of the year (capital £84,532 and reserves
£41,777). The latter return compares only fairly with
the £2 9s. 3d. earned the previous year. Good progress
has, however, been made with the reduction of the net
liabilities to the public (deposits, overdraft, etc., less cash
and bank balance) ; the amount at the end of each year
has moved as follows :
1897 .. .. £104,206 1901 .. .. £92,469
1898 ’.. .. 100,580 1902 .. .. 78,274
1899 .. .. 90,375 1903 .. .. 74,649
1900 .. .. 87,904
In spite of the rather poor return so far, the outlook
appears satisfactory.
• • • •
In commercial circles rumor lias been busy of
late with the names of two prominent retail firms in
Sydney, who are said to be shaky. One firm is said to
have lately secured an extension of time from English
creditors for a very large amount.
* * * *
N.S. Wales’gold production for the past year
was 254,0600 z fine, worth £1,080,029. For some years
past:—
1896 .. .. £1,073,360 1900 .. .. £1,070,920
1897 .. .. 1,104,315 1901 .. .. 737,164
1898 .. .. 1,201,743 1902 .. .. 684,970
1899 .. .. 1,623,320 1903 .. .. 1,080,029
But, prior to 1894, there had not been so much gold won
since 1873. There have been only five greater yields in
30 years.
* * * *
The following, compiled from the export
returns, shows the work of the Broken Hill mines during
the last year or two:—
1900. 1901. 1902. 1903.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Ores (crude) .. 126,468 100,881 88,450 23,293
Concentrates .. 250.962 263,830 231,559 216,731
Slimes .. .. 44,987 37,983 48,954 95,388
“Zincs” .. .. 19,734 264 278 19,888
Some important changes have taken place. Through the
development of the kiln-roasting process, the slimes from
the concentrating mills have become a valuable asset;
formerly only the richest of them were handled, and then
only at small profit. The development of the magnetic
separation process at the Sulphide Corporation and Aus-
tralian Metal Co.’s work 3 is responsible for the large in-
enease in the export of “zincs” (zinc-bearing concen-
trates); while the introduction of the desulphurising
process at the B.H. Prop.’s smelting works has allowed
of a reduction in the export of crude oxidised ores, it
being now possible to make a good smelting mixture
without thean.
• • • *
Important developments have occurred lately
in the B.H. Prop.’s deep workings. AtBooft., where very
little work of any sort has been done, an east crosscut
north from M'Bryde’s shaft has proved a body of average
sulphide ore 60ft. wide, and the eastern wall has not even
then been found. Practically the mine is virgin below
the 640 ft. level, and comparatively little ore has been
stoped out below the 500 ft. There is a prospecting level
at 1000 ft. from the same shaft, which is on the south, or
Block 10, end of the property.
* * • *
Work is to be resumed at the Victoria Broken
Hill. “The board considers that the methods for treat-
ing sulphide ores now coming into use at Broken Hill
warrant the belief that, notwithstanding a continuance
of low metal rates generally, operations can be conducted
with more satisfactory results than hitherto attained.”
As a matter of fact, the Victoria Broken Hill—the
Victoria Cross before it was resurrected—has never
treated any ore. and h'as never had any to treat; so that
the new metallurgical developments don’t make any
immediate difference to it. The only’ money that was
ever made out of it was from the sale of water that
drained into its .workings. It may possibly, some day,
strike an extension ©f the ore bodies which the B.H.
North has worked ; but as the North has never made any
profit, except during a strong lead boom, its neighbor’s
prospects are very poor.
» * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, which owns the
B.H. Central mine and the Cockle Creek smelting
works, made £24,935 during its last year (to June
30), after allowing £20,000 for depreciation of plant.
In the previous year £2827 remained after charging
£ll,OOO for depreciation. This is a remarkable slump
from the net profit of £178,002 made during the lead-
boom year. Still, a much larger credit balance would
have remained this year had it not been for the dis-
astrous underground movements in the mine. The
period covered was also one of unusually low metal
prices. The weak point in the Sulphide’s position
is the heavy load of debentures (£100,000) falling due
about three years hence.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation ha 3 had an erratic
career:—
1897, Loss .. £13,842 1901, Profit .. £73,049
1898, „ .. 10,935 1902, „ .. 2,927
1899, Profit .. 115,154 1903, ~ . 24 935
1900 178,002 .....
Some comparisons for the past three years:—
1901. 1902. 1908.
Average weekly ore
output .. .. 4822 tons 4217 tons 4083 tons
Average weekly con-
centrates .. .. 985 tons 914 tons 811 tons
Average cost of ore
(per ton) ;. .. £0 14 3 £0 14 10J £0 15 5
Average cost of con-
centrates (per ton) £3 14 8 £3 16 8 £4 2 7J
The last line shows what the mess in the mine has cost.
* * * *
Newcastle’s (N.S.W.)coal export for 1903 was
ahead of all predecessors. The best previous was
3,104,735 tons in 1901 ; in 1902 it was 2,966,764 ; last year
3,392,597 tons were shipped through the berthing
master’s office, and there were a few thousand tons
besides this. In 1893 the total was 1,583,882 tons; so
that there has been a very remarkable 10 years’ growth.
» * ♦ *
The divs. already declared by W.A. mines for
January amount to £139,539 against £147,160 for Jan.,
’O3. As Ivanhoe is practically certain to declare £50,000,
the year should start with an easy chance of beating
records.
* * • •
Recently, it was announced that an official
cable had been sent stating that the diamond drill,
operating from the 600 ft. level of the North Boulder
(W.A.), had cut a lode 4ft. wide* assaying 24dwt. A few
days later, it was announced that check assays showed
only 3dwt., and that the delay in checking was caused
by an accident. The explanation given is that the core
was split longitudinally, and that one half assayed 24dwt.
and the other 3dwt. Anyone who knows anything of a
diamond drill core knows that if this actually did happen
it was a most remarkable accident. It is now stated that
the reef is 50ft. wide, of which 22ft. is exceptionally
good looking, and it is suggested that a crosscut
200 ft. long should be put in at the 90ft. level
to test it. A lode 50ft. wide, of which the best
4ft. assay only 3dwt., and probably not even that, is a
very poor thing to base hopes on. As here more than
once stated, the North Boulder’s investment prospects
are practically nil, though, as a gambling counter, the
stock may be all right for an occasional flutter.
* • * *
Lancefield, Laverton (W. A.), just taken over by
Bewick, Moreing and Co., has been put in charge of
Griffiths, late shift boss of the Sons of Gwalia. He was
Loring’s right-hand man when he started licking the
Gwalia into shape, and he fired out everyone who
couldn’t or didn’t do a good day’s graft. He is just the
sort of man to make things on the Lancefield hustle, and,
if the mine can be made to pay decent dividends on an
Sdwt. average, Griffiths will see that they are earned, or
belie his reputation.
* * • •
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) just issued its
first annual report. It is stated that a 12-drill air eom-
pressor has been installed, and that the manager has
instructions to thoroughly open up the property down to
600 ft. before re-starting the mill. Most people were of
opinion that the mine had gone bung, and would never
produce another ounce, but, apparently, there is life in
the old dog, or cat, yet. It is also stated that £23,,637
has been written off development, £2223 for depreciation,
and £1751 for preliminary expenses ; but, as the mine
has earned nothing, the operation must be mere “win-
dow-dressing.”
* • • •
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), has cut
a reef in the crosscut from its bottom level, and is now
opening on it. No values are recorded, so it may be
taken for granted that it is not up to much. Some
months ago, shortly after Joel Phillips, the present
manager, took charge, it was announced that, at the
530 ft. level, the reef was 4ft. wide and worth from 3 to
lloz. per ton. Since then not a word has been heard of
this marvellous find 1 In its early history the Co. paid
three 6d. divs. on its 80,000 shares, but this has been far
more than counterbalanced by calls during the past 4£
years, and prospects are poor
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn, whose
London management does not inspire confidence, has
had its first clean up. Prom scarcity of water the mill
ran only 17 days; 227 tons were treated for 1500 z.,
which is pretty moderate, considering the amount of
official advertising the concern has had. It is threatened
to erect a modern heavy stamp mill, and do things on a
large scale, whenever the new main shkft reaches 500 ft.,
ana is connected with the underlie workings at that
depth. The co., under different names, has been in
existence since 1895, so can’t be said to have been in any
great hurry so far. Manager James, late, of Sons of
Gwalia, recently resigned, and his place is filled by
R. Tyler.
* * • •
Great Fingall Southern Blocks, Day Dawn,
has gone in for three months’ exemption, to allow time
to raise fresh capital. It is stated that several large ore
bodies—one of which is, of course, the Fingall lode—have
been cut by diamond drilling, and that the mine is an
assured success, if shareholders only put up the money
to make it so. Only a niod§st £lOO,OOO is. wanted to
thoroughly equip the property, after which it will
probably be the same cat as it looks now.
Latest return from Island Eureka, Lake Austin
(W.A.), is 2750 z. from 410 tons and 78oz. from 600 tons
tailings—a total of 3530 z. A year ago shareholders were
told that that they had three years of 25d wt. ore in sight.
The outlook, at latest, was not too bright, as the cross-
cut at 4 level was still in country, while, according to
plan, it should have cut the reef. The driving at 100 ft.,
in Queen section, was still a blank, and a tough bar was
encountered, of which there was no indication, on the
the surface. If things don’t quickly alter, it will be a
blue look out for shareholders.
* * * •
Field’s Find, Yalgoo (W.A.), which was recon-
structed less than a year ago with an assessment of 25.,
worth £31,000 odd, has thrown in its cards. Reason—
the assessment couldn’t be assessed, as Bull wasn’t having
any more Field’s Find. This is one of the last, if not
actually the last, of the once great Venture Corporation’s
large litter of wild cats. Since September the mine has
been under the charge of W. H. Hobby, a well-known
t’othersider, whose reign has, unfortunately, through no
fault of his own, been short. Hs couldn’t make a gold
mine out of a sand patch.
• * * •
Cue Gold, Day Dawn, published the fact that
half the mill started in October, and half early in Novem-
ber ; but it has been silent regarding the result. Why?
* * _ * *
There is a remarkable difference between the
various statements of some Australian goldfields—even
between official statements. The Victorian Mint returns
show, aS stated last week, 825,3350 z. Victorian gold
received in 1902 and 812,8230 z. received in 1903. But, as
the Mint books dose on Dec. 21st in every year, the
figures do not show the actual year’s receipts, which, so
far as relates to Victorian gold, are said to have as
follows 1899, 861,9050 z. ; 1900, 821,0070 z. ; 1901,
790,0500 z. ; 1902, 734,7460 z. ; 1903, 819,7140 z. But, then,
these figures, again, differ widely from Coghlan’s, which
run 1899, 854,5000 z.; 1900, 807,4070 z.; 1901, 789,5620 z.:
1902, 720,8660 z.
* * * *
The deep-gouging at Bendigo means one long,
unbroken struggle with water. As the result of just the
day or two’s stop at Christmas, the New Chum Railway’s
workings at 3855 ft. were flooded, and the water rose high
in the shaft. With pump 9 and tanks going, it was nine
days in the new year before the bottom was found. And
it costs something to haul up water three-quarters of a
mile.
* » » *
A correspondent tells a story of miner’s grit:
At 8.8. Creek, Matlock (Vic.), four years ago, a family
found a show, a diorite dyke formation, carrying small
gold-bearing leaders. For 600 ft. along the surface they
got a little gold, but nothing rich. At that time the
party consisted of a father and two sons ; the father was
then over 70, and has since died. They wanted a bat-
tery, and, as they had no money, they went to work to
make one out of the forest. Their first was of the spring-
pole type. This meant laborious and slow work, so a
water-wheel was built to drive one wooden stamp. A
tree-stump cut and smoothed off close tq the ground was
the battery-box. This mill could not crush enough, so a
14ft. wheel was erected below it to drive three wooden
stamps, and with this the battlers made a bare living.
The battery power was still inadequate, though, so they
built a 25ft. water-wheel to drive five heavier
wooden stamps, with old iron battery shoes fastened
to the bottoms. This battery is self-feeding; a
small, four-foot water wheel works a lever which lifts a
trap door when stone is wanted. All day long now the
battery works on its own, feeding itself and crushing the
dyke, which the brothers break and tip into the hopper.
With the exception of the old shoes on the bottom of the
stampers, the whole battery is wood, and was split and
hewn by the axe, on the site, from the growing forest.
Not a stick was sawn. It shows what can be done with
courage and will, backed up by an axe, a hand-saw, a
hammer, wire nails, and a forest.
•*• • •
Queensland’s 909,8870 z. of gold crude for 1903
boiled down to 659,0420 z. fine—more evidence of the
absurdity of reporting gold in crude oz., especially in a
country where some of the bullion is worth only £2 per
oz. The last three years’ figures:
Crude oz. Fine oz. Value.
1901 .. 835,553 .. 698,382 .. £2,541,892
1902 .. 860,453 .. 640,463 .. 2,720,639
1903 .. 909,887 .. 659,052 .. 2,799,679
The total dividends of public co.’s were £989,050 ; this is
irrespective of profits made by syndioates and working
parties. Corresponding figures for 1902 were £961,762.
According to the market valuation. Charters
Towers mines were worth about £1,760,000 at the
opening of this year, as compared with £2,000,000 at the
opening of last year. The biggest shrinkage' has been in
the Marshall a/id Victoria groups. Marshall’s Queen,
worth £109,000 12 months ago, is now assessed at some-
thing like £37,000; while the Vie. and Caledonia Block
has dwindled from £45,000 to £12,000. Of the high-
priced lines only the Queen Cross has more than held its
own ; at 50s. 6d. 12 months ago (£505,000), it is quoted
now at 58s. (£580,000), and before the holidays stood at
625. (£620'0,00). Of the Brilliants, the St. George United
has moved from 19s. to about 255., the Block from 7s. to
135., but the Extended, on the other hand, has suffered
heavily.
Tailings dumps were worth 144,4380 z. gold to
Charters Towers mines last year.
* * • *
Glympie’s (Q.) div. total for the year was
£318,856, or £54,982 more than in 1902 —an easy record
forttie field. The “ Christmas divs.,” of which Queens-
land co.’s make a feature, amounted to £43,910, but did
not quite reach those of the year before, notwithstanding
that more gold was won than in any previous month,
excepting only May, 1903. No. 2 S. Gt. Eastern alone
sent out 56810 z. In the 12 months this co. has paid
£115,200 in divs, or 16s. per share. S. Glanmire and
Monkland’s year’s total was £70,500, and Scottish Gym-
pie’s £53,625, making for the three £239,325.
* • * •
Tas. Exploration Co., in the affairs of which J.
Bull has most say, is on the rocks ; and an effort is being
made to reconstruct in 200,000 shares of 10s. paid to 9s.
The idea seems to be to_ raise just enough to develop
some Matbinna shows, then push them off on to Bull, cut
up the proceeds, and die'.
* • • •
After first thinking that it was a silver mine
and then that it was a copper mine, the ow.ners of the
S.W. Curtin-Davis (Tas. West Coast) have settled down
to work it for bismuth.
* * • •
There is another shuffle in Tas. mine inspector-
ships. Curtain, lately in charge of the Lyell district, has
stepped out of the service and taken control of the
Tasman and Cro.wn Lyell Extended ; and G. A. Waller
will presently follow him as inspector.
• • • •
“War E.” : With the big surplus of wheat in
this State, and the prospect of advances in price later,
many farmers will be gulled by kind offers from millers and
exporters of “ free storage ” for wheat. The “ free storage ”
will be all right provided the farmer sells to those whom
he stqres with, and at their price. If he doesn’t, he’ll
probably be charged for cartage, receiving into store,
insurance, delivery, &c., &c. The “ free storage” dodge
practically means that the millers and speculators have
in their possession, without any payment, large supplies
of wheat, and on the strength of this can control the
market.
* * •
Advertisements published in N.S.W., requiring
income-tax returns from all persons in receipt of £l6O a
year clear income, would seem to suggest that the
exemption under the tax has been reduced. But that is
not so. Incomes under £2OO a year are still exempt.
* * * *
“San Remo”: Re par. (8., 24th Dec.) about
Perth (W.A.) motor ’bus service. Manager Badger, Bris-
bane tramways, recently returned from round the world.
He was to collect information upon this motor-’bus
matter. The idea was to run services of motor-’buses to
act as feeders to the tram lines. Mr. Badger condemned
the proposal for exactly the Perth reasons—heavy ex-
penses, wear and tear on tyres, &c. This is feasible
enough, hut I have an idea that the cute Yankee Saw
something else as well. Let Mr. Badger once Remonstrate
the practicability of the motor-’bus, and his co. would
soon be faced with serious competition, even In the city
itself. At present a motor-car co. is being formed, but
how matters are progressing I do not know. The fact
that the price of shares was reduced 50 per cent, doesn’t
indicate much enthusiasm on the part of speculators.
One motor-’bus in operation should be worth all the pro-
spectus advertising. Beyond doubt there is a splendid
opening for an up-to-date motor-'bus service in Brisbane.
Brisbane tram sections are notoriously short. Two main
city sections"( North Quay to Custom House, and Custom
House to Valley Junction) combined are scarcely equal
to the Redfern Station to Circular Quay (Sydney) section.
Another-'ad vantage of Private Enterprise! The motor-
'bus service has another route which must always remain
its monopoly. The Toowong River road, about the finest
drive in Brisbane, and thickly populated, is too narrow
to allow of tramway construction. ’Tis enough to make
Mr. Badger weep every time he takes a drive along it.
• • • •
Died lately, up North, James Atherton, who
held cattle country hack from Rockhampton when the
first, gold was found in that district, which discovery led
up finally to Mt. Morgan. Atherton.’s place was Canoona;
there was a famous but short-lived rush there. While it
lasted the diggers got bucketfuls of gold from the grass-
roots. Rockhampton was founded by men returning
from Canoona. Another Atherton, John, afterwards
went still.further north, and gave his name tp one of the
best-known townships in the Chillagoe country.
In 8., 31/12/’O3, are some remarks
about the American lead mar'ket and tire uncertainty of
forecasting the future trend of prices in England. U.S.A.
papers quote lead very steady and constant at 4J cents
to 4} cents per lb. (duty 2| cents); English prices are
equivalent to 21 to 2£ cents per lb. Large quantities of
Mexican ore and bullion are smelted and de-silverised in the
States, treated in bond ; and this, no doubt, is the source
of the large quantities of lead exported to England. The
American consumption is large, and absorbs most of the
domestic production. America thus scores in three
ways: it'provides a steady and profitable market for the
domestic lead produced, it encourages the smelting of
custom ore in bond at a good profit, anti it dominates the
English market, which provides a good mark for an
occasional gamble. If Britain placed a countervailing
duty on American lead a lift would be given to Austra-
lian and Canadian producers (Canada gives a bounty on
lead smelted in Canada). Our mining industry for lead
at any rate is under exceptionally unfavorable conditions.
A million or more tons of ore are being depleted for an
average profit of less than 3s. 6d. per ton ; if a fair amount
were deaucted for depreciation and development there
would be very little left. No wonder some of the mines
are taking a long rest. Britain would be justified in
every sense in placing a duty on lead exported from
America, more especially as the Australian mines belong
mostly to J. Bull.
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &o.
INDENTS. —Dog-spikesto Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
S3T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. TBH
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * *
The process of handling and treating ores lias
made a great advance in the few years just passed. The
change has been in the direction of handling low grade
ore in large quantities,'and making a closer saving than
was formerly possible. In the early days the miner was
compelled to place his reliance upon the relatively small
and scarce bodies of high-grade ore. The change
mentioned above has enabled him to turn his attention
from these relatively scarce deposits of high-grade
ore to those of greater extent and corresponding
number, viz; the low gralde deposits. The handling
of a large body of ' low-grade is a safe commercial
venture and one jiow eagerly sought tor. Any
improvement in mining and milling machinery now
made is with the idea of utilising those deposits and the
handling of these low-grade ore is now the mos^ import-
ant problem engaging the attention of mining nfen. The
process of concentration is of such great importance in
the various processes of ore treatment, that any real and
practical improvements in the methods or machines used
for the purpose should be entitled to close and;impartial
attention of those interested. In this connection the
Wilfley Concentrator hds proved itself to be a machine of
the first order of merit and the rapidly increasing sales
proves that the mining men in Australia are quite alive to
rts merits. Over 600 tables have already been sold in
Australia, and the Austral Otis’Engineering Company of
South Melbourne, who are the Sole Agents and
Manufacturers, are kept fully employed in making the
tables.*
* * • *
The Insurance Spectator, London, Ist
August, 1903: —“ During the past year the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society’s business was thoroughly
progressive, and a substantial addition was made to the
accumulated funds. The amount saved was about
£110,960 and brought up the total funds to 5 £2,706,830.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etcf, call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
• * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
• • * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of .their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * • *
British manufacturers have been beaten m an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender*of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply’ of about 13 miles of
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
lias all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscra.v, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
• * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from En.gland, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properries, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Mprrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane "Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
♦ * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
» * * *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
1_69 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
• * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private eode, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
M.L. Health Department lately pronounced
most of the hank notes in circulation too filthy to be at
large, and the offices of issue to put them in the
fire as soon ‘as they could lay their hands on them. The
managers agreed, hut, as the older and shabbier a note
is the more lovingly some people seem to hang on to it, the
process of purificatio'n is very slow.
3QINVAO
GUA?A*-TEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Sofia,
Borax^Litharge, Carbonate of Sofia, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald, 174
William-street,
Melbourne :
11 Pifct-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Easde-st.,
Brisbane; 4 Ciiff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
By Special Appointment to His Majesty King Edward VII.
Bottled at Celebrated
Malvern Springs,
England.


SOCIETY
Nobody seems to have noticed that for six
weeks or so Australia has been without any
Governor-General or Acting-G.G. And the
country has gee-d along all the same. Maxim for
statesmen: Sinecures should never be left tern*
porarily vacant.
• • • •
The Argus (will Senator Findley
impeach it for treason?) reprints this from the
Creevey memoirs to show how Queen Victoria
came to existence. It is Mr. Creevey’s memoran-
dum of a conversation with the Duke of Kent at
Brussels on December 11, 1817, just after the
death of Princess Charlotte, daughter of George
One of the unmarried princes had to marry, or th« suc-
cession would be lost to the family. The Duke said to me:
“Should the Duke of Clarence (afterwards William IV.)
not marry, the next prince in succession is myself; and,
although I trust I shall be at all times ready to obey any
call my country may make upon me—God only knows
the sacrifice it will be to make—whenever I shall think it
my duty to become a married man. It is now seven-and-
twenty years that Madame St. Laurent and I have lived
together ; we are of the same age, and have been in all
climates and all difficulties together ; and you may well
imagine, Mr. Creevey, the pang it will occasion me to
part with her. I put it to your own feelings—in the event
of any separation between you and Mrs. Creevey. . . .
As to my own settlement, as I shall marry (if I marry at
all) for the succession, I shall expect the Duke of York’s
marriage to be considered the precedent. That was
a marriage for the succession, and £26,000 for
income was settled, in addition to all his other income,
OUT OF THE DIFFICULTY.
“ And pkwat's become of your daughter, Mrs.
Rooney? ”
“ Well, Mrs. Mulligan, she was that useless
intoirely that I sent her out as a lady-help. ”
purely on that acoount. I shall be contented with the
same arrangement, withoutmakingany demands founded
upon the difference of the value of money in 1792 and at
present.
And so for £25,000 a year, and an allowance for
his mistress, the Duke of Kent consented to
marry Princess Victoria and to father Queen Vic-
toria, and the blessed dynasty was saved. Isn’t
it rank disloyalty for the Argus to thus publish to
the world the motives which actuated a German
princeling to come to the rescue of the British
throne and provide an heir ?
* * •
Unpublished testimonial received by the
proprietors of a patent health food :
Dear Sirs,—Before trying your Grittv Grits for break-
fast I suffered from that tired feeling and brain fag. I
had no energy. Since using it I have received four writs
for breach of promise.
»-» * •
A Swanston-street (Melb.) hotel has a
coat-of-arms on the window, with the Latin
K’ rase, “Domine DirigeNos” (Lord direct us),
e drunks’ prayer 1
* * • •
Advt. from the Daily Telegraph :
"WIDOW, 45, like corresp. elderly gentleman, view
T ’ matrimony; no triflera. M.S., Pymont P.O.
No triflers 1 At 45 no time is to be lost, and a
widow knows it.
Fate seems to carry on a bitter vendetta
against some families. Constable Johnston was
shot dead at St. Kilda in an attempt to arrest the
ravisher of a little girl. His father was just
before accidentally killed grubbing a tree. This
week his mother died. One of the sons came
down in a buggy to meet Johnston’s widow.
Waiting in the station yard, the horse bolted,' and
crushed his life out against a gate.
* * * *
Little Violet M'Crae, being carried past
her destination at Brunswick (Melb.), the other
day, climbed out of the carriage window, and
jumped from a train going at full-speed, sustaining
only a severe cut on the head and a slight one on
the arm. Certainly, it was one of Bent’s invalid
trains. Bent is an ill-wind who has brought at
least this good, that it is safer to jump out of his
train than out of any other train in the Common-
wealth.
• • * •
The following all-embracing advertisement
comes from Melb. Age
'M'URSE, Frahran, will take in lady expecting, no
matter what.
• * * •
_** Colocynth ” : Have a patient who was
divorced from his drunken wife some months ago,
and immediately afterwards took her on as house-
keeper. The advantage of this arrangement is that
when she now goes on the rampage and smashes
things, as is her wont, and a wild-eyed citizen
rushes to the former husband with the bill for
repairs, the latter just smiles and murmurs “ not
indebted this time.”
* • • •
Parson Hennessey, of the Pitt-street
(Sydney) Tabernacle, rose, at morning service,
t’other Sunday, to voice his outraged horror at a
certain beer advertisement on the hoardings. At
the evening service, later, lie enlarged on the
awful thing once more, and demanded that all
those who objected to it should rise up, when,
says the press report, “ the entire congregation
rose up en masse at once.” Evidently, after the
parson’s glowing description of the sinful thing in
the morning, the eager congregation had gone to
gaze on it to pass away the Sawbath dulness.
* • • *
Adelaide possesses a geographical feature
of which the name is variable. It used to be the
Torrens River, and sometimes is now. In
times of drought it dwindled into an odorous
thread of slush. The citizens cursed it for
years, then turned round and dainmed-ht,
converting it into a so-called lake—really into
a duck-pond, which is periodically emptied
to. obviate silting. On emptying day there
arises the vociferous effluvia of old—greater
in intensity, but of shorter duration. During
the. lake period a rowing club operates,
which reminds one of playing billiards on a
tea-tray. There is a perennial war between
this club and some gardeners lower down
stream, who want water as often as they can
get it. When a club race meeting is in the
air, the weir is locked to make a course.
Then the gardeners damn audibly, write
letters to the papers, and tell the city that it
is going to the dogs in the interests of a rowing
club. But the city doesn’t hear because it
can’t smell anything.
* * * *
F.E.P.W. : Re undertakers (8.,
8/10/’O3). Was chief mourner to a large
show funeral in Brisbane some years back.
As I slipped a cheque into Screw-us-down’s
fist, just before starting, he asked me enthu-
siastically : “ How do you think everything
looks?”—casting a loving glance down the
long stretch of well-appointed coaches. Then :
“An ideal day. You’re lucky. It couldn’t be
better. Just enough breeze to stir the plumes
Anxiously: “We must go right through the
city?” When the ceremony was over, and we
were leaving the cemetery, he found time to
whisper: “Everything splendid, eh ? ” I almost
thought he would wish me a happy funeral before
he left me.
• * » *
A mis-read signal last week brought to
Sydney the news that a boiler of the warship
Wallaroo had burst and “43 men were killed.”
Thetruth, tragicenough, proved much less terrible.
A combustion box gave way in one of the Wal-
laroo’s stoke-holes and four men were killed and
three others terribly scalded. The earlier incor-
rect announcement set all the coffin-shops, daily
newspaper shops, and other ghoul institutions of
Sydney agog. Sydney Morning Herald, par-
ticularly, made a wild plunge into sensationalism :
It has been repeatedly asserted that all the vessels of
the Pallas class, to which the Wallaroo belongs, are in a
very unsatisfactory condition. About 18 months ago the
chief engineer of one of these vessels, not now on the
station, expressed his opinion in no unmeasured terms to
a retired naval officer. The plates of the boilers, he
declared, were so thin and bad that in almost any of the
ships it was possible to pierce some portion of the boilers
by means of a penknife. Constant patching, lie said, was
necessary in order to keep the boilers in working condi-
tion, and it was only with the greatest difficulty that
steam could be raised for anything like half of the
assumed indicated horse-power. According to the state-
ment of the engineer in question, it has only been by
great perseverance and skill on the part of the’engineer-
officers that the ships of this class have been able to
perform the work required of them. The opinion is very
widely held in naval circles that the whole of the vessels
of the Pallas class are absolutely worn out and worthless.
On the face of it, this doesn’t look probable. But
now that the Wallaroo has returned to Sydney
with her boilers practically intact, the penknife
ENTEE NOUS.
" Her husband, I believe, married her for her magnificent technique."
"Poor man—that was before pianolas were invented, I suppose?”
test should be made by the S. M. H.’s representa-
tive. Surely the British navy hasn’t come down
to the level of the coffin colliers 1
The false report of the mortality by the
Wallaroo accident made the Sydney Evening
News lick ghoulish chops in anticipation of a
mighty funeral:
The rites in connection with the burial of so many
victims of so dreadful a disaster will, no doubt, furnish
one of the most impressive scenes that Sydney has ever
witnessed.
And there was a trace of personal disappointment
in its par the next day :
Those who had expected to find the Wallaroo a floating
ruin were doomed to disappointment.
* * * •
The, fortunately incorrect, early accounts
of the Wallaroo disaster caused one York-street
hian to attempt a small comer in crape and black
fabrics. When the warship arrived and it was
found that only four men had been killed instead of
forty-three, the corner bust.
• • • •
The following are extracts from a book
called “New and Popular Tricks,” whioh has
great vogue among young and artless spinsters:
Trick No. 1 : A very amusing trick. How a Weak
Woman Can Make a Strong* Man Weak. The youngs lady
persuades her brother’s chum, or some young man, to
take up a chair. . . . The girl can force the man to move
about in the most helpless manner ; can lead him where
she chooses. . . . This trick always results in much laugh-
ter, and frequently, if the girl exercises her power with
discretion, and conducts the young man into the hall or
to some retired corner, in an engagement.
Trick No. 2 : Invite two gentlemen to place their hands
beneath her palms as she grasps the chair. The hand
placed beneath her palm she can span her fingers over
and exercise all the power required without the gentle-
men feeling more than agreeable pressure ; moreover, as
two gentlemen are imported into the performance, the
probabilities of pleasant friendships being formed are in-
creased.
Trick No. 4: With a billiard cue. After the trick is
performed it is quite allowable for the lady to take back
the cue to the place whence it was brought; on this
errand one of the gentlemen may escort her.
Trick No. 5 : . . . Induces a pleasing warmth, and fre-
quently ends in a playful struggle for a kiss.
Trick No. 6: Inability to lift a lady by the elbows.
(The elbow being the only convenient point at which a
lady may modestly bare herself.)
In conclusion, the book remarks: “These tricks
are especially suitable for young ladies with
shapely arms.” The average young lady’s state of
spinsterhood is evidently not her fault.
• • • *
John Anderson, passenger by the Sydney
express to Melbourne, met Bentism in a fatal
form, last week, on the Victorian lines; he put
his head out of the window, was struck by the
open door of a passing train and killed. Since
Bent and Irvine disorganised the Vic. railway
service, it can’t even keep its carriage doors
closed.
Of the 24,720 persons arrested for different
offences in Victoria during 1903, 1766 were unable
to read or write, while 21,932 could either read
only or could read and write imperfectly; £1
spent on education saves £lO on policemen.
Now that M.L. Arbitration Court has got
into its stride, there is not much delay in settling
disputes. At Blenheim, lately, separate matters
affecting the carpenters, plumbers and painters
were disposed of in one day before 3.30; and
enough sitting time was still left to enter up a
mutual agreement affecting plasterers, and for the
President Judge in Chambers to deal with a
compensation case.
• • * •
A Melbourne citizen complains about the
insufficient crawl of Australia:—
Australians have an embarrassing way in their greetings
and farewellings of distinguished guests—Governors,
great singers, politicians and such like. They line up,
all ages and sexes, along the route of the expected one,
fight for places, and stand patiently in the rain for hours,
packed like kippers. The carriage comes in sight. There
are cries of “There she is! There she is! Doesn’t she
look nice?” Kids are hoisted on shoulders or pushed to
the front; everybody squashes more than ever. But no
“Huzzas,” “Good Lucks,” or “ Welcomes.” Instead, a
curious, unwinking, critical stare piercing the superior
animal in the carriage through and through. The women
whisper to each other that the bonnet suits her, and the
men say she is “ not half bad-looking,” and the carriage
bowls along and disappears in the distance and the
silence.. Perhaps someone will burst out in a few cheers,
which ring out startlingly on the hushed stillness ; and
then it suddenly dawns on the crowd that something was
missing, and the carriage back is followed by some cheers
and the flutter of a few handkerchiefs. It may be merely
shyness, but we certainly are not a demonstrative people.
A man that’ll go with buns in his pocket and his family on
his back, and stand on the next man’s bunion for hours
to do a crawl, oughtn’t to be afraid to lift up his voice a
bit and make it a good hearty crawL
Australia’s “weird expectancy”—at Poverty Point.
WILL ANYONE TURN UP TO SHOUT?
DAVID JONES & COMPANY.
DJ, Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
Narrow or
flouniJ Toss,
special!
VALUE j
orge & Barrack-sts., Sydney
UNREST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Say the Quick to the Dead :
“ Ah me, for the quiet!
What is Death but a bed ? "
Say the Quick to the Dead.
“ O for slumber instead
Of this turmoil and riot 1"
Say the Quick to the Dead :
“ Ah me, for the'quiet! ”
Comes a sigh from the grave :
“ O, the changeless For Ever !
Rank us Sultan or slave,”
Comes a sigh from the grave—
“ ’Tis but Living we crave ;
Give us back life’s endeavor.”
Comes a sigh from the grave :
“ 0, the changeless For Ever
BARAIL.
HARRINGTON’S
Folding 1 Victor” Camera,
PRICE, COMPLETE, 40/-
AN . . .
INTELLIGENT
PRESENT
FOR
LADY or
GENTLEMAN.
---
"
SIMPLE TO
OPERATE.
NEAT and
COMPACT.
GIVES
BEAUTIFUL
RESULTS.
This little instrument is remarkable value and cannot fail to give satisfaction. It is constructed on a strong
yet neat and serviceable, principle and stands in the forefront of modern, popuiarpricf ttmaybe
used in the hand or on a tripod stand, add is suitable for taking Portraits Grouns Views and
size of picture is 41 x 8J in. Fitted with Achromatic Uns. ’fourTevoTv ng Saphmgns Time
and Instantaneous Shutter, Focussing, Ground Glass, and Distance Scale Three Doubll Plate hoWers w™h
Aluminium Shutters, strong, elegant Carrying-Case, and Book of Simple Instructions.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd., 66 KING ST., SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.


N.S. W. Minister for Education has
ukased that pupils must read aloucTthe Scripture
lessons set down in the curriculum ; the teachers
must not teach such lessons orally. Yet a good
deal of the scripture is not suitable for reading by
inquisitive and irreverent children in classes
where the sexes are mixed. Under the old
system the teacher paraphrased and Bowdierised
the Scripture lesson for his pupils, leaving out
obstet f rioal details ; but it is now feared that in
omitting what verges on the obscene, he is tempted
to give an atom of his sectarian flavor to the
lesson. Better, however, that than the now evil.
Best of all abolish the Scripture lessons completely
and leave religious teaching strictly to the home.
The State is sure that two and two make four,
and is entitled to teach everybody that. It is not
at all sure of many things in the Scriptures, and,
for that reason alone, shouldn’t take the responsi-
bility of teaching them.
• • • •
The British haw-haw, hee-haw military
system got an unhappy advertisement out of
the recent
bankruptcy,
in London,
of Lieut.
Mummery.
He had
been a
private,
and for
conspicuous
merit was,
in 1894, given
a commission,
with a grant of
£l5O to meet
preliminary ex-
penses. But the
essential first ex-
penses ran to £390,
and he got into
the hands of the
money - lenders,
and was insolvent
from that on. It
is such a system,
with its close pre-
serve of offices
of command for
gilded johnnies,
that Hutton and
other Imperial
officers would
foist on Australia.
Australia wants
the Napoleonic
system, in which
every private—if
he was the right
kind of private—
was a possible
SCENE.— Outside Govt. House Gate.
Cholly has a fearful dream,
in which he realises all the
terrible possibilities of a demo-
crat'c administration.
marshal. Great commanders are scarce, and when
the search for them is confined almost entirely to
a small elass—whether it is the rich, or the knock-
kneed, or the red-headed —the country is taking an
appalling risk.
A WHALERS WAIL.
BRAND NEW IMPORTATION : “ What is the—haw
—matter with the — haw —country ? ”
WHALER (snappishly): “ There ain't no tea —
there ain't no sugar—there ain't no flour —
there ain't no baccy—there ain’t no beef; an'
fish won't bite, an' Jacky Dow's dead, an’ the
bloomin’ country's busted I That’s what's the
matter !”
“ Melb.” : While rigorous inquiry is
made about theatre safety, look to the churches.
I assert without fear of contradiction that St.
Francis’, Wesley Church, and some others, are
unsafe. The comparatively new ones are all
right, but the Board of Health dares not lay a
hand on the Noachians.
* * * •
A little story touching certain of Aus-
tralia’s daughters credited with having “ done
well ”as actresses or vocalists in England. One
of the loveliest of them was giving advice to an
old acquaintance from “down under” who had
lately arrived in the Big Smoke. As the names
of other members of the ex-Australian sisterhood
were submitted to her, she promptly put black
marks against them. “You can’t afford to be
seen with So-and-So —she’s too notorious alto-
gether;” “My dear girl, you mustn’t think of
visiting So-and-So; and as for Such-and-Sucb,
she is equally out of the question; ” and so forth.
All the time, the censorious charmer was forget-
ting to explain how she herself lived at the rate
of £20,000 a year on a salary of, say, £5 a week 1
An insurance man tells of a prominent
citizen who applied for a life-endowment policy
to provide for his old age, but, owing to physical
deficiencies, was refused. He thereupon decided
to regularly invest an amount, equal to the yearly
premium on his proposed policy, in’Tattersall’s as
his next best chance.
Alluding to the English fad, at fever heat
just) now, of marking historio houses, the S.M.
Herald suggests that a similar course should be
adopted in Sydney. We
will have to establish
historic houses first;
those that have
borne any odor
of history have
long been demol-
ished or are now
in the hands of
churches or be-
nevolent institu-
tions. The
houses of our
“old nobility”
are derelict, and
the representatives
of the “families” are
battered wrecks. Those
who flourished on convict
labor lost their means when
they had to pay for free
labor—to work they were
unable, but to beg they
were net ashamed. The
writer can put his finger
on half a score men repre-
senting our old nobility
who “lug-bite ” in King-
street daily, and who
would sell their souls
for a pint of stringy
and a free counter
lunch.
Yet another
improvement) in
telephony, and, this time,
from Yankeeland. The
invention does away with
the telephone attendant,
and each subscriber does
his own connecting. On
his instrument he has a
double row of numerals, a
small shutter, and a tiny glow
lamp. Say No. 763 wants 1501.
With the left hand he presses
the buttons 763, and with the
right 1501. The electrical and
.magnetio connections do the
rest. If 1501 is not engaged the
shutter falls in the day time, and,
if it is dark, the lamp glews red.
If 1501 is absent or engaged the
shutter doesn’t act or the lamp doesn’t glow.
Those who have tried it are enamored of the
scheme, so the telephone girl will probably soon
be a myth, like Reid’s surplus.
• * * *
“T.D.” : Judge Gaunt sat down heavily
the other day (and about
on the Melb. policeman who
watches the pubs, on Sundays.
Fbr a long time the licensing
business has been conducted
by Judge Molesworth, who
has a well-nurtured animus
against liquor. Gaunt re-
fused to accept as evidence
the suggestion that there
were “ indication's” of ille-
gal trading in connection
with i a suburban pub.,
whereupon the inspector
pointed out' that Moles-
worth was in the habit of
accepting “indications” as
a bar to the renewal of a
license. Also, he stated that
the police had been “ try-
ing for four monchs to get
evidence for a conviction,
but it was a very difficult
matter.” Judge Gaunt as-
sured him that if he had
been trying for forty years and
hadn’t yet got the evidence, it
wouldn’t justify a conviction, what-
ever his brother Molesworth was in
the habit of doing.
In the ohl days the Gentile
drew the Hebrew’s tooth to make
him part up. Now most dentists
seem to be Jews, and the Hebiew draws the
Gentile’s tooth, and then sends in his bill.
But he gives credit and ether. The Gentile
demanded cash down, and let his patient howl.
•'* * *
With all his faults, Granny Courier, of
Brisbane, loves his black brudder still. Referring
to the recent Bundaberg melee between some 200
Kanakas and about half a hundred whites, the
Courier expresses surprise that “none of the
white persons had been arrested.” Considering
that the Kanakas started the row and killed one
white man and seriously injured several others,
and the “white persons’’ were endeavoring
merely to save their common white lives, it does
seem surprising.
• * » *
Yic. Education Director Tate tells a story
of a girl medical student in her fifth year who
pluckuy kept herself during vacation by taking a
billet as nurse-maid. She was carrying her charge
round the garden one evening, when the house-
father on the verandah took stock of the pair.
“Maria,” he cried to his wife, “that girl knows
nothing about babies.” The student overheard
and promptly retorted: “Don’t I? Why, I’ve
dissected dozens.” Her engagement then ter-
minated.
A fond father who is in the eating-house
line of business at Broken Hill advertises his joy
thus:
UNTO US A SON IS BORN l
Thb Best Barrier Christmas Box
was bestowed upon the
ORIENTAL DINING ROOMS
(where the best Barrier meals are always obtainable)
on Dec. 24—as thus:
BIRTH—The wife of Jack Hayes of a son. Both
doing well.
Hallelujah I Everybody delighted.
N.B.,—Meals may now be had to the accompaniment
of sWeet musio—no increase in price.
• • e e
“Kiwi”: The “moderate man” who
wishes neither to swim in beer nor to wallow in
cold tea and oratory has a bad time in M.L. just
now. I have in my mind the cases of two parsons,
both of whom began as moderates, with an honest
intention of avoiding extremes. Both finished up
with deserted churches, and one of them has since
started an independent church ; he has been
obliged by sheer force of circumstances to take
sides with “ the trade.”
• • • •
“We have two magistrates,” moans a
correspondent from a good-sized Maoriland town,
“ One is a teetotal crank who has issued a prohi-
bition order against gyerybody who isn’t a J.P. or
a Freemason, and the other is an amiable old cuss
who never convicts anybody. Nearly every place
in the town has been burgled while the police
were watching prohibited persons to see that they
didn’t get drink.”
• • • •
Municipal milk dep&ts, under thoroughly
competent medical supervision, in the big
cities, would send the Australian population
up with a bound. Battersea (Eng.) Council
runs such a depdt, where pure milk is sterilised
and put up in sealed bottles for infant con-
sumption. A child’s ration of humanised sterilised
milk costs only Is. 6d. a week. The depot has
brought the child death-rate down from 170 to 96
in the thousand.
• • • *
Child slavery on the northern rivers
(N.S.W.)! Says Grafton Arous :
The attention of the Public Instruction Department
has been drawn to the bad effect the dairying industry is
having on children in the Tweed and Richmond districts
as well as in one or two centres on the Clarence. It is
quite a common thing for children of tender years to go
to sleep at their desks at school from sheer exhaustion
and want of rest, while others appear listless and
physically unfit for the mental work their lessons impose.
If the practice of working school children thus in the
dairying industry is continued, legislation will have to be
provided in this State to protect infants from the avarice
of their parents, as has been necessary in England in
regard to juvenile employment in factories.
RUBBING IT IN.
BILLINGTON BROWN (whose fine performance of
Hamlet was liberally egged, by the audience
last night): “Aigs agai-un, madam, aigs
agai-un! Avaunt with the cursid globules!
Wouldst force me to SWALLOW the insult ? ”
Be the injustice which enables a husband
to will his property and ready money away from
his wife and family. Near B.eechworth (V.),
where a woman put all her money into a farm,
and practically ran it herself with the help of
labor she hired, her husband, a loafer, idled
his life away about the place until he died.
Then it was found he had willed absolutely every-
thing to the Salv’army, leaving the woman, who
really owned everything, penniless. If the Labor
party is wise it will strive to be the women’s
party by fighting injustices of this sort in the
Legislature.
HOMELESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Because we’ve wiped his Sheol out, he’s forced to wa'.k
the Earth
And dwell for aye our comrade and enjoy our Human
Mirth;
We little thought in making Hell no more a name of
Fear
We’d made its Master find a home perforce beside us
here.
He jogs us at the banquet and he greets us in the hall,
We catch his Shadow flitting with the shadows on tie
wall;
He takes a hand at euchre and he shares our drop of
Kin,
And he chaffs us on our virtues and he chuckles at our
sin.
He loves the House of Parliament, he likes the Men of
Jaw;
But most of all he loves to haunt our pleasant Courts
of Law;
At times he stands within the dock—a brute whose soul
is dead;
And once I caught him prosing with the Black Cap on
his head.
The Church doth seldom bar him out—he sometimes
bears the plate
(A quaint churchwarden halo round his smug and raven
pate).
He always listens smiling when the holy banns are read,
And oft he wears a favor when the loving ones are wed.
He’s grave and gay by turn and turn —he’s smooth and
debonair,
He’s welcome in the polished set—a favorite with the
fair ;
His horns he hides beneath his pretty locks of ebon hue,
His cloven hoofs he claps within a shapely Paris shoe.
A songful soul is he betimes. He sings no Litany,
But loves to lift a chorus where the brimming bumpers
be;
He sits upon the table when the festive bout is o’er.
And grins away benignly at the topers on the floor.
We thought we’d closed his business when we set his
House to cool,
But he found a country villa in the home of every fool;
And now he’s ever with us, and we find with bitter pain
It were money in our pockets could we send him down
again 1
o.
P.L.
REMORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was mad, and you—with your taunting eyes
And your hot, red lips aflame—
Was there naught of guilt in your soft replies,
In the. tones that grant what the speech denies ?
Ah 1 it’s ever the girl we blame.
When your fair head drooped at my fierce caress,
As a bud when the winds in play
To its quiv’ring petals their rough lips press,
I renounced the bays I would fain possess
For the Dead Sea fruit of shame.
I have plucked the rose, but its rankling thorn
Pricks deep in my heart to-day,
For, I tell you, girl, that my loathing scorn
Is the wraith of a love whose breaking morn
Would have filled life’s sky with its blaze unborn,
Had your heart, with your Ups, said nay.
VIC.
J. MCCLELLAND.
m
3
mv
Highfield
Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
*^HOBART.
Newly erected; Commodious;
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
At the recnest of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wedes*
days and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arc-ide tlirt runs from Gfeorare-street to !Ki^^r-st.*
STARCH
SILVER
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
THE
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Heschls Waverley Brewery, Agents.
W
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPP
Unvarying
in
Quality.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 12, 1904
Mt Dicar Arini,—
Perth, W.A., came out of its midsummer
trance to intercept ex-Gov.-Gen. Tennyson on his
homeward route. It waylaid him and his wife,
and compelled them to eat of a banquet at Govt.
House, and the mayor, clerk, and councillors of
Perth put on their mats and skins and beads of
office, and recepted them at the Town Hall,
where a local girl sang “A Commonwealth
Prayer,” words by Lord Tennyson— not the poet
Tennyson, but his son.
Mrs. Fitzwilliam Curtis (one of the handsome
Fattorini girls) left, for Europe last week on a
business visit. Mrs. F.C. is one of the not
very numerous Sydney women who never
looked out of her place when on a carpet.
Napoleon I. used to complain that the wives
of his marshals could not walk on a carpet.
Another departure was that of Miss Clarissa
Fiaschi. Her fiance, HerrMumm von Schwartzen-
stein, travelled by the same vessel. Miss F.
picks up her brother and her trousseau abroad
and will be married at Frankfurt.
Went on board Federal liner Essex for music
and menu last Saturday afternoon. View from
her decks as she lay off Neutral Bay was a fine
seascape. A spanking breeze was from the east,
and before it gathered and galloped white sea
horses, mares and foals, as if racing for pasture.
Every team dragged along a yacht and every craft
rode sideways. The India was asleep within
hailing distance, a graceful wheat-ship and a wool-
barque drowsed in the offing (by the way what is
an “offing”?) and the oxydised silver Wallaroo
swung at anchor in Farm Cove serenely, as if she
had had no part in a tragedy.
About 500 guests shared music,' menu and sea-,
scape. Managing director Mr. Owen Cox, and
Captain Young were the hosts, and, by way of
interlude, a large number of gentlemen whq
looked like pirates but were in reality acade-
micians, or steamship or commercial men of
some brand, made speeches in the how-I-do-
admire-your-triple-line vein, and to whom Mr.
Cox replied in a great “amen” spirit.
Some foolish poet has said that though the world
buds every year, the human‘heart buds only once.
It’s not true. “ Spring still makes spring the heart
though 60 years (and upwards) be told.” Other
night at a theatre the dress circle was admiring
Mr. Benjamin Backhouse’s new bride. She is a
comedy lady with wheat-gold hair. Mr. 8.8.,
M.L.C., is the father of the judge of that name
and his first matrimonial contract extended over
fifty years.
Signor de Beaupuis, the well-known Sydney
musician and teacher, was married at St. Mary’s
R.C. Cathedral on Xmas eve to Mrs. Charles
Lord, a pretty widow who had also been in the
melody-teaching line. The Signor, who was a
widower, shares with manager Henry Bracy the
reputation of looking always the one age—some-
where about 30. Years ago they looked 30, to-
day they look 29. The new Mrs. Signor was first
a Miss Kerr. She has a fine*looking sister in
Bland Holt’s co.
An Assyrian woman recently left her three
years-old little girl at a, creche in Adelaide. When
the child was undressed for the bath it was found
to be wearing a pair of corsets tightly laced. The
mother explained that she wanted her daughter
“to be Engleeze.”
Miss Maud Hogg, the Sydney girl who has been
five years studying the violin in Leipzig, has
begun her career in London. German press
notices of her playing are of a brilliant character.
For professional purposes Miss Hogg has taken
her mother’s maiden name of Meldrum.
Australasian’s London correspondent gives an
account of the presentation of Royal Humane
Society’s medal to a weaver named Cameron, at
Rosshire, for the gallant rescue from drowning of
Miss Vera Tooth, a daughter of Mr. Lucas Tooth,
of N.S.W. The damsel “tried to ford a river on
horseback,” but lost her mount, and was being
swept towards the Hereafter when Cameron
saved her. In acknowledging the bauble the
weaver read part of a letter of thanks he had got
from Mr. Tooth. Let us hope (for the sake of
the weaver who has a large family of small chib
dren) that the remainder of the letter referred to a
generous sum of money.
That must have been an interesting item in the
Armidale fire brigade competitions—that of the
Amazon fire corps. The corps is composed of eight
local girls, aged from 15 to 17, who gave an exhibi-
tion of engine, reel, ladder and rescue work. Their
captain, Miss Minnie Webb, jumped from the
elevated platform 35ft. on the canvas, and also
carried a comrade down a 25ft. ladder. This is
the only organisation of its kind in Australia, I
am told. Well, now, in the light of the recent
catastrophe in Chicago, local theatre managers
£fre hereby-advised to enter some of the ballet and
chorus as students at Jbrigade head-
quarters, in expectation of eventualities. The
ballet ought to make apt pupils, their joints are
so supple. One may imagine that Miss Webb did
not wear a trailing skirt.
Apropos of long skirts. A Continental paper,
giving an account of the inquiry into an Alpine
tragedy, has been sent me. One of the guides
testified that a lady climber made an ascent in a
trailing gown, lace underskirts, and patent-leather
shoes ! She was not among the lost or wounded
as it chanced, but she was a cause of great nerve-
wear in him and his fellows.
How the public does clutoh at every observa-
tion on the quality, quantity, and effect of its
food. Some months ago an English paper came
out with the question, “Do we eat too much?”
Hundreds—thousands perhaps—of persons seized
on the bone of discussion and gnawed it in public
—in the press. Nearly everyone suffers from
some ill, real or imaginary, which he thinks could
be cured by proper diet—could he but find it. One
of the “ sufferers ” mentioned that he was quite
resigned to a dyspeptic lot because he could not
afford to live in other than a cheap boarding
house. Stringy, tough, grizzly meat three times
a day, parboiled beans and potatoes, fresh bread
(always fresh) made of inferior flour largely
adulterated with potatoes (he has often oyanided
out patches of crude potato and the brown jacket
thereof), boiled tea, and butter as strong as Mr.
Rickards’ Yulcana. This boarder’s complaint
is a common one in Sydney. Yet generally it is
the ignorance or carelessness of the cooking that
spoils the food. Very often, of course, the land-
lady gets such meagre prices from her boarders
that she cannot afford to give them more than
meagre return. The competition is fieroe. Two
persons of my acquaintance put an advt. in
S.M.H. for board and residence. It was in for
two days, and brought 287 replies, and out of that
number only four landladies specified that the
terms would be over sixteen shillings weekly
fob each. It is not humorous ! Landlady and
boarder plot mutual slaughter—hungering to live.
Result seems to be that they live to hunger.
A Sydney paper, written by Society for Society,
after describing “the beautiful and tasteful
home” of “a charming and intellectual” lady,
goes on to say : “ She has in her capable brain a
perfect system of organisation, clear judgment, a
cool head, and a warm heart.” Is it that the lady
is really a freak with her heart in her brain, or is
this merely Society’s English ?
Gippsland can produce other things besides a
famous contralto voice. In a township there,
lately, the young lady organist of the local church
was requested to resign by the clergyman, backed
by his flock. She had acted as organist for eight
years, and refused to cease to flood the church
with melody upon holy days. So upon reaching
the church one Sunday afternoon triumphantly
carrying the key, she found that the lock of the
organ had been forced, and a damsel was on the
stool pounding forth “Peace, Perfect Peace.” The
ousted organist demanded of the peace-maker that
she should clear out. The demand was refused, and
the next instant she and her stool were sprawling
on the floor. The congregation was also upset in
another sense and a policeman summoned. He
did not run anyone in, but according to Gippsland
Mercjry “a heated scene occurred outside the
church.”
Mr. Justice Barton, now that he is out of
politics, is putting on weight and putting off any
look of strain or worry that he ever wore. His
garb was always of an ecclesiastical cut, and now,
between that and his new found placidity of face
and the cushioning of his corners, he would, at
not very long range, pass for an R.C. priest—an
R.C. priest who knows a good dinner.
Adelaide’s principal motorist is a dentist, and
as Governor Le Hunte is by way of owning an
automobile it came quite as a matter of course
that the expert should initiate his Ex. into the
ways of a motor, which has a human-like tendency
to poke its blunt nose into other persons’ affairs.
So the toothsmith and the Governor may be seen
’biling in great style in and around Adelaide;
but, unlike Prank Gardner when he puffed King
Edward about on a celebrated occasion, which
a well-known beauty actress will remember,
the Adelaide motorist does not post kodakers at
street corners to “snap” him and his Excellent
pupil. However, in spite of his modesty, the
dentist’s practice has nearly doubled and his
patients are in daily expectation of hearing him
say “ Haw,” as he grasps the forceps.
Lady Carmichael-Anstruther Sir Frederiok
Darley’s youngest daughter—has been well pro-
vided for by her late husband’s will. His property
was valued for probate at £85,584, and apart from
the bequests to the widow the bulk of the estate
will be held in trust for his heir, an infant of a year
old.
Mrs. Harry Rickards and her daughters, just
back from Europe, are said to have not neglected
the opportunities that the shops of Paris offered.
Mrs. Rickards came to her Harry’s theatre to see
Cirnoc break locks in a dinner dress of what
looked like white panne. It was embroidered
around the foot with raised, pinkish roses of
chenille, and the blouse was elaborately strapped
with white ribbon velvet and embroidered with
bunches of primroses and green leaves in chiffon.
Her diamonds sent shafts of blue fire amongst
the audience, and made one wish for smoked
glasses to view them undazzled.
Mrs. Sims Reeves, now at Sydney Tiv., has a
fine voice, and you might call her pretty or in-
teresting, just as you please. She is an ethereal-
looking lady, with great eyes and silky, black
hair falling down her back and draped round a
white, little wedge of face.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“Captain Balmain, with a contingent of
sixteen domestics and a Himalaya range of
clothes and linen boxes, has arrived to shake out
the carpets, and count the spoons at the V.R.
residence. A fellow-passenger on board the
India declares that the new aide is a pleasant
chappie, with no particular haw-haw about him.
He predicts a quite brilliant social success for the
Northcotes —but what other sort of prediction
could be expected from him ? The informing
tourist tells me she grew tired, in counting the
luggage out, studying the Bond-street labels,
so it would seem that his imminent nibs is
a muoh-tailored personage, and a gentleman of
many ties. The son of England’s Laureate had
little taste in that direction. His walnut-shaped
boxer was as disturbing as the glove-tips that
hung limply beyond the stout digits. I never
saw Gov. Tennyson with his suedes drawn more
than half-way on.
“ The India this trip had an interesting com-
plement of passengers. The Kaeppels were
voyaging out for pleasure. Two Sydney sisters,
as well known on the ocean route as any liner,
were ahead in all the deck games and saloon fun.
At Fremantle G. H. Reid waddled on board, and
thereafter crack bridge players eyed amusedly the
round man getting into the throes of the favorite
gamble. But what it is to have a comio reputa-
tion 1 Whenever Yes-No started to play, the
loungers of the deck drew round and waited for
waggeries. There were few, for the novice had
his whole time taken up by his losses. He always
lost, and his partner was the only soul insensible
to the fun of the thing.
“Ocean trippers tell of a new deck folly.
A row of girls sit holding cup 3 of water and
spoons. The men toe the line afar off. The
signal is given, and there is a fierce sprint down
the deck to the girls; then every racer goes plump
on his knees, opens his mouth and gets the water
spooned down his throat at a terrific rate. The
first to consume the lot and to get back to his post,
collects the trophy.
“The governess scores now and then. One
hailing from a near locality has just been wedded
to £20,000 a year with an elderly squatter
attached. The fair one governessed in the time
of wife No. 1, and when the saddlebag chair at
the hearth became empty, she was called on to fill
it. And she agreed unanimously.
“ Miss ‘ Bee ’ Daniels, of the famous auburn
hair, was married to her auburn-bridegroom (Mr.
Roberts), at All Saints, on the 6th, in the full
glory of the presence of ‘ My Aunt, the Countess
of Darnley.’ Much interest was taken in a por-
trait of the bride, painted, years ago, by Fox, as
‘The Bridesmaid,’ with all the richness of her red
hair making a cloudy background, and many
daffodills clasped in her hands.
“ Vuleana suffered a severe injury to her back
by striking a sand bed in diving from an English
pier last year, and because of it took the trip to
these parts. Care and rest effected a oure, and
the beautiful back Vulcatia bares to a blushing
audience at the Opera House every night shows
no ill result of the accident. Even the corded
muscles of arm and leg fade into insignificance
when that wonderful back starts its series of
rocky undulations.
“Mrs. H. M. Chornley—the white-haired Dolly
Yarden of Society—has brought out some tricky
dresses from ’Ome. At the New Year meeting at
Flemington her swell frock, scarcely out of its
tissue wrappings, was one of the new grey blue
shot taffetas, with inch-wide tucks, and a sash,
quite in the Dolly Yarden fashion, of grey and
pink-flowered ribbon.
“ The little ivory-faced daughter of Tax Com-
missioner Prout Webb has been dwelling awhile
in London with the family of Mrs. Robert Chirn-
side. At latest, she was to spend Xmas time in
company with Mrs. Digby (a Chirnside daughter)
as the guest of the Duchess of Manchester. The
petite charmer sailed ’Ome six months ago for a
short trip and incidentally for presentation at
court.
“The Melbourne girl still goes beyond the
local market for a life partner. There are
announcements since the New Year of three
engagements, in each case the man being of Eng-
land and the girl a Victorian. One of the most
persevering golf champions in this State sets aside
the links to employ herself with the charge of a
domestio flat. For many seasons this enthusiast
has flayed in all weathers,’ at all times, with
trophied results. Now she marries and will play
less.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Casey shortly take their flock
’Ome, and their fine South Yarra residence is to
be among the many houses let to stray dwellers.
One only gathers an idea of the number on the
move after scanning the lists of furnished happy
homes to let. The wealthy Victorian prefers any
perch to bis own gilded roost, and if the gad
abroad is out of the question, he goes off with his
wife about the State capitals. He calls this sam-
pling of strange chops ‘ enlarging one’s ideas.’ It
certainly has a tendency to enlarge the liver.
“J. Nevin Tait, of Allan and Co., who ‘ran’
the Dolores campaign through the States and then
went on to London, has arranged for Australian
visits front Lilian Foulis, Paderewski, and
Kubelik, respectively. First-named, a charming
violiniste of twenty, is due here in March. She is
a niece of Lord Robertson, an eminent Scotch
lawyer. Miss Foulis’ (pronounced Fowls) father,
an Edinburgh doctor, was formerly a resident of
Sydney, and there are several connections of the
same bright and breezy clan domiciled in Austra-
lia, notably the Rev. J. D. Robertson, ex-
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church of Victoria.
The young violiniste, described as ‘fine-looking,
attractive, and enraptured with her Art,’ will be
accompanied on her Australasian tour by her
mother.
“ Tommy Bent was a grim and gloomy specta-
tor of a recent matinee performance of ‘ Twelfth
Night.’ He always seems to go to the theatre by
himself and in a depressed frame of mind. To sit
mute while other people talk, debarred from
snubbing this one or howling down t’other, seems
as soothing to the Bent temperament as a hair-
shirt.
“So the Marchioness of Linlithgow has a
daughter l Her other baby girl, born in ’9G, died
the same year, which accounts for the spoiling of
the Hopetouns’ younger boy. His elder brother
was a staid, shy lad, taught to ride early, and
encouraged by his mother to dispense with lead-
ing-reins and attendant grooms in the limiting
field while he was still a bit of a thing. ‘ Little
Charlie’ was brought up differently. To keep
him from risking his small self, they had him
supplied with cameras and similar indoor devices.
He snapshotted everyone, chipped into grown-up
confabs, made love to his seniors, and was labelled
* Little Pitcher ’ by the household, which never-
theless confessed to a soft spot for the volatile
mannikin. His successors at the Big House, the
Tennyson boys, were sent regularly to the Church
of Eng. Grammar School for cricket, with such
good results that the eldest of the trio won a prize
for batting-average or some such thing ; but the
Hopie kid would have thrown down his bat at the
most important crisis, while he sprinted to some
muslined young thing among the onlookers and
begged her not to stir, till he * snapped ’ her.
“Great excitement about the challenges of
Atlas and Pagel, rival strong men ! Pagel went
to the Opera House and had a wordy meeting with
the Welshman, but they did not come to terms.
Yuloana, the strong lady, who is appearing with
Atlas, said a few words in support of her colleague,
but there was no one to toss back her verbal javelin.
Now, if only Mrs . Pagel had been on the stage !
She’s a lady of spirit, and when someone teased
her pet, hand-fed lion on the wharf one day, she
promply sooled her strong man on to the offender.
Mrs. Pagel and Vulcana, in conjunction, would
not have parted without giving the Opera House
crowd something to talk about.
“One can’t read weekly ‘Ladies' Columns*
without being confronted with advice as to
‘womanly ways of breadwinning’ and such.
They’re nearly always tiddly-winky, amateurish
little suggestions, which, if one gave up one’s life
to them, might bring in a nice little bit of pocket-
money, but not a living. Most people here brush
their own hair, mend their own children’s
clothes, bake their own cakes, arrange their own
flowers, etc. When I read of the imaginary
‘girl in England,’ who boards her friends’ dogs
and cats in holiday seasons and earns ‘ not a
fortune, but a competence,’ I think of the old
gentleman at Hobart, Captain Somebody, who
had a grand scheme for inoculating whales with
wool. There were a good many whales within hail
of Hobart in those days, and a company was
nearly formed to carry out the scheme. Wool
roots were to be fixed in harpoons somehow and
the whale was just to have the tufts grafted on to
him in a hurried manner, and then the boats would
scoot for dear life, leaving him alone for a few
years till his fleece grew. It turned out to ba
such a rare and risky job inoculating the animals
that the promoters gave up heart when they
pictured themselves shearing a bull whale. About
two were inoculated. I haven’t heard if those
‘took.’ The old captain’s surviving friends drop
a tear to the memory of their dead-and-gone
adventurous old friend whenever they hear that
hymn—
Sowing the seed in storm and stress,
Sowing the seed in mad distress.
Oh, what shall the harvest be ?
“One of the sights of the closing of the Vic-
torian Parliament was Lieut.-Governor Madden,
struggling to keep his pince-nez in position while
he read the prorogation speech. The day was hot,
and the Lieut.-Governor, in his corsets and his
mighty array of gold lace, was very red and very
moist. The result was that the grip of his pince-
nez became uncertain and slippery. Half-a-dozen
times he had to pull up in the middle of an im-
portant sentence and feel all over his gold-adorned
‘tummy’ for the straying specs. Seemingly,
he couldn’t wipe the bridge of his nose and give
the glasses a chance —perhaps he couldn’t find his
‘ wipe ’ amid the folds of gold lace.
“ An ox-eyed youth who haunts the presence of
a comic star becomes as much an object of ridicule
and rude comment in this city as he did in the
last capital where the bright one revolved.
Yours affectionately,
AXENRHI.
peter r*
Miss Nellie Stewart writes : “ * V alaze, ’ Russian
Skin Pood, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and-eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
Died in Melbourne, aged 73, Alfred
Felton, Victoria’s wealthiest bachelor, founder of
the firm of Felton, Grimwade and Co., and for 50
years deep in Melbourne’s financial concerns. For
most of its life he had been the Old Colonists’
Association’s largest benefactor.
Orders for Phil May in Australia should
be sent to The Bulletin offices, with remittance,
before Monday next. Rough sample copies may
be seen at The Bulletin offices, Sydney and
Melbourne. After publication the book will be
obtainable only at a guinea or more. The price
to subscribers is half-a-guinea.*
Even the British Tory is beginning to see
that the manning of British ships hy foreigners i 3
not the way to get boys of the Bulldog breed. A
feature of Lord Wolverton’s Bill to amend the
Merchant Shipping Acts ia a clause to insure the
possession of an adequate knowledge of English
by foreign seamen (excepting Lascars and African
blacks) engaged on British ships after December,
1906—not a very extensive step, certainly, but it’s
a step, anyhow. The British tongue, if not the
British blood.
Laotk. —If you are stout you don’t require it;
it you are thin, you do. No one can afford to
become thin and lined. Laotd plumps the face,
neck, arms, and bust. If you wish to look grace-
ful send Bs. 2d. to Guest’s, 229 Bourke-street,
Melb., for (and postage). Advice free.
Sydney agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade,
and Miss Outhbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM
WHISKY
TRADE MARK
Dress Fabric
Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
Are
59
P.D. CORSETS. * P.D. CORSETS. *
P.D. CORSETS. * P.D. CORSETS.
PR
THE ABOVE TRADE HARK IS A GUARANTEE OF THE HIGHEST ART IN CORSET fIAKING.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
An East Sydney man has named his
bottle-oh cart after George Reid.
“Napoleon was Moses, Aaron, and Joshua,
all in one.’’— Wolseley.
“ E.J.D.”,; Wonder if Reid’s stomach is
any the better for its election treatment with Dill-
water ?
Councillor Myers—a Hebrew—strongly
objected to Adelaide Corporation employees being
asked to work on Christmas Day.
William Webster, who was the fireman on
the first train from Sydney to Parramatta (Sept.,
1855), is still in N.S.W. railway service.
Dr. Angel-Money, of Sydney (known
among his friends as God-and-Mammon), has
gone for a holiday trip round the world. He is
now' convalescent.
It’s a sign of the re adjustment of social
forces that the State Governor in N.S.W. is now
used for poster purposes—to advertise health
foods and pianos.
The Owe’Sullivan, asked “from where
was the piece taken off your tongue ? ” remarked
jocularly (though huskily): “From the part that
did all the promising.”
A. Lindsay, Chairman of Adelaide Desti-
tute Board, retires shortly on an allowance of
£OOO. He has served for about 40 years in the one
department.
“N.”: What enormous pains the Age
took to place Trenwith at the head of the poll !
Brutus and Cassius were more conspicuous by the
absence in the Roman Forum of their statues.
Leaving Trenwith out of the Age made all the
100.000 readers muse on him continually. They
were magnetised to the ballot-box.
THE CHOW TALKS TERMS.
“ The Daily Chronicle expresses the opinion that China will prohibit the
o f unsklled I abor to South Africa until an agreement is arranged with
Grent Britain regarding the admission of Chinese to her colonies."-Cable.
“ Allee right , friend John; me help you in Souf Africa; you must
lettee me into Ostralee.”
Robert Reid was seen in Flinders Lane,
t’other day. Thought he had important business
on in England which would prevent him from
putting up for the Senate ?
Picture, “The Wool Team,” by H. S.
Power, exhibited in the Adelaide Federal Picture
Gallery, is curiously like Lambert’s “Black-soil
Plains,” in Sydney National Gallery.
Every President of N.S. Wales Legisla-
tive Council has been knighted except William
Charles Wentworth (who sought a peerage) and
John Hubert Plunkett (who refused any bauble).
King David Syme has written page on page
To demonstrate that he has got a soul,
Perceiving that the readers of the Age
Might reasonably doubt it on the whole.
D.B.
Premier Sprigg, of Cape Colony, has pro-
mised to use all his influence to secure the releate
of Lieut. Witton, of the Bushveldt Carbineers;
the movement for Witton’s release is supported
by the Bond leaders in S’Africa.
At latest the British rulers of Singapore
were threatening to close up the gaming hells of
Johore, from which our recent brown friend
Jackhore draws much of his revenue. Possibly
there’ll be a row of diamond-set teeth in the mar-
ket shortly.
Amongst the recently-appointed N.S.W.
J’s.P. is a publican, whose wife takes the
“honor” in a queenly spirit. To her came a
commercial traveller who asked for the “ boss.”
Promptly came the answer; “ His Worship is in
the sixpenny bar.”
George Fisher, member for Wellington in
Maoriland House of Reps., while working at the
“case” learned shorthand, got a place on the
Hansard staff, where he remained some years,
then resigned to contest a Parliamentary seat.
Being successful, he afterwards got into tie
Cabinet under Harry Atkinson.
Australian writer “Rivulet,” life-long
friend and biographei of Anarchist J. A. Andrews,
is a descendant of Von Kessel, who was Minister
of State to the last of the Kurfursts of Russia.
“Rivulet’s” father was, with Professor Kinkel
and Carl Schurtz, prominent in the South Ger-
man revolution of ’4B. He trekked to Victoria
in ’53.
A few years ago Senator Stewart (at that
time M.L.A.) was anathematised from one end of
Queensland to the other as a pro-Boer, while Tom
Glassey was the Jingo idol. To-day the pro-
Boer stands nearly at the head of the Queensland
Senatorial poll, and the one-time Jingo god is left
hopelessly at the bottom. The people’s after-
thought !
Cresswell, the Rand manager, who told the
Labor Commission that he had successfully experi-
mented with all-white mine-labor, and read a
letter proving that the yellow-labor agitation was
part of a political plot, isn’t manager of the
Village Main Reef any more. He was lately
superseded—just to prove how free everybody is
now that the British flag floats over Jewannes-
burg.
Maoriland Chief Justice Stout is inde-
fatigable. Only under extraordinary stress of
work will he refuse to grant a member of the Bar
a fixture. He is cordially disliked by pressmen,
as he has no compunction about occupying the
Bench on holidays and Saturday afternoons. It
is a secret known to everybody that, whilst re-
turning to Wellington from Napier, the C.J. held
a Banco sitting in the train to suit the require-
ments of a belated counsel.
“ Silver Top ” asks us to give the Irvine
his due :
The discharge certificates issued by the Victorian Rail-
way Locomotive Department to the dismissed strikers
contained a statement that the bearer was dismissed
from the service on account of the strike. This was to be
used by them as a reference when applying for outside
employment! The men could not use such a document
when asked for a reference. A few of them then appealed
to the Commissioner to have the word “ strike ” removed
from their discharge. In vain. They then waited on
Premier Irvine, stating the injurious effect of the word
“ striker” and the effect it had upon obtaining employ-
ment. To his credit, he immediately issued an order that
all injurious statements be removed from the discharge
papers.
Not generally known that English poli-
tician Gorst, as a young man, did administrative
work in Maoriland.
He and his young wife
were living in the midst
of Maoris, the only
whites for miles. One
yarn he tells is of how
he (Kohi, as the natives
called him) and his
wife lived in a valley
with Maoris on both
sides. It was only by
crossing his laud that
the Maoris on one side
could communicate
with those on the other,
and he allowed them
to use part of it, with-
out hindrance, as a
common road. Kohi
found this fact useful
in a certain difficulty
that occurred. He had
to clear part of one of
the slopes of the gully
for purposes of fortifi-
cation. The Maoris
got wind of this, came
in the night, and began
laying out the area in
question as a vege-
table garden. Now,
Gorst had already pro-
mised not to interfere
with any cultivated
ground of theirs, in ex-
change for a promise
of similar treatment
at their hands. So at
first he was nonplussed.
However, he decided
to play their own game,
and set to digging up
the part of the valley
that had been the
common road, and
planting it with cab-
bages. The Maoris
confessed themselves
outwitted, and allowed
Gorst to go on with
the clearing. That, at
least, is Gorst’s ao-
count.
N. S. W. Labor-
member Hall, recently
admitted to the Bar,
already promises to do
well, specially in land
cases.
Popular Sydney solicitor F. B. Freehill
has been made a Chamberlain by the Pope ; this
honor gives him the right to wear a medieval cos-
*u™e i designed by Michaelangelo, in purple and
gold with fur insertion and white samite em-
broidery, also a oross-hilted sword. Mr. Freehill
is already Consul for Spain (with a gee-gawgeous
uniform) and Major of the Irish Rifles (with
another fine lot of fathers and fixings); when he
Puts them all on, a gaud Mayor will be nothing to
him.
Speaker Lee-Steere’s death
in Westralia leaves President
Shenton, of the Council, the
most durable Groper in Parlia-
ment, with George Randell a
close second. Lee-Steere was
sent to the old mixed Council
in 1807, Shenton in 1870, Han-
del 1 in 1877.
All three were
i u business ;
Shenton, more-
over, was the
•musician of the
c o m m u n i,t y.
Randell remin-
isces interestingly
of 50 and more years
ago. In 1850 Perth
had 306 buildings
of all sorts, and
the suburbs 19.
The old Wes-
tralian Bank of
those days is
still standing,
and is part of
Foy and Gib-
son’s stores.
The old court-
house is the
building now
used by the Arbi-
tration Court. Ran-
dell remembers a dingo
being caught in a stable
in what is now Bishop
Riley’s quarters. The
revenue in 1852 was
£37,021 ; it was common
enough then for civil ser-
vants to have to Wait
two or three months for their salaries. Then,
when the Westralian Bank thought it was strong
enough, it used to advance money ; and so every-
thing was right. Randell himself was part owner
of the Pioneer, the first steamer built for the Swan
and Guildford traffic. Curiously enough, another
Randall, also still living, built the pioneer river-
steamer in S. Australia.
Noticed by Adelaide friends, that since
Kingston was, as Minister of Customs, brought
into such close association with commerce, his
street attitude is not so suggestive of abstraction
and introspection. In days gone by he rolled
along, tapping fences and posts with his black-
thorn, and apparently sounding the depths of
profundity. To-day he stops before shop windows
and examines them carefully, as though he were
wondering about the invoices.
The ups and downs of politics. Webster
came at the top of the poll for the Gwydir at last
elections. A couple of years ago he tried to get
in for Marrickville against Sunday-school teacher
M‘Lean, solicitor Cnenhall, and single-taxer W.
E. Johnson. A hot fight found piety, in the
shape of M'Lean, triumphant; Ohenhall, the
lawyer (since slipped from the ladder of success),
a fair second; Johnson a long way down, and
Webster not registering double figures. Now
M'Lean and Chenhall are well out of it, and John-
son and Webster are to the fore.
Some ancient Sydney names appear in
recent applications for titles under the Real
Property Act. John Palmer, who had 100 acres
in Woolloomooloo, and part of whose garden wall
still stands; Daniel Cooper and Sol. Levey,
Woollahra; William Bligh, of Bounty Mutiny
and Rum Rebellion fame, who had 240 acres at
Newtown and Camperdown ; Augustus Alt, the
first Surveyor-General, who had 100 acres at Ash-
field ; John Piper, who had 165 acres at Leich-
hardt; and William Redfern, a medico, “sent
out ” in connection with the Mutiny of the Nore,
who had 100 acres at Redfern—all these ghosts
walked in the official notifications.
“Caber”: When Harry Turley, one of
the newly-elected Senators for Queensland, put
up for South Brisbane in May, 1893, he went to
the polling-booth, recorded his vote, and kept on
at his job, wharf-lumping. Next morning Harry
was down at his work as usual, and the boss
called out: “Will the honorable member for
South Brisbane move that bag of spuds ?” “ Aye,
aye, sir,” responded Turley, and the motion was
carried on the member’s brawny shoulders.
Turley is one of the best-read men in the Common-
wealth Senate.
Caldwell, ex-country M.P. and irrepressible
verse-writer, had an extraordinary reception at
the declaration of the Senate poll in Adelaide. A
cheerful gathering had had a good time in cheer-
ing M‘Gregor, Guthrie and Story, the elected
men, and in chaffing Charleston, formerly Labor,
but now a Tory and defeated. Then the innocent
and not unpopular Caldwell arose, and began by
explaining that those who voted for him were
“the best and most intelligent electors in the
State.” The remark was apparently not even
made playfully, and the people, on hearing it,
explained loudly that they weren’t intelligent
enough to understand any more Caldwell. They
fairly sang and shouted him off his feet, and his
speech had to be “published by special arrange-
ment” in the Register.
IN THE SAFER HAND.
“I believe the worker of this country, misled by
specious demagogues, is embarking on an 'immoral and
suicidal course.”—REV. R. M. Turnbull.
THE CHURCH (to the worker): “Oh, pray, my
good man, return the good old gentleman the
gun he's had at your head so long, or it may
go off and do you an injury
Norton’s Summit, a little town in the
hills near Adelaide, which is the centre of the
market-gardening industry, claims three of the
S.A. Senators. President Baker and Labor
member Story were born there, and Senator
Playford has lived there for 50 years. Only
Baker and Story are natives of the State,
M‘Gregor, Guthrie, and S.ynion having been born
in Scotland, and Playford in England.
“Paddy” M‘Caughan, who died recently
in Melb., entered the M.L. House of Reps, the
same year as Premier Seddon. George Grey
had been defeated on a want of confidence motion,
and appealed to the country, John Hall resigning
his seat in the Leg. Council to fight the Opposi-
tion’s battle. Both Grey and Hall claimed a
majority after the polling. M'Caughan’s vote
was uncertain until the last minute. Eventually
he went over to the Opposition, and Grey went
out. M'Caughan made no headway in politics,
and one of his choicest blunders happened one
night when he found himself figuring on both
division lasts. The result of the vote was a tie,
and when M'Caughan pathetically explained that
he had meant to vote with the “Noes” he was
buried ten feet deep in contumely.
A pressman varns about deceased John
Farrell:—
There was no more kindly man than John Farrell. He
was deferential even to office boys. As to “side” he
didn’t know what it was. When he was editor of
Sydney D.T., Farrell was noticed by the sub. (Weslake,
long since dead) humping great files from the file room
to the editorial room. “Oh, you needn’t do that, Mr.
Farrell,” said Weslake, “ I’ll get a boy to carry those for
you.” “Oh there’s no blooming side about me,” retorted
Farrell; “ I reckon I’ll do it myself.”
For fine raiment Farrell had no weakness—he had tco.
much intrinsic worth to worry about the dross of dresi-.
But when he was editor of a “great daily” it was hinted
to him that he should adorn himself up to the position.
And Farrell, whose contempt for externals was not an
affectation, or a twisted form of pride, took the hint andi
arrayed himself splendidly. He might have been noticed
a few days after, bell-topper on the back of his head,
hitching up the tails of his resplendent frock-coat to light
a match as he yarned at the street corner with a single-
tax lamplighter.
Farrell had a weakness for patent medicines and wild-
cats. The former ruined his health, the latter his
pocket. Mention any drug to him and he would promptly
make a note “I’ll try that..” Suffering much from
neuralgia, he finally took the desperate cure of having all
his natural teeth removed. It didn’t cure the neuralgia
but it made eating for ever afterwards uncomfortable.
Probably it was the explanation of his “ cake lunches.”'
John Farrell would browse on the weird pastry that is
made for women, young children and others whose
brains are not wanted on the voyage. Naturally his
health suffered.
“ Nothing matters anyhow,” was the condensation of
the Farrell philosophy, expressed in a broad brogue that
was Irish, influenced by S’America and the Australian,
back country. Talk to him of Shakspeare, of Walt
Whitman, of almost any writer and he would generally
conclude, “ But what I loike about him is his great
integral principle that nothing motters onv how.”
WOMAN’S WORK.
A woman’s work about the house is full of worry and weariness. Bustling without rest from morn till
night, it is little wonder that the health of so many give out. At special times, particularly, it is almost
impossible to bear up when fatigue and nature combine to overtax the blood supply. That is the time when
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are worth their weight in gold. The actually make new blood. They banish head-
aches and backaches and sideaches. They brace the nerves and the drooping spirits, and fill every woman with
fresh energy and life. They did this for Mrs. C. Mortimer, 51 Westbourne-street, Pete) sh mi, Sydney, and they
should do the same for any other woman worn out with work and worry, or weak from natural causes.
•• Some little time back,” says Mrs. Mortimer, " I could hardly look after my house. I found out, like many more, that
my health and strength were pretty well shattered. Every bit of energy seemed to leave me, and I grew weak and langi il.
lhad no heart for my work. When I sat down I felt as if I couldn’t be bothered getting up again. I seldom enjoyed my
meals, and my sleep was always broken. In the mornings I felt as tired as if I had never been in bed. The least thing would
start my heart jumping like mad. My head felt heavy, and often I was too dizzy to keep my feet. Though I took dozens cf
medicines my blood seemed to get weaker and thinner. My face had a pale, pinched, sickly look, and I had hardly the
strength to walk about. Day after day went by, and I got no better —so I decided to try Dr. Wllam s’ Pink Pills for Pa'e
People. I must say I never met their equal. They actually made new blood for me. I hadn’t taken them long before Ife t
better in fifty ways. All my sickness and weakness left me. Every dose seemed to fill me with new energy and life. Though
I took less than half a dozen boxes my health now could not be better. When you feel too sick and weary to move, you can
soon gain good health and strength from a few boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d. Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, N.S.W. Accept No Substitutes.
I


Aboriginalities.
In North Queensland a frequent adver-
tisement of the publicans reads : “ One table, one
bottle, white cook.” Unless this third condition
is strictly adhered to no bush unionist will spend
a stiver at the place. In one town one of the
largest pubs, is run by a (naturalised) Chinaman.
He has cut off his pigtail, married a white woman
and considers himself the pure merino “ vvite
Ostraly.” Recently he called on the Union secre-
tary and remonstrated with him. “ Whaffor
you blackyball my ’otel?” “Because you have a
Chinese cook.” “That nottee my faul’. I offa
Billy Jones two pun a week ; I offa Sam Smith
two pun ten a week—they no cookee for me.
What I do?” “Oh, well, I can’t help that.
Colored cooks are barred.” “ Alii! I know what
I do. Igo home and sackee ta yellow cow an’ do
ta cookee mysel’.”
* * * «
The Burke and Wills relics that are said
to have been washed up in the floods in far-west
N.S.W. will probably have to be taken with salt.
When any old thing turns up out there that can’t
be otherwise satisfactorily explained, or if it is a
tired day and the truth would call for too many
words, it is always put down to “ the explorers.”
Just outside Menindie, where the latest “dis-
coveries ” have been made, there is the “ Afghan’s
grave,” blocking part of the track. “ One of
Burke and Wills’ party,” the rare traveller is
told. But the almost equally rare settler round
there knows better—he knows that it is the grave
Df a Hindu hawker, who didn’t come along till
years after Burke and Wills. Of course, there
are “relics” of the explorers. At Menindie,
forming a still-used part of one of the pubs.
(Menindie, nowadays, is mostly pub.), is the room
which the Burke and Wills party used for an
office, and whore King, the one survivor, was
engaged. The country was more or less occupied
at the time ; and at least one station-manager of
those days, Nicholas Sadleir, is still on deck.
MKinley and Dunne were the real explorers of
those parts. Some of the second generation of the
Dunne family a* -1 ’ there still.
* * * *
Though S. Australia has for years been
doing a little in the shape of date-cultivation in
the Far North, Queensland has until now
attempted nothing. Experiments are, how-
ever, contemplated at Charleville. It’s a business
worth trying, anyhow. New South Wales alone
takes from foreign parts an annual 3,000,0001 b. of
dates, worth £25,000 or so.
A FENCE OF MERCY.
“ What are ye Jincin' that land fer, O'Grady? Sure, cattle would starve to death in it.”
"Faith, an’ that's jist what Im doin’ it for —to kape poor divils out of it.”
“ Prooshan ” about the tragical end of a
sulk:
He came over from the “Broken Health ” silver mines
last year with wife and family of 13 and started dairying.
Somehow or other, although he and Nora had agreed in
the mining industry, “ things went to hell ” when the
dairy began. His father was cordially hated by Nora and
he developed a strong dislike to Nora’s sister, Maryanne.
As soon as a row began he started calling his missus
“ Maryanne,” while she dubbed him “J.A.”, his father’s
initials. The sulks lasted sometimes a month, during
which time all communications were transmitted and
received through the children, neither parent deigning to
speak further than “ J.A. looks sweet to-day,” “ What a
nice lip ye have, Maryanne.” On Christmas morning he
hanged himself to a tree near the stockyard and on his
shirt was pinned an envelope bearing this : “ A Christ-
mas box for Maryanne.”
* * * *
“Quidam”: Critical investigation of
various bush stories, Xmas and otherwise, con-
vinces me that the majority of Australian story-
writershavea poor acquaintance with the bush,
Henry Fletcher, for instance, makes one of his
characters fire about forty shots at a native bear,
after which someone informs him that it is im-
possible to kill bears with a gun. Which is bosh,
They are sometimes very hard to bring down, but
I have slain hundreds of them. Again, in a
Christmas yarn in a Sydney paper, the whole
population in and around a bush pub. is repre-
sented as going cranky over a rather fetching new
barmaid, alleged bushmen standing on their
heads, and so forth, to excite her admiration,
Eventually, they all give her their money to hold,
and she skips with about £l3OO. I might men-
tion, hoWever, that “ Steele Rudd ” and Henry
Lawson both do know their bush.
“War E.” : When bunny’s craving for
, , • , a
phosphor,sed pollard baits wears off a little par-
sley, finely chopped, and mixed with the pollard, __ _
will cause him to take it on again. By the way,
a good bait-coverer has been invented, which
covers the pollard, thus preventing the wholesale
destruction of harmless birds; the rabbits will
follow the trail a,nd scratch away the earth which
covers the bait. In hot weather, too, covering the
baits is an advantage, since it prevents them
drying up too quickly.
* * * *
“ Thurla ” : “ Polstan ” (8., 3/12/’O3)
asks, “ Why don’t your bush liars tell us how to
make good damper?” Herewith a few ways.
With a camp oven : Build a good fire (of boxwood
for preference). Mix dry flour, salt, and baking-
powder, cream of tartar or soda ; add water;
knead as lightly and quickly as possible, and put
into the oven, which should be half-buried in the
warm ashes or well surrounded by them. Next, a
fire should be placed on the lid, and kept well
regulated until the damper is cooked. Another
way : Mix dry flour, salt, and baking-powder in a
well-greased oven ; then add water, stir to a thick
batter, put oven on a steady fire till bread is
cooked. This will give a very light, open damper.
Without an oven : Build a good fire, and, when
ready, mix your cake, shift the burning wood to
one side, scoop a hole in the hot ashes, drop in the
dough, and drag back the ashes over it. Keep
your other fire going until your damper is cooked.
The johnnie-cake is mixed like ordinary damper,
then squeezed thin between the hands, placed on
the warm ashes to set, then turned over to set the
other side, until firm enough to be stood on edge ;
some people then sling them on to the ashes,
sprinkle a layer over them, and dust off later with
a bough.
* • • •
Remarked that curio collectors have quite
neglected the Maori calabash, which, however, is
rather scarce. The' unusually large sorts, with
necks or collars carved out of matai wood, are
only to be found in theUriwera country, where
they are greatly prized. Even museum specimens
appear to be mostly an inferior kind, minus the
carved collar. The calabashes were utilised for
the preservation of birds in their own fat, and
figured as the receptacles of the choicest morsels
(often cooked pakeha) at Maori feasts. The de-
generate modern Maori prefers the glittersome
kerosene-tin.
* • * •
Carpet snakes are credited with having
completely cleared out the multitude of rats that
o me infested Pyramid Plantation, North Queens-
land. Ploughing his land on Pyramid Estate
recently, a farmer rooted out dozens of snakes,
most of them “carpets.” They were considered
too valuable to kill, and they were too fat and
lazy to get out of harm’s way, so a Kanaka was
kept busy poking them into places of safety.
Dismal tale of the spread of rabbits west-
ward—the letter is written from near the S.A.-
Westralian border :—•
There have been 25,000 caught at Nullarbor Station,
and on the run thev are countless. In one night 3740
were caught. At White Well nearly 38,000 were caught
in a few weeks, wire-netting yards being used. Large
numbers are lying dead along the Nullarbor Station rabbit
and dog-proof fence. They have ringbarked about five
out of every six sandalwood trees, and have stripped a
quantity of the blue bush. Except in one place, they
have left no grass standing, and arexstripping the limbs
of trees and various bushes to a height of six or seven
feet. I did not see a green cotton bu r sh all the way from
Eucla until within a day’s drive of flalladonia. On the
famous .plain below the cliffs the Cotton bush was all
brown and apparently dead, much/of it having its tap-
roots hroken and its lateral roots cltan-cut by the rabbits.
Mallee of 4in. in diameter has befen ringbarked by the
rabbits, and only saltbush and myall have escaped. '
* * * •
“ C.D.J.” : A variety of the deadly dum-
dum bullet is in use in Australia, principally
among ’roo shooters. It is made by simply insert-
ing a piece of paper in the mould down to within
an eighth of an inch of the bottom. When cast,
the bullet is split as far down as the paper goes,
but when waxed (or, more generally, soaped) over
and forced through the “ sizer,” the division is
only discernible to a practised eye. When it
strikes the ’roo or other object, the bullet splits
altogether, each half taking a different course and
having the double advantage of being more deadly,
and of making but one hole in the skin (viz., place
of entry), whereas the solid bullet generally goes
right through.
« * * .
“ It’s an ill wind that blows no one good.
g aid that wht f the rabbits arrive in a district
the native eats are so busily engaged at the
burrows tllat pou i try are rarely troubled,
IDENTIFIED.
Boss (to sailorman asking for a job): "Been working
anywhere since you left your ship?”
SAILOR: “ Yes; worked for a man in Victoria .”
BOSS: “ What sort of work?”
SAILOR: “ Well, I dunno exactly. It was on some sort of
a machine. They pvt all the reheat down her main
hatch, an the straw came right out ever her bows;
an’ there was two bags hooked on to her stern to
catch the other stuff.”
A graduating Vic. cocky thus writes his
sohool essay on “Farm Life” :
A man coming up from Melbourne takes up a piece of
land. The first thing he should do is to put up a fence
all round it, and if there is any timber on it he would cut
it up into 2ft. lengths and send it away to Melbourne.
When he has done that he would need some horses to
plough it up and put in whatever he needed. Then he
would want some milking cows for to make his own
butter. Then he would want a woman for to make his
meals and all other little things such as scrubbing. Then
he would want some children to help him milk.
In the bright lexicon of cockydom the one purpose
for which children are sent into this world is to
milk.
• • * *
Notice on a sign-board at a creek-crossing
between Rockhampton and Gracemere (Q.):
When this signboard is covered with flood waters it is
unsafe to use the crossing.
• • • *
“ Only Me ” : In Bulletin (22/10/’O3)
“ Elmore ” refers to distance that ants travel from
home for “tucker.” Once saw a small sack of
sugar in a paddock —it had, apparently, fallen
from some conveyance, and burst—literally
covered with small black ants, busily collecting
the crystals. Followed their trail to the hole,
about 200 yards distant, and found that some ants
went down this one, while others continued their
way right on to another hole about 200 yards
beyond it. The ant that covers 400 yards has to
rise early and step out.
* * * *
“ W.0.L.” : lie “W.W.’s” statement
(8., 24/12/’O3) that rabbits in Tumbarumba district
are fluky—this applies to other parts of
N.S.W., and pretty well the whole popula-
tion should be fluky, too, if the complaint is
catching. Take away bunny, and a very
large proportion of our bush population
would experience a nasty shock, as he forms
the principal meat supply to hundreds of bush
families. Take it all round, bunny cannot
be regarded as an unmixed evil—except by
the butchers. Know one family of three,
man, wife and boy, who probably do not
average 10s. a week all told the year through,
yet they don’t live so badly, with the assist-
ance of their garden and the aforementioned
bunny; and they are typical of many in the
same district. Possibly in the dim future
the Australian will have long ears and
brown fur, but, so far, to outward appearance, he
isn’t disastrously fluky. If diet has anything to
do with disposition, future busbmen should be of
a retiring nature and live in a burrow.
* * * *
“ Banco ”: The notion of netting-oufc
rabbits is mere moonshine. Bunny can climb
wire netting, can burrow under it, and can climb
over-hanging trees and drop on t’other side.
Wiring is good only for the preservation of crops,
because the majority of bunny is blocked, though
some will always get through. For large pastoral
areas the netting is a sinful waste ; bunny will be
as plentiful in an enclosed area in 12 months as
outside it. Most of the rabbit trouble in N.S.W.
Central division arises from the fact that every
grazier has thousands of acres of rung or fallen
timber —a magnificent harbor for the pest. Com-
pel the owners to burn all fallen timber, and
bunny’s home is gone in the solid soils of the C.D.
“ Chass ” : The present posi-
tion of the stranded Mallee oockies
who drifted down to S.W. Vie.
during the years of drought, has
panned out just as the present scribe
(J. L. Dow’s “sore-headed friend”
of The Bulletin) predicted. J. L.
Dow was writing glowing articles
about these cockies last winter, and
leading Age readers to believe they
were growing heavy crops of wheat
and oats, and making themselves
decent homes and snug bank bal-
ances, with the benevolent landlord
smiling over them. They have now
interviewed Lands Minister Taver-
ner, and asked him to get the
Government to resume their hold-
ings as they realise their hopeless
position under the landlord with the
present price of produce. Failing
action by the Government they
have written to the Westralian and
Maoriland Governments for land.
Taverner was very sympathetic, and
sent a valure at once to see if
arrangements could be made with
the landowners, but it is feared that
nothing can be done, as land that
is valued at 50s. an acre for probats
and land- tax becomes worth £s2s. (id.
an acre when Government wants to
settle people on it. Failing the Com-
pulsory Resumption Clause, it is
only a matter of time until Cohen
cometh to make up his cash as far
as S.W. Vic. is concerned.
* • *
“Brumby”: Standing in a
crowded bar observed a soalced-
looking character drink about three
parts of his long beer, and then
hang round adjacent till the barman
whisked away his glass and dropped
it with others into the wash-sink.
Then the beery one stepped forward
with a loud cry of woe, and com-
plained of his beer being removed.
Barman, surprised and apologetic,
brought another full length beer to
square matters. Met the same beat
same night in another bar, and
watched him repeat dodge with sue
cess. Then he wanted me to shout because 1 had
learnt the trick. Some people say beer-swipers
have no push and enterprise. Haven’t they ? Go
and watch them in the pursuit of beer.
• * * *
“ Bkooba ” : In a mining town in Tas-
mania one man runs the post office, grocery, and
butchery conjointly ; also supplies the liquor to
the shanties. Had been in the habit of putting
beef and groceries for the navvies in the mail
bags. An all-round drunk on pay day would
result in beef being left in mail bags for almost a
week. Postmaster-General communicated with
the storekeeper complaining of odor arising from
mail bags. Storekeeper replied that odor must
emanate from the dead letters carried in the bags.
Also on the Gippsland lakes an Italian fisherman
was summoned to the police court on a charge of
stealing a crowbar. He swore he didn’t steal it;
he found it floating down the river in a bag.
PRIDE.
"The lidy says, she says, Pore man, 'eve's a
plum-puddin',' and I just says, ‘perlite like
No, mum, thank yer; Id rather go break-
ing stones,' and I'm ’ anged , but she got quite
'uffy like.”
u
11
m
WHISKYsJ
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- pe) • Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
m
UARDY BROS, keep closely in touch with NEW IDEAS
in connection with all branches of their business.
..THE..
SOLID SILVER
BOX
illustrated should mate a welcome addition
to the ordinary
CHRISTENING PRESENT*
It can be made use of from the first, and
'.ater on turned into a Jewel or Trinket Box.
Write for Large 1904 Catalogue, including
Christening Present list.
Solid Silver Cherub Pattern
rioney=Box, £3 6s.
B HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY, &AT BRISBANE 810ND0N.


“ H. S. ”
writes re-
garding a re-
markable ab-
original toy :
This i 8 tne
watehpie of the
Swan Hill and
Lower Murray
natives and the
weet - weet, of
the yar r a
blacks. Its
long slender
stem is little
thicker than
that of a day
tobacco pipe,
and its double
conoid head
runs to a sharp
and fire-hard-
ened p o i n t.
The diameter
at the thickest
part is about
an Inch, and
the length of
the whole is
from 24 to 28
inches. The
thrower holds
the watehpie
by the thin
end firmly and
lightly between
fingers and
thumb with
the head up-
ward and near
the face. In-
tently watch-
ing the ground
ahead of him,
he steps
quickly back-
wards for a few
yards; then,
suddenly spin-
ning around,
away darts the
missile in a
flight so dodgy
and fast that it
might readily
b e mistaken
for something
possessing life.
Every now and
again it strike?
the ground.
then up and away until its force is spent, which
will not occur, if well thrown on favorable
ground, for close upon 300 yards. The flight is so
erratic that the natives named it after the kangaroo
rat, whose dodgy progress it so well imitates.
In its flight it causes a hissing sound like that made by a
sharp stroke through the air with a whalebone whip. In
the whole course of its flight it never rises more than 10
feet from the ground, rising usually not more than three
or four feet. The watehpie, though only a toy, proceeds
at such a rapid rate after each “beat” of the ground
that it would, 1 have no doubt, go clean through a man
at about half its flight—say, 100 yards from the thrower.
b- <r * *
“Myrtle”: Along the Plantation-road,
Wp . ion (Q.), I recently, with the aid of two
rges of shot, brpugbt downa “ goanna.” The
reptile fell • of bout 40ft. on to stony
.■; .a <',■)!,ly d<i opened him, removed
the*«. u* left him. Was much surprised
to see him tneu moke for a tree close at hand,
which he scaled to the first fork, 20ft. up. He
looked well, but seemed to have lost a little fat —
possibly through .worry and over-exertion.
* * * *
“Smike ” writes re tame lyre birds :
I know J. C. Mahon of Woods Point well, and remember
when the nine he had died (it was suspected from poison).
To get those nine to live he caught about 300 birds, and
the work took up the greater part of his time for four
years. His mode was to find a nest with young ones,
and when they were feathered to set a snare and catch
the old bird, then to remove the nest, young and old
birds to a large house. He had one male bird for over
three years, and, though it was fed every day by him
and was brought a fledgling with the nest, there was
always a strain of wildness in it, or a wish to get out in
the bush. The Acclimatisation Society offered £lO for the
mue birds, but it was refused ; and Mahon had sold them
in England at £ll5 a pair, and was preparing to take
them there when they died. So great had been his
trouble to get them that he would not take on the task
to procure more, even at that price. By the way, Mahon
reckons that it takes the fourth year to produce a com-
plete tail; he had a male bird three years and it only had
ground feathers then- the lyre feathers were only appear-
ing. The longest tail I knew had 22 black bars on the lyre
feathers.
» • • »
“ Old Cove ” about wages in the bush :
Doubtless “ Thurla ” is correct in his instances of low
wages in N.S.W. (B. 24/12/'O3), but will he please note
that I italicised men. All through the bush there are
“objects”—ancients, decadents, derelicts, yobs and
chummies, from Sydney and elsewhere, “ the cankers of
a calm world and a long peace ” —who work for nothing a
week upwards, and are mostly dear at the price. There
are times when it may pay to give an old fellow a few bob
a week to potter about, or to employ a yob as cow-hoy
and woodman, but I know a good deal about work and
workers, and have not yet seen a man who would take
less than £1 a week that I would reckon worth putting
on where there is work to be done. The bush workers
won’t take less—they lose caste. I believe “C.C.” is
right as to wages down south, but why the workers stick
there licks me. The “ cheapest ” worker I have seen was
a man with the strength of a bullock, who did nearly
two men’s work for ss. a week and the coarsest tucker.
But he was a crack-pot, and required another man to
watch him, as he was just as likely to brain the boss with
an axe or set fire to the station as anything else.
“ Nym ” : The despised cat-fish caught in
running waters can’t be beaten; but catch
“whiskers” in a lagoon and let the average
pub cook fry him in dripping, and you get a
taste of platypus, without the platypus.
* * * *
“The Prooshan” : The other day, I saw
a gum (Brittle Jack) fairly raining inanna. The
tree_ would have answered nicely for a huge
Christmas tree, being iced from top to grass with
Nature’s white confection. The tree stands for
inspection now near Tumberumba. An old hand
told me that the tree was on the point of dying,
hericß the flow ; but I shall watch and see.
(Photo, by Newman, Sydney.
THE CHILDREN OF HENRY PARKES.
Reading from left to right the picture shows SYDNEY PARKES (now in the employ
of M‘Arthur and Co.), HENRY PARKES (still at school), AURORA PARKES (at
school), COBDEN PARKES (at school), and KENILWORTH PARKES (in the electrical
branch of the Tramway Dept.). All the children are smart, and pushing forward in the
world, aided by the devoted care of the dead statesman's widow. Cobden, the youngest,
was born when his father was nearing the eighties ; he is a specially smart youngster,
extraordinarily like to his father—a chip of the old block.
“W.E.N.”: Once witnessed the suicide
of a black cockatoo. Was engaged at the time in
dad’s orchard at Drouin, Gippsland, when my
attracted by the loud screeching of
three birds flying overhead. As I watched them
I noticed the one that appeared most agitated
deliberately close its wings fast to its sides and
drop to the ground, being instantly killed. Held
an exhaustive examination, but failed to arrive at
a verdict as to the cause of the rash act. Poor
cocky !
* * « »
“Shaker”: Two instances of “swelled
head ” in animals :
Once saw a domestic cat unmistakably “stalking” a
full-grown sheep—never having seen a sheep before.
Unfortunately a cattle-dog interfered ere the denouement
was reached. In t’other case, we had killed the previous
night, and the station-dogs were gorged when a beast
died in the 3’ard. In the morning we found that the
dogs had made a very respectable attempt to “plant”
the carcase whole. They had scraped up the dust for
yards round, and piled it about half-way up the body all
round.
• * • *
Our black brother still has a kick left in
him up North. Lately, the Eastern African
Cold Storage Co. took up country on the Clyde
River, N.T. ; and while Captain Bradshaw’s
party was shifting cows across from North-West
Australia to stock it the men were attacked, two of
them being hit over the head with nullas, and the
third in the breast with a spear. Then the rifles
began to talk, and the argument was one-sided.
John Farrell.
They told me suddenly that John Farrell was
dead. The first defensive impulse is not to believe
anything that hurts you. Then comes inexorable
Truth, that cares for no man and is always anxious
to corroborate bad news. I would as soon have
believed that I, myself, was dead. I remember
how Farrell laughed, not so very long ago, when
a jierson who seemed to have been wiping his pen
upon his coat, and his eyes and mouth upon his
sleeve, met us in King-street and told us that he
was collecting subscriptions towards the cost of
making a coffin for to-morrow. “ Wisest lunatic
I ever met,” said Farrell. And then, with the
large utterance of the early gods, he said,
“Oysters.” “When in doubt —eat,” was ofie of
his axioms.
* * * *
Sometimes, very seldom, when I thought that
the world was not treating me well enough, I
used to walk up the stairs of the Daily Tele-
graph office and confide my worst suspicions
about Fate to Farrell. He might be writing a
leading article that would change the destiny of
Five Dock, but he would lay his pen aside, and
light his pipe, and open his large blue-grey eyes,
and say, in a rolling, comforting, charming
brogue—l always think now that Charity speaks
with a brogue— “Is there almny-thing 1 can do
to alter the petty designs of Providence, or (recol-
lecting his poetic reputation) change the way of
the stars in their courses ?” And all this time he
was in pain, and I and others, with paltry little
worries, knew nothing about it. On one of those
occasions we happened to speak of another man
who had gone the long journey. I was annoyed
about it, and told Farrell that I regarded it as
little less than a personal outrage that a friend of
mine should be so taken, without sufficient warn-
ing, out of my life. He laughed and said—
“ Which of us is going to write an obituary notice
of the other ? ” We spun a coin. Heads I wrote,
tails he wrote. The coin ran under the table and
I think Courtenay found it afterwards. But it
must have been heads.
• * • •
The mere fact of dying is nothing to the man
who dies. It is a bagatelle. The hard part of it
is for those who survive and, as friend after friend
passes over the border, realise that all their
interests are in another country. That means
dying by pieces. The world is still as good as it
ever was. The sun shines and the birds sing,
but it is not the same sun and they are not the
same birds. You meet new friends with bright,
sympathetic eyes and the kindliest thoughts about
you—but they did not know you when you were
young. All your rosy dreams and winged hopes
and soaring ambitions—they know nothing about
them. What can you say ? Nothing. It is a
closed book. I have buried some fine years in the
grave of John Farrell.
• • • •
He was a lover of the sun and the sea, and had
the heart of a lion and the voice of a Lablache
in conversation. A big, deep chest and clear eyes,
and a fine, theoretic gusto for the joy of living.
A brewer in Albury was Farrell when I first
heard of him. He sent me a little book of poems,
which he was rather proud of at the time, but
would never mention in later years. Subsequently
he brewed in Goulburn, and informed me that—
literally and because it was an accident of environ
ment—he used the head of a cask as a desk.
Wrote “Jenny” for The Bulletin in this
fashion. Wrote “How He Died” in the same
way. Somebody else will probably say some-
thing of him as a writer. It is somebody else’s
business. I myself am too partial. But I
will quote four lines from a ballad entitled “Aus-
tralia to England ” :
Make England stand supreme for aye,
Because supreme for peace and good,
Warned well by wrecks of yesterday
That strongest feet may slip in blood.
I have italicised a line that tho author did nob
italicise. It expresses Farrell in seven words.
He wa3 virile or nothing. That is, when he him-
self was writing. Otherwise he liked to hear
Roderic Quinn and others sing very sorrowfully
about nightingales in Greece.
* • • •
One evening I went to Goulburn at the invita-
tion of Hugh Mahon, Senator. Mr. Mahon was
then merely an editor. I arrived late at night,
and met Farrell, who was going to Queanbeyan.
“Come with me,” he said. It was a cold, blue,
early morning with point-lace clouds on the
horizon and an intoxicated driver whooping at
the horses and jig-jagging the coach over the
sides of the precipices—and the hotel ten miles,
away. Farrell and I were sitting on the box seat.
The off wheel hung over an abyss for a moment.
I was horribly afraid and looked at Farrell. He
said nothing but smiled grimly. When we came,
to a better road he laughed. “Death is not what,
it is cracked up to be,” he said.
* * * *
Farrell had a fine strong grip of the hand and a.
hearty way of saying “God is great ” that made-
you, in spite of your better knowledge, believe,
that life was worth living. But responsibility
ruined him, as it ruins every man who is at heart a.
dweller in the Tents of Shem. Farrell put his.
brain, and the fire at which many hands,
might have been warmed, into perishable and.
JOHW FARRELL , WRITER.
Photo, by Crown Studios, Sydney .
perished articles about paltry questions coir
cerning which no man knows or cares. Pegasus'-
should never have been in that pound. He was
the friend of every man worth knowing. I
remember quoting to him on an evening the
saying of Abou ben Zeyd—“l am a singing man
of the singers—the worid’s guest and a stranger.”
He said he would say it about me. And I have
to say it about him.
VIOTOR J. DALEY.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents:-
FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ALT
-Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamvcd. Name anil
address must appear on M>. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by jo it or handed in ; and in
no ease will MS. be returns l unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
W.M.: “Lines to a Girl ” have, on the whole,
the poorest chance of acceptance. Every poet,
nearly, has, at least, one girl, and writes lines
to her which he sends in for print; thousands
who are not poets write lines to their girls.
Result is a wild herd of “lines,” amid which only
those of great weight and impressiveness have a chance
of survival.... Helen D.: It’s beautifully type-written
and nicely phrased, and that’s all. Tiik B. wants more ;
it’s an unreasonable rag.... Minaritchee : Granting the
correctness of all you say as to. Trenwith's past, he has
now a fine opportunity to start fair on a radical future;
until he misuses that opportunity let his past faults rest.
A.G.F. (Wilheroi): Can’t give any information
about Hand-Cuff Tree; have S’nt your letter to Mr.
Foulkes Goyder’s Lagoon: “Six Chapters of a Man’s
Life” obtainable from E. W. Cole, 333 George-street.
....Crick.; You don’t seem to hit the mark with your
pars.... Achorry : Whv should we throw that purposeless
brick at M.L.? Will C. : It runs along a too fam liar
track.... Mary : Well, as a matter of fact, a really pretty
girl very seldom does send in really good copy. Nature
is usually sparing of her gifts White Cliffs : That
“ opalised shark ”is more likely a c0d..... Marat : Not at
all so ; in decent schools now the cane is hardly used....
Evan W. : Yes, but still below the mark ; something
more than mere musical word-arrangement Is wanted....
Bowyang : Same idea been more brightly treated before
....Caro; “My Lover” very hackneyed... .Young ’Un :
“Cross Purposes” theme 01d....J.5. (Warruok): Don’t
think that the chronicles would interest our readers....
Bander: Flying machine idea is a lame duck Ku
Klux : Your only safety is to learn that the alleged
Bulletin man who wants to “ stick up ” money or hoard
or drinks isn’t a Bulletin man at a 11... • A.E.M.: Not
enough in it. Wyandra : Not bad, but too long-
winded.. ..Cyril V. : Good idea, not well worked out.. ..
Nellie H. : After some hesitation rejected... Sylvia :
A very unpleasant subject to tackle fora first attempt-
story of how th“ new parson was sick in his organist's
best parlor... .W.C.S : Elenore hardly a fresh enough
girl for print. ~G E.M.; Not up to the mark....
G.M.S. : “ Feet of the Bobby ” humorous, hut too crude.
H.D.R. : Hardly good enough, and cost us Bd. for
deficient postage and fine.... J.D.K.B. : Will print....
M. :“At my Window ” hardly climbs up to publication
level M. J. Ho’mbirg (or something like that): We
don’t want old matter copied from old Queensland
papers, and when the matter cost* us Bd. for di ficient
postage it becomes an insult .. . S.J. : You say that since
wearing Blank’s electric belt you “ never felt better in
your life.” That is rather vague. D d it cure you of
anything? Also, did you feel worse before wearing it?
Likewise, have you any reason to believe you would
become worse if you left off wearing it t All you say,
definitely, is that the article hasn’t don? you any harm....
Barak; Will print one—probably both A. Turner:
The Bulletin’s special election number was circulated in
N. only. It was intended to appeal to the better
feelings of’ the State where the Importing Disease is
especially rampant Amorot : Received—one poem
about hopeless anguish, and one about a pathway drear.
Do cheer up a little J.W.B. : Some really beautiful
lines in “ Mountain Musings,” but verses are marred by a
lack of any very coherent meaning. . . F.E.W. : Verse
unsuitable. One suggestion may d 0... .E. 5.8.: Too many
insects in first poem ; second inferior... Sumtyme : No,
never Violet J. : Very erratic metre and no bright
ideas Caro : “ World” not up to your usual level
8.0. : “Luck and a Woman” killed in the first verse
by the camel metaphor and the remark about legs....
Impoverished Sufferer : You were singularly unlucky, or
something. A doctor can usually recommend a midwifery
nurse who will prove thoroughly reliable J.F.D. :
That “call” jibe is as old as the hills... .W. : Quite off
our beat... .T.T. : If you “can’t see the difference”
between admitting Asiatics wholesale and allowing our
own aborigines a fair deal, you probably can’t see the
use of keeping smallpox out of the country since we
have measles here Demos: Under the Boer regime
the Rand mines were worked mainly with Kaffirs. It
was Kruger’s insistence on the mine magnates giving the
Kaffirs something like a fair deal that largely caused the
war W.J.W. : Well make it “Blarney” Wise if you
like,.but don’t we want a man who can blarney them in
the dear old mother-in-law country? Puka. ; Why
penalise all for the sake of a few scallywags ? This world
is fidl of tiresome people who want to prohibit or
abolish privileges because a few misuse them.... A.K.C. :
It would be “ against public policy ” to satirise efforts
to lceeD bush fires down.. W.W. : Subject is played out...
D. Macdonald : 18 very bad verses, of which the follow-
ing is a fair sample :
“ The cry through the land is ‘ Australia the White,’
A Chinese or black man’s an hideous sight,
Let him pack up his traps and make sail.
Should any boat come, though it’s wrecked on our coast,
And bring as its crew a poor heathen host,
Though the ship is on fire let the black devil’s roast,
Or eke out their time in a gaol.”
Now (1) there was no ship on fire. (2) Nobody suggested
letting anybody drown or roast. (3) The Government
offered to provide accommoda ion adiore for the men
((who were carefully taken off the wreck and in no
•danger), but required the agents of the ship to undertake
the responsibility east on them by the Merchant Shipping
Act of sending their shipwrecked crewback home, which
is the sort of thing the agents would have been required
to do in plenty of countries besides Australia. (4) The
agents sent ? the men straight on board a steamer
then just on the point of sailing for Asia. (5)
Your story is just an evil-minded election lje
Mario H. : Has promise, but not by promise alone can
copy find acceptance.. .Edwin E.: Too discursive and
•repetitive.. ..Jill : Conventional moralisings in indifferent
.■Verse Cohn Mac.: We don’t use matter of that kind,
and you are grievously astray in your science, anyhow.
Andrew M. : Last sent in is well written, but it’s too
disjointed and digressive, and in any case! we don’t care
for a series.. ..A.D.B. : Not far short of the mark
Saltee : Yes ;we pay for everything we print... .Selma :
Too long-winded Gilbert R. : Make par. only Belle
H. : Prettily written, but too conventional. . Eardley
T.: Not up. ...F.J.H. : Mechanical Thos. G. : Faulty
■where it’s legible, and illegible where it may possibly he
genius.. ..Riverina : Form correct, matter indifferent.
Bread Plates.
We have just opened some
wonderful lines at ... .
16/6
They are the best value ever offered in Sydney.
They are in various designs.
They are heavily plated on white metal.
They will last a lifetime.
They bear our name.
Bread Knives, 8/6 extra, electro-plated handles.
We stock every style of Bread Plate, in all the many:
prevailing shapes, up to 40 -
BREAD KNIVES, also, in endless variety of
handles —some especially beautiful ones in Solid Silver
i p to 12/6 each.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Lo’d'jti Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
The Oldest Jewellery Home in
Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET .
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY' ~— w
ADAMS’ HOTEL
PITT STREET*
riEET fIE AT THE HARBLE BAR.


THOSE GOLDEN BONDS AGAIN
“ Replying to a correspondent from Maoriland,
Mr, Winston Churchill, M.P., said the great prin-
ciples of British, Government and hnance would
prove far more enduring bonds between England
and the colonies than tinkering with the tariU,”
Alex. Dowic wants to buy an island somewhere near Australia
where- he can carry on the Elijah business.
THAT WET WICKET
Young Australia : “I say> Mr
Pluviua, couldn’t you give’ u's a
drought again— until the cricket
season is over ?"
The Jap. Consul : “I am glad to see you haven’t got this
White Australia nonsense.”
The (alleged) Australian (who hcu> applied for a job
fighting Jor Japan) : “ Well, you see, boss, in South
Africa I fought for. the bloomin’ Chow, and it’s about
up to me to give the Jap. a turn now.”
A LESSON IN DIPLOMACY.
G. Reid: “Hello! that you, Nick?” Czar of Russia: “Hello! Yes, that’s hello ; Eh? Yea!”
GLR. : “Made up your mind what to reply to the Japs, yet?” Czar ; “No , la undecided.”
v-, G.R. : “Then what’s the matter with Yes-No?"
IN SYDNEY (AND OTHER PLACES WITH MORE OR LESS DIRECT COMMUNICATION).


Tresb/fort\n W* e * K " rT7 ?£ , Hi
kll W*y Co Mu* y.tf, H?e
A*i/aJ of'
|jirA
YMa
A
lA* -f- 0 sfop
|b&% y£
or "ly i«7?
is S\
Vey Wy Just""
now sßl.w
■s
c. welcome <
/fiv)3 €,r S °f /■
| * lev * Mo Verne r
\ _ _ Cjc.w e r* I
oflosktfd'Wljy & V*
I WV»£, 'to 1)055 tfs r»«i»v
iCirK'.- While If mi
\ Itje VaU !?
All prisoners' of over i
1-. rriontfj\ Sendee. to I
;; fet Hjetr finder Win s
*&Ks» ..iider % i.1.1J,]
(ifclftn System of I WAJW
idetitifitarfion l i|f'|W
In doe (+o prisoner) wW fa wJ *r ou t) •7-
'Wou liW Commits A most v *»*•&*
?rKoner.‘-' 1 w*s only letf.n Some of //
tny -finwr print's
i\ tfirnfor identified. //*
Abrobos of Mp®
.ft fa
been lb
ihS+it&te 'fire drill forllje dience aj
SfJcTed period^.
Wife fovioos) Wtat John!- you're n°l~
purely pomp otJ ' f or annl\ .
y J o y, n ;_" Ho, lw m for*
iljeaj're fire drill on my own
Wimnien^
MSy\\ Plific*!
AssociactTon
inviii for
A u S^M n WimmeA
— giVe d$ sottie^mg
chnsct'oss
\n litHe i<4e>, out-
own, so 6/e tfje S-f^rs—
s}<.y
Ejjiajl >** it is i
ewiluß -R r ;.m>
to put h £' on orl •
( Ol^ce
tyecu*|.o«s (Vy:- " j\ m ! if- *. isM »«,
tVfis one - corhj>lete <cfre&|>
ho ft»£on*Jrie off t/ refused
FROM A VICTORIAN POINT OF VIEW.


A. SAUNDERS,
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS, WATCHES, CLOCKS.
JEWELLERY, SILVERPLATE. LEATHER, AND OPTICAL GOODS.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE.
Pure Silver-plated on hard Nickel Silver,
Beautifully Chased and
Ornamented, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Similar line, 25s and 30s.
m
Ilia HI
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated FLOWER STAND,
8s 6d a Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Specially Made by James Dixson and Sons. Famous English
Silver-plated 4 o’clock TEA SETS, £2 15s, £3. £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
M
N
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER DISH,
Gilt inside. Glass Drainer, 255.
Other similar styles, 20s, COs, 85s.
sms*
tm
S*2*
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut-glnsn Solid Silver-mounted
KN IFE RESTS, 12s 6d.
Size linger. 15s fid, 20s.
A. SACNUEIiS.
AVbite Chiaa Silver-mounted
SHAVING CUP, lOs ;
otliu styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silvei-plated, 21b ; other styles, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Six Puie Silver-Plated Nickel Silver SERVIETTE
RINGS, in Silk-lmed Case, 17s 6d.
Please Send
fob OUR
Illustrated
Book of
Novel ies.
Gent.’s Companion TOBACCO BOX, Asli Tray, and
Matchbox to hold 8 Pipes. Nickel-mounted, Beautifully
Finished, 27s tjd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s fid, 7s fid. 10s fid ; American
Gold, 12s fid, 15s ; Solid Gold. 255, 80s, 85s, £2 ;
Scientifically Adjusted to suit you.
POST
FREE.
Pare Silver-plated on Hard White Metal 4 o'clock
TEASPOONS, 6 in Silk-lined Case with Tongs, l‘2s (id.
Embossed Handles, 15s, 20s,
12s 3d Pf-ir.
FLORAL STAND, Kuby Linss,
A. SATTNDEKS.
J’uie Kiectro pl.itcd (.n Hard White
Met.il Lunch or Dinner C.UULT, 21«.
Four O'clock CAFE FORKS,
Pure Silver-pitted on Hard White Metal, 20s
255, and 30s ; similar styles, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Odt Bedroom CLOCK,
8.-1 6d ; similai styles. 1 s 6d. 12s 6d, 10s,
17s t>d, 20s, 22s 6d, 2.35.
A. RArNDERS.
■lid ’ Oak-inouuted Silver-
plated on fluid Metal
OLNNER GONtf, £2 ss.
H
r i>
%
t
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s Pm e Silver RATTI B,
very useful 4s (id ; extra heavy, 5s Od.
A. SAHNDRRS.
Very Handsome Silver -plated Rainbow
Glass >TA jVI DISH, ‘2os ; other styles, 12s 6d, 15s.
A SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK. Silver-plated,
nicely fluted, 12s 6d ; leaf design, 8s 6d.
Solid Silver CHRISTENING CUP, 30s
Extra Heavy, 355, £2 2s.
Silver-plated, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
INKSTAND, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value Silver-plated on Nickel Silver
ENTREE DISH, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s BRUSH, 'with Silver Name,
Very Soft, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water KETTLE,
Beautifully Chased and Engraved,
Pure Silver Electro-plated,
England’s Best Make, £2.
Embossed, £2 10s, £3lss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP DiSH,
in Silk-lined Case, £2 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Gent’s SHAVING BRUSH, 5s 6d
Extra Mounts, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
A. SAUNDKKS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTER DISB, 12s 6 .
Second duality, 10s (id.
—<3^
rm
43
A. SAUNDERS.
jL3NOAsvNoaNcn
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivorvette
SERVIETTE RIN&S,
Pure Silver Initials,
Is Each.
5s 6d Half-dozen.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTER DISH, 20s ; size larger, 255.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES, First-class
Lenses, good effect, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. 255. 30s,
Pure Silver-plated Shell-shaped
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, J2s 6d.
Larger, Al Quality, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Piire Silver-plated JAM SPOON ant
KNIFE in Silk-lined Case, 8s
1 BUTTER
(id.
msm
mm
sLfs>;
sr*
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Frown Do by China BISCUIT
BARRED, Silv> r-.ilatcd Mounts, 255.
1111111111111111111 l
■III
11111111 l
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted CARVING KNIFE, FORK, and STEEL ; they are made of the Very
Best Steel, securely riveted, hand-forged and finished, iu a Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Four-Cup EGG FRAME, with well for
4 Extra Ej™s arid So eras. Pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Sliver, 355.
jjiSWli
Gent.’s Leather ROLL, containing 2 Hollow-ground
Razors, Corn Knife, Nail Scissors, Tweezers, 20s, 255;
similar with 1 Razor only, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
809,811,813,815 GEORGE-ST. SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.)


“P-X.” writes:—
I propose that the artists be petitioned to leave off
drawing l the Labor party as a party with his coat off,
bov/yangs on his legs, and a pick and shovel in his hands
or at his heels. The artists who are friends of the party
probably will; its enemies, who want to continue the
idea that it is an ignorant piek-and-shovel party, probably
Won’t. It isn't simply a pick-and-shovel party, and there
is nothing in its policy to suggest that it should be.
Consider a few of its members (in the Federal Parliament,
these) Watson is a printer ; ditto Higgs, who developed
into a journalist; ditto, in both respects, Hutchison,
the new Adelaide M.H.R., who has been editing the
Weekly Herald lately (Hutchison, unlike Higgs,
though, was a master printer); Findley ditto ; Story,
also a new Adelaide man, is a builder and contractor, and
an ex-president of the S.A. Builders and Contractors’
Association ; Maiion, a journalist ; Fowler, an account-
ant ; Hughes is now a barrister; Ronald, a Scotchby-
terian parson ; Tudor, a hatter ; Thomas, an assayer :
Culpin, a doctor of medicine ; the O’Malley, an insur-
ance drummer ; O’Keefe, journalist ; Page and Bamford,
ex-hotelkeepers ; M‘Donald, jeweller. The list might be
continued further to show that inside Parliament it isn’t
a navvy party ; and that its ideals appeal to brains and
skill just as well as they do to brawn and muscle. Yet
since the elections I’ve seen 23 political cartoons with the
Labor party in them, and it’s been the unshaved, shirt-
sleeved, moleskin-trousered party every time; and the
idea suggested is class and class-prejudice instead of the
justice that knows no class.
' «
Some mixed reminiscences :
Died at Young (N.S.W.) Mrs. Elizabeth Chew, mother
£i Mrs. Camillo Marina, of the Grand Hotel, Kiama,
aged 92 years. In which connection a couple of inci-
dents : Hr. Marina was one of Garibaldi’s soldiers in the
war of Italian independence, and on one occasion was
one of half a dozen left standing in one company after a
desperate charge. His wife, daughter of Mrs. Chew, was
the widow of Sergeant Andrew Sutherland, who, on
May 1, 1872, was shot dead at Beni Creek, near Oowra.
The Sergeant had information that a wanted man was at
Beni Creek, and thither he went. He rode up to a hut
where resided an old man and his wife, made enquiry,
and was shot dead. A horseman galloped into Cowra
with the news ; the old couple stated that the Sergeant
had an altercation with a man, to them unknown, who
rode off immediately after the shooting. No arrest was
made, though the police had strong suspicions. Years
after, this writer, when in Cowra, was told by Sergeant
M'Carty that if he wished to see Sergeant Sutherland’s
murderer he could do so by visiting the police court,
where a certain small settler was charged with 11 loiter-
ing” (under the Vag. Act). Though 15 years had elapsed
the suspected man had never been seen in Cowra until
then, when he came in for a few days’ spree. The Sergeant
warned him after the third day, and as he remained
until tpe fifth he locked him up and got him two months
under the vag. As he left the dock he asked the Ser-
geant’s name, and being told said, “Well, it serves me
right. I was told to avoid him.” PoorM’Carty was
thrown out of a sulky and killed, after having gone
through the most exciting times of the bushranging era.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
From “Periwinkle ” who seems to be of
doubtful integrity :
One of the wrinkles that makes existence easier on the
wallaby track is for Matilda’s best boy to pose as an
expert of some kind or other. When down on my luck I
am several experts rolled into one. Every female, how-
ever hatchet-faced, has a weak spot ; and the cockie
woman is generally touched when you start to crack up
her poultry. Have done it heaps o’ times without a
failure, after applying for a bit of digging or something
to keep the billy boiling. When Mrs. Oockie goes to get
the spade, I start eyeing the nondescripts scratching
round, and when she re-appears, I am almost stupified
with surprise at discovering fowls of such quality
and pure descent clawing the dust in these parts.
Have never met a woman yet who wouldn’t let the
bread-batch burn to hear me dilate on her hens,
and, when I am finished, it is too late to touch
the garden and a meal is ready. If I stiike a
man pruning I show him I can beat him at that—with
my tongue. My recipe for exterminating red-spider and
flying foxes usually fetches him—the ingredients are rare,
so I am miles away before he starts looking for me—after
application. As an amateur vet. who ran away from
college just before the diplomas were given out, I am un-
approachable. All the diseases that farm-life is heir to
find ready exposition at my mouth, and make me wel-
come at the family board. I never undertake an
operation myself—l’m under a cloud with the Vet.
Board, I say—but Nature asserts itself nine times
out of ten, and I get the credit and a fee
slipped into my billy when I am at the kitchen
fire getting a coal to light my pipe. Once 1 was called in
to attend a man that took fits. I prescribed croton oil,
which happened to be just the thing to hand, and I could
have bet my head it wasn't procurable in the electorate.
That man started sprinting, and has been sprinting ever
since—he hasn’t had time to take any more fits. If I had a
nag entered for the Melbourne Cup I’d dope it with
croton oil-then lay my shirt on-it as a goer. Never
take it myself, though—l’m getting too old and can’t
stand being bustled. However, I pride myself on my
success as a fowl-expert, and the genuine testimonials
I’ve got as to the accuracy of the character-delineations
of my patronesses’ favorite chooks would shame any
quack doctor in Australia.
IMAGINARY AILMENTS.
There are many who have pains in the back and
imagine that their kidneys are affected, while the
only trouble is rheumatism of the muscles, or, at
worst, lumbago, that can be cured by a few
applications of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, or by
damping a piece of flannel with Pain Balm and
binding it on over the affected parts.*
This circular, dated 30th November, 1903,
was recently sent to all teachers of Public Schools
in N.S.W.: —
I have to impress upon you that the sum granted by
the Department for cleaning schools is not intended to
pay the whole expense of cleaning, but is merely a grant
in aid.
An economy of the Irvine brand. Natural result
of asking teachers to keep the schools clean out
of their very small allowances will be that the
schools will, in many eases, remain dirty, or that
the local widow who has the job will be sweated
horribly.
“ Korarri ” philosophises :
Have struck the true cause of the physical degeneracy
of civilised races. It is clothes. Clothes frustrate Dar-
win’s law of natural selection every time. Our fore-
fathers gently handed their weaker brethren into the
Styx before the weaker brethren had time to become
forefathers. Then they chose the neatest, most compact,
and most attractive of the available ladies for them-
selves with most satisfactory results. Now, when the
civilised Mr. Smith wishes to choose a Mrs. Smith he gets
into a coat well padded about the shoulders, and goes
forth among the Hebes. Said Hebes are all fitted with
the latest improvements—corsets, slanting waist pro-
ducers, &c., &c., as per advts. Smith’s instinct of natural
selection gets demoralised. It knows that it would not
have a chance of picking correctly unless it saw them in
swimming ; and Smith "is too respectable to risk it, so
Smith makes a blind guess and generally falls in. And,
supposing that Smith draws a prize, how is the lady’s in-
stinct to know that Smith is not a blank? If I could only
prevail upon the people of Australasia to revert to that
simple costume of their forefathers—a few leaves and a
string of beads—l would feel that I had not lived in vain
I would have no objection to ladies wearing an extra
string of beads on Melbourne Cup day.
A few weeks ago, a Hawera (M.L.) man
went to hear Seddon talk. Part of the speech
was about the declining birth-rate, which Seddon
said was very serious for a young country. The
Hawera man had scarcely got back home when he
had to get out again after Mrs. Gamp—it was his
24th visit to the lady on the same errand ! Now
he has called his 24tli Richard J. Seddon Jones,
and sent Richard J. jun.’s photograph to the
Premier.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
‘ J.A.C.”: “ K.’’ (8., 24/12/’O3) discourses
on the so-called matai “beer.” From his com-
munication one might imagine that it is only
necessary to go into the Maoriland bush with a
gimlet to get hilariously drunk. This, alas, is not
thus. One might drink a matai forest without
getting up the semblance of a “jag.” I speak,
sadly, from experience, for I have drunk it. The
matai is a highly-resinous pine with a dark-
colored wood. I used an auger to tap the tree ;
bushmen generally use an axe An ordinary
matai will yield about a galvanised-iron bucketful
of sap. It tastes somewhat like cider, into which
fiddler’s resin has been scraped , yet it is not un-
palatable, and is refreshing. But it is far from
being an intoxicant —and, perhaps, just as well,
for the tapping kills the tree, and there would
soon be none left. No doubt, if fermented, the
sap would develop alcohol. But what organic
substance is there from which alcohol cannot be
extracted?
“Bunny”: Cause and effect beautifully
illustrated. The Yankees have the finest flour
mills in the world, therefore they have the worst
teeth in the world ; having the worst teeth, they
produce the best dentists on the planet.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poißon that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may he discoloured, or there nrayr be wounds : the disease
if allowed to continue w ill deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, ot
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I ( AN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I Wild,. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiI.l.S,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bail lugs
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per b ■*. Prepared by
Al BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, Ei gland
Agents : (\LLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for tl\eregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyrigb*).
Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
Gentlemen, —
I want to tell you how delighted I atn with the
Pianola. It is altogether wonderful ! In an accom-
paniment to several of my songs it has given me
splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Very truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one Pianola.
Sold Only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola free if you
will wiite us. Ask for Catalogue B.
' Informal Recitals daily 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
You are cordially invited to attend
DRINK i ——T
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
A
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOP THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 y 2,
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/I J 4; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by —
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G.L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Born 1766. Died 1534.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
Quipigrams:
Truth isn’t stranger than fiction. It only seems so
because we are not accustomed to it.
Set a thief to catch a thief, but have an honest man
handy when the thief is caught, lest the two divide the
loot.
Do good by stealth, and you are arrested for being
illegally on the premises.
Dans are used to hide our inability to blush when we
ought to.
A good wife is far above rubies, but sometimes diamonds
will fetch her. Some wives don’t care for rubies.
Marriages are made in heaven and explode on earth—
like meteors.
F.R.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
Missing Friends.
Re WILLIAM RICHARDS DUNSTAN.
X> C REWARD will be given to anvone furnishing
the address (if still alive)' of WILLIAM
RICHARDS DUNSTAN, late of Ryhope Colliery, near
Sunderland, England, miner, but last heard of about 12
years ago from Millthorpe or Tomingley, N.S.W. ; or, if
he be dead, for satisfactory proof of his death. Commu-
nications should be addressed at once to WILLIAM BELL
& SONS, Solicitors, SUNDERLAND, ENGLAND.
THOMAS WARMAN BATHE, of Wiltshire,
• England, who about 55 years ago went to Australia,
or his descendants, are requested to write to the under-
signed, when they will hear of something to their
advantage. JOHN T. S. COLE, SHAW FARM,
SWINDON, WILTSHIRE, ENGLAND.
Business Announcements.
Engineman’s Master Key
Second. Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations tor Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and siyiish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
REYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, bj
the People, for the People.
PRICE-ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street
London, Eng.
USES
tfORRISS
IMPERIAL
EYE
°IHTMEHt
CURES;
m
SPOONER’S
oTtlkM;
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS HEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper*,
Boot Shop*, Saddle,*, etc.
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
b Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10 to £5- s*o
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
' Tyres , Accessories , Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual_ Prices.
'Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
_ fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO - Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO' D.B.A. and XJYKKPOOL, ENGLAND.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Said that only two members of the See
Government thought that the Referendum on
reduction of members would result otherwise than
in a victory for 125.
During three months of the present sugar
season in the Mackay (Q.) district alone 57,954
tons of white-grown cane have been harvested.
Queensland voted White, and it shows it can
work White.
New Year’s Day Australia and the
U-nited States exchanged time by cable ; and the
blessed Yankee charged no import duty on the
time that we sent to him. It was the first thing
that escaped his tariff for many a year.
A full inquiry into the working of N.S.W.
Lands Department during the past five years
would bring about some sensational revelations ;
but there are too many people interested in keep-
ing things quiet to allow of investigation.
Canada again sets us a good example.
Cable :—-
The Canadian Minister for Defence has arranged
that in future a Canadian officer will command the
militia, instead of an Imperial officer.
Illawarra (N.S.W.) by-election resulted in
a very decided victory for the so-called Reform
party of Joseph Carruthers, and gave another
strong hint to the Labor party to set its house in
order before the general elections.
Rather late in the day the Herald thinks :
“ It would have been much better had women
been first fitted for the franchise and then given
it.” Well, the surest and speediest way to fit
women for the franchise was to give it to them.
Returning thanks for his election, Senator
Findley (Vic.) said that the expenses of the four
Senate Labor candidates totalled £llO. If Find-
ley could reach the Senate on an expenditure of
£27 10s., there is no excuse for raising the legal
maximum expenditure.
When Federal election returns were
coming in, Victoria State Parliament was in
session, and returns were posted up in the house.
Members thus literally saw the handwriting on
the wall, and Kyabram began early to look for a
safe hole.
Land-agents, land-sharks, land-dodgers,
etc., are inundating the country with circulars
setting forth their “ability” to do something
under the new Land Act. The Act is going to
yield a rare harvest for the “shark,” whatever
else it does.
THE WAY IN.
(Vide the uproar over the Petriana incident in the capitalistic press and on the capitalistic platform.)
Fat : “ Bless me, I think I can break through that Alien Immigration Restriction Act on
beautiful humanitarian principles.”
Part of the Chamberlain policy in England
is “ alien immigration restriction on the lines of
the United States legislation.” That is to say,
an aggravated form of the Australian legislation
which our Foreign-trade press is ever decrying as
disloyal and un-English.
Of every 100 people who were given voting
papers in the N.S.W. Reduction of Members
referendum 64 used them to plump for 90
members, 19 for 125, 4 for 100, and the other 13
wasted theirs. Of the votes that counted, 73 per
cent, were for 90 members, 5 for 100, and 22 for
125. That just about means that of every four
people who voted formally three wanted the fewest
members for which the voting papers provided.
British ‘ ‘ Tariff Reform League ” has
Chamberlain as its vice-president only; the presi-
dent is the Duke of Sutherland. Of course, the
real boss is Chamberlain, but the British mind
requires at least a Duke at the head of an organisa-
tion, as a guarantee of its respectability.
The Barrier political labor organisations
have withdrawn their recommendation to the
P.L.L. Conference to re-admit W. J. Ferguson
to the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party. Fer-
guson’s help to the Deform Candidate against the
Laborite at Waratah was the last straw.
Canada has given a subsidy to a line of
steamers to carry on direct trade with France.
The effects of the recent Alaskan award are
noticeable in every direction in Canada, which
seems to have now a settled resolve to at least
prepare to set up house-keeping on its own
account.
Only the bicycle made it possible to take
a complete referendum vote on the reduction-of-
members question in N.S.W. on Commonwealth
polling day. To get the papers out along the
Paroo (far-west N.S.W.) in time, a Wilcannia
rider had to do 450 miles in six days; and not a
mile of it was over a made track.
Fora “strong” Government the Iceberg
Irvine crowd has done a tremendous lot of twisting
and shuffling. Irvine announced on the last day
of the late session that the old rates for both coal
and grain should prevail, and the threatened
increases to square the railway accounts would
be abandoned.
You get a characteristic snapshot of
Treasurer Turner’s horror of frill in the news-
paper remark that he declines to regard the
gathering of Treasurers next month as anything
so imposing as a Conference. “ We’ll just meet
to have a quiet talk about the debts,” the plain,
brown man says in Saxon monosyllables.
No. 1 Federal politician on No. 2 : “ You
might as well seek for the milk of human kind-
ness in a bull camel, or for bowels in a billiard
ball, as in Mr. Blank.” And No. 2 Federal
politician on No. 1; “ You might as well look for
the grace of God in a goat-shed as for Christian
charity in Mr. Blank.”
If John Haynes and G. Eagar, J.P., and
Foxal! really are anxious for secession, why don’t
they take up their little guns and start ? There is
only one way to secede, and that is from behind a
gun, The Bulletin wants to see John Haynes
(and C. Eagar, J.P., and Foxall) erecting a barri-
cade in Wexford-street, pikes and pistols in hand.
How John Haynes would adorn a pike !
Even Sydney D.T. reckons that the cause
of Freetrade is now hopeless in England. It fore-
casts (by its London correspondent)—
First, that there will be an early general election, at
which the two wings of the Protectionist party repre-
sented by Mr. Balfour and Mr. Chamberlain will be
defeated. there will be a short-lived Parlia-
ment under the Liberal regime, followed by another
general election, in which the fiscal question will
again be uppermost, and in which Mr. Chamberlain’s
policy will be again defeated, but in which the retaliators
of the Balfour type will be. in a majority. As a result of
these two appeals to the country, a fiscal compromise
will be adopted under which Protectionism will be shorn
of taxes on food and raw material, and a revenue tariff
adopted, with power to the Government to levy retalia-
tory duties on its own initiative against countries with
which it has not been found possible to establish reci-
procity treaties on a revenue tariff basis.
“ Demos ” writes :
As to “National Party ” being a more comprehensive
name for the Labor Party (B. 17/12/’O3), it would be too
comprehensive altogether. The haw-haws who disfigure
the atmosphere with vain vaporings about national glory
and patriotic institutions have first claim on the word
“National.” The present name is good for many a day
yet; we aim at being the party of the useful members of
the community who labor —on the land, in the factory,
office, shop and school. Those who object to the name
under which so much advance has been made are not
democrats. If ever we need to change our political
shibboleth, let’s get a new one that will be unmistakable
in its meaning of progress and democracy. The term
chosen in London is a good one—Progressive Party—and
no better could be chosen by the anti-Conservatives.
“ Progressive ” would be far better than “ National,”and
not so open to seizure by the Tories.
A true story
The now retired repre-
sentative of a N.S.W.
constituency was op-
posed on several occa-
sions by an individual
whose larges t vote
amounted to less than
50. Still he came again,
but his canvassing was
confined to me political
centre of the electorate.
“ Only does it for a cheap
advt.," was the general
comment. Wrong, as
usual. The returning
officer, being a busy man,
usually entrusted the
whole of the election
arrangements to his head
clerk, who was allowed
to draw the whole of the
fees. The deputy was a
smart chap. No election
meant no fees. So a few
of the leading Bungs
were approached.
Would they subscribe
any thing towards pay-
ing Brown (his name
wasn’t Brown) to come
out? They would, and
the delicate negotiations
with Brown were so skil-
fully conducted by the
deputy returning officer
that no one outside the
circle suspected. The
cost of the election,
about £3OO, was distri-
buted amongst presiding
officers and poll clerks,
less a commission.
These officials were prin-
cipally needy relations
of the deputy aforesaid.
Bung reaped the usual
election harvest, and the
defeated candidate smil-
ingly returned thanks for
the support Recorded
him v On one occasion,
however,- the cordial re-
lations between the can-
didate and the deputy
were severely strained.
The promised reward was
not all forthcoming; the
beer trade had not been
too good, and one or
two Bungs were behind with their share._ But
Brown was a man of action. The deputy was given 25
minutes to find the money or his chief would be inter-
viewed. He found it, and peace was restored. The
deputy now contemplates standing himself as a “reform”
candidate and an apostle of economy. As the latter he
should be able to give some valuable hints.
One of the questions to be discussed by
the N.S.W. Political Labor League Conference is
the pledge. The “ solidarity pledge ” has always
been a bone of contention in Labor political
circles. Why not solve the difficulty by the adop-
tion of the pledge used by the Irish party in the
House of Commons —an undertaking to resign
one’s seat when called upon to do so by a majority
of the party ?
In the opinion of many Maoriland demo-
crats, the old system of life-membership was pre-
ferable to the present seven years’ tenure of office.
The great majority of Council members to-day
are paralysed by their dependence on the Govern-
ment who appointed and may re-appoint them.
There is evidently only one reasonable form of
Upper House in a democratic community, and
that is an abolished Upper House.
N.S.W. Labor party, ’tis reported on
good authority, has held a caucus to discuss
whether it should become the Whole Hog Reform
party, and has decided in the negative; it was
prepared, however, to go a certain part of the
way and to favor moderate borrowing, and
moderate economy and moderate jobbery. But
the call is not for a moderately honest party,
which too much suggests a moderately profligate
woman. The only hope now is in the Labor
League Conference.
Announced that Minister Lyne will be in
charge of . the Industrial Arbitration Bill when
Parliament meets. And on that Bill, so present
appearances point, the crisis which is to decide
the fate of the Deakin Ministry will come. An
interesting question : Has Mr. Deakin put Mr.
Lyne in the van so that he can step into the posi-
■ tion of Premier by accepting a Labor party
amendment, which the present Premier will not
consent to, or so that Mr. Lyne may be pinned
down to the Government attitude, and not be free
5 to take the Labor party view ?
“ All I can see for it is the displacement
of Ministers and the succession of a strong
democratic Ministry, with Mr. Kingston as Prime
Minister. Such a Ministry would, of course, have
the support of the Labor party.” “ Would Labor
members be at liberty to take office in such a
Ministry?” “They would, provided the caucus
decided upon the propriety of one or more of them
accepting portfolios. The rule of the party is
that its members may accept Ministerial office,
subject to caucus approval and sanction.” —Josiah
Thomas, interviewed by Barrier Miner.
WHAT MUST WE DO TO BE EDUCATED?
D. T. standing heading.
Do to he educated ? Well, keep away from this
old lady's school, for one thing.
Sydney D.T. prepares to give a sort of
support to the Johnaynes “secesh” movement
with a grumbling leader about equal State repre-
sentation in the Senate, which, it decides, is a
great evil, but
So far as re-arrangement of methods is concerned, the
practicability of any agitation to this end is questionable,
for the Constitution declares that the proportionate re-
presentation of a State in either House shall not be
diminished unless a majority of the electors voting in
that State approve of the change. As that consent
is not likely to he given, difficulties may arise which will
cause the Federation to be confronted by a new and very
serious question.
The “ new and very serious question ” —shall we
follow Johnaynes ?
Now that they have a private court all
to their own cheek, Customs “ honest-misfakers”
are still not satisfied. They complain there is too
much publicity—that they have got out of the
frying-pan into the fire. Kingston summoned
them to the police court; the whole matter was
settled in one act and in one newspaper par. Now
there is an announcement that certain firms will
appear at the court; then the collector holds a pub-
lic inquiry and the papers can publish full details ;
then the Minister publishes his decision; and
finally the Commonwealth Gazette gives the
performance a finishing puff.
Yet another case to urge on a Common-
wealth Old Age Pensions scheme :
A man arrived in N.S. Wales 40 years ago, started busi-
ness, and resided in the State 30 years without a break.
Reverses caused him when 66 years old to hunt Westralia
for his son in the hope of getting help to avoid becoming
a burden on tiie State. Not finding his son he had to
earn money to get back to N.S.W. A year later he was
induced to revisit Westralia, and found his son, but too
broken in health and purse to be of any help. As soon
as he could, the old man returned to N.S. Wales and
struggled hard to keep himself respectable, until the age
of 72, when he entered a Government asylum. At 75 or
76 he applied for the pension, to be refused on the score
of over two years’ absence from the State.
Thomas Bent tried what looked like a
dodge on the last night of the Victorian
session. The House had been sitting 28
hours, and most of the members were
asleep. Bent was in charge of the Govern-
ment business. The matters in hand had been
cleared off, and then he came forward, saying “ 1
just have another little Bill, Mr. Speaker, that I
want the House to pass. It is of no importance.”
This was a Bill to amend (by destroying the mini-
mum-wage clause) an Act which Bent, as a
private member, had had passed to sanction the
extension of the St. Kilda tramway line towards
Brighton by the municipalities, or any persons
they choose to hand it over to. It was a private
Bill, hut Bent brought it on, seemingly to make it
appear that it was a Government measure.
Laborite Prendergastsaw the game, and objected,
and the Bill was dropped.
Thus Sydney Telegraph’s London corres-
pondent on aliens: —
These peripatetic shopkeepers and gutter merchants
are, to a very large extent indeed, recruited from the
ranks of the “ undesirables” dumped into London by the
thousand every year. A man named Roots was charged
with obstructing by means of a coster’s barrow, and in
the course of the proceedings it transpired that the
defendant had been deported from Russia;'had arrived
in England, been forwarded to America, refused there as
an “ undesirable ” and a pauper, and brought back by
the steamship co. to this country where he remained.
As the magistrate said, he ought to have been sent back
to his own country, but there was no authority to do
that. The laws of America enabled admission to be
refused to such people, which shows how much, wiser the
Americans are than we.
And when Australia starts to be wise in the same
way, great is the howl of the D.T. about “ Federal
tyranny.”
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin. Paris, France
pennon’s Hotel, Brisbane,
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
arid Families. Trams pass the door —a penny
Bbfttion to any part of the Cit}'.
s M COLLINS, Proprietor
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellous!y-aceurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By.its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
ilia}' need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
THE HATTER STATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s nothing new in New South Wales, The same old
mob got in ;
While Progress swept the poll elsewhere, here relics
scored a win ;
The same old politicians, with the same old cob-webbed
gags ;
The same old wheeze of Freedom for the same old
sweated rags;
The same old atmospheric gas, the same old Mary Ann ;
The same old dandy barracker for labor from Japan ;
The same old placid Pumpkin, with the moo-cow
intellect;
The same old Weary Willie, setting sect against a sect;
The same old resurrection pie, the same old Freetrade
freaks ;
The same old Cobden platitudes chipped from the same
antiques ;
The only thing that differed—in the gloom the one bright
star—
The single sign of progress, was Kelly’s motor-car.
C.H.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing 1 List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney,
<3-0 TO HBLL-
KiOLANIt for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
- FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists grains.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO. :
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


“ H.P.” : The devil’s number—Bulletin
of last day of old year was 31st of month—l 3
reversed ; year 1903—total 13 ; paper’s No., 1246
13 added together ; vol. 24 ended, next issue vol.
25—making 13 in all. [The devil’s number will
now go to its master. —Ed, B.]
PALINGS BEST TRIO
VICTOR
STEINWAY
we give BEST VALUE for LEAST MONEY.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST
dalinSX.
* 338 George St Sydney.
ARE YOU ILL ?
If so. . . VITADATIO
WILL CURE YOU.
Eminent Doctors in England (al-
though unable to prescribe VITA-
DATIO through not knowing its con-
stituents) have advised Mr. S. A.
Palmer to proclaim its virtues from
the housetops.
VITADATIO
STILL TRIUnPHANT.
CONSTIPATION CURED.
Tattersall’s Hotel,
Sydney,
July 7th, 1903.
Dear Sir,—While in Ballarat last Xmas I was in the
theatre and saw your advertisement, and, suffering from
Constipation, thought I would give your remedy a trial,
and. I can assure you that lam now perfectly cured. I
did intend writing to you before, but better late than
never. _ I have sent letters to all my friends in Ballarat
about it, and all I say is, that I wish you every success
with the remedy.
Yours faithfully,
WILTON OAREY.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street 2V. f
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 6/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the Liquor Habit and Iw*»iaey (in any form) Positively
and Rapidly Cured by the twenty yean world-renowned
GOLDEN SPECIFIC
prepared according to the formula of Dr. Halnea.
It can be given in a cup of ooffee or tea, or in food, either with
or without the knowledge of the patient. It speedily causes
a decided distaste for strong drink. It is absolutely harm-
less. a i d wi'l effect a permanent cure, whether the patient isa
moderate drinker or an alcoholic wreck. It never fails.
Thousands prove It. It operates so quickly and with such
certa.nty that the patient undergoes no inconvenience, and
ere he is aware, his complete reform is effected. The Holden
Specific supplies the place of the accustomed liquor, and
prevents the absolute physical and moral prostration which go
frequently follows a sudden breaking off from the use of
stimulating drinks. Write for Book, sent with full particulars
and testimonials free by return.
The Union IVlfg. & Agency COe.
359 & 361 COUJNB STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Bonds Which Bind Us.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Winston Churchill, M.P., in a letter to Mr. Lawson,
of Christchurch (M.L.), declares that there are more
enduring: bonds binding: the colonies to England than
any scheme of Preferential Trade. — Cable.
It is true, O Winston Churchill!
What you say is but too true 1
There are other bonds that bind us
To the Red and White and Blue.
We’ve been leg-ironed, bound and handcuffed,
Ever since a start was made,
By much more effective shackles
Than by Preferential Trade.
There were first the bonds of metal
Which some worthy grandsires wore ;
Those which made their wrists and ankles
Worn and weary, tired and sore :
Bonds which bound them to the Empire
In the good old days of yore,
When they travelled in the chain-gang
To this free and happy shore !
Then there oame the politicians,
Who in one thing only join—
That we cannot build a fowl-house
Without borrowing the coin !
Their debenture bonds are paper,
But perhaps they chafe us more
Than the leg-irons did our grandsires
In the happy days of yore 1
W. T. GOODGE
This Elastic Truss
Elastic I
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanat-on and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
QALLARAT SCHOOL OF MINES
WILL RE-OPEN 9th FEBRUARY.
Chemistry, Assaying, Metallurgy, Geology,
Engineering, Electricity, Mining, &c.
Ores tested by Battery and Amalgamation, Cyanide or
Chlorination. ,
IRRD. J. MARTELL, Director.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM MAYE, native of Cork, Ireland,
left Melbourne for Sydney about 15 years
ago ; communicate with JOHN MAYE
MILDURA, VICTORIA. He will hear of
something to his advantage.
Ciiliii Special Boot
FOR MEN
In Black Calf-
Skin—full of
Wear.
17/6
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
Price, 16/6
Or Delivered POST and
DUTY FREE for
17/6
a pair, to any address in
the Commonwealth,
except W.A.
TOUCAN
ORDER
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS BY
MAIL.NO
MATTER
MOST FAR
AWAY TOO
im
Or In Tan, 18/6,
PO3T and
DUTY FREE.
Full Description follows i
SOLES—SoIid oak-tanned stout walking soles, stitched on a Goodyear maohina. with
best Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UPPERS—Uppers and vamp are cut from plump skins and are not skimped in
any way. *
LINING—A good grade of heavy drill. The inner sole is milled perfectly smooth on
the surface and free from nails, creases or thread.
HEELS.—Square trimmed, size, 1 inch, properly nailed.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 deduce st., Sydney.


It looks as though in Maoriland the male
public-school teacher will soon be as rare a bird as
ne it in some parts of the United States. In 1901
there were 1222 adult males and 1446 adult
females; for every male added to the staff
during the last 18 months there have been nearly
five of the other sort. And things are going to be
worse than that; for of 747 pupil teachers,
only 143 are males. Compare that with the
German public-school system, in which only 13
per cent, of females are employed. The other end
of the rank is held by New Hampshire (U.S.A.),
where absolutely the entire teaching staff is
woman, with Connecticut (99 per cent.) a close
second.
“A good friend has deposited the twenty-
five poun’ for me,” said the candidate for a seat in
the House of Representatives, addressing his first
audience. “Heis a very good friend, 1 can tell
ye. Twenty-five poun’ is a bit of money—
especially when, as I tLink, he’s not likely to get
it back. It’s this way: If ye don’t put me in it’s
forfeited ; that’s the law ; an’ if ye do Dut me in
I’ll want it to carry me on till me Parliamentary
screw’s due. As yer member, ye know, I couldn’t
sleep out or blacken me own boots.” A Voice :
“ Why not give him a lien on your salary ? ” The
Candidate: “ What’s the use, unless! intended to
pay? No; that twenty-five poun’ is a dead
marine. That tells ye the sort of a man ma friend
is. A white man, every inch. That’s the white
Australia I’m after. Three cheers for white Aus-
tralia 1 ” Eggs followed.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Calling at Hobart. *Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £ie fc o £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brwbanb Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERfflS v
&
0*
&
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.s.-w.
(IJontdepieteD.^|.Co.,Ctil-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVEFUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
IHead Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON. OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Qiieehsland. Agents and Correspondents
■ Throughout the World.
BanJe of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,330,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 6,330,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L CL
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Brond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts,circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and G-uarantee
Co. latd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Ske, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. Jessoiy Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Coyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M’Farkank; Brisbane, I(. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 490,000 0 0
KESKUVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It.'Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Es j. ;
C. M. Officer,'' Ksq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOItItOVVMAN, Manager.
FIIEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
Shipping.
]\r. d. l.
(NOBD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp ami Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA.
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.B.tf. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tens, 20th JANUARY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH6.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London*
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
NINEVEH
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman
A. Robb
Noon, Feb. 0
Noon, Feb. 27
Noon, Mar. 8
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £lO Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Baasonsfleld Parade
ST. HILDA.
fPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
O c EA.2STIC
THE
ste a mis hi p
A. AND aT LINE.
EAST MAIL
OOMPATffY.
LINE.
Sydney to Auckland
Auckland to Pngo Pago
Samoa to Fanning Island ..
Fanning Island to Honolulu
Honolulu to San Francisco
Overland to New York
New York to London
Passengers can break I
.. .. 3J days.
•• ..4 days.
• • ! 4 days.
•• •• 2J days.
•• i. 5j days.
.• .. 4 days.
.. .. 6 days.
Journey en route.
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers'on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” Serin, S noma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
(6200'tons), FASTEST, AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SCREWS WITH TWO SETS OF
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not ? ” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
R—>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
* .. FOR »
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Office* - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Robrrts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, lfisq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305- assu ring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling’. Liberal Basses— equitably distributed.
Head Offioe:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,900
Total Capital „ .. £2,500,000
Bank of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- . Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq,"
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, I’hilp&Od. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250.100 ... £350,000
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROHOHms,
DIARRHCEA, & G -» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NBSWB a*
Sept. 23 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single mediomel should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful,- to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
withoub it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
MEN
Ii
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
IQQ.Collins Street. Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
"ALL -RE D” ROUTE.
STEAMEKS SAIL—
Feb. 1, Feb. 22, March 21.
The Route to England via
St. Louis.
Rocky Mountains, Niagara Falls,
AND THE CITIES OF
Nsw York, Chicago, Montreal and
Boston En Route.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. BTITT, General Passenger Agent.
fEDERAL, HOULDER, SHIRE LINES.
STEAM to LONDON via DURBAN and CAPETOWN,
The Magnificent Twin-screw Steamship
ESSEX,
11,000 Tons, T. YOUNG, Commander,
will lie despatched Early in JANUARY, taking General
and Refrigerated Cargo and Live Stock at
LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
WOOL received at the Stores of Chas. Taylor and Co.,
Limited.
Has splendid Accommodation amidships for Saloon
and Third-class Passengers, at the following Reduced
Rates—
Saloon. Third-class.
TO DURBAN or CAPETOWN ~ £2O £7
TO LONDON .. .. £25 £lO
For Full Particulars Apply to
BIRT and CO. f Ltd., Agents,
7 Macquarie Place, Sydney
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
RI COfcD's
C.SSE-** ce °f u \ ft-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY.
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St„
Melbourne; N.S. IF.—Faulting & Co.; 16 O’Ccnnell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Shippings
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(TiTMITISD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Yiotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Gabo, Friday, Jan. 15,
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne).
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Jan. 16, at 10 a.m. (With-
out Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And PortsNorfch to Cairns
S.S. Innamincka, Jan. 10,
at Noon.
S.S. Gabo, Jan. 23, at Noon.
S.S. Allinga, Jan. 29, at 5 p.m.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to a Oldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of cal! with other inter-State Companies on all
i vices subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PABISL
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha
t rench Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADB.
Pnirn'y ■'i COLOMB °. BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
r aosejn uEltS booked to Bombay, India, China.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £V to £7?
Including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED BATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon artlval at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoa
in landing and passing their luggage through tho Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company OlBceSi
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . •
“E. and A.” LIME.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
* vav xv xibVl iOiUJ * V I IVU Pj,
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe m Oanada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LI).
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’WATCH
m
ii
i —..
&
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s. (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches.fcallNerve ■■ BB
Pains removed by BDNTEK'S glj BB
NEU VINE. Of all Stores. Ilk
RVINE
“An a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
Used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDHL’S PILLS
Arc a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head aolie.
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, As.
Op all Stores.


A Dunedin (M.L.) advt. which might
nave a mystery behind it: —
yOUNG Lady wishes to CORRESPOND with Gentle-
nian called George, view matrimony.
The most feasible theory seems to be that the
lady was once engaged to a George, and in the
depth of her affection got an indelible statement
of her devotion to George tatooed on her body
somewhere. Now the old George is gone, and it
it necessary to find a new lover whose name will
chime in with the inscription. No home could be
happy where the husband was named Thomas and
the wife had an indelible statement on her
shoulder or her back that she loved Bill or
Jeroboam.
An agreeable movement of the bowels without
any unpleasant effect is produced by CHAM-
BERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS. “ Just what you need.” Sold every-
where. Is. 6d.*
“ J.F.D.” on palmistry :
I have a grievance against palmists. If bad luck ever
forces me into the ranks of the police I will arrest every
palmist I know of on a charge of tearin* me uniform.
Went to interview one a few months back. She sat
behind a red blanket in a dark corner, and read hands by
the aid of a flaring gas jet. • She put my hand on a
cushion, took a magnifying glass the size of a small fry-
ing-pan, got the right focus, and started to predict.
The wrinkles on my palm disclosed a career that
would make any ordinary man’s head swell to the
size of St. Plug’s Cathedral. Fame and fortune
beckoned me, and money poured down on me as
the Maoriland football savages pour down on the
ball in a test match. I paid her 9d. over her fee, and
Bhook hands with her cordially. Coming out into the
passage I bumped against the man who took tickets for
a side-show in the same building, and when he resented
the push, I offered to fight him with a cheerful assurance
Df victory. I insulted a policeman. I knocked down a
plaster statue of Chamberlain, and proudly kicked the
ruins into next week. In fact I was bloated out with
pomp and pride. Then I waited three months and
nothing happened, except that my dog fell ill.
Was nonplussed, so I decided to see the prophetess again,
and invest another shilling to get the exact date of my
time of affluence. I went in my working clothes, and
she didn’t know ine. She said I was a plain, hard-
working mechanic; that I would never be worse
off than I was then (I had 7Jd. in my pooket), fore-
told my marriage in two years (I had been married
nine years), and ended up by prophesying my
death at 70, after a quiet, uneventful life, the life of
an ordinary, clay-iooted artisan. I was thunderstruck.
Then I arose and unbottled my wounded vanity. I upset
the table and the paw cushion, banged the “ bob ” on
the floor, told her she was a fraud and a humbug, and
stalked out, leaving her crying over the fragments of the
frying-pan magnifying glass, which had been shattered
in the fall. The man in the passage dodged me, for there
was murder in my eye. Palmists are a fraud.
THE
COUHTOH ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane River, 5£ hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
40,000 Acres
of Rich River Flats, and well-
grassed Ridges, cut into Dairy
Farms,
In Areas of 100 to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the BEAD STATION BALL-
ROOM, on
EASTER MONDAY, StSSm,
at 11 o’olook eaoh day.
Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., of Kensington Downs, a Director of the Q.N. Bank
and of the Queensland Meat Export Co. reported on Colinton on 7th April, 1900:
“It is impossible to ride over therioh lands of Colinton without coming to the conclusion
that no just or accurate idea of their value can be arrived at by merely treating them ns
grazing estates, as the large proportion of arable land embraced in them justifies the
belief that in the future a very much enhanced value must attach to them for cutting up
purposes.”
COXiXNTON is composed of a variety of eloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid percentage of Lucerne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Runs, as well as one of the best fastening Buns in Southern Queensland.
COXiXNTON is magnificently watered by 18 miles double frontage
to the Brisbane River, as well as by upwards of 48 miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
COXiXNTON has been kept free from pests suoh as lantana, thistle, and
burrs, and there is no nut grass and, above all, no ticks.
THE MAGNETIC TERMS:
One-Tenth Cash, no payments for 2 years, and the balance
up to 20 years at 4} per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
PTA profusely illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may be
obtained from the office of this paper, or from
ISLES, LOVE & Co., Auctioneers, Brisbane
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Pott Free.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
SUMACH
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
13 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
IT IS Fit EE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE OOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Writ* for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book or Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-To-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 6d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Keigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illns., IS. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make LOve, Is 6d. Fowler's Science of Life, 10s Gd.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is, post Is 2d. Rosario,
2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. Bd.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, lg.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. Bd. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prioes Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 93 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made East, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Komances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wirs’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 ilTus., leather bound, my price, 15s. postpaid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1036 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs, (words and music complete), lsi 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. Tney have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system snd
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the be.-t known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Heaiache,
Dizziness, and the common condition or ill-health
known as “run-down” <r “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy ana aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and qu ckest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumoago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
iu a very short time.
❖
Sb>
❖
$
*
S>
<s;
Lawyer Jellicoe, the bete noir of the pro-
fession at Wellington (M.L.), when defending in
a touting-for-hire case, remarked that some local
lawyers were the greatest “touts” in the windy
city. One firm had been sending its clerks to
funerals for years (perhaps in hope of being
retained to upset the will), and others employed
men on commission who followed up accidents,
and obtained information from the victims at the
hospital, so as to institute claims under “The
Workmen’s Compensation for Accidents Act.”
Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 7th Dec., 1903.
IRECTOR OF FOREBTS.
Subject to the provisions of the Forestry Act,
the Bill for which has been introduced in the
Parliament of 1903, applications will be received
by the Under-Secretary for Lands up to 29th
February, 1904, next, from officers of the Public
Service, and from persons outside the Service, for
appointment to the position of Director of Forests
(Professional Division); yearly salary. £7OO mini-
mum, £7OO maximum; to be fixed by statute.
The duties attached to the position will be (sub-
ject to the administrative control of the Under-
secretary for Lands:
(1) To re-organise the forest system of New
South Wales upon a practical and scientific
basis, including measures for effective
conservation and reafforestation of
forests, and for the systematic working
of same in accordance with recognised
forestry principles.
(2) To efficiently supervise and control the
Btaff of officers connected with the
Forests and Forestry Department.
(3) To visit and personally inspect the forests
of the State, to determine (subject to the
concurrence of the Minister) questions
pertaining to conflicting interests, to
report upon the Timber supply of the
State, and in the interests of same to
classify the forest area necessary for its
efficient maintenance.
(4) To design and carry out schemes tor the
reclamation and utilisation of waste land,
for preventing the erosion of soils and the
spread of sand-drifts, by planting and
cultivation of suitable indigenous or
exotic vegetation and timber trees and to
perpetuate the regeneration of valuable
timber trees which are in danger of
p y t.p r m inn tvi on.
(5) To carry on a system of training Foresters.
(6) To manage all business pertaining to
Forestry, to report thereon when directed,
and to advise the Minister on matters
connected with the administration of
same.
Applicants must not be over forty-eight (48) years
of age, of good physique, and in good health, and
must have a thorough knowledge of the principles
of Forestry. An acquaintance with the Forests
and general geography of New South Wales is
desirable, and consideration will be given to
British or Indian Forest Training. Applicants
should state their date of birth, their experience,
and their qualifications, and must produce
authentic evidence of same, also credentials as to
personal character.
By order, EDWARD MACFARLANE,
5a69. Acting Under-Secretary for Lands.
F YOU WANT IT
CET IT WITH A
i," SEND FOR
catalogue
OFAUDEALERS OR
Of KODAK L T[J
lU/UHIiL. MELBOURNE I
P MENTION THIS PAPER' M
..RfINZ
the best
Aperien
SjRfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient* water.
fo-(RflriZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient water.
HRfIWZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient water.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Melbourne shrieked when it beard the result of
the final round in the amusing fight between the Iceberg
Government and “ Tote" Wren. After a solemn Cabinet
meeting last November Irvine and Co. decided to “ put
the Law in motion” against Wren’s tote ; whereupon the
Law took some 70 constables, and assaulted the empty
machine violently and carried it by force. For weeks a
garrison held the fort, and waited patiently, but vainly,
for the owner to come and claim his property ; but the
‘‘force" was gradually reduced till, by last Thursday.it
had got down to three—each doing an 8-hour shift. That
evening, as the garrison of one was having its tea placidly
and unsuspectingly, half-a-dozen masked men suddenly
surrounded it, and ran it violently out into the street
and threw the Law’s helmet, coat, and revolver after it.’
The invaders then nailed up the entrance once more, and
the Law retired discomfited; but Chief Commissioner
O’Callaghan threatens now to “ take steps.” Meanwhile,
the leader of the invaders says he “doesn’t know any-
thing about any tote,” but merely ejected a trespasser
from his woodyard, and proposes to go on selling wood as
aforetime; also he has put up a sign to the effect that
the yard is now “ under new management."
* * * *
Apropos a recent row at Randwiok. A racing
judge, writing in Badminton Maoa., emphasises the un-
certainty of anyone but the man in the box picking the
winner in a close finish. Angles spoil the judgment of
spectators, and even those riding in a race cannot tell
exactly where the winning-post is. Jockey George Ford-
ham knew this difficulty, and invited a doubter to run
genlty, or even walk, up the middle of the course and
try to put a stick in the ground exactly in line with the
two posts. Every time the stick was a long way out, and
subsequent experimenters have obtained the saine result.
In England there is said to be one dead-heat in every 60
races. J
. * * • •
. There is a story—true—of a Sunday-sohool boy
in Sydney whose example will probably not be quoted by
the churches. He saved up his sixpences until he had
six shillings, and then, instead of sending it to the “pore
heathen,” despatched it to Tattersall’s sweeps. Result,
* » • *
The £50,000 put through the tote at the recent
Perth meeting is claimed as a record for the machine in
the Commonwealth. Twenty years ago a three days’
meeting in Adelaide saw £40,000 put through the
machine, then in its embryo stage; and in Maoriland, a
five-day meeting, with eight event* a day on the card,
often sees a £60,000 figure reached. But the bookmaker
has been killed on M.L. courses, not merely bled.
* • • f
At Toowoomba (Q.) Christmas race meeting
veteran John Finnie won six races, all with sons of
Adelaide Cup winner, Warpaint.
» * • *
How Sydney “shop” betters are rooked!
Saturday after Saturday nags go to the various suburban
courses, particularly favorites, when their owners or
trainers haven’t the slightest intention of starting them.
A compact is entered into with one or more “shops"
notorious for dealing in “ stiff ’uns” that the horse is to
go to the course to induce late wagering. Surely the
A. J.C. can devise some scheme for coping with this bare-
faced robbery.
• * « •
“ J.D.” : In a Sydney betting shop one after-
noon recently, suburban race meeting in progress. Two
men were waiting to see if the owners of a certain animal
were putting money on him “out there," but the price,
“ fives,” looked as if it wasn’t so. Presently Mo. altered
the five to three, and the two watchers took the odds to
a sovereign apiece. “They’re coming at him out there,”
they said; “he’ll win in a canter.” Fifteen minutes
afterwards the “good thing” was blotted off the board
altogether—scratched. Perhaps Mo. got that *eratching
a little before the others, and made a few pounds by
shortening the price to make the town punter bite. Mo.
is an artful beggar.
• * * *
Performances thus far of M.L. Seaton Delaval-
Miss Gladys filly Gladsome stamp her the best 3-year-old
in the land over a distance (as a sprinter Machine Gun
has pride of place). She won the Oaks at Christchurch
in November, but, despite that, wasn’t thought extra
good for Auckland Summer Cup t’other day, as witness
the fact that her success brought backers a dividend of
£l5 15s. Even after that turf people generally didn’t give
the youngster much ehahce against Treadmill in the
Derby, but she won that event also, and again paid well
on the machine. Concluding day of meet saw her beat
Auckland Cup winner Wairiki and,Treadmill at w.f.a.,
and do the 1A miles in 2.36 2-5.
• " - -s • • *
Nirvana, narrowly beaten at Rand wick a week
or so before, landed January Stakes at Rosehill on-
Saturday in good style. She was bred on the Clarence
and comes from a good galloping stock—by St. Blaize
from Nanna, by Yattendon out of Atholine (imp.), by
Blair Athol from Habena, by Irish Birdcatcher.
• • * *
Small wonder that increased fees fr-om
N.S.W. “books"are talked of when ’tis noted that, at
its recent meeting, VV.A. Turf Club gathered £2700 from
that source : grandstand ringmen supplied £74 10s. and
outsiders £37 15s. each. These heavy charges and tote
opposition notwithstanding, the books are said to have
done well.
• • * *
Wairiki, who ran away with Auckland (M.L.)
Cup, cost but 70gs. as a yearling, and has already earned
£4OOO, with every prospect, bar accidents, of doubling
the amount. He was ridden by ex-Sydney jock Qains-
ford. Tote investments on the race reached £5066
£l3BO on Treadmill and £ll3O on Wairiki.
* • • •
Biggest winner at recent W.A.T.C. meeting
was Mr. P. Bolger; his nags won five races, and were
second eight and third six times.
* • * *
A coincidence in the second test was supplied
by Trumbte and Rhodes. In each innings of the English-
men long Hughie got the :,v >oerturbable Rhodes with a
1.b.w., and on each occa (on the batsman’s dismissal
brought the day’s play to an end.
• ' • * *
“0.K.”: The wearisomely slow batting of the
Englishmen on the first day of the Melbourne test-match
was worth many hundreds of pounds to the gate. A
bolder and more interesting game would have meant,
say, five wickets, or more, down for 300 runs, or more.
Then they would have been in a position to finish the
game on the second day with an innings and many runs
to spare.! But fast play and quick finishes wouldn’t suit
the gate. Unhappily the management of great cricket
must always be influenced by the fact that it is also gate
cricket. ;
• * * •
Victor Trumper, who batted England to the
four points of the compass on a bad wicket, at Melbourne,
last week, is 26, and stands sft. llin. His brilliant
career : In 1898 he scored 292 (not out) against Tasmania,
in Sydney, and a year later, being included at the last
moment in the Australian XI. to visit England, he scored
300 (not out) against Sussex—the most made by an Aus-
tralian against an English team. From Jan. 1, 1902, to
Feb. 29, 1903, he played 80 innings in first-class cricket
with the following result: In Australia—ls innings,
highest score 178, total 631, average 42'06. In England-
-53 innings, highest score 128, total 2570, average 48'4. In
Africa—l 2 innings, highest score 218 (not out), total
599, average 59"9 ; or a grand total of 3800 runs
averaging 48'7. During the 1902 tour in England he
established these records: Greatest number of runs
made by an Australian in England in a season (2570),
greatest number of centuries (11), highest average (48'49).
He was the only Australian to make a century in each
innings in a match (against Essex, 109 and 119). and is
the only one who has scored in every innings played.
During the tour he made 25 runs in five minutes again t
the Players, while later, in a match Paddington v,
Redfern, he scored 335 runs in 2 hours 40 minutes. In
the first test match last month he made 60 runs in 40
minute*. And last week h* passed the 1000-tun mark in
test matches alone.
* • • •
A London Times man, drawing his conclu-
sions from a profound ignorance of the play as it appeared
to critics on the spot, states that the two test matches hare
proved the English bowling superior to the Australian at
the present moment. Assuming the Times statement to
be correct, which it probably isn’t, the public hereabouts
would like to know in what way the Australians are in-
ferior to the visitors in the art of bowling the wicket
down, or hitting the batsman’s leg with a straight-pitched
ball. In the second test every Australian was caught out,
bar two, who were respectively stumped and run out,
whereas three Englishmen were clean bowled, and
another three retired for l.b.w. Then they went to Bal-
larat and had their stumps knocked down in many cases
by the local men. If the Englishmen are superior
bowlers, why don’t they give the unenlightened outside
worldconvtncingevidenceof theirsuperiority ? Also, if the
object of the best bowlers is not to hit the wicket, why have
three stumps ? The wicket-keeper needs only one stump to
deal with. Again, if the worst bowling is the straightest,
what an enormous advantage the worst bowling would
gam over the best by a widening and heightening of the
wicket I And if the best bowlers were to change their
tactics (as they inevitably would) to suit the altered
conditions of the game, what a lot mor* fun the public
would get for their money 1 Scientific cricket is full of
such matter for reflection.
* * • *
Relf is the solid, unremarkable man of the
English team. His batting average for the two first
tests is 44 (twice not-out in three innings), and if his
bowling figures are poor (1 for 79), he has five catches to
his credit.
* • • *
V B.B.” is emphatic and wild: What the Austra-
lian XI. needs is a “ demon ” trundler—one with a hair-
raising speed, no matter how erratic, in fact the “ wilder ”
the better. Imagine the havoc Jones would have played on
the bad wicket in the recent test; as it was, Trumble
(who is but a medium-paced trundler) was bumping
awfully, and medium-paced Yorkshireman Hirst made
the, balls fly over the heads of the batsman. There
would have been a different tale to tell now had Australia
possessed an “ express ” bowler—it might have meant a
few injured Englishmen ; but what matter, so long as my
country’s reputation kept up! If the selectors won’t
consider the undeniable merit of fast bowlers Marsh and
Henry, why not bring Jones over from Westralia? Then
there’s Eady, from Tasmania, who has been showing top-
notch form with the ball, and scoring centuries from the
bat—he is worthy of consideration. Altogether the
selectors have a fair lot of “fast” trundlers to choose
from. [Since “B.B.” wrote, Jones has broken some of
his own bones in a bicycle accident.]
• • • •
At the time I write this the Aus-
tralians have not a great grip on Warner’s scalp.
Probably when the selection committee dropped Laver
for Trumble it thought that sufficient change had been
made. I suggested something more drastic, and believe
the following men represent this season’s, and not other
seasons’ form : Trumper, Duff, Noble, Armstrong, H.
Trott, Monfries, Trumble, Hill, Olaxton, Gehrs, and
Travers. But this team will get no further than paper.
Four Victorians and three N.S. Welshmen would put
John Haynes into hysterics, and possibly be the means of
bringing the old State out of the Commonwealth.
* • • •
Norwegian Berg’s wood-chopping championship
win at Wairarapa (M.L.) was a wonderful performance,
probably a world’s record. Starting from scratch he
felldd a standing log 4ft. Bin. round in 1 min. 55sec. F. W.
Rasmussen, last year’s champion, was second with 3min.
19sec. Later on he started from scratch and won the
underhand chop in lmin. 43sec., and then went round
cheering the other competitors for the second place.
* * * *
At Wangaratta (Vic.) bicycle sports, on New
Year’s Day, in the one-mile, the leader of a bunch of nine
skidded on the wet grass and fell, bringing down seven
others. A broken wrist, a torn shoulder, gashes on heads,
arms and legs, and innumerable bruises resulted ; but the
track was no sooner cleared than 11 riders came out in
the heavy rain to contest the five-mile event. Before the
winning-post was reached every one of the 11 had skidded
and fallen two or three times, and when the mud-covered
winner finally battled home he found that the stewards
had declared it “ no race ” and gone home.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union’s programme at Sydney
Sports Ground, Saturday, attracted only a moderate
crowd- Programme (28 events) was overdone, and
dragged wearily. Second heat of Half Mile Hep. supplied
sensation ; five starters fell, a confused mixture of legs,
arms, heads, and bikes. Sydney rider Lyon suffered
most, and was sent to hospital. Miller, Queensland, was
hurt, but not seriously. Principal item of the bill,
Mile Amateur Championship, went to Queensland
premier Berry easily in 2.15, and he also annexed a five-
miles special race from R. W. Taylor, who secured
amateur supremacy over same journey on New Year’s
Day through Berry being disqualified for “boring.”
Latest event was put on to define the better man of the
twain, and demonstrate whether Berry’s breach did
make any difference in result of first engagement.
Berry dropped his man a mile from the end, and landed
the honors three-quarters of a lap best, stamping himself
the fastest amateur in the Commonwealth.
* * « *
Syndicate behind big Sydney bike venture had
its first favorable weather Wednesday night last week,
and fully 20,000 looked on. Lawson shaped brilliantly—
one half-mile of his was traversed in 57sec., just outside
world’s record—and though blocked in the final, he went
under by inches only to G. M‘Lean (60yds.) in 56 4-6.
Major Taylor in same event sprinted magnificently with
Mutton and “jumped” to get the palm right on the tape,
and the crowd howled with excitement meanwhile. The
black and white ’Murkans had agreed beforehand regard-
ing pacing and took half laps alternately, Lawson
opening. A third of a lap from the post they were with
the field, but a hunch in front blocked them. Lawson
took the top of the banking and Taylor worked through
his men ; the clear run saw Lawson with 2 yards’ start in
the final 40. Then the negro laid his ears back and flashed
over the line less than a foot behind Lawson, who was
inches from winner—M'Lean. Lawson gathered “The
Ellegard” (5m.) from 17 others and a length ahead of
Mutton (through a paralysing finishing sprint) in 11.2.
The alleged pocketing of Major Taylor at the
recent Sydney bike-meeting was his own fault. He
attempted to get through the field when he ought to have
gone round it. Taylor invariably attempts the sensa-
tional, and therein differs materially from Ivor Lawson.
Taylor seldom wins by yards, and loves a close finish,
with risks; Lawson would win by “a street," if he
could, and always keeps away from danger.
* * » •
Dear Bulletin,—A recent par in your sport-
ing : “ Soheps will probably go on winning races for a
year or two, and then it will dawn on him, if he is a
person of ordinary intelligence, that there is nothing in
the game—nothing to justify the premature wearing out
of his boiler, anyhow.” Now, to be a success as a racer,
a main must avoid all dissipation, and keep himself in
perfect health, for that, in reality, is what “form"
means. One has only to attend a cycle meeting to see
what a fine, robust, well-developed healthy-looking lot of
men the racers are. I challenge your sporting writer to
name one man who has broken down under the strain of
cvcle training and racing.—J. H. Sandberg.
* * * *
East Sydney Club’s 10th yearly carnival at
Rushcutter’s Bay saw some wonderful speed displays.
Tuisclub has won the Flying Squadron Championship
four times in succession and five times altogether. On
this occasion by 12yds. in smin. 17 2-ssec., 5 l-ssec. faster
than its own previous best. Island bov Wickham tried to
break his own world’s best (25 3-ssec. for 50yds.), but
through starting-pistol missing fire he anticipated the
report, and though clocked in some places as having done
it in 24 3-5, and officially 25sec., the time will not be
allowed. Dick Cavill’s swim in the last relay of the big
club event was a wonderful performance. Giving Lane
full 20yds. he gained eight on him, and according to
various watches covered the 100yds. in 58 3-5 and 675e0.,
either of which is better than his own world’s best of
53 3-5. He tore through the water like a Brennan tor-
pedo, in a marvellous fashion. Unfortunately as the event
was not officially timed, it cannot be recognised as a
record.
* • • •
Yachting gleamed brightly in the Sydney publio
interest over Sayonara (Vic.) ana Bona (N.S.W.) contest.
First match was decided “ outside," Saturday, over a
course from Port Jackson Heads to a flag mark 10 miles
dead to windward and back to starting point. Crowded
steamers followed, and South Head cliffs were alive with
spectators. Bona, controlled by “ Syd.” Dempster,
opened with much to the good, but Sayonara’s weather
capabilities were superior in the first long tack—she
pointed higher and made better seaway. On outward
journey Sayonara held a big advantage, but skipper
“ Billy ” Bobb overstood the flag considerably, and Bona’s
master benefited to the extent of minutes. Bona showed
better before the wind, and at the end only went under
by lmin. 26sec. in excess of her time allowance (2.58).
Winner occupied 4hr. 27min. 4sec. over the journey.
Conditions were fair for both—a strong N.E.E. wind with
little sea.
* • • *
Monday’s moderate breeze and fairly smooth
water provided more harbor-like conditions for second
match between Sayonara and Bona, and, as a conse-
quence, Sydney yachtsmen were sanguine of their crack’s
success. Wind came from the N.E. Course was triangu-
lar-first leg to windward, next a run, and last a
reach. In the thrash to windward Bona showed much
improvement upon her previous display, and rounded
first mark close on 3min. to the good ; and, though the
lead was somewhat lessened subsequently, Sayonara
never looked like wiping it all out. Bona won lmin.
50sec. to the good without her time allowance. Skipper
of local yacht out-manmuvred t’other at the start and
secured the weather berth, which he held till well
in front. Full course was about 21 knots, and times
announced: Bona, 4h. 15min. lOsec.; Sayonara, 4h. 17min.
Margin in Bona’s favor was, with time allowance (Sinin.
6sec.), 4min. 56sec.
The third race, on Tuesday, resulted in a nar-
row win for the Sayonara, which thus took the rubber.
Evidently in deep sea yachting Melbourne is not at all
Blow.
* • * •
“ Jab.” : Heavyweight champion bruiser, Billy
M’Ooll, despairing of his injured shoulder recovering
sufficiently to warrant him in fighting again within at least
six months, is looking round for someone upon whom he
can drop the mantle of supremacy. M'Coll should
hang on to his championship, for, lame shoulder and all
given in, it isn’t anyway plain just now that there is
another as well able to defend it.
• * • •
M.L. Fitzsimmons’ fight with ’Murkan light
heavyweight George Gardiner showed that the bald-
pated freak is now a pronounced back number. Had it
not been that Gardiner was scared of him for several
rounds he must have gone under, as when the Yankee,
encouraged by Fitz’s inability to hurt seriously, and his
plainly fast waning power, went in to do something, he
had the lank limbed ex-world’s champion clinging close
as a leech. The man from M.L. got the decision on
points, but it’s any odds he’ll remain outside the ropes
in future unless necessity decrees otherwise, which is not
quite beyond probability, as he hasn’t been over thrifty.
Said that though Fitz scaled verging on 2001 b. for hi*
fight with Jeffries a few months back, he at one time,
while training for Gardiner, went down to 1621 b., and
that brought serious trouble ; the fighter was a sick man
before the battle, and a sicker one after it.
• • • *-
“Jab.” : From the newspaper accounts of the
Felix-Euenalf scrap seems to me that the Maori’s was a
much over-lauded performance. When Buenalf wasn’t
smothering, covering his face with his forearms and
backing away to the ropes, he was rushing in with his
head down and clinging. If Felix attempted to hit him (as
he had a right to do) while in that position, the storm of
hoots threatened to lift the roof. Buenalf’s wild work
seems to have been mere melodrama, and the “ sounding
whacks" he.is alleged to have scored were merely open-
handed slaps. The West Indian was never seriously
pushed, while the Maori was at the last gasp many times.
In the seventh round, Buenalf went to the boards as the
result of a lively mix up, and the fool-crowd roared
“ foul 1 ” If there was anything foul, it was on the part
of Buenalf. In fact, Buenalf proved himself merely an
exhibition boxer, not a fighter ; a man of taps and slap,s
instead of punches, and his favorite “ blow ” was one that
even a Jeffries could have put no power into—a short
back-hander with the left. The broken left of which bo
much was made was not broken, and was a very slight
injury indeed. Another round would have seen him
knocked out, and his backers, who happened to be in the
vicinity of the police, talked loudly about the brutality of
the thing, and that officer thinking, when the ordinary
boxing-hall habitues sickened, the slaughter must be
dreadful, stopped the fight.
• • • *
Battle between heavies Bill Thompson and
Wyalong pug Ted Arthurs at Sydney National S.C. last
week was fierce. They sledge-hammered each other for
eleven exciting rounds. Thompson was scientific;
Arthurs bulldoggy. The latter held his left out as a fend
for the enemy’s swings, and dug his own right into
Thompson’s ribs and stomach, and jolted it on his military
Jaw till he jarred all the life out of the soldier, who should
have been taken away during the tenth round instead of
being left as a chopping block through the eleventh.
* • * •
“ Old Timer”: Friendly attempts to resuscitate
whilom skilful “ fedder,” hut now close up middleweight,
Tweedie don’t look like panning out too well, though he
has already settled a couple of “no class” men. There
are none in his weight class (or near it) better than he
used to be, and yet Tweedie is only a youngster—about
24 at most—and, despite unhealthy environments, not by
any means bad at heart. Gaffney would certainly have
squelched Tweedie last week but for angrily butting his
head hard into the enemy’s larder, and earning prompt
and proper disqualification.
A combination of alleged pugs, including “Bird
Whacks, champion bantam of Australia,” and “ Bob Frost,
ex-champion of Australia,” inflicted themselves upon
Masterton(M.L.), recently, and are “doing” the country
towns generally. Neither of the pair knows the A B C of
the game, apparently, and they are evidently working on
the names of Bert Weekes and Charlie Frost, the clever
Sydney boxers, who, so far from being in M.L., don’t
even dream of-going there.
« * • *
“ Uppercut ” : Why did all the old-time prize-
fighters hold their fists palm uppermost ? And why do
the moderns invariably fly to the other extreme ? The
method that imposes the least strain on the muscles, and
at the same time admits of the most speedy hitting, is
with the thumb nearest the ceiling and the little finger
nearest the floor. But followers of every sport are a
peculiar mixture of conservatism and fashion-following.
Note how so many present-day pugs, adopt the left, hand
twist, most tiring to the muscles of the forearm, in the
vain hope of getting in the corkscrew hit that only one
man on earth—Kid M‘Coy—was able to use effectively in
actual combat. The last of the fighters underQueensbery
conditions to cling to the palm uppermost position was
old Peter Jackson.
* » • * f
Football has an enormous hold in the land of
the Moa. Somehow the M.L. Eugby Union has the knack
of making things pay, and although the expenses for
sending the M.L. team to N.S.W. and Queensland last
year totalled £614, the Union finished the season over
£3OO to the good.
» * - * *
Seems almost certain an English football team
will visit Australia this year, and return to England with
the M.L. team. It is to be regretted that the N.S.W.
authoritifS did not take the M.L. body into the manage-
ment of the team. Seddon’s Isles have always been the
stronghold of Bugby in this part of tne gioiie, and the
jqalousy of the N.S.W. Bugby Union will certainly tend
to bad fee'ing. Visit will probably be a succession of
triumphs for the Englishmen against N.S.W., whereas a
test match against combined M.L. and N.S.W. would
have brightened things up considerably.
• * * »
Maoriland Rugby Union has sensibly ruled that,
in deciding any question between a player and a referee,
only the evidence of the latter is admissible, on the
ground that the referee is in sole charge of the game and
his decision as to facts must be final if his authority is to
be maintained.
* * * *
Second round (Saturday) of N.S.W. bowling
Pennant matches resulted in six clubs—Strathfield,
Annandale, St. Leonards, Ashfield, Balmain and Band-
wick dropping out. In two contests—Gladstone Park v.
Parramatta and Petersham v. Balmain—there were ties,
and the first-named team in each instance won the extra
head called for by the rules by two points. Generally-,
matches were very close. As far as may be judged thus
early-, final rounds look like being fought by Waverley,
City and Victoria Park, with Waverley for a right-out
choice. Bowlers engaged in second round totalled 328.
• • * *
France’s craze for excitement. Against 1627
races on the flat there were 1750 lepping events in that
country during 1902.
• • » *
“D.”: Saw a Ohow punter in the Leger at
Bandwick. He got a good thing from another cabinet-
maker who was in the paddock, and raced madly, with
half-a-crown in each hand, to the nearest Mo. “ What
you lay me Jimmy Doorstep ? What you lay ? ” Mo. had
enough of Jim Dorset, so he roared out, “Six dollars
Dead Stiff,’' passed John the ticket, and raked in the
dollars before he had finished speaking. John thought
there was something fishy about the bet, and kept his
eye on Mo. while the race was being run. When Jim
Dorset won, and Mo. refused to disgorge, John besieged
him-from eighteen different points at once. Mo. cursed,
and tried to explain that the ticket was for Dead Stiff,
“ who didn’t get a drum,” but the Ohow screeched out,
“ Jimmy Doorstep,” until a hundred people gathered
around Mo. and made snatches at his bag while he argued
with John. The Chow was in front of him, behind him,
between his legs, and spinning round him like a yellow
comet, yelling “Jimmy Doorstep,” until Mo.’s bad
language failed him. Finally, he threw the two-half-
crowns on the ground, and cursed John when he went to
pick them up, while the clerk dropped an empty beer-
bottle on his head. “ Gorstrewth,” said Mo., “if ever I
bet with a flaming Chow again I hope some flat will take
me down for my brace buttons.” John went over to the
fence and told the countryman inside that Mo. was an
impostor, and Mo. couldn’t get a bet for twenty minutes
afterwards.
Have you ever driven in a vehicle fitted with
Dunlop-Kelly Solid Rubber tyres? If not, then there is
a treat in store for you. The improvement is most
marked, noise and vibration being reduced to a minimum
and you seemingly glide along. The Dunlop Tyre Co.
are now fitting thousands of wheels throughout Aus-
tralia, and it will be only a matter of time before all up-
to-date vehicles will be so fitted. These tyres last for
years on private vehicles, and soon pay for themselves in
saving of wear and tear. The Dunlop Tyre Co. will be
pleased to send you an artistic catalogue and list on
receipt of your name and address.*
• • * *
The proprietors cf Wolfe’s Schnapps offer £5O
to the person who Can foretell the exact result of the
fourth test match. All that the competitor has to do is
to cut out the label, headed “Caution to the Public,”
which is on the yellow wrapper of each bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps, and write a forecast on the back after this
manner: “I select (say) the Australian Team to win the
Fourth Test match by innings, wickets, runs.
John Jones, 114 Mary-street, Junee.N.S.W.” Anyone is at
liberty to buy whole cases of the Schnapps so as to have
many chances of winning the £6o.*
* * ♦ *
The Sydney Benevolent Societies’ fifth annual
fete is announced for Sydney Town Hall, on Jan. 26th,
with a popular and varied programme. An art union is
being run in connection with the concert, under the
sanction of the Attorney-General. It will be drawn at
the end of February. The first prize is a golden
kangaroo, worth £l5O, which would make an elegant
ornament for any household. But there’s a dark sus-
picion that the winner of that animal will receive not the
kangaroo but its worth in cash.*
The
Woman
Who is discouraged and run down after having
tried doctor after doctor without getting any
permanent relief may regain health and happiness.
Thousands of these sick and discouraged women
have been benefited by the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. As a simple unit of one of
the many thousands who have been restored to
health and happiness through Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, we publish the letter of Mrs. E.
Bousfield, 138 Crown-street, Surrey, Hills. She
writes: —
“I am very glad of the opportunity of being-
able to give my testimony as to the benefit I have
derived from Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I
suffered for years with kidney complaint, bilious-
ness with headaches that nearly drove me mad.
I tried all sorts of remedies and consulted doctors,
but with no avail, and I began to feel that I should
never be right again. I could hardly stand, and
the pains across my back were so bad that it
made me a perfect invalid. I was at last induced
and advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
by a friend who had derived great benefit from
them. I did so, and I can now say with every
truthfulness that I am now in better health than
ever I was. I have no trouble now in getting
about and doing my work, in fact I can hardly
' realise that it was Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
that put me right and cured me ; but of that I am
perfectly certain, and I would not on any account
be without them. I take them with me wherever
I go. I can certainly advise and recommend them
to any women similarly troubled, to give them a
trial, and I am sure they will quickly feel the
benefit.”
For all female complaints and disorders arising
from a diseased stomach these pills are invaluable.
They cleanse the stomach, put life in the liver, aid
the kidneys, and purify the blood. Packed in
amber bottles, and sold throughout Australasia.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE » LACE
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


Far-out Barrier was the only one of the
26 Representatives districts which gave a
majority for 125 in the N.S.W. Reduction of
Members referendum—the Labor ticket said 125
and it voted by the ticket almost to a man. Yet
curiously, though the Barrier is about the most
solid Labor district in the State, only one of
its four Assembly members belongs to the N.S.W.
Labor party. The party’s past internal rows have
lost it the other three.
~ Transvaal Chamber of Mines, the
patriotic ’ concern which four or five years ago
called upon J. Bull to wipe out the Boer and ex-
tend the Empire, has now formed a special Lon-
don committee to help on the yellow-labor part
of. the plot. .There are 13 members of this com-
mittee of British patriots, and the names of some
of them are : Julius Wernher, Louis Leopold,
Solly Joel, Leopold Albu, Sigmund Neumann,
Henry Strakosh, Anton Brunkels, Isaac Lewis,
J uhus Berlein, and Marquis D’Hautpoul.
“A man can measure his distinction in
Australia by the virulence of the press abuse he
gets.”— Attorney-General Drake.
During the recent invasion of Victoria by
the Rev. Dill Macky, an enterprising parson got
him to promise to preach on a certain Sunday
evening. The same parson had Rev. Represen-
tative Ronald billed for the morning service, and
when Dill suddenly telegraphed his inability to
keep his engagement, Ronald was asked to take
both services. There was a strong gathering of
the bilious mongrel ready to welcome its Dill,
and when the preacher inveighed vigorously
against bigotry and ostentatiously wiped the floor
with the Yellow Pup, it felt that it had been
licked in its own back yard, and had its own Joss
thrown at it in its own tabernacle. It might
have taken a picturesque vengeance by suing for
the return of its threepenny on the ground that
the coin had been obtained under false pretences
but apparently it didn’t think of that.
“G.” : One good point in C.J. Griffith’s
Queensland criminal code is that involving one
year’s gaol for publicly attacking a religious
creed. Up North, Dill Macky, Digby Berry,
Cardinal Moran, Simon Fraser, and certain
others could all be run in under that. It may be
tyranny, but it leads to peace.
“ War E.” : Spite of many shortcomings,
I had always considered George Reid’s Dry Dog
a fairly respectable sort; but since George has
allowed Dill to tie the tin-kettle of sectarianism
to his dog’s tail, I have altered my opinion. No
dog can be respectable that goes about with a
dirty, battered old tin-kettle swinging to his tail,
And no owner can really think much of his dog’s
respectability who allows it to be decorated that
Many sufferers from rheumatism have been
surprised and delighted at the prompt relief from
pain obtained by applying Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm. A permanent cure may also be effected
by continuing to use it for a short time. Sold
everywhere at Is. 6d.*
*»Jour. vigorous letter to
¥ aloney ’ t 0 hel P hl ™ !\ hls fi ? ht ™ th
the MEacharn, was one of the brightest breeziest
incidents of the Melbourne struggle. Said Ren-
toul, after reciting his fine, broad Christian
Creed
T „ ncbtunniM. .
progregs, you. Dr. Malonej, have been amongst the fore-
P°j ’ ® e . ' and „ fearles ,! l
a J
an/| o Eh»ih, U /,i een t amongst
the most persistent foes and opponents of reform and
nrafnKl S ft White^Anstralia^ 1
nil T n ihereia°nii TnUot. fii wSll'n °
f «u W i l0 n S H
fnHnlnH n 'revevenee fer iimnnnut' e Jni e ~ Gratl f
tude and reveience for Humanity, will vote for you at
the coming election. I heartily wish you success.
And the M Eacharn is a front-pew Scotchby
tenan, too !
Interesting, in face of the results of ti e
Federal elections, to watch the progress of
Morgan’s Electoral Reform Bill in tfie Q. State
Parliament next year. Toryism in Queensland is
fighting in the last ditch—and fighting desperately,
Certain of the old Philp party allege that the
Council will fight one adult one vote to the last
«asp. If it does it will invite its own destruction.
Another Australian’s experience in Dur-
ban, S’Africa (in applying for employment):
j a t; once produced three references, but the first one
“ spoilt the whole show.” It was from an ex-Premier of
Victoria, in whose office I served until the war broke out,
when I caught the war fever, so prevalent in Australia at
, ~ .. ,
ITZ *d" iSSSftl “
Dearß. In Political Points (24/12/03),
V? u misus , e a J 1 Australian slanguage,
, ou 8& J that , av j£ Syme ‘‘ took half a box of
brown beans for baffled boshters. At that rate,
. V me 18 a bosnter. My interpretation of boshter
13 ® splendid thing, or person. It is sometimes an
sJSS^ltis
Text-Book thusly: Boshter, splendid ; Bonzah,
raor e splendid; Bontostah, most splendid.—
Kaylek.
. ’ _ _ _
A New Book on Breathing. Dr. W.
Arbuthudt Lane, Guy’s Hospital and Hospital for Chil-
dren> London, and Dr. Seares Spicer, Surgeon Throat
Department St. Mary’s Hospital, London, in recent lec-
tures point out that, in order to prevent adenoid growths,
etc - > ea<sh child must be taught to breath correctly. The
book to be published, for which orders are being received,
j, v jj r p M a thias Alexander Roval Chambers corner
Hunter an d Castlereagh-streets, Sydney, will’ enable
parents to teach their children to bieathe correctly. The
author is at present treating patients recommended by
the lcadin g members of the medical profession of Sydney
and Melbourne, and the book contains details of his
methods as applied in “The Treatment of Disease”;
« The Cultivation of the Human Voice” ; “ Physical Oul-
ture and Body Building ”; and particulars will be found
0 n our Red Page regarding the contents and “ Order
Form.”*
40
rinl
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. . . .
For Value and Quality our Brooches are unsurpassed
The LARGEST SELECTION in Sydney. OVER 1000 DIFFERENT DESIGN 3.
These are Two of our Newest Patterns
lovely Gold Brooch, set with Red or Blue
Stones and Pearls, £1 2s. 6d.
All Goods
Post Free
throughout
Australia.
Illustrated
Catalogue
forwarded on
application.
Real Pearl and Turquoise Spray
Brooch, exceptional value, £1 7s. 6d,
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd.
90 KING ST., SYDNEY
(Immediately next door to the Fresh
Fond and Ice Compliny’s Tea Rooms).
yO
u
11
N.
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
v 6
yo-
o
5 »«»ooq
H
MAKERS OF,
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Gordon Bennett Oup, 1903)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
.ranc.hmihflu."ateB- Q7A Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia 1 '«■
HESSELMANN & GO.
34 Queen St.,
el bourne
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model .RED BIRD BICYCLE
Bum tor speed ana Strength. Every part of a RED BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearing's and Chain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for vears. Cash or terms
Second-Hand Bicycles
taken in Part Payment.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney I
Whitaker’s Almanac and Peerage for
1904 are to hand. The Peerage is not of very
great interest to Australia, but the Almanac,
with its steady improvement year by year, is a
necessity to public men. Statistical tables, with
special reference to the Preferential Trade sug-
gestions, are a feature of this issue.
The book of Phil May in Australia will be
published by The Bulletin Co. on Monday next,
17th January. The price to subscribers before
publication is 10s. 6 d. net: on publication the
price will be raised to 11. Is., whioh the book is
well worth.*
"pOIt the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
Zl ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” -3XJ
situated at 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
offi ce. Proprietor—GEO. IF, ELLIS,
advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF tl4lbs.
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.
SNAPSHOOTING
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKI
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/« kbtt j
Posted, 1/2. 1
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ Fyou wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. CRSEHE-PS
V/orld-Renawnetl GUNS and RiFLSS.
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
arpHcat?on tt to-- UeS a " paKticulars ' 011
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(ureeuer s Kepresentative).
■iESS
GILBERT’S
7
f
3
3
Stocktaking Sale Bargains.
You read about this in last week’s Bulletin ; now note these Reductions
in the
“Economic” Clothing Department.
READY-TO-WEAR SUITS.
Usual price 25/- Sale price 21/-
Usual price 30/- Sale price 25/6
Usual price 35/- Sale price 30/-
Usual price 40/- Sale price 34/-
Usual price ... ... 45/- Sale price 38/-
In any size. Tweed, Worsted, or Indigo Blue Serge (warranted to keep the color).
My reputation for fair and square dealing is a guarantee that WHEN I
ADVERTISE REDUCTIONS THEY ARE ABSOLUTELY GENUINE.
Write for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms.
“ Money’s Worth or Money Back.”
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
A
A
Solid Rubber Carriage^
for Fast {.Pleasurable llriving.
No Noise or Vibration • Last for Yeans-and
Double the Life of Your Vehicle. From 15 &■
upwards a Set
Jhe Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co.ofAus.Lfd Nelb.sydney.srbbanc. Adelaide. Pcrthe- Cfich. N.Z,
SYDNEY HOUSE : ISO CLARENCE STREET.


“Elmore,” on meeting a girl :
Struck a tight place last week. Was staying with,
some friends near Melbourne. They were expecting a
servant from the country and asked me to meet her at
the train and bring her along. Her name was Miss
Smith. I got to Spencer-street just as the train arrived,
had a look at the passengers, and picking one who ought
to be Smith by her appearance, I raised my hat and asked
her was she that lady. The look that woman gave me
nearly froze me; she answered frigidly : “ No, sir, I’m
not,” and turned on her heel. I went on to another
probable female, and asked her was she Miss Smith.
“ No, I haint,” said she, “ and look here, young feller, if
yer try any Melbing tricks on me I’ll give yer in charge.”
Several people began to laugh so I sheered off rapidly.
Then I struck a stout lady, and bluntly asked her was she
the servant Mrs. H was expecting. She seemed
petrified by the question for a moment, then she let go.
It seemed she was a lady of affluence in the bush, and the
mother of six children. I went and hid myself behind
some luggage to swear. When I looked out again, most
of the people were gone, but I saw a young woman
standing by a portmanteau and looking round her
expectantly. I went right up to her bad-temperedly,
and, grasping the portmanteau said, “I’ve been
waiting a dashed long time for you, Miss Smith ;
come along.” Her scream of rage could be heard in
Flinders-street, and she struck me on the hat with her
gamp and Called for the police. She was a dreadful
woman, and climbed all over me in a few seconds. Just
then a bright little creature with golden hair, whom I
had passed a couple of times thinking she was Ada Cross-
ley, asked me : “Are you from Mrs. H to meet Miss
Smith?” She fixed my hat for me, adjusted my collar
where the false female had torn it, and took my arm.
On the way home she confided to me that she tried to
write poetry.
Are \}gu quite sure
you are enjoying the exact Tobacco that suits you, or are you simply
smoking on, the same old pipe that you have smoked for years — because ,
you've smoked it for years ? If you are the least little bit inclined to make a
change, do it now, for never in the history of Tobacco manufacture was
there such a wonderful improvement, both in the growing of the leaf and in
the making of the tobacco therefrom.
You would be pleasantly surprised to find that in
HAVELOCK Tobacco
you had found something far and away better than anything you had dreamt
of. There is no brand in the World that is so alluring in flavour and solid
in quality as “ Havelock," and one trial would convince you, that there
is more real satisfaction and pleasure to be got out of smoking a genuine
tobacco than you were aware of.
Try a Plug or a Tin of" Havelock" Tobacco. Smoke it, say, for a month,
and then see if anything would tempt you to go back to any other brand.
“Havelocl<” mal(cs friends and l(eeps them.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Locltyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
Lotties Is. everywhere.
The British Admiralty, in naming the new
battleships of the “King Edward” type after
various sections of the Empire, inspired the
dismal Brisbane Telegkaph to this burst of
labored humor: —
Seemingly, it was a grave oversight to leave out of con-
sideration such names as “Chamberlainia,” •' Prefer-
enlialia,” “Silken Bondsia,” and kindred high-sounding
appellations. Indeed, now that Australia has fallen so
completely under the thrall of socialistic versus society
extremists, one of the new battleships certainly should
be called “ Socialistica,” and another “ Graballem." . . .
All this reminds us of a certain well-known squire in the
time of George IV., who possessed a magnificent hunter,
which all the folk around greatly envied. He named the
horse “ Calamity,” and the suggestiveness of the name
completely discouraged every superstitious neighbor from
asking the loan of the ill-named brute. Should the
Imperial Admiralty take the hint herein conveyed, they
will name one of these new King Edward line of battle-
ships by a name which will carry omen and terror into
every heart on board of her ; and then, with excellent
design, they will cause her to founder amid terrific
circumstances, thus spreading superstitious dismay
amongst the socialists of Australia. Considering that
tlie political faith of those socialists is entirely based on
superstition, it would not take very much to knock the
bottom out of it.
And after all this laborious fuss the Brisbane
organ quite forgot to mention whetherit proposed
that the new and alarming ironclad should be
n ■med “Insolvent Land Bank” or “Kanaka” or.
“Public Debt” or what.
A sore throat may be quickly cured by applying
a flannel bandage dampened with Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm. A lame back, a pain in the side or
chest, should be treated in a similar manner. Pain
Balm is also famous for its cures of rheumatism.
Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
THE
LONDON
42/- TO ORDER.
SMART
CLOTHES
For Summer are what we are showing—they are
the best and dressiest that it is possible to make.
There must be extraordinary merit in these
"LONDON” 42/- SUITS
to have gained the reputation they have amor g
smartly-dressed men for style and quality of
material. We guarantee a perfect fit if you send
for one of our Measurement Forms, together with
a selection of Patterns—Post Free.
LONDON TAILORING
DEPOT,
OPP. Q.P.0., fIELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES).
PURE UME-rRUIT JUICC
DO you DRJNK LIME JUICE ?
111111111 l
THEN DRINK CHE BEST
Agents —Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
O. Coheh & Co., Newcastle.
coroial^MS^.
Eureema Ointment.
4 Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, ‘2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN <& CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Or. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
5/- Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
ents
Sub-Agents
f Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne.
IFaulding & Co., Sydney Adelaide, Perth.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
i Nothing remains which can
l produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; bl< od enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up ; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and ITnv Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr P. Harold Hayes’ Asthmatic Institutk,
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. S. A.
X
means
DANGER!
Wilson’s
Commonsense
Ear Drums
mean relief and
SAFETY
Send a postcard to day lor
descriptive booklet (posted
free),giving testimonialsfrom
Australian users Established
8 years: sales largely increas-
ing. Address. J. Chalmers,
829-331 Collins St., Melbourne
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W\ o. ELDRIDGE & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
C ountry Orders by post f rom alt the colonies vromvllu
attended to.


It is a noticeable fact in Victoria that the
words “Socialism” and “Socialist” are being
preferred by many Radicals and Laborites. At
one time if you called a Radical a “Socialist” he
felt insulted and wanted to punch your head, but
now the reply is: “Yes, lam a Socialist. What
are you—a Deform Leaguer or an Employers’
Federationist ? ” *
One can get a general impression of what trades
unionism and “Labor platforms” have done for
the mass of workers since the 70’s by merely
remembering that John Bright, the so-called
Tribune of the People fifty years ago, was a
Sweater, with a capital S. Not only a sweater in
theory, a perfervid opponent of factory legis-
lation and an advocate of cruel child-labor, but
a sweater by example. He practised what he
preached as regards “ political economy and the
laws of supply and demand ” what time he was
intoxicating his slavish hearers with his eloquent
cant of brotherly love. The John Bright of
1844, as a factory-owner of to-day, would be the
pet abomination of the Labor party, and even an
Employers’ Union would blush to own him. It
seems incredible that a professed humanitarian
could have been so saturated with the old com-
mercial doctrines of Employers’ Rights. It is
even more incredible that the workers of that
comparatively recent period could have regarded
any factory-owner as their friend. The Factory
Act of 1844 was an improvement on the Act of
1833, by wi.’ch children from nine to 13 years of
age were “ restricted ” to 48 hours of labor per
week, and young persons of from 13 to 18 were
restricted to 68. The new Act prohibited children
of nine from working more than 6$ hours on some
days, and compelled them to attend school on
these “half-holidays.” John,Bright, the People’s
Tribune, opposed that mild reform of factory
legislation. It hurt his economic principles.
Some relics of old Sydney are to be seen
in Margaret-lane, south of Jamison-street, where
at one time the Military Barracks stood. Two
ancient cannon stand as gate guards to a ware-
house entrance. The gun of a century ago was
a simple hole with iron round it, and it could be
used as a drain or a gate post or a ventilator or
many other things when it was off duty.
Polling Day neath Kosciusko.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dut back on the Monaro tableland, where fine,
free breezes blow across groat stretches of plain
and rolling downs, to meet the faces of hearty,
wholesome folk, Polling Day showed something of
a national feeling. The Monaro has not yet
learned to be provincial. It lacks direct railway
communication with the metropolis, and so
escapes the Sydney dailies, the mosquitoes, and
sectarianism. The district started “Australian,”
its eyes turned neither towards Sydney nor Mel-
bourne, but to the steeple of Australia, Kosciusko,
on one side and the harbor of Eden on
the other, and has remained Australian since,
escaping the choking domination of the great
octopus cities, and preserving the free, breezy,
hospitable characteristics which stamped this
continent half-a-century or so ago, before the era
of calioo-Jimmyism and borrowing and religious
rowdyism.
The absence of any contest for the House of
Representatives—Mr. Austin Chapman being
returned unopposed in spite of many eager invita-
tions for Mr. Reid to come down and face a
genuinely Australian constituency—deprived the
voting on December 16 of any excitement, but,
that notwithstanding, many of the people put
their other business aside to come to the booths
and plump for the national ticket for the
Senate. They did not know the candidates
personally; the vexations of a delayed shear-
ing and the occurrence of a cold snap gave
an adequate excuse for neglecting the polling ;
nevertheless a big vote was recorded in the district
for the Australian cause.
Moonbah was a typical Monaro polling-booth—
a little voting station out on the ranges far beyond
Buckley’s Crossing, away to the south of Jinda-
byne. I started for Moonbah with Mr. Merrett,
who was to act as presiding officer there, from
Mr. Rose’s Boloko homestead, somewhere about
dawn. A fast and sure-footed pair of Monaro
ponies carried us up the ranges to the side of a
little mountain tarn by eight o’clock. There were
then two voters waiting—men from the milking
sheds anxious to get back to their cows. Through-
out the day some half-hundred or so trickled in—
men and women, almost all on horseback. Now and
again a woman came riding in with a suckling
babe. All who voted were asked to have lunch
or tea by the owner of the little homestead, and,
seated around a big fire in the kitchen, ate
mutton and griddle cakes and drank tea in relays.
This hospitality was looked upon as quite a
matter of course. Among these big-hearted people
there is always a bite for neighbor and stranger,
and a bit of feed for his horse. (On the Monaro
no one walks—one chases a horse half a mile to go
on a quarter-mile trip.)
At seven the poll closed, and the last of the men
and women who had come at such great sacrifice
of time to vote on an issue which touched them in
no _ way personally, had ridden away. The pre-
siding officer at the booth had still much to do.
In the darkening twilight—the last of the day’s
glow taking shelter in the purple ravines of the
hills from the clouding hosts of night—the horses
were harnessed up, the sealed ballot box taken
aboard, and a rush made for Jindabyne. Electoral
regulations, which were designed to provide the
acme of muddle and inconvenience, declared that at
booths where less than 100 votes were cast, the boxes
were to be sealed and forwarded on to the next
polling station. Through the dark and frosty
night, over a rough track, the sure-footed ponies
rattled along, until the musical chatter of the
Snowy as it ran over a small rapid told that Jinda-
byne was near. There under the.shadow of the
great mountain, high above the stress and din of
the big cities, we talked over the possible results—
with no atom of news to guide—and concluded
that the National cause must have prevailed. It
was Australia there—among the gums, under the
high brow of Kosciusko, by the side of the river
which alone of our streams flows ever clean and
strong—and it seemed impossible to think that
elsewhere vision would be less clear, eyes beclouded
with all manner of fogs, smuts, smokes, and
slimes. Not until Sydney was fairly reached
could one believe that Messrs. Neild, Pulsford
and Gray were the elected Senators of the State*
F.R.
JrtQt&ESTION
POISONS THE
BLOOD
as surely as a serpent's bite. It
lessens brain power, lowers vi-
tality, produces languor, sleep-
lessness, headaches, nervous
depression, and is the cause of
nearly all our other ailments.
THE KEY TO HEALTH IS
good digestiop, secured by tak-
ing thirty drops of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup daily, after meals.
“For years I suffered from
indigestion, with all its painful
and distressing symptoms, and
was also a martyr to habitual
constipation. Medical treat-
ment failed to afford me any
lasting benefit, but five bottles
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup re-
moved all traces of both
indigestion and constipation.
George Howitt, Church Street.
West Maitland, N.S.W."
*
Bananaland.
P. Luma writes frmn Brisbra* i
Robert Brothers, in his very interesting sketch
entitled “ Bananaland " (B. 17/9/’O3) falls into one or two
notable errors. “Politically,” he says, “the Queens-
lander is the most apathetic man in the whole of the
Commonwealth, and he has need of the most energy. At
bottom the electors are Democrats, but delayed education
and immigration and doctored rolls have been against
the Democracy.” As a matter of fact, the Queenslander
is anything but apathetic in matters political. There
are certain constituencies about the metropolis whose
people have not yet learnt the political alphabet, but,
generally speaking, the Queenslander is, comparatively,
keen and alert on matters of public interest. At the 1902
election, out of 108,548 on roll 80,076 persons voted, or
78 88 p.c. of the total number on roll. How does that
compare, say, with South Australia, where in 1899 only
67 p.c. of the men and 57 p.c. of the women enrolled
went to the polls ? How does it compare with Maoriland,
where, for the last three elections, an average of 74-8 of
the male population on roll expressed their views at the
ballot? Queensland official records, it is true, say noth-
ing of the number of plural votes recorded, but it must
also be remembered that there are considerably over
20,000 men in Queensland not on the rolls—mostly
nomads, about the most ardent poli. icians in the whole
of Australia—men whose Bible is The Bulletin or the
Worker--men who regularly devour Hansard—men who
are Democratic right through to the core.
Take a few town constituencies in this “apathetic”
land. Ipswich'recorded 90.76 p.c. of its total enrolment
last election ; Bundaberg, 86.55 p.c. ; North Rockhamp-
ton, 79.38 p.c. ; Charters Towers, 83.8 p.c. Take country
electorates : The Barcoo voted Co the tune of 80 p.c.; the
blinders, 73 p.c. ; the Cunningham, 82.99 p.c. ; Oarpen-.
taria, 80.15 p.c. In some of these districts men rode 50
and 60 miles to vote ! Apathy ! If this be apathy, ’tis
a pity the disease is not catching. There is not a State
in Australia anything like as powerful in Democratic,
representation in the Federal Parliament as Queensland
and Democratic representation is not generally indicative
of public apathy.
It is also worthy' of note that Mr. Brothers’ rem irk
that “ almost every hotel has a Chinese cook and a
Chinese offsider,” would bear some mod.fieation. The
cook, now, is pretty' often a Jap. A case comes to m rid
where a Chinese cook out West was assist 'd by a Jap off-
sider. It was during the Jap-Chinesj war, and, as news
of his country’s victories arrived from time to time, the
Chrysanthemum-lander became boastful and insubordi-
nate. One day, a row was heard near the kitchen, and
the little Jap was picked up with a huge gash in his skull
a wound that ultimately proved fatal. In court, John
put his case tersely and forcibly : “ Whaffor he allee time
talkee Jap kill Chinaman ; whaffor he clow, allee same
looster on fence ? Whaffor—whaffor?”
The young Queenslander is not, in my experience,
given to signing his name “ w ith a cross ” at all. I have
met numbers of illiterates in Bananaland, hut they were
nearly all importations. I have not in my life (and I have
knocked about most parts of Queensland) met half-a-
dozen native Bananalanders who could neither read nor
write. The young Queenslander may' be “ a good
but he is by no means a “good conversa-
tionalist.” Good conversation implies intellectual
activity, and the physical languor of the tropics is pro-
ductive of intellectual laziness. The bushman is notably
(as Mr. Brothers admits) “a great silent fellow” who
regards conversation as a “ blanky nuisance.” He like*
listening to a good talker, however—above all things.
Queensland western towns are (as Mr. B. asserts) dear
enough in all conscience. But the dearness does not all
imply the “big profits” ;he mentions. As a matter of
fact, one-half of the population of W. Q. has been
living on credit for the last five years, and the country
business people have had to choose between continuing
the credit and letting the people starve. To their
eternal honor be it said, they have in many cases let the
credit run on and have, by so doing, ruined themselves
financially. But the N.W. is wonderfully rich, and with a
few good seasons the old riotous times would return and
the great torrid country would forget it ever heard the
bellow of a thirst-perishing bullock or saw the eye
picked out of a stricken ewe in the vanishing bog-hole.
With regard to the “various shading and castes of
faces ’ and the “ mixing up of breeds,” a broad line of
demarcation should he drawn. A great portion of
Southern and Central Q. is as white as most of N.S.W.,
but the above-mentioned “ mixing of breeds ” is paiufully
evident in such towns as Cairns, Geraldton, Bundaberg,
Mackay, etc. The Chinese are almost masters of trade iri
Some Western villages and drive white shopkeepers to
despair by their cut-throat competition and cunning
evasion of Early'-Closing Regulations. On the other hand
some of them are very generous to hospitals, charitable to
swagmen and prone to speculate in local ventures. Above
all, the Q. Chow is exceedingly anxious to learn. Writer
knew a Chinese baker who used to make his round of a
morning, perched on the top of his bread-cart, busily
learning to spell from a child’s primer.
Climatically, Queensland is much maligned. Rock-
hampton—sultry R. of the Sheolic blanket legend—has
one of the lowest death-rates in Australia. Brisbane has
a beautiful climate, and the inland towns—Hughenden,
Longreach, Barcaldine—might match the S’African veldt
as sanatoria for consumptives. Townsville, however, is
a natural Hades, on which abuts a quaint artificial harbor,
admirably suited for all purposes—except shipping.
■A North Queensland girl of 25 is commencing to feel
old, and has left off looking y'oung. In Townsville you
meet a woman whom you take for a grandmother, leading
a child. You find the child is her second daughter--pos-
sibly her third. There may be actual grandmothers in
the North. I have heard of them from travellers—but
travellers are notorious liars.
It might also be mentioned that, although Bananaland
is a thirsty land, it is not now by any means a drunken
one. The native Queenslander is usually a temperate
man, though not a teetotaller ; the boozers are mainly of
British up-bringing. “Shutting the hotel-bar door on
Sunday ” is not now the farce it was. Nowadays the
hotel-bar door is fast, indeed ; inquiring police can sel-
dom find an illegal boozer on the premises ; but, out on
the pavement in the big towns you discern individuals
describing' a quaint spiral, and shaping up to imaginary
foes, and assuring the casual constable—“ Sober as a
shudge, old man—saber ash a shudged” It is hard on
the police. Formerly the inebriates formed a joyous
coterie, ensconced by a Sunday bar, and the “foorce”
knew where to find them. Wow, the Sunday drunk is
everywhere, except in the pub., ar,d Bung * avenged of
U \ enemies.
0.
P. LUFTIO.
>osK» i I
| < i 1*
s^.
“NATURES
PLEASANT,
LAXATIVE*
THE ORIGINAL
< AND ,
GENUINE.
California Syrup of Figs
is the one remedy which
doctors fully recognise as
effectually superseding
the purgatives of other
days. It acts simply,
naturally, pleasantly upon
Liver, Kidneys, and
Bowels, cleansing and
permanently benefiting
those organs.
The genuine bear* the Name and Trade
Mark of the California Fig Syrup C0.,32
Snow Hill, London, E.C., and Is sold In
Australia In two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
Australia: 7 Barrack Street,SYDNEY.
YOU CAN BE CURED.
There are some diseases which are incurable, but these are fortunately rare. There are, on the
other hand, two groups of disorders which afflict a large number of people, many of whom seem to
consider that there is no hope of release, for they go on suffering year after year when their cases
would readily yield to treatment if the root of the disorder were attacked. The two groups referred
to are uric and biliary disorders, and they comprise the following common complaints ;
URia
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
BILIARY.
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Sick Headache
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Now all these disorders originate from the same oiuse, namely the inability of the kidneys and
liver to properly perform their function of eliminating from the system the urinary and biliary poisons
which produce the disease.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every
day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight
of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an Ounce.
If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body dissolved in the
urine, but if through weakness or disease the kidneys are unable to do their work properly, a quantity
of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins, contaminating the whole
system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rlieum itism, G jut, Lumbago,
Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder
Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine,
passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it
is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating
about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore
their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will
result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from some form of biliary poisoning, such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that,
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labour of those vital organ*
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compound-
ing a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure
exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and
liver, and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cure 3 all complaints
due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys
and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease.
Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [l5.
The VOLCANIC
w
12
AERATING
HACHINE
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
The VOLCANIC AERATED WATER MACHINE is being
used on Messrs. Spiers & Pond’s Railway Refreshment
Bars throughout the United Kingdom.
A Great
Saving
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS «
AERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the Best and Simplest
Machine in the Market. gay
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 57ibs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS 10 GALS. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same principle, JEZ33O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine for years.
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depot: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series
of Pens neither
.scratchnor spurt
(They glide over
[the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Works: Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


At Poverty Point.
Transpired in a S’African court lately that McKee
Rankin, Nance O’Neil’s touring: manager, had to pawn
some diamond ring’s to get out of that country. The
court made an' order sanctioning their sale for not less
than £175. Apparently Nance wasn’t the only solid part
of that show.
Mel. B. Spurr’s name at first looked like a compliment
to Melbourne, and people expected that, as the mono-
loguer went from State to State, his style would change
to Syd. N. Spurr, Ade. L. Spurr, Bris. B. Spurr, Per. T.
Spurr, and so on.
Fanny Powers, the clever Sydney youngster whom
Harry Rickards took with him to England in June last, is
back in Australia. There is no opening on the other side
for juvenile performers ; no one under the age of 14 can
be offered or accept engagements. A special permit was,
however, granted in her case as a representative Aus-
tralian child-performer, to appear for a week at a time,
with an interval of at least a week between each season.
Nor could she accept any salary; but managers were
not debarred from making her presents. Fanny is only
12 years old.
Dora Rignold could act Hamlet or Romeo. Her grand-
mother was excellent in both.
“ Melb.”: It puzzled me whom Denny’s Malvolio resem-
bled. After going about all day, like a man with a tune
in his head, it flashed upon me. Smalkum M’Eacharn !
Yes, Denny has his pert primness, and chippy, staccato
tones.
Publisher Tinsley, in his memoirs, writes about
theatrical benefits. Hs used to be fond of getting them
up, but went out of the line disgusted with the megalo-
mania. of actors. When Buckstone had to retrench, he
exclaimed, almost with tears, “ I cannot live on thirty
pounds a week! ” Tinsley helped in a benefit to
Falconer. It panned out remarkably well—six hundred
pounds. When this was presented to the beneflciarie,
after glowing speeches, his jaw fell, and he asked “ Is
that all ? ’’
Said that M. Bouhy thinks very highly of Amy Castles
prospects. She is now studying “ Faust,” under Valdejo
and M. Bouhy hopes that she will appear within the next
six or eight months in grand opera in Paris. At the
opera class rehearsal recently M. Valdejo expressed
himself as pleased with Miss Castles’ graceful acting, and
of her voice he declared “ it is truly a wonderful voice.”
Another Bendigo songstress is “ giving great promise.”
Madame Christian has had her in Sydney for some time
past, and is to have her again. Delia Clifford, this one.
Florence Gibson, the solitary female soloist in the recent
Sydney “ Dream of Gerontius ” production, is another of
Madame Christian’s Bendigo pupils.
“ Mighty Atom ” MacMahon is directing a concert
tour by Madame Slap, through Maoriland, with Slap., of
course, as musical director.
The latest photo, of Alice Crawford, printed on a post-
card, is a quite enchanting likeness of that nowadays
slim young Bendigo girl.
Maoriland is getting a lot of circus these times. Tom
Fitzgerald pitched his tent in Dunedin at Xmas, and
already the Wirths are en route to Auckland from Mel-
bourne with the whole of their show.
With no theatre competition whatever, Ada Crossley in
her Adelaide farewell last week, drew to the Exhibition
Building 5000 people. The star told an Adelaide inter-
viewer that she hoped to return in perhaps four years.
Fire Superintendent Booker has taken advantage of the
prevailing scare to condemn Adelaide Royal very strongly,
declaring that a good house of 2000 would lose more, in
case of a quick fire, than the 600 victims at Chicago.
Lessee Pollock, on the other hand, declares that it is
practically quite safe.
One of the very toniest of the London actor-managers
has started a divorce suit wherein another actor-manager
will figure as co-re.
The remarkably clever little kiddie dancer who stars
in the panto, at Melb. Bijou has an elder sister (aged 9 or
thereabouts) who plays leading parts in Pollard’s Juvenile
Opera co.
The hero in a recent London play is styled John
Norton, M.P. Critics complain that the central charac-
ter is not clearly defined by the dramatist. One of them
asks : “ Is John Norton, the influential M.P. with a great
scheme, the really great man we are led to suppose, or is
he from the first a half-demented egotist whose journey
along the terrible road to murderous insanity it is as easy
to understand as it is uncomfortable to follow?” Ail
things considered, Truth Norton, of N.S.W., could show
cause for seeking an injunction to restrain the English
playwright from taking his name in vain.
The receipts from J. C. Williamson’s and Maggie Moore’s
first production of “Struck Oil’’ in Australia Mel-
bourne, Sydney, &c.—averaged £lOOO per week for five
months. It was mainly Maggie Moore’s success. As the
result of that success J.C.W. went to England, and there
he secured the Australian rights in Gilbert and Sullivan’s
operas, of which only “ Pinafore ” had beeji heard in this
country'.
Re the melodious baritone billed at a Marshall-Hall
Conservatorium performance as Mr. Ben Digo. A few
years ago when the young fellow sang at an Amy Castles
concert in Melbourne (he and Amy had been fellow
pupils of the same Bendigo teacher) he wore his own
original designation of Alfred C. Bottoms. This was
thought plebeian compared with the names of the Con-
ser.vatorium angels (who are mostly Rubies, Lovies,
Doras, &c.), so the management improved it into Ben
Digo.
A son of John L. Hall and his wife, Emily Wiseman,
died recently in S’Africa. He inherited some of the
great talents of his parents, and was 36 years of age at
the time of his deatn. Lately, he controlled a co. in
S’Africa cal ed “ Hall’s Australian Juveniles.” Not long-
ago he visited Sydney and engaged players for S’Africa.
His mother was a member of the well-known Wiseman
family, contemporaneous (in the 50’s and 60’s) with the
Kdouin family of (then) juvenile performers.
’Frisco Sunday Examiner for November has an illus-
trated page full of scare-heads running: “Melba, the
Great, Sweet Soprano, Jilted by Her Mash, Fiddler
Adamowski, to Marry a Simple Little American Girl
Unheard Of.” Adamowski is a Hungarian fiddler of the
soulful unbarbered school, and some years ago he toured
U.S.A. with a concert co. of which Melba was the star.
’Onski’s love for the Australian songbird, says the
Examiner, soon grew to adoration, pure and simple, and
Melba did not try to conceal her regard for the handsome
virtuoso. Everybody expected that sooner or later their
engagement would he announced—but it was not. There
was an insurmountable obstacle to their marriage—a
husband. The ‘ insurmountable” was surmounted in
the Divorce Court, but Melba was then living in other
lands breaking hearts by the score, but still faithful to
Adamowski (so the yarn, which is probably fiction, goes)
And now the fiddler marries someone else!
“ J.A.C.” : J. L. Sheridan, the “ Widdy,” has written
to a M.L. paper to deny that his name is Levy (B
24/12/’O3). I, for one, am ready to take the genial
“ Johnny’s” word for it, without affidavit. These rumors
probably arise from the persistence of J.L.S. in sur-
rounding himself, in all his managerial enterprises, with
members of the tribes which, if not lost, ought to be.
When last mail left London it was announced that Dan
Leno, now restored to health, was to make his reappear-
ance in the present Drury Lane pantomime.
“J.A.C.”: Re the fearful holocaust of Chicago. It
would appear that “ fire-proof ” buildings are those which
are consumed most quickly. It may interest the super-
stitious to know that, among members of “ the profes-
sion,” out here at least, “Blue Beard” is regarded as
unlucky.
“ Wing” : Some information has just come in my road
about the financial anatomy of New York and Chicago
theatres. I am surprised at the development of trades
unionism among the stage hands. Indeed, the word
development is hardly good enough, for the stage hands
all over America have their societies about screwed up to
perfection. Why can’t Australian stage hands emulate
the orchestras, and, at all events, have reasonable pro-
tection ? There is a feeble society in Melbourne.
“ N." : The automaton chess-player was the greatest
achievement on record in the show world. It was in-
vented about the beginning of the nineteenth century,
ai d held the public for 50 years. There was a man inside,
yet the figure was opened in front, showing bogus
mechanism, and then turned round and opened behind, to
show other mechanism. The man inside simply turned
the mechanism round, deceiving every expert.
“Spinifex”: Won’t someone introduce a Bill for the
suppression of budding musicians? Have one living each
side of me just now. For 12 hours every week day No.
1 wrestles with the five finger exercises. Remaining 12
hours he stands off and spars with them. Sundays he
plays “Art Thou Weary?” The other neighbor’s a
basso. First time the wife heard him she deduced
thunder, and brought the clothes ofT the line. He told
me recently he could go deeper than any one in Australia.
He > should let himself out as a bore—artesian variety.
He’s always trying to go deeper than anyone on earth.
He s been burrowing so hard that if he’s not suppressed
soon he’ll break through into Sheol—and there’ll be
trouble. Satan is a short-tempered fellow, and he’ll
never stand that voice.
N. Gruthridge, Limited, has purchased the
stock and business of the Universal Explosives
Co., of Sydney.
“ 0.P.” tells of a base proceeding :
The favorite summer pastime of the Melb. suburban
householder is “ Fitzdodge.” This consists of seeing how
many times he can water the front garden without being
caught by Fitzgibbon’s Metropolitan Board of Works
inspectors, and fined for not having a meter. All sorts
of tactics are resorted to in order to surreptitiously Yan
Yean the red geranium and creeping Jenny; but it’s like
playing against Fate. One individual struck the happy
idea of keeping a tank in full view of the street and
ostentatiously carrying a few bucketfuls of water
round before dark. The casual stranger leaned
over the fence to admire the marigolds. After
being informed that they were not a new variety,
that gardening was No. 16’s pet hobby, and that it should
be a good year for dandelions, the casual stranger sug-
gested that No. 16 resorted to rather a laborious method
of watering. Why didn’t he fix his hose on as the
stranger did? No. 16 said he was frightened of being
caught by the inspector. “ Not much danger if you’re
careful,” suggested the stranger. “ I just keep my eyes
open, and haven’t been in any difficulties, though I’ve
hosed my little bit of real estate for years.” “ Well, to
tell you the truth, I only do this carrying as a blind, so
that they’ll think I use the tank,” answered No. 16
knowingly. " Then when it gets dark I put the hose on
and let it run. I’ve been doing it ever since I’ve lived
here.” Next day No. 16 got a summons from the casual
stranger and paid £6 and costs the following Friday.
Mr. N. IST. CAZEN, Sparrow Bush, N. Y.,
writes:
“Jayne's Expectorant is the best Conjrh medicine I
know of. IT HAS SAVED BOTH MY OWN AND MY
CHIEDHEN’S LIVES.”* • -
Phil May in Australia , to be published
on Monday, 17th January, is a handsome volume
full Bulletin size, with 112 pages of pictures and
text, reproducing more than 200 of the best and
most interesting drawings made by May in Aus-
tralia. No one interested in Australian illustra-
tion can afford to miss it.*
. The poet who sang of the pleasures by the
boundless sea was dreaming, no doubt, of the Manly
Water Chute, the Toboggan slide, and the Fiery Dragon.
The Bulletin hasn’t shot the chute, neither has it
streaked down the Toboggan slide, but it has the word of
a man who once slid down the Gothic roof of a Chinese
gambling-den into utter darkness that there are thrills
about a quick slide—and he ought to know. The Fiery
Dragon is said, by those who have patronised the serpent,
to have been specially constructed for the amusement of
people suffering from heart disease. It is a gentle reptile
with nothing cyclonic in its movements.
“ Gerfcy ” writes from a Sydney boarding-
house :
A casual par in a recent Bulletin sets me thinking.
Two, years ego I boarded in Woollahra. Other boarders
consisted of two partially-married couples. After couple
of months one pair of turtle doves decided they were not
suited for each other, and as they had dispensed with the
marriage ceremony they were able to go their own
ways without consulting the divorce court. Room taken
by grass widow. _ Husband sailor. What a lot of single
married ladies in Sydney have sailors for husbands.
Male half of remaining couple suggests to female ditto
that grass widow’s sailor husband is a myth or a sea-
serpent, or something. Two women talk. Grass widow
wrafchy. Trots downstairs to breakfast with marriage
lines in hand. Expresses desire to see lines of married
lady. Not forthcoming. Landlady indignant. Pitches
out partially-married couple. Room now let to another
couple who openly ,aver they are only married pro tem.
Is there any sort of certificate I can procure to hang on
wall, to prove I am not a married single woman, or a grass
or any other variety of widow, and have no intention of
becoming one?
Should Russia and Japan decide upon
war, the nation whose leaders obtain their
intellectual stimulus from D.O.L. Whisky must
score through superior wisdom. The little Japs,
if inspired by that scientifically adjusted beverage,
have sufficient pluck and other murderous re-
sources to land them on top at the termination of
the contest. On the other hand, should the
Russians suddenly substitute D.C.L; for Vodka,
the Japs will be wiped out in one act. D.0.L.:
The guide that leadeth to success.*
CRICKET.
England Australia
4th Test Match.
PICK THE RESULT AND WIN THE
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
£5O.
Fifty Pounds Sterling
will be presented to the person who correctly
estimates the result of the 4th Test Match between
England and Australia, to commence in Sydney on
or about 26th February, 1904. Should more than one
person give the result, the amount will be proportion-
ately divided among them. Should no competitor be
exactly correct, the amount will be given to the
person who states the result most closely, but in the
event of a tie, the prize will be divided equally.
The following is an example for Competitors
" I select the Australian Team to win the
Fourth Test Match by innings, ..6..
wickets, ..2..runs.
John Jones,
11U Mary Street, Junee, N.S. W.”
Competitors must cut out the label headed
“ Caution to the Public,” which in on the yellow
wrapper of each bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps, ant'
write their selection on the back of it. If any othei
part of the wrapper is sent the selection will h<
informal. All selections must reach us not later than
Jie day before the Match starts.
All Envelopes must be properly Stamped
outside Sydney, 2d. ; Sydney and Snburbai
radius, Id., and must be marked “WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS, £50,” and be addressed to the
“Proprietors of Wolfe's Schnapps,
BOX 250 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.”
All the results will be sealed before the Mated
commences, and deposited with the Manager of th
Sydney Daily Telegraph, who has kindly oonsente.
to hold them during its continuation.
/S
Brains -
ruletheWor/d
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory. The memory
must be trained )f the brain is to do good,
work. The memory can be successfully
developed by proper training, just as aa
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
is a practical and successful system which
benefits all biain workers. It will make
a poor memory good, and a good one
better. Simple and interesting exercises,
'taught in 6Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on apolication to the
Secretary. PELMAN’S SCHOOL
’ Of MEMOKY TRAINING
Box 403, 0.P.0.
MKLBoCttNE.
And 4 Bloomsbuht St.,
LONDON. W.C.
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent. No
results, no payments.*
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Lessee and Manager, Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
and
SPECIAL MATINEE PERFORMANCE EVERY
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
of the Brilliant Musical Farce Comedy,
Mama’s New Husband
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Elvy and Co.’s.
Business Representative—O. R. BAILEY.
Touring Manager—F. W. DUVAL.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.'
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THIRD WEEK and STILL A HUGE SUCCESS,
Mr. TREE’S COMPANY, including
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT, and MI8S MAUD JEFFRIES
in the Reigning London and New York Success,
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
S3T Box Plan at Paling’s. Carriages at 10.40.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S Powerful and Popular
Dramatic Co. in their Latest and Greatest Success,
WHY WOMAN SINS.
SATURDAY, JAN. 16, FOR THI SAKE OF A WOMAN
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 7.46. Wed. and Sat. Afternoon, at 2.
THIRD WEEK of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
SPECTACULAR COMIC PANTOMIME,
entitled,
SLEEPING BEAUTY AND THE BEAST,
or Mother Goose and the Seven Champions.
Box Plan at Paling’s. m" PRICES AS USUAL.
■ YCEUM THEATRE, 8YDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THIRD WEEK and
STILL INCREASING IN POPULARITY,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Magnificent Melodramatic Attraction,
THE GREAT WORLD OF LONDON.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
Amusements.
QUEEN'S HALL, SYDNEY,
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
MR. HERBERT FLEMMING presents
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER.
AN ARTIST WHO STANDS ALONE.
PRICES —3s, 2s, and Is. Doors Open at 7.30.
Matinee Every 'Wednesday at 2.30.
THE MU TO SCO PL
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
and OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. C3?~ Admission FREE.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
Magnificent Success of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Marvellously Trained Troupe of CATS and DOCS.
Enthusiastic Reception of MRS. SIMS REEVES.
Splendid Success of THE CIRNOCS.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
Mr. ERNEST FITTS, Miss JENNY GREY,
Miss NITA LEETE. Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN.
Mr. LES WHARTON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
First Appearance of CLARK and HAMILTON, Comedy
Sketch Artists, and JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical
Comedian. Re-appearance of J. W. WINTON. First
Appearance of Miss VULCANA, Exponent of Physical
Culture, and ATLAS, World Renowned Athlete.
MISS RAY JONES. THE COLLIERS. ALBERTO,
DAISY SYLVESTER, ELLA WELLINGTON, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, IRVING SAYI.ES.
Her majesty’s theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson,
EVERY EVENING
Continued Sucoess Every Evening and Wednesday,
Afternoon of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL,
by J. T. Tanner.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. .. C. Sinionsens.
EVERY EVENING."®* EVERY EVENING."®*
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
AN AUSTRALIAN ANECDOTE, Entitled,
A DESPERATE GAME,
For the First Time in Melbourne.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is fid and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, ME'.BOURi* E.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
t3T- EVERY EVENING.
Mr. CEORCE MUSCROVE’S CRr.NO ENGLISH
SHAKESPEARIAN COMPANY, for the First' Time in
Melbourne, in
TWELFTH NIGHT, or WHAT YOU WILf,
Produced on a Scale of Exceptional Beauty.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ggIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
Sole Lessee ahd Manager .. .. Mr. TOM PERMAN.
MAGNIFICENT TRIUMPH EVERY EVENING
.... of the ....
Magnificent Spectacular Comedy XMAS PANTOMIME
LITTLE RED RILING HOOD.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Summer Sensations by the Sea,
SHOOTING THE CHUTES »»TOBOGGANING
Steyne Court, MANLY*
A Pronounced Success.
AND DON’T FORGET
THE FIERY DRAGON.
Benevolent Societies' Fifth Annual Fete
AND ART UNION.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
100 Prizes, Value £1025. Tickets, Is.
Popular Entertainment
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
Jan. 26, 1904
(“Austral’s Natal Day.”)
A Popular Programme
By Australian Artists
For Australian People
£=».<
Art Union
Drawing, end
of February,
Results Published
March Ist, 1904,
Mrs. Gamp's Soliloquy :
“ I don’t believe there is any
such ‘pusson’ as the picture
represents. ’Tis my solemn
belief as how the ‘ noble
animal’ is being used, ill-
used, one might say, as a
‘ gag,’ and that any ‘ pusson'
as wins it will just take
his one five nought in gold
coin, and spend it with. Mrs.
'Arris, n any way he pleases
or otherwise."
FIRST PRIZE, Gold Kangaroo, value £l5O (at the Mint.)
l ickets from Newsagents, Tobacconists and others throughout Australia,
locally, send direct to the undersigned,
Where not obtai
W. J. WALKER, Hon. Sec., York Buildings, Harket Street, Sydr


e Victorian Pnblie
iiii
BOUPKF
WALLACE
*22
FREEMAN
(rsa
IIIIM
it(i«
mill
~
'i" 1
Mira
i;
IWH
lINU
m
P' i
si
OUR NEW MELBOURNE PREMISES.
Announcement Extraordinary.
On account of the vast volume of business accruing from the Southern and
Western States of the Australian Commonwealth, and in order to study the con-
venience of our numerous patrons in those States, we have established at the
Corner of
BOURKE & ELIZABETH STS., MELBOURNE,
Opp. G.P.0., a large branch of our Medical Institute, under a Staff of Skilled
Specialists, in the treatment of Nerve, Blood, Stomach, and Kidney Diseases,
each of whom bears the highest credentials from the Medical Boards of
Australia, England, and America. Patients classed as “INCURABLE” by
ordinary medical men, or acute sufferers from any of the above classes of
disease, can rely upon Careful and Scientific Treatment. Associated with the
Medical Staffs are Expert Correspondence Staffs, for the Treatment of Patients
in their Own Homes, by a new Home Treatment Method—a system now in
vogue in Continental centres. All letters directed to this Branch will be treated
with professional secrecy, and replied to with the punctuality associated with
medical experts and skilful professional practitioners in Serious Diseases.
THE GROWTH OF A GREAT INSTITUTE.—The Freeman and Wallace
Medical Institute was first actively placed before the Australian public a
Quarter of a Century ago, and, like all thoroughly reliable medical centres,
it attracted sufferers with serious diseases from all parts of Australia,
through the nature of permanent and rapid cures made weekly by its STAFF
of SPECIALISTS, who were Medical Experts in the treatment of certain
diseases to which they had individually given their earnest study and
attention. During the twenty-five years its SPECIALISTS have practised
in Australia, the INSTITUTE’S records prove that thousands of suffering
men have been treated and cured and have had their Health and Vigor
returned to them when they thought themselves incurable. The
SPECIALISTS have proved this fact—that “ WHILE THERE IS LIFE
THERE IS HOPE.” They have proved that numberless men and women
die yearly in Australia through careless and unskilled treatment on the
part of professional men, who not only fail to correctly diagnose their ail-
ments but also incorrectly treat them. Patients may rely upon it that the
treatment their complaint requires is the treatment they will receive, and is
such that no other Medical Institute can afford them. A Special Pamphlet
of Testimonies from cured men will be posted FREE to any address upon
application at the Institute. Sufferers may find these cases similar to theirs.
The Freeman & Wallace
“INVIGORATOR” Belts.
Every scientist in Australia knows the value of Electricity for the Cure of Chronic
Nerve and Stomach Diseases. Electricity is Life, and in cases of Stomach Disorders
it is invariably proved that lack of Nerve Force is the cause of Deranged Stomachic
processes. Electricity to the S(o nach is like Fuel to the Engine. Sufferers from this
class of disease should wear for a few nights, regularly, so that the Soothing, Curative,
Electric Current may enter the body while at rest,
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE "INVIGORATOR" BELT,
which is manufactured by Competent Electricians, and bears the Highest Certificates
of Efficacy. It is patented in New South Wales and Victoria. Men have been Cured,
a Few Weeks, of Apparently Incurable Cases of INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA,
INSOMNIA, RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA, PALPITATION of the HEART,
EPILEPSY, PARALYSIS in various forms, KIDNEY DISORDERS, and BLADDER
IRRITATIONS, by undergoing a Course of Electric Medication, combined with Sound
Medical Treatment. These wonderful “INVIGORATOR” Belts are sold at
ONI POUND ONLY, AND NOT TWENTY POUNDS.
If you are asked to pay this exorbitant amount by Electric Belt vendors, think
twice before you purchase. The Freeman and Wallace Electric Belt is the only truly
Certificated Belt sold in Australian medical practice, and is sold only under the advices
of a Qualified Medical Practitioner, and not for purposes of sale only. Full particulars
of these Wonderful Belts will be Posted Free to any address. They have never been
known to fail in application.
l£K5!
PETMMiM^^! S JiECICAL INSTITUTE
PREMISES.^-
OUR
SYDNEY
Dr. RAWAtLacE
Licentiate of the PhysiaansandiSurgeons,
Glasgow. ‘ (
Professor of Electricity.
Licentiate Midwifery, Royal College, E>
late Medical Staffs British Army
j and Consulting Staff,jHprapepatlii&y/
I 'Hospital,’ Mel boumei • V y
legally ■'Qualified istered v by the
-
Victoria, South' Australia, England
and_America.
Licentiate of, Royal College.Pbysicians,
V. Edinburgh,
o
3s& a *-
•4S
SI
ces
Gene
Dise
EMANti
ro Medical*
COMSULTINI
■RIfION. n
One Shilling Only.
Some of the Literature Published by the Instituted Medical Staff.
Subjects Treated in this Book.
Insomnia
Epilepsy
Hysteria
Kidney Disease
Rheumatism
Neuralgia
Sciatica
Locomotor Ataxia
Paralysis
Heart Diseases
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Sunstroke
Apoplexy
Burns and Scalds
Liver Diseases
Throat Complaints
Ear Ailments
Invalids and Care
Wounds and Treatment
Fevers
Exercise _
THIS BOOK CONTAINS 750 pages of instructive letterpress, 150 graphic anatomical
medical plates, 31 chapters upon General Diseases, embracing many subjects dealing with public
hygiene of utmost value to people living remote from medical centres. It is instructive to a de-
gree. It is described by the Australian Press (comprising 200 leading Australian journals) as
“ A WELCOME ADDITION TO AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE.” Anyone desirous of
possessing a first-class medical work, graphic and instructive in every detail, full of interesting
matter for the house and home, should call on the Specialists at their Melbourne Address, and
secure one before the edition is out of print. Special chapters on Fevers, Management of the
Sick Room and Invalids, Sunstroke, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite, Rescuing Apparently
Drowned, Insomnia and Cure, Electricity, and the Cure of Nervous Disorders, Brain Affections,
etc., etc., make it invaluable to country residents where medical men are few. It is the finest
and cheapest book of its kind ever offered to the public. It may be obtained FREE by
calling on .the. Specialists at the Melbourne Branch, or Post Free on receipt of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
ADVICE TO PATIENTS.
Any man may, if he so desires, through
private reasons of his own, consult the
Specialists, by addressing: privately “THE SECRETARY,” THE FREEMAN and
WALLACE INSTITUTE, ELIZABETH and BOURKE STREETS, MELBOURNE. In some
instances, a man may not be able to call personally and may prefer to write
upon matters seriously concerning himself. All such letters are promptly replied
to by the Physician-in-Chief, who is Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Boards of Australia, England and America. The Specialists’ great Medical
Work, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” a book essentially for men, will be posted
FREE on receipt of FIVE PENCE IN STAMPS, to pay postal transit to any address.
¥ Freeman & Wallace
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
Head
Ofeiue :
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Branch : Cor. Elizabeth & Bourke Sts. <opp g po.>


I read the clever story,
“ Listed ” (Bulletin Xmas No.) The following,
clipping from Glasgow Weekly Hebald,
appears to me correlative, and “Truth stranger
than fiction,” and all that sort of thing:—“A
Dundee barber ha 3 been gathered into a lunatic
asylum at Hertfordshire. He was found combing
a hedge and clipping it with hair scissors, and he
had also lathered and shaved an adjacent mile-
stone.”
“ Burglar Bill ” writes on the treatment
of the nigger “ inside ” :
The Hindu is the boss “silvertail" in gaol. His brick
idol chains him down to special tucker, and the prison
authorities make every effort to enable him to keep
caste. His tucker must be cooked by himsejf
or by a countryman, and this entails much worry
and annoyance. I lived next door to one during
my nine months’ “ separate ” treatment; he was serving
a three-years sentence for a very bad offence, and, while I
was starving on “ No. 2 ration,” he had enough quaint
heathen victuals to feed the Punjaub. The gaoler had a
smattering of Hindustanee ; he had been a skipper
in his time. That “nig.” thought the gaoler wanted
to practise his foreign language, and he had
some favor or question to ask him every morning,
when the retired skipper went round to inspect, and the
skip, talked nigger lingo back for 16 minutes. I had to
stand at attention opposite the door of my cell waiting to
salute the gaoler when he passed, and the strained atti-
tude always affected my liver. When he did move I was
generally in the middle* of a cake-walk trying to keep my
blood in circulation. One nigger cooked for the three who
were in the gaol, and he would bring my neighbor’s
share to the door of the "separate” wing and hand it
to Warder Glump, who carried it down to the cell.
This had been going on for about three months without
Mustapha Khan making the slightest objection, but one
morning he exploded, and swore Glump was making him
lose caste by carrying the tin In the hand he used for
certain Christian duties, which were objectionable to his
tin idol. The gaoler pacified him by telling Glump to let
the niggergo to the door to receive his own tucker. Glump
never forgave that nigger for the insult, and cursed all
heathens for years afterwards. Mustapha’s hair was two
feet long, and dripped grease, but the authorities
wouldn’t cut it. I had a position on the exercise track
between "the Hindu and a Chow who was my neighbor on
the other side, and Mustapha smelt just like a flying fox.
When Mustapha got out of separate treatment the other
two were just completing, their sentences, and he took
on the culinary work himself, and spent the whole day
making strange Asiatic foods and eating them. He did
no work.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
SEVILLE ORANGE
MARMALADE.
IN 1-lb. ROUND FLAT TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SON, Ltd., London, Aberdeen and Seville.
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower St., London, E.C.
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE •
m
\
.
vA'AMi
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE :
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch. •
D*»T IWl**S T**S C**»*E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
nd addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt Bt., Sydney.
Or BOX 865,
0.P.0.
,1
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victors.
Canz Induotlon Motor* SOLE AGENTS J
The lustra! Qtis Engineering fie., Etd., South ffleih.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PLAN CON
Vio. Lo Sapete—“ Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CAL YE
ToAnthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... MADAME YIALTZEYA
Andante “Eavourita” ... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “ Harold ” MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how 1 The answer is ready
at once— By means of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type
£4.
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BENGER'S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
I
&
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says:—“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputat.on of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


Trade
\■ ; ■
MarK
c
He above Cpade Hapk is a gxiapaotee of soaodpess of Matepial
apd Quality of dye of all . . .
MERINO COATINGS <& SERGES
oo wbicb it is stamped.
BEWARE
. OF .
IMITATIONS
As tbe result of many years experience FOX’S PURC
INDIGO DYC is recognised as tbe best ip tbe
market.
All FOX’S Serges and Coatings are stamped every two
yards on tbe back
PURE INDIGO
and without tbis stamp are not genuine.
FOX
J'hese Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the JOeading bailors and
THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
FOX BROS. <& Co., L.t>d., Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND.
Si
mm
iMi
S?!%
m
m
W;
AS AN INVESTMENT.
READ WHAT
AN AUTHORITY SAYS.
PEOPLE cannot understand why Diamonds do not come down in price.
Unless some new Diamond fields are discovered they will never come
down, and I think that proportionately they will go as much higher
in the next ten years as they have in the last ten years. The reason
is this: Ten years ago it took less than one-third of the effort to produce
Diamonds as it does to-day. In other words, the strata of blue ground in the
Kimberley Fields that were then worked were so prolific that Diamonds
were found practically on the top of the earth. After the very prolific strata
were worked out and it was necessary to go down a little deeper into the
earth Diamonds were not quite so plentiful, and to-day it takes at least three
times the effort to produce the same amount of stones it did ten years ago.
Pearls are also going up in value at a rapid rate.
A
UNIQUE
INVESTMENT.
AS an investment, Diamonds afford advantages offered by nothingelße.
/.% For years they have increased in value at about the rate of 10 per
cent, a year, which makes them as an investment about three timesas
good as any bank. When you put your money in the bank someone
else has the use of it; when you put it in Diamonds you yourself have the use
of it, and the pleasure and satisfaction of wearing Diamonds are worth as
much as the returns from the investment. This is no idle statement, written
only with the view of selling our Diamond goods, but actual facts which you
can easily prove to be correct.
,We are the only Australian firm having a Warehouse in Hatton Garden,
which place, as everyone knows, is the Diamond Mart of the world. Our
long and careful study of the Wtone Market has placed us in the unique posi-
tion of being able to buy more favorably than almost any firm. These
advantages are shared with our customers, while others, if they could buy as
cheaply, would probably retain them as extra profit.
Investment No. 1
Is a very handsome Drop Style NECK-
LACE for evening wear. 74 Fine Diamonds
and 27 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, £5O,
worth more now.
Investment No. 2
Is an exceedingly handsome Festoon NECK-
LACE, for evening wear, set with 117 bright
Diamonds and 26 fine color Turquoises. Price,
£75, worth nearer £lOO.
Investment No. 3
Is a NECKLET with 11 pendant pieces
set with 163 fine Diamonds, 12 large Pearls,
and 29 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, only
£135.
Investment No. 4
This is the Gem of the Collection—a
magnificent DIAMOND and PEARL COM-
BINATION NECKLACE and TIARA. Set
with 296 Exquisite Diamonds and 15 lovely
whole Pearls.. Were we to mount one to
match, the price would run to about £5OO.
This one costs £385.
Investment No. 5
Is an Exquisitely Designed NECKLET, in
the form of 7-leaf Pendants and diamond
set square pattern back, the whole containing
225 Diamonds. Price, £5O.
Investment No. 6
For lovers of OPALS and DIAMONDS this
should prove attractive. A beautifully
designed NECKLACE. Set with 211 Dia-
monds and 31 rainbow-tinted opals. Price, £l2O.
Investment No. 7
Superb Turquoise and Diamond NECK-
LACE, beautiful in design and finish. Set with
103 Diamonds and 37 lovely blue Turquoises.
Price, £135, but worth quite 15 per cent, more
to-day.
Investment No. 8
Is a row of Single Stones—beautiful blazing
DIAMONDS, pure in colour and free from
blemishes. Each stone set in a separate
Collet, so that only the least particle of gold
shows round the edges of the stones; 59 stones
in all. Price, £250.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
Is like a coat of arms, it fixes the
standing of the wearer. It is the
only thing you buy to wear that does
not wear out.
DIAMONDS.
Nothing that you might select for a
wedding-gift would be more accept-
able or sensible, for Diamonds—such
as we sell —increase in intrinsic worth
with age, and never deteriorate in
beauty.
Although we give particulars of the NECKLETS only we have lovely things set with Diamonds,
such as Rings, Brooches, Bracelets, Pendants, Pins, Studs, from a few pounds upwards.
It is not necessary for you to be wealthy to possess a piece of Diamond Jewellery.


TATTERS ALUS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Pive Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall's on and after Ist
January) 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4<L for every 1, and so on.
NOW OPEN
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, Tas., Jan. 27, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 1904, 100,000 at 10/2.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 1904, 100,000 at 5/1.
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will pleas® note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can Bend their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial. Bank of Tasmania, Ilobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works : DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (se mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
1 ■»' m V <W ■» » nr 1 .» ■<. «w <*> .»■ .
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all information regarding Rates, Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto ;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
earne’s
TDESCES FAMOUS REMEDY FOR.
__ t- ~ xvxJiiJ-/ JU JC > -Cm.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA *
%°U Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
forling in allaying irritation in the throat and nehher al£ a r,°°l °A S? * lB lliv f iable ’ as * a Complete Cure. It is most com-
never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medioinp Nn h or As^ lna to chiomc, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
nnd a Complete Cure is certain. * house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
B:e5 7 I7IT.A_RE OF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
100 ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I am writ ing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
hat I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually unproved. lam glad to say that the two lots
•if medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
„ J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
• t once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonoe,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
ATr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
imall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
ssl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold, i
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She hari been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
um for bronchitis or colds of any sort-.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAM AGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
>. „ „ “ Katunga, Vie.
"Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,— l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of. that kind.
‘I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land_ to ray mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
" 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
m „ TI „ “ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearn*, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe
lam sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
tm.e it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I onlv
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks (o’!he Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue I had not
done that previously for 12 months-always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain" and distr ss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it and I
am stronger than I have been for vears. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir, ’
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria. °
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract rims as follows“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to tret it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing: out of it, he never saw any-
thing: like it before, so there is only one thing: for me io
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could pot.sibl.v be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending: for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it hack again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did net require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it lias done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY ' COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
hut I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,’
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send mo one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the'results’of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
arid asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to'sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until I became, as I am now, quit e well.—Yours sincerely!
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, ChaHevllle
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— IS years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4t.h April, 1899, he states:—“j
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of tire Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE ANI} RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
HEARiME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
?®r e: N a o, £’ Floor ’. Gre6r ’ s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3502.
ma 126, S , arg’e, S , Sold by Chemists cind Medicine- Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when noi--obtainable ~Lodally.


Agnostics are offered the suggestion, from
London, “that even the belief in a reincarnated
Elijah, who sports artificial wings and brazenly
trousers the dollars of his faithful, is better than
no belief at all.” What a profound belief in the
advantages of belief some of these believers have—
or believe they have.
A man called on a J.P. in the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) district to get him to witness his signa-
ture. “Is it one of the electric rights you’re
wantin’?” the J.P. asked. “Yes,” he went on,
“ I’ll witness your signature, but wum (we) must
have the Bible.” The mere man tried to explain
that a Bible wasn’t necessary, but the J.P. knew
best. Then he witnessed the mere man’s signa-
ture, breathing heavily on his hand the while, and
then made him take a solemn oath on the Bible
that the signature was really his. Even then the
J. P. didn’t seem quite satisfied, but looked as if
he’d been taken down.
It has apparently never occurred to the
people responsible for the recent extensive increase
in the tramway mileage around Sydney that
people like to see the scenery they pass through.
One thing that made the weary old cable tram so
popular was the rollicking, bumpy dummy. It
might shake the liver out of one in a succession of
sudden jerks, but you got a breeze thereon, and it
was good to go abroad and see the strange sights
that one can always see around any large town.
Now all the electric trams, except a few which run
in George-street and an occasional one to Mosman,
are closed in boxes or tanks or dead-houses, where
the only scenery is the hat of the woman who sits
opposite. Open cars, which could be made rain
proof when necessary, would draw thousands of
people to ride abroad for fresh air only.
Old Sydney Landmarks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old landmarks are going,
And leave behind no traces
But rotten rafters showing
The old familiar places.
Iconoclasts are walking
Around the good old city,
On ancient houses chalking
Their death-marks—more’s the pity !
» * » »
I saw a callous mason,
’Midst dust, and dirt, and din,
With hammer huge defacin’
The old Ship Inn.
In that old inn a plenty
Of gallant rhymes I wrote,
When I was three-and-twenty,
While waiting for the boat.
• * * *
I saw a man with shining
Belltopper, dark things tell
To workmen undermining
The good old Star Hotel.
’Twas there I used to spend all
The coin I had to blow ;
’Twas there I drank with Kendall
Many a year ago.
’Twas there while we were blewin’
The silver we could ring
The Song of Araluen
I heard the Master sing.
There Blackwell, over ale of
The best that money buys,
Would tell to me the tale of
His Pirates’ Paradise.
The way that we must wend all
They went —to meet their kin,
And Blackwell drinks with Kendall
In William Shakspeare’s Inn.
* * * *
The old Landmarks are going,
And leave behind no traces —
The old Landmarks are goi.g,
And the old Familiar Faces.
The thought it does appal me—
But who can Fate prevent ?
That very soon they’ll call me
The Oldest Resident.
N.S.W.
CREECK ROE.
Woman’s Forgiveness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lucky fellow!” Well, yes, he reckoned his
friends were about right, and the more he rumi-
nated over the facts, the more emphatically he
endorsed their opinion.
Prosperous, shortly to be married to a most
charming girl, he could hardly realise himself to
be the same Alwyn Price who, a few years before,
had struggled along amongst the genteel poor, un-
noticed, friendless—well, no, not quite friendless.
That was the point at which the fly entered into
the ointment. There had been one, something
more than a friend, who had watched his early
successes with pride, as steps towards the fulfil-
ment of his impassioned pledges—perhaps but for
her stimulating influence his success would not
have been so great or so rapid.
He disliked these reminiscences ; to him those
days seemed but the darkness which precedes the
dawn. To her they had been a gilded sunset pre-
ceding the blackness of night. Loved her ?—yes,
he supposed so, but to what purpose was love
then? Marriage required money —he had
none. She had known that. Well, he had done
what he could when her trouble came—sold or
pawned everything to pay her passage to Mel-
bourne. What devil kept recalling these memo-
ries ?
Of course, she had written, and he failed to
reply—of what use would a reply have been when
he found it impossible to fulfil his promise to
follow and marry her? Her subsequent silence
proved that she sensibly realised the impossibility
—his silence had left her free to select another;
probably she had done so.
Impossible, absurd ! Fancy plays strange freaks
at times—he almost imagined it was her hand-
writing ! The thought was disturbing—the letter,
when opened, still more so. She, Alice, had
returned , to die, and prayed him see her once more
that night—to-morrow would probably be too
late.
Here was a pretty kettle of fish —supposing
it got to Lucy’s ears !
However, so far, most things had worked to-
gether for good on his account —why not this?
Better a dead past than a living dread.
Of course he would have to comply, and (strange
complexity of human nature !), strive as he would
to banish it, a feeling of satisfaction kept obtrud-
ing itself ; it is always well to be entirely quit of
the old love before taking on the new.
The address given was a fashionable suburb—
she was evidently in the employ of some wealthy
family. The house, when he reached it, seemed
to confirm this —extensive garden, long carriage
drive, liveried servants, everything denoted pre-
tentious wealth.
His vanity was slightly gratified by the thought
that she was still single—people don’t travel with
married dependants, as a rule.
* * * *
The faintly-lighted room seemed indicative of
death. She was asleep, but the doctor, after im-
posing strict silence, permitted him to tip-toe to
the bedside. Yes, there lay the face he bad once
loved so passionately—yet not the same, the ful-
ness and bloom had sped, time and care had left
their marks. His feelings can hardly be analysed.
“ The end is very near,” the doctor explained ;
“cannot possibly be more than 24 hours, probably
much less, but it will be peaceful—possibly pass
away in her sleep. Wonder who she’ll leave her
money to? Very wealthy; inherited large for-
tune from an old bachelor who wanted to marry
her.” Then all this wealth was hers— really,
wonders would never cease !
* * * *
He grasped the hand held out in greeting but
words failed him in view of those wistful eyes,
which had so often returned his tenderness in past
days. “ Bend down,” she whispered. He did so.
Could he pit his strength against her weakness ?
Yet he felt somewhat less of a man as she pressed
her lips to his.
“ How could I die without seeing you, Alwyn ?
I have loved you, and prayed for you daily, since
we parted. When your letters ceased I tried to
forget, but in vain—yet pride forbade njy doing
more. Then sickness came, the doctors gave up
hope, and I hurried home to see you once more.
And you, Alwyn ? ” She asked in a tone that be-
tokened how much depended upon the answer.
Again, what could he do but declare himself
free ? One falsehood leads naturally to another—
he assured her that he had written regularly until
her replies ceased.
“I know it,” she murmured —“it was my
fault.” She hesitated, embarrassed —there was
evidently something she wished to say, but found
difficult to place in words. At last it came in a
whisper.
“The child, Alwyn, our child —you will give
him your love and protection when I am gone ? ”
The child ! the devil!—but soon better feelings
prevailed, and he mumbled the required promise,
coupled with hope of forgiveness. She stopped
him at once —the sin was equally hers.
“You know I am wealthy, Alwyn, but what is
wealth to me now ? He wanted me to marry him,
but I was already a wife in the sight of heaven—
yours ! ”
When the parson entered, Price was for retir-
ing, but she laid a detaining hand on his arm.
“This,” she explained, “is my affianced hus-
band whom I told you of. My prayers are
answered, my faith was well-placed—he has re-
mained true, and we have pledged our troth
anew.”
“Alwyn,” she continued, addressing him, “I
can die happy now. There is but one thing I
ask—the minister will tell you, I cannot; but
bring me your answer soon. I must hear it from
your own lips.”
They hurried him away, several degrees lower
in his own estimation than he had been when he
entered.
“Much weaker to-night; don’t believe she’ll
see the morning,” gravely explained the doctor as
he passed.
“Mr. Price,” said the parson, “it becomes
essential that I speak at once. She has confided
in me fully, especially her last dying hope—that
she may have the right to call herself ‘ wife ’
during the few hours that are left her. Can you
do her this justice?”
Was he going mad, or was this some nightmare ?
What about Lucy ?—why, it was only a few days
to their marriage !
Sacrifice the living to the dying—not much !
Still, after all, what was in it—a mere form, for,
at most, a few hours ? Who would know ?—none
but the parson and a couple more. How was ho
to refuse without proclaiming himself to be many
things undesirable ? Probably compliance would
keep matters more secret than refusal.
“She has suffered much,” continued the parson,
“and, after all, it is but an empty title she seeks
—a few hours of wifehood. Let the child plead
also. Your marriage, however brief, enables you
to give him your name and do him justice. She
has wealth, and naturally desires it to pass to you,
as her husband, to share with your child.”
Yes, the fortune wasn’t to be despised. It
turned the scales, and he decided to comply.
Her joyful tears and kisses when he told her
quite unnerved him.
“ Sinking fast,” said the doctor next morning.
“ If the marriage is to take place, not a moment
should be lost.” A few hours later they were man
and wife. Her condition remained unchanged
during the day, and in the afternoon the doctor
agreed to Price absenting himself for an hour or
two to attend to some business.
Upon his return he entered the drawing-room,
and nearly dropped with surprise. There was
Alice, his wife, coming across the room to meet
him—Alice, pink-cheeked, and smiling !
‘ ‘ My dear husband,” she exclaimed, “ why this
dismay instead of joy at your wife’s remarkable
recovery ?”
Trapped l—yes, fool that he had been, he saw it
all now.
“Yes,’’she continued, “you ruined my life-
now we’re about quits, I think; dear Lucy will
have to postpone her marriage, won’t she ? I act
pretty well, don’t I? —that’s my business now.
“The child? —been dead for years. Died of
want, while I, his mother, slaved day and night to
pay for the care which strangers promised but
failed to give.
“The doctor?—oh, he’s a friend on the foot-
boards, a good friend, too. But the parson’s
genuine. I knew enough for that. He was
fooled—as you were.
“The house? —taken furnished, during the off-
season. It cost a bit, certainly, but the landlord
will send you in the bill.
“Myself?—well, I haven’t a penny, but my
lawyer will call upon you to-morrow —about an
allowance.”
KAREWAO.
Have you sometimes a furred tongue with an unpleasant
taste on waking in the morning and a variable appetite 1
These are the results of CONSTIPATION, which leads
to graver troubles if not promptly dealt with by a rational
remedy.
Do you sometimes feel a weight, tightness, or distension,
which might be expressed as “ blown out with wind ” 1
Such feelings indicate STOMACH TROUBLE, known
as “ Gastric Catarrh.”
Do you ever suffer from Nervous or Bilious Headache,
and feel mentally depressed, languid, and altogether out of
sorts, with, perhaps, pain between the shoulder-blades and a
fluttering of specks before the eyes ?
The cause is owing to an excess of bile in the system,
and such are the symptoms of a SLUGGISH LIVER, which
requires to be cleansed and purified.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is a perfect organic cleanser
and blood purifier. It possesses the power of eliminating
from the blood the poison created in it by an excess of bile
and acids. The use of Kutnow’s Powder thereby gives tone
to the system; and, assisting to build up healthy tissue,
becomes the first aid to a vigorous constitution.
On Sale Everywhere.
KUTNOW’S
Improved effervescent carlsbad
POWDER.
m
m
or Deer Leap
M
is
m
mr LOKM.
4LJMMna ROAD. Ei,
A REGISTERED trade mark l
ftaTC»EO ST STATIOHEB'3 »UUj
Important Warning
There are many substitutes for
Kutnow’s Powder oflered under
various names, as something 1
cheaper, and “just as good.”
These substitutes are Injurious
to health, and therefore not
cheap at any price. Insist upon
having the
GENUINE
KiJTNOW'S POWDER.
Professor I. KT. LOVE, M.D. (Professor of Clinical
Medical Diseases of Children and Hygiene, Marion Sims
College, writes :
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson Tait, M.D.,
himself a sufferer from a gouty diathesis, was not only one of
the world’s greatest surgeons, but an able physician and a
skilful therapeutist. For years he found Kutnow’s Powder of
great value to him, personally and in his practice, and this
remedy is one of the few he conspicuously endorsed over his
own signature.
“He realised, as all careful practitioners do, that it is
necessary to cleanse the system frequently, to remove the
debris of undigested food, and to hasten the elimination of
uric acid to properly guard against serious disease.
“ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels
and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a tumblerful of water
taken immediately on rising in the morning cleanses out the
bowels, dilutes the urine, and flushes out the kidneys in a
most satisfactory way.
“ Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
(Signed) “I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
On Sale Everywhere.
KUTNOW’S POWDER ensures PERFECT HEALTH
Proprietors -S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway New York
[5-11] J ’


“ Petramos ” sends this :
“ Yes,” said the boy on the warehouse telephone, “ the
firm won’t allow the employees to ’phone their pals durin'
business hours, and now I ’avs some peace. Before the
new rule it was like this: At 4.45 each evenin’ ’Erberfc
Smith, of the hosiery, would be rung up by a tart called
Violetta. ‘’Erbert?’Violetta would say. 'Violetta?'
’Erbert says back. ‘ ’Ow are you ? ’ ‘All right, me dear ;
ow’s yerself?’ ‘AH right.’ ‘See you to-night?’ ‘lf
you like.’ ‘ Usual place ? ’ ‘Yes. ‘ Goo’-bye.’ ‘Bye.’
That ’appened every night, and I got dead sick of it,
'Erbert Smith being no cobber of mine. There was
another ’Erbert in the ware’ouse, what was a partner.
Violetta says one night : * Is that Duty-paid and Co ? Oh,
put me on to ’Erbert, dear,’ she says, familiar like.
• Right! ’ says I, and puts ’er on to old man ’Erbert.
‘ ’Erbert!’ says Violetta. ‘Yes, dear,’ says old’Erbert,
thinking, p’r’aps, it was ’is wife—l say p’r’aps. ‘ ’Ow are
vou?’ ‘ Oh, all right.’ ‘ See you to-night ? ’ ‘Eh?’ ‘l’ll
meet vou to-night at corner of street.’ ‘ What time ?’
‘ Seven.’ ‘ Right.’ ‘ Good-bye.’ ‘ Who did you say was
speaking?’ ‘Oh, don’t you try and be funny.’ B-r-r-r.
Up comes old ’Erbert to me. ‘ Who was that lady speak-
ing to me ?’he asks. ‘ Don’t know, sir,’ I says. ‘Wants
to see me particular. Business, I s’pose.’ And ’e pulls
isself together, and squints at ’is figure’ead in the
mirror. Next mornin’ ’e comes in and ’e gives me a sort
of glass-alley stare. He passes on, and the next thing I
card was that young ’Erbert ’ad been sent to be a travel-
ler on the longest line we do.”
The Fairy Ship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the fairy cove is a fairy glen
Where the fairy ship sails home,
For the glen is the home of the little grey men
That come from beneath the foam ;
They come by night from under the deep,
By day in the fairy glen to sleep.
Oh, the glen is green, and the sea between
The woods that the cove enfold
Is green, blue-green, with a ghostly sheen
And a shimmer of moon-set gold ;
And the fairy bark is of emerald pale,
And a wraith-like grey is her filmy sail.
Tis a silent ship, on a silent tide,
And a silent crew withal;
And on to the dim green glen they glide,
For the glen is the home of them all:
’Tis a lone cloud, chased by the dawn to its rest
In a far retreat on the mountain’s breast.
The little grey men are tired, maybe ;
Like ghosts on the deck they move,
Or dreamily gaze down into the sea
As the ship glides into the cove.
But never a rope they handle nor haul,
Nor grey sail furl, nor kedge let fall.
To the eyes of men, on the open seas,
The ship is a schooner stout.
With canvas brave to every breeze
As she passes in and out.
“ Twilight,” the port men call the baik,
For she passes aye ’twixt light and dark.
On the breath of dawn she passes in
And out at the call of night,
And never she fails the port to win
In the van of the fleet of the light.
Silently into the gloom she cleaves,
And for dawn a silvery pathway leaves.
Nor, ere the nightfall, ever she fails
To pass to the sea again,
With the dead day’s benison in her sails
To bear to the mourning main.—
But men make question of many things—
The crew she carries, the freight she brings ;
And whence she hails, and whither she goes
When into the night she fares;
But no man answers, for no man knows
Nor fairy lore is theirs.
And I, the singer, know little more,
Though versed to the heart in moon-read lore.
But somewhat I know that alone I know,
For I look from my window high
Deep to the fairy cove below
When the fairy ship goes by.
But things there be that I may not tell,
And the fairies guard their treasure well.
Yet this I may tell that alone I have seen,
When the ship to the cove glides slow,
That a ghostly light from the depths serene
Gleams up in a silver bow;
From the world without a portal it seems
To a mystical realm in the world of dreams.
From the open seas of the outer world
She comes to that radiant zone,
A schooner trim with her sails unfurled,
And passes to worlds unknown.
She passes over the magic bar
To realms and to ages dim and far.
For I see her fade like the filmy cloud
That touches the dawn-kissed height;
And hull, and mast, and sail, and shroud,
They melt in that wonder-light;
Then, dreamlike, out of that luminous haze
Take form in a fashion of bygone days.
’Tis a phantom now of the first brave bark
That entered yon ocean gate.
Anon ’tis the ship of a pirate dark,
And now ’tis a barge of state.
Slowly it passes —passing strange—
Back through the ages, change by change.
Dhow of the Nile—galleon of Spain—
And galley of Rome and Greece —
A Viking ship that scoured the main—
A Tyrian bark of peace.
Fainter the phantoms grow as they sweep
To the glen where the grey men sink to sleep.
And I with those little grey men have been,
And the story they tell is true :
Their ship is the soul of all ships e’er seen,
And they are her deathless crew.
’Neath the ocean by night their revel they make,
And they dream in the glen while the world is
awake.
N.S. W.
WAIF
The Swapping of Pinkey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD gone over that morning to my neighbor,
Jobson’s, for butter, and, on arrival, found the
family in a state of bustle and confusion. Jobson
was a Sydney tinsmith, who had selected at
Worrio on account of ill-health, and was a very
fair neighbor for a crossbred cocky. A stranger
was talking to him at the slip-rails, a tall, dried-
up wisp of a man, with a face like an old white
cockatoo’s, and a deprecating manner. Mrs.
Jobson informed me, as she gave me the butter,
that they were trying to swap their old horse
Pinkey to the stranger, and would I mind stop-
ping and making out the receipts for them if it
came off? I assented. I had an account to settle
with Pinkey myself, and the stranger looked the
one to pay it.
Pinkey was the greatest rogue on the Babbler
River, as his honorable scars testified. The bare
patch on his quarter was the mark of his greatest
battle, out of which he had come triumphant. He
had stuck up one of his many owners a few miles
out of the town of Babbleton, and the owner, after
trying all ways to make him get up and pull, had
. lit a fire against him, but, after a while, had to
put the fire out in despair.
One ear had been knocked off by another
frenzied owner, whilst trying to drown him in the
Babbler, in the crossing of which he had calmly
lain down, harnessed to a dray mainly loaded with
flour and sugar. The little white patch on his
withers was the scar where Andersen, an excit-
able Swede, had bitten him in fury for backing
a load into the creek. Various lumps and white
patches, the legacies of many a struggle, showed
like a crazy quilt over his body, and were often
proudly referred to by his former possessor
‘•That’s where I downed ’im with a saplin’ when
’e stuck me up at Cow Crik,” one would say.
“That lump there’s where my Johnny chopped
’im with a brush’ook when ’e stuck ’im up on the
cuttin’,” another would chime in. His last owner
had been in despair of getting rid of him till Pro-
vidence (which works in curious ways) sent Jobson
to him—on whom, as a “ Sydney cove,” he was
justified by the local code of honor in working off
Pinkey at Clydesdale price.
Jobson was a God-fearing man when he arrived
in Worrio, but five years of Worrio and Pinkey
had nearly turned him into an Atheist. So when
the lean stranger turned up with an animated
hat-rack, which he called a mare, and proposed a
swap, he could hardly contain himself. The maie
was young, though poor, but Jobson had plenty
of grass, and as he said to me, confidentially,
“She can’t be any worse, anyway.”
After a little barneying the bargain was struck,
Jobson to throw in 30s. to boot. Both carefully
shied at the mention of trial. I made out the
receipts. Whilst I was doing so Jobson left the
room for a minute, and the stranger leaned over
and whispered to me complacently, “I think I
got the best o’ that deal.” I merely winked in
answer, knowing Pinkey.
Some few days later I had occasion to go to
Babbleton on business, and drove down with Job-
son in his sulky. On the way down Jobson
beguiled the time by relating Pinkey’s many
delinquencies to me, and finished up with “ I’d a
nearly given ’im to that cove, I was so sick of ’im.”
The first person I met, on walking down Babble-
ton’s main street, was the lean stranger in a state
of intoxication. He seemed to know me again,
and eyed me like a tiger snake. The landlord of
• the local pub. told me about him later : “ Some of
you people on Worrio swapped that old horse
Black ’ad ’ere to ’im, an’ ’e’s been trying to sell
fim round the place ever since; but even the
dorgs knows ’im. ’E started at fifteen quid, ’n’
’e’s down to twenty-five bob ’n’ no takers, so ’e’s
gone on the bust over it. Some chaps from up
there told me Pinkey tried to back ’im over the
cuttin’ at the fifteen mile peg, where Sam Spokes
went over with a load o’ cedar,, ’n’ nearly
frightened the bloke to death.”
Jobson stopped inside all the morning, and got
me to do all his business for him. “I don’t like
to ’ave a cove barney in the street with me,” he
explained, “I ain’t afraid of ’im, but yer can’t
talk to er drunkard.”
When I came back to dinner I reported pro-
gress. The stranger had just snatched the
whip from a sleepy bullock driver, who was
snailing down the street with his team, and after
running up to one of the leaders and offering to
bet him five pounds he was a cow, was chasing
Pinkey up and down the road with the aforesaid
whip. Jobson decided then not to start till
evening. “It’s cooler then,” he said. The
month was June. When we reached his place
that night about twelve o’clock, Jobson’s first
inquiry was for the mare. He had Übught a new
rug for her, and insisted on going out in the
paddock to put it on, looking anxiously at her by
lantern light to see if she had improved since the
morning. He asked if I thought she was in foal;
the man had said she was in foal to Carbine. The
next time I went to Jobson’s he had his arm in a
sling. “Th’ mare kicked at the dorg jest
happened t’ ketch me,” he explained. “Ain't
she puttin’ on condition ; be a fine mare when
she’s fat. I’m goin’ to start workin’ ’er shortly.”
Contrary to expectation, the mare worked about
the place all right, though she laid out two of
Jobson’s youngsters, who had got too close, and
they had enforced rest for a few weeks. J obson
bore with this, apparently taking it as a sign of
spirit. “ Them kids is so careless,” he explained.
He desired the pleasure of my company to
Babbleton with her a little later, but some secret
instinct made me decline. The mare took Jobson
down the mountain all right, but coming back
knocked up when halfway, causing him to spend
the night on the bleak face of the cutting.
He made three trips to Babbleton with her.
The mare seemed able to time herself to strike the
mountain late, and invariably knocked up during
the climb, with the old result. Her last exploit,
on being left to stand for a minute in the sulky at
Jobson’s sliprails, was to take it for a little jaunt
round the plain, returning triumphantly with the
shafts and part of the axle. \
The new mare is more monotonous and wearying
than Pinkey. Pinkey stuck Jobson up anywhere,
so that he had change of scene. The present
animal always sleeps out with the buggy and
Jobson on one spot on the bleak mountain side,
and Jobson is dead tired of seeing that place.
His faith in her has begun to waver, I hear; and
he is trying to dispose of her to any stranger
whom he meets. His terms are emphatically
spot cash—no swapping.
K.s.vv.
HALDER
SUFFERED FOIL 12 TEIRS.
DOCTORS ADVISED OPERATING.
“ A BOUT nineteen years ago,” says
Mr. Henry Speer, a black-
JL V. smith, of Lynch-street, Young,
N.S.W., “1 first felt the symp-
toms of Indigestion. The pains I
experienced were terrible, and would
completely double me up. I consulted
several doctors. They all agreed it was
an aggravated form of Indigestion, and
one told me that I would not live four
hours, unless I got ease from the pain.
All the doctors could do for me was to
administer morphia and opium to deaden
the pain. I was under the doctors’ hands
for many years, attending them regu-
larly, until my patience was exhausted.
About seven years ago, hearing that Bile
Beans had cured many cases of Indi-
gestion, I decided to give them a fair
trial. After having taken them regu-
larly for a month or six weeks I noticed a great improvement in my condition. Thus
encouraged, I persevered with the Beans, and was effectively and thoroughly cured. It is
now five years since I had an attack of Indigestion, which I think can be taken as a
guarantee that the cure is permanent. Where life was once a burden, it is now a pleasure,
and altogether I feel a different man. I have now been a resident of Young for seven
years, and am consequently well known.”
—
BILE BEANS have been proved a reliable cure for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK-
NESSES, N ERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA,
LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG. and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin
to defective bile flow, assimilation and digestion. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all
medicine vendors, price 1/I|, or 2/9 large box (Contains three times the quantity of the
1/1* size), or nost-paid from the BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
fc, m A
ti
]
itfK
C7/£>
■ • -
ONE
BEAN
ONE
NATURE’S REMEDY.
1
m
1
m
■
m
mmmm
.
iM
l ■ i
n
■ .
M
His ®
StMJPI
-
Sl^i
■m.
m
«m
■IH
'§mm
lilEiiiiliiii


“C.C.”, an old Bulletin contributor, writes;
—“ M.L.’’ (B. 24/11/’O3), judging from his questions, isn’t
feeling sure that Tattersall’s consultations provide a fair
deal for the subscribers. He may dismiss that idea from
his mind. Having often viewed the wearisome operation
of drawing I’att.’s sweeps, I fail to see how it can be
otherwise than strictly ; ,’r unless George Adams gives a
handsome bribe to every outsider who drifts in from the
street to see it drawn. I, a total stranger, have drawn
the horses from the barrei (upon a general invitation
extended to those present) at t £lOO,OOO sweep, and I got
no bribe —not even a drink, though l Was very drv before
I was through with the contract. “ M.L.” inquires the
name of “ the representative of the Tas. Govt, who is
supposed to supervise the drawing.” His name is legion.
The whole Ministry and the Opposition, including the
Speaker, are sometimes present. The only Hobart nota-
bility I haven’t seen there is the Governor—hut h* was
probably in disguise tending a hand to turn the huge
barrel. “Is it true that sometimes they do not give it
much of a spin round?” asks “ M.L.” That query makes
me smile—a sad, reminiscent smile. On one occasion I
was worried by the thought that my marble' might get
into a corner’ of the machine from lack of stirring up,
so when four strong men advanced to turn the
machine I chipped in and seized the crank.
We toiled at it for what seemed an hour, and the
perspiration was dripping from my forehead. “ Thought
it was easy, didn’t you?” grinned my mate. “Spin
round/’ says “ M.L.” Oh Lor ! When at last the accursed
thing slowly stopped I straightened my back with a sigh
of relief. “ Now we turn it the other way for a bit,” said
the other man, and' we did, and several times when I
thought the machine had stopped for business it was
only to “ turn it the ot• v>uy for a bit.” When George
Adams inquired if we were satisfied, one man replied
fervently “My oath!” When the first batch of cash
prizes were drawn out with a long rod fitted with a spring
arrangement at the end that gripped a marble at each
plunge, the marbles were checked and re-checked by
different people and placed ag-iin in the barrel. Then the
man at the windlass beckoned to me to turn again, but I
was satisfied to let somebody else have a go. I put this
forward as a record : From the year 1878 lo date I have
taken from one to ten rickets In most of the big con-
sultations, beginning with J. J. Miller’s —when ai! tickets
were £l—and during those twenty -four years I have
never drawn the smallest prize—nor any other prize, nor
have I ever seen my number on a result slip, in fact. If
any Bulletin man can beat that record this unlucky cuss
would like to go shares with.him in a ticket. As too far
east is west, such a partnership ought to result in a
brilliant win.
* * % *
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES..
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICiNE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
* * * •
“Myrtle Just been reading-up the names of
the, All-Aboriginal Australian team which visited England
J n 67 > under supervision of one-time Surrey veteran
(afterwards Australian) Charley Lawrence. The team
Bullocky, Cuzens, Dick-a-Diek, King Cole,
Mullagh, Peter, Shepherd (Sheppy), Mosquito, Jim Crow,
Charley, Tiger, Twopenny, and Red Cap. The climate
proved fatal to King Cole, who died, at Brighton, before
the tour was half over. Badly defeated by a Surrey
eleven, at the Oval, they went near beating an M.C.C.
team, at Lords. First victory of the tour was achieved
over Lewisham team, members of which presented Red
Cap with a silver cup, in recognition of his brilliant play.
Occasionally Australians find fault with the
Americanised system of advertising; but the bolstering
up of Major Taylor outshines Yankee methods. The
saintly wheeler’s "opinions are freely printed, and if he but
opens his mouth it is headed with flaring lines. Taylor
is a great athlete, but his opinions of cycling in general
are not in accord with those who follow the game. But
where Taylor shines most is in rehearsing his per-
formances. Last year he sang them; this year he gave
another recital—in fact, “ Taylor’s opinion ” and the
Test Match ” appear to be of greater importance than all
other Australian happenings.
» » * »
“ Scrip ”: The great sporting public took the
advantageous opportunity of staying away when Major
Taylor was billed to appear on the second day of the
cycling meeting at Lancaster Park, Christchurch (M.L.).
Attendance was 5000 less than on the opening day when
the ebony rider so grievously disappointed them. The
Invitation Scratch race was a hot go. George Suther-
land, who appears to “ ride with his head ” more than
ever, got a wild sprint on at a critical moment, made a
furious dash for tne post and just got there, Taylor and
Connell being on his wheel. Last two dead-heated right
enough, but the gent from 'Murka was given second
money. Taylor didn’t display his usual judgment, and
lost yards at the last turn. He complained of not being
in condition, and also openly stated that in the big wheel
race there was collusion between the riders to settle his
hash. “ But I don’t blame them,” said he with a sigh.
t! I could have gone on and won had I been fit; I have
won despite collusion elsewhere, for I depend upon my
strength to upset their team work.” But Taylor never
gave them a chance to carry out their tactics, if they had
so conspired, as he retired after the first lap.
* * * *
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia, Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
“Gun”; lie M.L. Bookmakers’ Association’s
latest move. Don’t see how Mo. has a ghost of a show of
being received by M.L. racing clubs. Tote is the only
legally recognised betting medium. If racing conference
refuses permits to clubs licensing bookmakers, what’s
going to happen? Auckland R.O.’s season’s £lO,OOO
stakes money comes from the tote percentage, while
Feilding J.C. scooped £2OOO through the machine in two
days recently. How is all this to be made up for by the
welcoming of Ikey ?
* * * »
“E.R.W.”: I made these jumbled observa-
tions at the N.S.W.-S.A match. Noble played the game
till he reached 140, after which he played as if at the
nets, dashing promiscuously, and failed to reach 150.
At 60 Trumper began to snick at Claxton’s offs as though
flicking at flies, and soon passed in. S. Gregory struggled
all the way, for there were some who spoke dubiously of
his chances for the rest of the test matches. Charley
Gregory is somewhat troubled with nerves. When he
first appeared in Adelaide his restless movements about
the wicket suggested affectation. It is known now that
he could not even assume Syd.’s calmness. Travers’
slows don’t trouble the Australians any more. They
have come to know him ; besides the sting of other days
is wanting. George Giffen, somewhere about 45, was
perhaps the most alert-looking man on the premises. He
didn’t suggest that tired feeling to the same degree as
the majority of the others. Even Noble will never-
develop into the real old warhorse type, such as G.G.
Bad Blood. Boils
Suffered Greatly. Skin in Terrible Condition. Blood Riled with
Impurities. All Remedies but One Failed.
i
m
Mr. H. Feder, of Prospect, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“ About two months ago I began to
feel badly all over. I was easily made
tired. I lost my appetite and
nervous. In a few r days my arms and
neck were all broken out with large
boils. For weeks my suffering was
terrible. I tried remedy after remedy,
but without relief. A friend told me it
was not my skin but my blood that
needed help, and urged me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. He said he knew many
people who had been cured by it. I
bought a bottle, and I began to feel
better at once. My appetite returned,
my food digested better, and I felt
greatly encouraged. Before the bottle
was all used my blood was pure and
the boils had entirely disappeared.”
“The World's Greatest Family Medicine.”
Boils, rashes, pimples, eruptions, eczema, etc., are but evidences of trouble
down deep in the blood. Don’t treat the skin. Treat the blood. Take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, the medicine that has been curing impure blood for 60 years.
Wheb your blood is pure the skin will be smooth and healthy. And you will
feel brighter, better in every way.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla isn’t like other Sarsaparillas. It is made differently, con-
tains stronger medicines. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Pure and Rich
Keep your bowels in good condition by taking Ayer's P»lls.
In advising you to use Chamberlain’s Pain Balm
for rheumatism, we know it will give you perfect,
satisfaction, as the first application will relieve
the pain, and its continued use for a short time
will effect a cure. Sold everywhere at Is. fid. *
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUiD
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT TO EVERYONE.
When minor ailments and derangements are, by
neglect or wrong treatment, allowed to threaten a
serious disturbance of the general health, it is
important to everyone that the best remedy should
be indicated.
Experience proclaims that
such a remedy is found in
BEECHAM’S
■ i PILLS ■ ■
Their efficiency in regulating these cretions of the Liver.,
Stomach, and Kidneys, and correcting morbid conditions
of those organs has been proved beyond doubt.
BEECHAM'S
are perfect in quality, and plentiful
in quantity ; they last longest, go
furthest, and produce the best results.
BEECHAM'S
PILLS
are sold everywhere in boxes, price
Is. (56 pills) and 2s. 9d. (168
pills), with full directions.
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
Have a greater sale than any other shot-gun cartridge made,
because they are manufactured of the best material, and
cost no more than cheaper-made brands.
GUARANTEED SURE FIRE AND REGULAR.
Specify NEW CLUB, and accept no Substitute.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Bart
THb BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY 1 __ m^mmmmms
mimm
M.D., C.M., L.R.C P.E.. L.
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success In the Treatmen o consulted
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Aus , and obsolete
daily, personally or by letter, at “Ei-MLEY HOUSE,” 151 Eliaeabeth-s y * of B lood
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective m and
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, * .’ ~ thj§
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms Patient,
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. w ' Qn
iseated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Worki
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martins Late
“ THE ‘ KN.OX-MEEOEH ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work shoul(d _ find a pla(c *
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful ream contained
“ it has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the >nstruct.ons conU.ned
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole Sjstem, an
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
■‘ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY


We
Send
Garden
Hose
Any-
where
And when you’ve
grot it, you’ll know
it’s the best hose
you ever used.
We stake our
reputation on our
Garden Hose, and
we were the first
rubber manu-
facturers in
Australia
■ too long: and
too good a
reputation to risk
on inferior Hose I
THERE’S NO BETTER CARDEN
HOSE THAN OURS.
THERE’S A GOOD DEAL NOT
SO GOOD.
SAMPLES and PRICES POST FREE.
PERDRIAU & GO.,
*VUDDcr
Merchants,
270 George Street, Sydney.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Boiler Feed Pump.
1»~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited,
Warren Webster Sc Co« n»w Jen,,.
.
Enquiries Invited eo» ww
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
MAM MATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket- Kn i ves,
and Scissors
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MA.tIL
J. ft
J. MAXFIELD Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
WOLI*
At tfe«
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
A)W at—
Mi mD awxaooaiic',”
Colllns-St., MELBOURNE
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
*7*3: C?XqjX*©33.co St., s ycXnGy.
FAY-EQAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
New Forms of Vise.
I
The “Utopia” Vise holds work o* any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could he gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will Of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x lSJin., opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St.. Sydnev.
• J** ■ 1 Jr | the Address o»
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
S earn Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, ete., etc.
m
W.-Z.
M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st., Sydney
E IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE— ... _ * '~***aa*sammßant&K&
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE- j . . _ . . ' " . ■■■!■■■
EnffinpprT sZh ™- b -° f T !l act i ,on> Vert * cal & Horizontal Boilers,
Irrigation and Pumping Piants a ’ ' V,m " ,achi " e ''y, Pulleys, Belting, Etc,
y ’ New antl Second-Hand Machinery always available.
mu
k . ,jv : - -
m
«
!
Ski, 51" x 31" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
and have
Tor Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
Call sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Dri
Collars, etc. Kt og!, v"cS g“*» Hearings,
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Ikgineers’ Sa w Ti “** W ”
K. 1. SCRDTTON & CO., Ltd.
07 CLARENCE SSTIFtZBIETr-, SYDNEY V
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
MAKE THE BEST
ROCK DRILLS*» AIR COMPRESSORS
>k»BKS*9»*r» " ..!••'' ■ l_i r
V “
• '•**'»'• •*** W”'
r%sr~T-T-rr r - T -^„ Trr , rrrt . ...
IN THE MARKET.
UNEQUALLED for SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION, DURABILITY,
_ LITTLE GIANT DRILL.
ECONOMY OF WORKING AND MAINTENANCE
The Little Giant and Slugger Drill?.
The Imperial High-Speed Compressors.
Particulars and Quotations from the Agents -
The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coa*~Cutting > Machines.
71 Clarence St., Sydney. N. GUTHRICGE, 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
