

MeEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
■
PIG STOUT
3=£. <G9v» WATEL SIM'S &Z> CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
—FOB— . . ,
Mining and Contractors* Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
290
PRIZE
Medals
and
GRAND
PRIX -
PARIS
1900.
ĥ
26,000 Steam Engines Sold
Z. - "'***"'" **&■***>' j' • xfMjntnujihiSij. ‘asp^?it dw:* \^asm^
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WOWUEKFUL VALUE,
/V PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
■ LX - Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life»size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox, the (treat Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Disappearing Coin Trick instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2a 6d.
H» L> HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
ħ
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
h
&c°>
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Ruston, Proctor & 00.,
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM and oil engines,
Elooetttrlo Motion Xliraß]a.ing Maoliineß,
Bond for Price* and Particular*.
BOILERS
Saw
AND PUMPS.
Benclies. &o„
&o.
ĥ
EstM. 1831.
WHISKY.
THE
ħ
HOBART.
— zm.
Ijadleg’s Orient jjotel
-PIONEER
m
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY
J. C. Ludowici
BELT GUARANTEED.
& Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sidney
10
li to jLGOO roc.'jp. XTiOLitES.
OUR ENGINEER VISITS EVERY SHOW. KCIGHI CLASS, LOW PRICE.
h
Electric Light—Mining—
Gas—Oil—Fixed—Portable
—Traction—Air Compres-
sors—Thrashers—Pumps
ENGINES
Jas. Me Ewan & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
Briscoe & Co., Ltd.
Sydney.
Forwood Down &Co., Ltd.
Adelaide.
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smellie & Co.,
Brisbane*
The National Mortgage & Agency Co., Ltd.
Dunedin.
ENGLAND.
ĥ
(JREOISTICRKE). i
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in thf.ee weeks from the
oreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
A. C. lUMSDEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD.
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
ħ
HERVEYS
RACKAROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
ACENTS: Leading Ironmongers
everywhere.
h
COOL
k ROOP
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
-fen see Trade Mark
EACH CAS r fC.
%
ĥ
'TORIES : For these two lines add.
‘ARABIC” DEPOT, MEL
,
pi. ?VRM
c °^
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
on
Earth I!
THE
PLUM’
ħ
THE
( PLUM
/'ZJ-ENTLEMEN.'— This razor is superior tojiny other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, wfe know the'exact kind *
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. J J
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specialty made for this Razor, 7a. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2tt.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole Agents:
and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
leas e add 6d. exchange' on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVE RYWRHRE.
and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Post Free.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle:
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing. • v
h
ner w
Dr. Walsh, of the London Skin
Hospital, says:—“Oily and per-
fumed preparations may be
charged with bacteria . . in
health they are needless and in
disease a danger.’’
CAPILLA
Hair Tonic
is a clean, spirituous and medical
preparation, without a trace of any
perfume or harmful ingredients.
Mr. David Lowndes, Petrie Ter-
race, Brisbane, writes :—“ While
in Sydney I purchased a bottle of
your Oapilla, and I find it to be
an excellent restorer. I enclose a
postal note for two more bottles.”
AH Chemists and Storekeepers stock
Oapilla.
2/Sa bottle.
Or I will post to you a full course of
six bottles, and letter of advice for £1
w. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEMO. FOR 1904:
“ AUT H ELI DON AUT NULLUS? 7
The Bulletin.
VoJ. 25.—N0. 1249.]
[Thursday, January 21, 1904.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Bock trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS "~ r
Geo. Robertson & Co
Prop. Ltd.
Nicholson, Elementary Political Economy, 9s, postage Bd.
Waller, igns of Life from their Electrical Aspect, 9s p. 8d
Evans, Ornamen al Turning, Vol. 1., 4s, p. 6d.
Bads worth, On Bridge, 4s, p. 4d.
Merry, Paddy-Itisky, 3s fid, p. fid.
Hvne, Paradise Coal Boat, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Barr (A.E.), The Black Shilling, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Whiteinir, The Yellow Van, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d,
Amer.v. Problems of the Army, 7s fid, p. fid.
Dnehaillu, African Forest and Jungle, 6s. p. 6d.
Hawes, In the Uttermost East, lfisi p. lOd.
Seawall, Wireless Telegraphy. 12s fid, p. lOd.
Middleton, Ho se Drainage, 5s fid, p.' fid.
John Constable (Masters British Art), 4s, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
ĥ
Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
The Latest Booh of Australian Verse.
by WILL. H. OQILVIB.
SECOND THOT-KAND.
-
In handsome cloth, with eleven illustrations.
Price, FOUR SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE-
SOHE PRESS OPINIONS.
Fresh, invigorating verses. —The Australasian (Vic.).
Sounds a distinct note.— Kalioorlie Sun (W.A.).
You will never feel your library is complete without
gssnger.-
The book abounds with beautiful, verse.-
Sydney.
The Keening
News, Sydney.
Appeals peculiarly to the typical Australian..— Molong
Express (N.S.W.).
Touched with the true spirit of present-day romances..
Forbes Gazette (N.S.W.).
Delightful reading.- Castlemaine Leader (Vic.).
He paints with the freshness of enthusiastic youth.—
The Freeiiiah’s Journal (N.S.W.).
.Ffw better harvests of poetry have, been reaped.—
tfatldr'tii'Courier (Vie.).'’
Oe reoueil de vers dblicats.— Lx Courtier Australien
(N.S.W.).
Will enhance the reputation already won. by Mr.
Ogilvie.— Btindaberg Star (Q.).
Artistically illustrated certain to at once jump into
popularity. Western Champion (N.S.W.).
One of the best living Australian versifiers.— Tam wort h
News (n.s.w.). _
Vivid word pictures. Hastings Standard (M.L.).
It is of the Bush, bushy.— Braidwoud Dispatch
(N.S.W.).
Certain to command a ready sale.— Geelong Advertiser
(Vic.).
We catch the true atmosphere of Australian life. —
Wairarapa Times (M L.).
There is nothing morbid in the author’s mood, he
experiences in full the joy of life, — Maitland Mercury
(N.S.W.).
Decidedly a book'to. be bought.— Wyalong Advocate
(N.S.W.). ,
Racy of the soil.— Horsham Times (Vic.)..
Should touch many a responsive chord in the heart of
the bushman.— The Critic (S.A.).
An incorrigible singer of the ways of a man with a maid,
or vice versa. — Western Post (N.S. W.).
Bright and happy verses,— Bathurst Daily Times
(N.S.W.).
One of Australia’s sweetest literary singers.— The
Spectator (W. A.).
He is the laureate of the bush workers.— Rockhampton
Bulletin (Q.).
Worthy of a place on every book-shelf in. the land. —
Brewarrina Times (N.S. W.).
Cons.stentlv good work.— Newcastle Morning Herald
(N.S.W.).
Lyrical grace,. .human charm. . ..life and, colour.—
Gympie Truth (Q.).
Finely and profusely illustrated.— The Worker (N.5.W..)..
“ A Queen of Yore” is well fit to rank with the few
Australian classics.— The Australian Star (N.S. W.),
A true poet of the Bush.— Western Grazier (N.S.W.).
Sold by all Booksellers or by post from the Publishers,
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
214 George St., Sydney, Australia.
A NEW BOOK on BREATHING & VOCALISATION.
By F. Matthias Alexander, Royal Chambers, c/r. Hunter & Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
Special Breathing: Method, as applied—(X) Treatment of Disease ; (2) Cultivation and Development of
the Human Voice ; (3) Physical Culture and Body Building. Only sufficient copies to be printed to supply orders.
Send stamp for pamphlet giving particulars of full contents of book ; and special article on “The Prevention
and Cure of Consumption," as published in Sydney Daily Telegraph, will be forwarded to any address
Send at once.
Hudson’s Eumen
ħ
h
For INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, and ALL AFFEC
the THROAT and LUNGS, and the PREVENTION of CONSV
TIONS of
MPTION.
ASK FOR HUCS2N C, end ta!:o n> subatltut*.
S 3
IKS?
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
Containing: no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
For COUGH 3, COLDS, SORE THROAT, LOSS
OF VOICE.
The “Australasian Medical Gazette” says:
“ Of great service in affections of the voice and throatf*
IN TINS, 1/S.
Mav b- taken daily by o'd iml voting. Ttieir antiseptic properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food,
and are thu helpful in Inch- stion and Dvs-epsia. Sold by all Chemists. Tins, 1/6. Agents in all the Australian
States and New Zealand. SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 & 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Sole Manufacturer: Q. HUDSON, CHemiet, Ipswich. Queensland.
THE RED PAGE.
IN TRANQUILLISSIMAM MEMORIAM.
J.F.
Dead? I suppose so! And what doe s it matter ?
1 sleep well, anyway—and what's the odds ?
Is n’t it perfect calm we give the gods ?
—And calm is best, in spite of all the chatter.
I don’t know that I’d care to grow much fatter.
Duller and wearier—keep on pickling rods
To beat old age with. So, as who 's-this nods,
The earlier end is better than the latter.
Besides, I’ve done my share of hurrying:
Let others take the pace—l won’t be missed:
P’r’aps two or three will think of me—say one,
To save me from the fate of Tomlinson —
You know it ? Fine thing ! . . . Well, I won’t insist ...
Then that’s all right—and what’s the use of ivorrying?
In the Early Days.
W CRAIG, a veteran among immi-
grants, who writes from Invercar-
• gill, M.L., has set down his reminis-
cences of adventure on the Victorian
goldfields in the early ’fifties. Under the title of
My Adventures on the Australian Goldfields, he
makes a book of some 340 pages—a garrulous old
gentleman’s book, with slight literary value, but
pithy enough to be readable. Special interest
comes in the fact that eye-witnesses of the early-
life at Port Phillip, and especially of the inci-
dents of the Eureka rebellion, are now few in
number, and every year Death takes from the
remnant. Any unprejudiced account of the time
when Australia was in the making, when her
course in some main directions of national life
was definitely set, must necessarily be interest-
ing. Craig’s picture is meagre enough, but it
seems to hold truth and sincerity; and one is
glad to have it.
Craig came to Port Phillip in the ship that
brought Peter Lalor, and he describes him in his
prime. “He was a picture of robust manhood,
and from his demeanour I surmispd he was a man
who thought for himself, and that something
would be heard of him later on. After a time a
friendly feeling became established between us,
and I discovered in him a man of high intelligence
and of sterling worth, yet one who might be led
into unwise courses by sheer impulsiveness. Still,
he possessed important qualifications for asuccess-
ful career—ambition, energy, and courage. He
has passed away to the Unknown Land. But
for the services he rendered to the working
classes, especially the miners, and the blow he
struck at official despotism and corruption, the
name of Peter Lalor should be kept green in the
hearts of dwellers in these Colonies.”
PETER LALOR
I speak of Mr. Lalor as I interpreted hit character—
and few had a better opportunity of knowing him.
Descended from a family of high social status and political
influence in Ireland, his leading characteristics were
patriotic ardour and a warm attachment to the land of
his I) rth. He never tired of descanting on the wrongs
of Ireland. I inferred from his conversations that either
he himself or some of his relatives had been associated
with the leaders of the rising of ’4B ; and disgust at the
ignominious collapse of that movement was his principal
reason, as in the case of many other eminent Irishmen,
for migrating to the Antipodes. The prospect of
acquiring wealth on the goldfields did not seem to
interest Lalor ; indeed, he appeared to have made up his
mind before he left to engage in politics in the land of
his adoption. I gathered that much from him one
afternoon during the voyage out in the course of a
discussion on Irish affairs. . . .
“Well,” he said, “we shall see if a better state of
things cannot he worked out in Australia. I intend to
have a voice in its government before two years are over.
The Lalors have always had a weakness for politics. My
father sat in the British Parliament for Queen’s County,
and I intend to sit in the Victorian Parliament after I
find out where improvements are needed.”
DIGGERS AND POLICE
When gold was first discovered in Victoria the colony
was ultra-conservative. The officials were mostly mem-
bers of influential English families, and the management
of public affairs was principally in the hands of pastoral
tenants and bankers. These naturally viewed with alarm
the irruption of a mining population. The stations
became almost deserted for the goldfields, and before long
drastic laws were enacted for harassing the diggers....
The police were composed principally of ne’er-do-wells of
influential British families. A number of these black
sheep arrived by every ship, bringing letters of recom-
mendation from friends in high positions ; and in a short
time nearly all the Government offices were occupied by
people of that class. Too lazy, or unused, to work, and
ashamed to beg, a billet on the goldfields or enrolment in
the police force was the only choice left to to them. . . .
Governor Latrobe had been superseded by Sir Charles
Hotham, a British naval captain, and, as might be ex-
pected from such training, pretty much of an autocrat.
With quarter-deck absolutism he decreed that licence
fees should be paid punctually, and that strict search for
unauthorised miners should be made by the goldfields
officials.
The Governor's advisers, and those acquainted with
the temper of the diggers, suggested an export duty on
gold as the fairest way to raise revenue from the mines,
but, like most old-dme man-of-war martinets, Governor
Hotham stiffened all the more when opposition in any
shape or form was offered to his arbitrary manifestoes,
and his orders were zealously given effect to by the
“ new-chum ” policemen. A digger hunt to them was as
exhilarating as a fox bunt would have been in England,
and on each occasion dozens of respectable men, whose
onfc’ crime was that they were unfortunate, and were
unable to pay the licence fee, were manacled like felons,
and in that state exposed to public gaze. Such as could
not be accommodated in the lock-ups were shackled to
trees, and armed sentries were placed over them until
punishment could be meted out to them...
THE EUREKA HOTEL
Among those who were permitted to engage in the
liquor traffic was a ruffian named Bentley, who had
served several years of convict life in Norfolk Island.
His place—the Eureka Hotel—was the resort of most of
the camp officials, and it was understood that many of
them were indebted to him for pecuniary assistance.
The resident police magistrate acknowledged after his
dismissal that several of the officials were even more
corrupt than himself, and were indebted to Bentley for
large sums of money. With such friends “at court'” he
was in the habit of acting high handedly to visitors. So
it came about that a miner, who called at his place one
night for refreshment after closing time, and on being
refused continued to demand it, was thrown out on the
highway hy Bentley, and in the scuffle lost his life.
When the case against Bentley was disnii-sed by Police
Magistrate Dewes, it was felt that the edifice of official
nial-administration had received its coping-stone, and
the tide of discontent rose higher and higher. The uni-
versal feeling was that a miscarriage of justice had taken
place, and in the evening a large gathering of miners
assembled in front of the hotel and threatened Bentley.
The police were sent to protect the house, but their pre-
sence, and that of their unpopular chief, served but to
increase the indignation of the crowd
The lamp in front of the hotel was first demolished,
and the crashing noise of the glass stimulated the miners
to further mischief. In a few minutes all the windows
were smashed, and then the work ot devastation com-
menced in earnest. The building was rushed, and beer,
spirits, bedding, furniture, and everything contained
therein were brought outside. A bonfire was made of
the furniture, and casks and bottles of liquor were
smashed, and the contents allowed to run to waste.
Lastly, the building itself was burned to the ground.
Bentley and his wife barely escaped with their lives
through the back entrance to the police camp. A shot
was fired at him in retreating, and general regret was
felt that the aim was inaccurate.
Three men were arrested for burning the building, and
sent to Melbourne for trial. They were found guilty,
and sentenced to various terms of incarceration. At the
same sessions, Bentley, who had been re-arrested, was
again arraigned for the murder of the man Scobie, and,
being found guilty of manslaughter, was sentenced to
three years’ imprisonment with hard labour
Delegates were now sent from Ballarat to Melbourne to
represent the unfairness of punishing the three men con-
victed of burning the building, but they were unfavour-
ably received by the Governor and his executive ; and on
receipt of their reply some 12.000 miners assembled on
Bakery Hill and passed resolutions in favour of reform in
the administration of goldfields affairs...
EUREKA STOCKADE
From a man of Lalor’s temperament, moderation, in the
face of official aggressiveness, was out of the question, so
drill and the erection of a stockade on Bakery II II were
carried on vigorously, while some 500 men passed under
the “ Southern Cross ” and swore allegiance to it in the
presence of Lalor and his subordinates. The following
was the wording of the oath administered : “We swear
b.v the Southern Cross to stand truly to each other, and
fight to defend our rights and liberties.”
Meanwhile the camp officials were not idle. A Captain
Thomas was in command of the military, and as it was
considered risky to attack the stockade during the day,
when the Government camp would he unprotected, he
decided to strike a blow at the rebellion early on the
following morning.
Accordingly, some 300 men, composed of troops of the
line and police, approached the entrenchment at the time
appointed. They' advanced to within a few hundred
paces of it without being observed, when a shot from the
sentry inside the stockade announced that the crisis had
arrived. The insurgent camp was immediately aroused,
and several irregular volleys were fired at the military.
So long as the conflict was confined .to shooting, those
inside the fence had the best of the fight. This was plain
to the officer in command of the troops, and so the order
was given for a bayonet charge. The soldiers were soon
inside the palisade, and ten minutes later, as might have
been expected with the crowd of partially armed and un-
disciplined men, it was a case of sauve qui peut.
The attack upon a company of infantry from Melbourne
a few day’s previously by a concealed party of insurgents
had aroused the passions of the soldiers, and stimulated
them to revenge when opportunity should offer. But to
their credit be it said, they' fought fairly. In no case
were they known to kill a wounded man. The dastardly
proceeding of shooting and stabbing disabled miners was
resorted to solely' by the raw fledgling police, who lost all
self-control when assured that the stockade had been
captured and that the defenders were at their merev. In
one case, after the surrender of a number of miners to
the military', a body of police rushed up, and would have
smit them but for the determined interference of an
officer of the 40th Regiment, who insisted that they were
Crown prisoners in his charge, and would have to be
dealt with by the civil authorities. One man had fifteen
wounds on different parts of his body, most of which
were received after he was disabled by a sabre cut on the
head. Another miner was shot by a trooper when retreat-
liig from hi* tent, and, while bleeding to death, was hand-
cuffed by his captor. . In this case the services of a black-
smith had to be obtained to cut the manacles from bis
wrists before the surgeon could probe the wound for the
ball.
During the brief conflict forty were killed on each side,
and about an equal number wounded, some of whom
subsequently died from their injuries. A number of the
wounded were also reported to have been burned alive in
stores and tents where they had taken refuge before the
police set fire to them.
CONDUCT OF READERS
To their discredit be it said, those of the insurrec-
tionary leaders who had clamoured most for armed
resistance were the first to consult personal safety when
the crucial point was reached. A Hanoverian named
Vern, who claimed to have had a military training in
Germany and America, and who at the various meetings
of the League was most declamatory in impeaching the
Government, was observed, after the' first volley from the
troops, bounding over the palisades in the opposite direc-
tion, and was not heard of for months afterwards. As
he was regarded as the most dangerous of the agitators,
a higher reward was offered for his apprehension than in
the case of the others.
Several others of the leaders displayed not less celerity
in clearing out at the first alarm ; while others who had
ostentatiously paraded the diggings and the main street
the day before, levying toll on stores in the name of the
“Republic,” ignominiously retreated down shafts and
up log chimneys when the cry was raised, “Turnout—
the soldiers are coming !,” . Indeed, the only two leaders
who displayed courage during the fight were Peter Lalor
and Wallace Ross, a Canadian. The former was maimed
for life, the latter was shot dead near the pole on which
he had hoisted the Southern Cross ensign the day before.
Lalor did not seek the unenviable office that had been
thrust upon him. The choice of leadership lay between
him and the German Vern, and when he was proposed,
his demeanour and remarks contrasted so favourably
with the truculent appearance and sanguinary utterances
of Vern that he was almost unanimously elected as the
fittest man for the work. Responding to the serious
trust that had been imposed upon him, he remarked
that, conscious as he was that a certain amount of mili-
tary training was required for the position, he had no
desire to occupy it, but that, as he was urged to allow
his name to go to the vote, he would accept the respon-
sibility and unflinchingly discharge to the best of his
ability the duties required of him. Nor did he fail to
fulfil his promise.
When the alarm was first sounded Lalor made strenuous
efforts to organise an effective line of defence, but it was
labour in vain. Many of the miners had freely indulged
in strong drink the previous night, and when they were
hurriedly turned out at daylight in a semi-stupid con-
dition, they failed to comprehend the orders that were
issued, and uttei confusion ensued on every side. There
was no plan of action, no system, and no order could be
evolved out of the crude material under Lalor's com-
mand.
ABORTIVE TRIADS
A number of the more prominent ringleaders of the
League were forwarded to Melbourne for trial, but public
opinion there was so pronounced on the misgovernment
of the goldfields, and the indignities and unequal taxa-
tion the miners had been subjected to, that it was clear
no conviction would ensue.
The first to be arraigned was a man named Hayes, who
had acted as chairman when the League met to'transact
its ordinary business. His acquittal was the signal for
suspending further proceedings, and a few days later the
prosecutions were abandoned, and a general amnesty
was proclaimed. . Hayes was a jovial, even-tempered,
peace-loving 1 individual, but his fighting deficiencies were
amply compensated for by his wife’s pronounced com-
bativeness. As a witness for the prosecution, Lieutenant
Richards, of the 40th Regiment, deposed that when he
ordered the arrest of Hayes, the prisoner’s wife came up
to him and told him that “if she were a man she would
not have allowed herself to be taken alive,” and added,
“ Why didn’t you attack the stockade yesterday, when
we were prepared to receive you ? ”
What most surprised the'prisoners and the general
puhlic was the fact that the leading evidence for the
Crown was furnished by a man named Goodenough, who
was one of the most trusted of the disaffected miners.
He had been a constant attendant at their meetings, and
every detail of their plans was furnished daily to the
camp officials. It was on his suggestion that the attack
was made at daybreak on Sunday morning. He had
noticed that a large quantity of liquor was brought to a
tent the previous day, and suspecting that a prolonged
carouse would be held that night, and that a large pro-
portion of the malcontents would be unprepared to meet
an assault, he assured the officer in-charge of the military
that all, or nearly all, in the stockade could' be made
prisoners without opposition.
Goodenough was a recent arrival in the colony, andhad
been a detective in Ireland. Being in possession of
trustworthy credentials, he was taken into the police
service at Melbourne, and forwarded to Ballarat with the
special object of gaining information regarding the aims
and objects of the Miners’ League. After the acquittal of
Hayes he mysteriously disappeared, and although assi-
duous inquiries were made for him by former Ballarat
acquaintances, no authentic information about him was
ever forthcoming.
“IRISH INDEPENDENCE”
The collapse of the rising at Ballarat may be regarded
as mainly attributable to the password given by Lalor on
the night before the assault.” Asked by one of the subor-
dinate leaders of the revolt for the “ night-pass,” he gave
“Vinegar Hill,” where the Irish insurgents suffered a de-
cisive defeat in ’9B by English troops. Many at Ballarat
who were disposed before that to resist the military now
quietly withdrew from the movement. They concluded
that Lalor’s object was more to strike a blow for Ireland
than at official despotism. So instead of t! ere being, as
in the morning, some 700 men inside the defences, there
were barely 230 at the time of the attack. Bendigo,
Forest Creek, and Creswick contributed contingents to
assist in the struggle. From the latter place alone a
thousand men were on the march to Ballarat ; but when
the news circulated that Irish inth pendence had crept
into the movement, almost all turned back.
It may be mentioned that both Bentley and Dewes—
main factors in the Eureka tragedy—terminated their
careers by suicide. After doing his three years for the
manslaughter of Scobie, Bentley took to drink atid per-
formed the “ happy despatch ” with laudanum. On being
dismissed from office, Dewes departed for America.
Thence he gravitated to Paris, where he took his own life.
DOTHAM AND THE MINERS
Although conscientious and painstaking, a more unsuit'
able man than Sir Charles Hotham could not have been
selected to extricate the ship of state from the dangers
and confusion that beset her at that time. As governor
of a colony peopled by planters and negroes, he would
have been in a congenial position, but in a self-governing
offshoot of the motherland, inhabited by hardy, intelli-
gent, and independent toilers, his limited administrative
ability and haughty demeanour weft a source of danger.
Although he was accorded a magnificent reception on his
arrival, his supercilious bearing effectively repelled popu-
lar sentiment. The suggestive advertisement that was so
long a prominent feature of the Melbourne Argus when
the first Governor, Mr. Latrobe, held office (“ Wanted, a
Governor for the Colony of Victoria ”), voiced public
opinion for a change, but after a short experience of his
successor it was universally admitted that of the two evils
Latrobe was the lesser.
Sir Charles evidently arrived in the colony with the
preconceived idea that he had to deal with rough adven-
turers, released prisoners, and convicts, and that the
mines were to be used-simply as so many sources of
revenue ; and it was elicited in the Legislative Assembly
that, in the course of a conversation during his outward
voyage, he sententiously remarked that “a little blood-
letting would not do the unruly gold-nib ers any harm.”
It also came out that he was accustomed to communicate
in cypher with the Commissioners, on goldfields manage-
ment, without consulting his responsible advisers. The
Governor, however, was not so much to blame as those
who appointed him. By instinct and training he was
opposed to compromise or concession. His failure told
on his health, and fulminated in his premature death on
the 31st of December, 1855, barely two and a half years
after his arrival in the colony.
The Commission of Inquiry appointed later on by the
Legislative Assembly to investigate the origin of the riots
and loss of life, reported that “the diggers had been
governed three times over,” and that “while in certain
cases they had been guilty of excesses, they had been
goaded thereto by bad laws that were badly enforced.”
The sacrifice at Eureka was a heartrending one, but
beneficial effects ensued. When the torch of rebellion
was finally extinguished reforms were immediately insti-
tuted in ' ictoria, and to the progressive measures then
adopted may be distinctly traced the liberal legislation
that followed in the other colonies of the Australa ian
group. The way was paved for constitutional govern-
ment ; the unpopular Executive Com c 1 resigned office ;
the Ballarat officials were either dismissed -or .transferred
elsewhere ; digger lilint# terminated ; manhood suffrage
was established ; a general amnesty wa'S-proolaimed ; and
a few months earlier than the time he had named when
midway between Britain and Australia, Peter Lalor was
elected first member for Ballarat in the Legislative
Assembly. About two years later he became a Cabinet
Minister, and afterwards for a long period held the
position of Speaker of the House.
In the dispassionate light that comes with mature age.
I am free to say, an eye witness of the disastrous
affair, that, while the Governor of the colony and his
subordinates were the greatest transgressors, the Eureka
tragedy would not have occurred had the principal
leaders of the Miners’ League displayed more discretion.
MEMORANDA
George Gordon McCrae writes:,; “I beg most
distinctly to deny having either written or illustrated any
Comic History of Australia. I mention this as I find it
imputed to me by‘F.M.’ (who evidently knows neither
me nor my work) in an article on the Red Page of Jan. 7
last.”
The hyper-cultured American is a funny pro-
duct. In a sonnet to “The Man” in Dec. Bookman,
Elsa Barker remarks—
And what am I—a woman ! —by thy side,
Though 1 stand symbol of the spai ial sea,
The boundless gestatoriurn and bride
Of the Creator ?
The idea of the lady as the symbol of a gestatoriurn is
Noble. We should like to see Boston erect a temple
to Mylitta. It would do Boston good.-, ...
Lond. publisher Unwin’s lasfj circular givfes a
portrait of Mrs. Campbell Praed. She grows old, alas !
When you see the ladies begin to m profile, or as
Parthians flinging a coquettish arrow over the shoulder,
you may guess that chins sag and orowsfeet
gather. Mrs. Praed will be 53 on 27th March next,
according to her own account; she is singularly frank
about it. And rn August 29th last it was thirty-one
years since, as Miss Rosa Murray-Prior, the belle of; the
Logan, she married W. M. Praed’s nephew. She is now
a widow. There are about two dozen novels to her credit
—most of them forgotten. But a notable Australian girl
she has been, and admirable in her day and way. Jiheu !
CORRESPONDENTS
W.G.G. : Sorry cannot use...F.C.W, t~r
slow; put a pulse in your prose . D.H.R. writes:
acquaintance of mine who has given his whole life to the
study of astronomy has made a very-important discovery.
It is not the usual bogus observationaldiscovery. It is a
mathematical one, of the vastest importance to the whole
scientific world. The discoverer has- repeatedly had
.papers accepted and usfd by the society. He is not very
well off, abd wishes to know if you could name any person
of medium opulence who is interested in astronomy, and 1
who would be likely to enable him to bring his discovery
to the fore. He will not submit hissecret to the society.
He has proved and reproved his calculations, and they
work out accurately.” Now then, gentlemen, what’s
your bid? Marat: No number of isolated cases will con-
trovert a statistical deduction ...LAV. writes; “Some
whisky-drinking chiels have raised the money for a
memorial of Robber Burns in Sydney, and prizes are to be
offered for the best design. Considering the general tenor
of Bobbie’s screed, I think that a neat bronze group
representing a hopeless, helpless drunk being bumped out
of a disorderly house would about fill the bill. If any-
thing else be required to thicken the atmosphere, the
pedestal might be adorned with bas-reliefs of the deserted
mother applying to a kirk session for maintenance of an
unlawful infant. That would be the real thing,” Mina :
True enough, but you don’t say it briskly and forcibly
enough
RECEIVED
Katharine Frensham , by Beatrice Harraden
(Lond., Blackie ; 2s. 6 d.) English intellectuals against a
Scandinavian background. A clever, febrile book, with
art insufficient to stifle the sigh of Weltschmerz. There
is no objection to Weltschmerz on the grand scale of grief
or art, but when it merely gnaws like a decayed tooth,
Weltschmerz is depressing. One should dodge depres-
sion : it is devitalising. Real tragedy is tonic.
The YoUng Gerande, by Edmund White (Edin.,
Blackwood; 2s. 6/1.) A picture of middle-class people in
Berlin at the middle of la,s,t century. The atmosphere is
clear and human, and seemingly the picture is truthful:
one follows the proceedings of the English hero with
iriild interest. Mild, elderly interest is not enough.
The_ Boy Galloper, by “Linesman” (Edin.,
B ackwood ; 2s. 6 it.) Another imaginary war in England,
bv the military writer who chased De Wet vigorously..
The time is to-day : on this occasion it is the Germans
who land and; —surrender as per patriotic formula.
The story is Written for younger readers —gallant school-
boys who may dream of receiving, like ‘The Boy
Galloper.” a V.O. from the hands of affable King Edward
himself (how far faded from The Coming K —- of last-
generation satire !) It is better than well written, and
ethical Objection to the glorification of the military hero is
met by the scheme of self-de'ence, Probably useless
at the moment to object to the idealisation of the heredi-
tary monarch as dispenser of every good and perfect gift :
nevertheless, one objects pro forma.
A. S.


ĥ
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
ħ
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SORE
S/NGLETON'S EYE OINTM ENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLED. .
rsi EVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book-
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
L
se for Sporting; Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, s£oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS—
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATS / 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS, \ No. 3 4 5 6
Cane— J 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s fd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
All Cane— J9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN'S CANEI
and RUBBER r
BATS- J
14s Gd,
17s 6d,
15s, 15s Gd,
18s 6d, 20s,
16s 6d
25s
Send for Catalogue, Post Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10* 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 953
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is Gd, 2s 6d, 3s Gd, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
15s set.
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
&EftiY
3s 6d
a
HaNNCAP
5s
STANbARb
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &o.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation ...
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered .
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered ...
AYRES’ Champion...
... 4s 6d doz.
... 9s 6d „
... 10s
... 16s
8s 6d „
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
TAYLOR Su
.-r-J
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
I Every Bowl tested and stamped ly the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including' payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY-
When Passing Drop In
AND let us show you how this Wonderful Appliance is Worked and Regulated, whereby we make so manv orreat r*„ rM i T of lia
mZ'!AhP Phed by ‘ he "o' the -Attachments to any part „£ the body where be painsfP L?ns prove to yo^hoH
«» F — “W sws
= Let us show you the names of the Thousands that have been Cured. zz
m Tt of th r havin «" *»
Eminent men say that Electricity will be the Medicine of the future, and will b’rinv about a
disease. In Dr. McLaughlin’s teachings he has pointed this out many years a<vo and has studied flf.lv * present-day Drug Treatment of
(Without inconvenience, or burning or blistering L shin) with ftl farthttn doittffS
from any of the above ailments will most assuredly obtain relief by the aid of ’
CAN’T SPEAK WELL ENOUGH.
142 Latrobe Terrace, CHILWELL, VIC.
Dear Sirs, —A few words of thanks to you for
the great benefits I have received from the
use of your Belt. Dear Sirs, I should have
to be a second Alfred Deakin to express the
thanks I ewe to your advice and the use of the
Belt. There is no “getting better” in my own
case, I AM WELL, and that is where my want
of expression comes in. I remain,
Yours to command, JAS. MORRISSEY.
IT WAS A GREAT BENEFIT.
MINQEN, via Rosewood, QLD.
Dear Sirs,—l am in the best of health ever
since I wore the Belt, and it has proved a
great benefit for me. I am now leaving off
wearing it, as I don’t require to wear it now.
I know some persons out here who got some
so-called Electric Belts in Sydney frem other
firms, but they seem to be no good at all, as
I hear, in every case, complaints about them.
Yours, I know now, is the only genuine article.
Yours faithfully,
E. H. SAKRZEWSKI.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S
&
%
53
ml
n
r
S 8
i ii i
ELECTRIC BELT
FEELS TWENTY YEARS YOUNGER.
JISCI, nr. LISMORE, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,-I am very thankful to say that I
have derived great benefit frcm the Belt My
bowels have been very regular from the first
time I wore it—they have been my greatest
trouble through life, and I thought no power
could do me good. In fact, I feel quite twenty
ye rs younger. All Nervousness has disap-
peared, and my memory is better. I never
thought that Electricity could build one up and
make o.ie feel that life is worth living, after
suffering so long.
Yours very gratefully, J. j. WARD.
RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS.
Aston-street, GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—l can assure you that the Belt
is doing its work well. I both eat and sleep
well, and have no pains in either my head,
legs, or body, the pains having all left me
and the prayer of my heart is that you may be
spared for many years to come to do good
to suTerers like myseif.
Yours faithfully,
CEORCE HORNE.
not buy an Electric Belt until you have decided to take
no more Drug's.
i I
a® Ji
On receipt of a post card or letter we will send you a BEAUTIFUL, ILLUSTRATED FREE BOOK which will remove
the cloud from your future, which will show you how you can elevate yourself, mentally and physically. It tells of nearly 25
years spent in the enthusiastic study of vital nerve force, finding what it comes from, and how to restore it when it is lost Ve
all like to be at our best, and if you are down we can pull you up.
St “ d y our Method. Out of all our experience we have built a method of infusing the system with vitalising electricity
which is the functional or organic vitality. Our Book tells what we know of this. We will send it sealed free if vou will bn’r
write for it. If you can call we will make you a FREE DIAGNOSIS and explain our method to you ’
The Dr. McLAUGHLIN CO.
IOOW. MARKET ST., SYDNEY
167 U. Swanston Street, Melbourne
54 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.


h
-PROFESSOR /V\UDD’S -
; t 9^ tION fUR *„
IR. FALLING OUT-
Prevent*'Baldness
-PPICE a/G - POSTED 3/ 3 -
KROMO
Gives tif gj£:c o hair
>7 CONTAINS'.NO AC-LDS r k &\S
- Posted'
ĥ
Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey
t Ltd.
Lapidaries ....
Gem Merchants and. •
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
ħ
h
ĥ
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
No. 1.—3 Fine Brilliant Diamond* £4O, smaller to £lO ; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamond*, £25.
No. 2.— 5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £6O ; 2 Diamond*
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamond*, £0 ; 3 Fin* Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.-3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B ; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubi**, £4 10s,
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland Whit* Topaz (aa brilliant M tie
Diamond), £4.
No. 18.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamond*, £lB to £3O.
It
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WB HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OP UNSET GEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 GEMS ON HAND.
MEN l
Obey the Scriptural injunction
X
acquit you as men s
BE STRONG.
THE GRAND OLD DOCTOR.
Surgeon
Langston
M.R.C.S., Bag.
Late Surgeon in Imperial
Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, formerly
Government Health Officer,
Tasmania, registered in Eng-
land and Australia, and
authorised by Act of Parlia-
ment to practice in all
branches of Medicine and
Surgery.
ħ
h
The OLDEST and MOST
RELIABLE SPECIALIST
in all eases of
Nervous Disorders,
Varicocele,
Rheumatism,
Kidney Troubles,
Lame Back,
Rupture,
HIdHEST HEALTH HONORS,
INVENTOR of the LATEST and GREATEST STRENGTH RESTORER.
hd
THE TRIUMPH OP MEDICAL ELECTRICITY.
It Is NOT a BELT, but BETTER than ANY BELT.
For Forty Years I have
been curing Thousands
Buffering from the same
Weakness
as you.
Let me Cure You.
Many Benefits are lost
through hesitation.
It is easier to give you back
your
Health
now than it will be later on.
SURGEON
LANGSTONS
Combined Remedies
FOR
Nervous Afflictions
Associate Complaints
ARB THE
Reigning Remedies.
"Mens Sana in Corpore Sana."
A treatise on Nerve Diseases
and Ailments of Men. The latest
medical thought put in the most
instructive and interesting form.
Teaches how to gain and retain
a sound mind in a sound body :
post free for six stamps.
"Rupture: Its History and Cure.’
A valuable work, showing the
certainty of Restoration without
operation ; post free four stamps.
"Diseases of Mankind.” —A
handy compendium relating to
the symptoms, dangers, and cure
of Nervous Complaints, Kidnev
Troubles, Nasal, Throat and
Lung Diseases, and associate
evils ; post free four stamps.
They tell you what you should
know, and what you want to
know.
Consult me FREE, either Personally or by Post.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
129 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne. Victoria.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price Gc3L,
Post Free,
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.— Visitors oply pay for wi>at they actually l>aye.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOT€L, SYPNey.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulb and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETIXIOKT,
WINES
The Best Brandt Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. Ao.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
The Unirersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’!
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
ĥ
DINNEFORDS'
iMAGNjsiA,
ħ
>5
There’s SECURITY In
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
v Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH
the
LIVER
Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Prlca,
Be Sure they are
Carter's
FREE TRIAL for 60 DAYS.
m
We will send the Dr. Austin Electric Belt on
this basis to Men and Women everywhere.
Not to be paid for until the cure is complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only
remedy in the world which can be sold on such
a plan. It is the only never-failing cure for
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back and
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and
Stomach troubles; in fact, all chronic diseases
of Men and Women. It cures after all other
remedies have failed. Why? Because it
restores nerve life, animal vitality, warmth
and vigour to all the weakened parts.
The Best Belt-New Non-Vinegar Belt*
All who have used another belt will realise the great advantage of having a powerful up-to-
date improved Belt that don’t need soaking in vinegar each time before using. Most other
belts sold in Australia use vinegar to produce a current. Our improved Belt does away with
this trouble, is guaranteed for three years, and never burns. We are so positive of the
wonderful curative power of our Belt, that we have decided to make this special offer and
each person writing us will receive
ABSOLUTELY FREE
a handsome copy of the latest edition of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book. Write at
once and we will send by return post, closely sealed, this valuable work. Remember you
don’t pay for our Belt unless it cures you. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co. (Dept. M),
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
New Zealand Branch— l 9 PRINCES STREET, DUNEDIN.


It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
STou save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer's Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer k Co., Lowell, Mass., U.SJL
A Disease Quickly Treated is Easily Cured
Ready Remedy Medicine Case
Contains Eight Distinct Remedies (over 750 Doses) ready
lor instant use, sufficient for a large family’s requirements
for several years, for the treatment of all the common
ailments m their early stages, with a Book of Directions and
Advice oy an Eminent Physician of Thirty Years' Experience*
BE YOUR OWN DOCTOR AND DRUGGIST
A Ready Remedy will save you from many a Serious Illness t
Stop it before it takes root in the system.
INDISPENSABLE FOR TRAVELLERS BY LAND OR SEA
No. 1 Cures Colds (Head) No. 5 Cures Constipation
No. 2 Cures Coughs (Throat) No. 6 Cures Rheumatio Trouble*
No. 3 Cures Bronchitis (Chest) No. 7 Cures Skin Diseases
No. 4 Cures Diarrhoea No. 8 Cures Nerve Affections
The medicines are not affected hy any climate. Keep gooff
ior any length of time. Divided into exact doses. Pleasant
tu take; children cry for more. Valuable Book of Advice.
The proper price of this case of Remedies, in a leatherette
ease with sliding drawer, is 16s. Bd., hut to speedily introduce it
we will sell a limited number at XOs. 6d. each carriage paid;
or in morocco case at 21s.
THIS COUPON
entitles you to one
Ready Remedy Case
for 10/6 carriage paid.
Obtainable only from
The Union Mfg. &
Agency Co.,
•89 COLLINS ST., MELBOUBKB
TTtJ " ~
SPOONER’S
• • I
h
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) od. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
ĥ
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Elms,
tree Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia .
Motor Cars and Motocycles
I Tyres , Accessories , Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
-Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 839 B
CHICAGO. U.S.A. and LITEKFOOJj. ENGLAND.
64
YEARS DYEING}
FOR THE LADIES.
W - G - ELDBIDGB & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
, °PP- Centenary Hall).
in ry Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
(Attended to.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1349. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R, J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ' ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Flavelle, Roberts & San key, Limited,
ħ
OPTICIANS,
BRISBANE.
AH classes of
Scientific Instruments, Theodolites, Levels,
Prismatic Compasses, Clinometers,
Rain-Gauges, Pocket Compasses,
Barometers, Thermometers,
Assay Balances.
REPAIRING OF SCIENTIFIC INSTRU-
MENTS a Speciality.
DRI N K —T—T
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
SMITH
UISIAM
tes
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gtannedah,
' N.S. Wale*.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Tours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading* Jeweller.
‘HJ.IIAIS 'd *H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
h
ĥ
" “NEW RIVAL” *
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges*
Good powder and shot, carefully and
scientifically loaded in the best of cases,
make Winchester “New Rival” Black
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
liable and satisfactory on the market.
A trial will convince you of their super-
iority. Be sure and get the Winchester
“New Rival” brand next time you buy.
SHOOT THEM AND SHOOT WELL,
Our Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Is unequalled in the Commonwealth* Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS. -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagb Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000*
HAS MONEY TO LEND
°lS e n r - ty * Freeh A old . Oity or Suburban Properties
ff o° d Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C.P. and C.L.) or Government Stock of
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.'
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable bv
without notice or payment of any fine.
instalments,
HARRISON, JONES $ DEVLIN, 1 ™
Wool Brokers
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
2 Per
Cent
Bojng a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., <fec.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins Ta/lnv,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce? ’ T /oWf
Stores and Offices; Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little House.
There’s a little house in Mosman that stands upon
the hill,
As it stood in the years-long ago ;
In the little garden so green, and grave, and still,
Seven shadows walk to and fro.
Little knows the good wife who keeps the house
to day
That she lives in a shadow-throng ;
She hears her brown-faced children laughing at
their play,
And she carols a careless song.
Little does she know that where red geraniums
grow
On the brow of the grassy height,
Where the baby sits and plays with his pretty
cheeks aglow,
There sat here, of old, Heart’s Delight.
O, Heart’s Delight was fair, and the blue enamored
air
Kissed her lips that like roses shone;
And the heart of summer glowed in her golden-
flowing hair
When the summer days were gone.
And there is a little summer-house, and round it
grows a vine,
And the sunrays around it dance,
And I see two shadows sitting there, and drinking
of the wine
And a-talking of old Romance.
Seven shadows walk there in sunlight and moon-
shine,
Seven shadows walk to and fro,
And I would, and I would that the Little House
were mine
With the Ghosts of the Long Ago.
N * s - W -
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Fruition.
You come to me, you come to me at last,
When youth and hope, and all that’s sweet, are
dead.
Even the beauty that was yours has fled.
The lustre of your hair is dimmed- o’ercast.
Your eyes have lost their fire, your kiss is cold ;
Afore those lips were full and warm and red ;
And what have you to give me in their stead,
You that have squandered with both hands Love’s
gold?
You love me still as once you did, you say,
My face has been before you all these years;
And do you think that now one fond word clears
The dark mists of forgetfulness away ?
You give me age for youth, for love a moek ;
You threw away the passion that I gave.
To-day, what cannot be, in vain you crave ;
That door your hands can nevermore unlock.
For ever young I held you in my heart,
I had forgot that time could touch your charm.
A dream you grew no evil chance could harm—
A dream of loveliness, remote, apart.
And now you come, Love’s beggar, destitute;
Of all the years of travail and despair,
Of all the years that Grief with Grief did share,
This is the bitter, this the withered fruit.
N.B.W.
WILFRID MAILLER.
The Skeleton.
He wandered on through oaverns dark,
Where Fancy’s flashes dimmed the eye
And hid the corpses cold and stark
That grinned a curse as he passed by.
Behind him as he strode along,
In mood of bitter mockery
Arose the burden of a song—
“ Oh, Passion’s feted guests are we—
“We sought the thing you seek, and found
Desire and Hate clasped hand in hand ;
With cord of Lust our limbs were bound,
Our brows seared with a fiery brand.”
He heard it not, but murmured, “ Love,
Come, bind me with thy snow-white arms—
Thine eyes, that shame the stars above,
Bespeak a thousand nameless charms.”
“Come here! ” ho oried, and all around
His path there grew a ghostly light,
And rose, as from the mist-dank ground,
A veiled figure, draped in white.
“ Beware! ” It stung like winter hail!
He turned, saw nought, and then ’twas done.
“My love ! ” he gasped, and raised the veil—
And, oh ! a grinning skeleton.
V.
L.M.D.
Farting is Such Sweet Sorrow.
Why did we meet,
If parting bring sorrow ?
Why is it sweet,
If we know it must end f
Glad is to-day—
Can we think of to-morrow,
Taking away from us Lover and Friend ?
Each meeting leads us
To that when we sever;
Each parting speeds us
How near to the last!
Gaily we deem
We may love on for ever !
Fondly we dream love will never be past.
Sweet to have met,
Tho’ the parting bring sorrow 1
Eyes will be wet
When they meet in Good-bye ;
Cheek pressed to cheek
For the last time to-morrow—
Lip 3 cannot speak for the break in the sigh 1
M.L.
AHAU.


A NOVEL PRESENT,
f\N receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 6/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
v:
1
m
m
m
wm
S 3
HShBI
M
Which we send FREE I
TO ALL explains WHY]
weak men ate WEAK,'
and STRONG men are
ST R OJtf G. ft deals
comprehensively -with,
the OAU 8 E 8 and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explains tneir
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CORED by
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY;
to the NERVOUS and
phy’sipaiiy WEAK
MAN or WOMAN, ft
tells you hokr LAME
BACK. KIDNEY
TROUBLES, RHE U-
SIATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WtfAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE.TG ALL. Call or Write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
is iinterested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new F2MALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
ħ
If your druggist cannot
supply fhe MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed
h
“ ACTS TIKE A CHARM.’*
JONES’
Hheumaticnro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CORE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
26. 9d . per bottles
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUMATICURO CO..
Cape Town,
I aad 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
SHn -Tortured Bate
ADO TIDED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Cuticura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap, and
gentle anointings with Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the blood.. This is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and economical treat-
ment for 'torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, irntations, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying
the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspira-
tion, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative,
antiseptic purposes whichreadily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. No other
medicated soap ever compounded is to be compared with it for preserving,
purifying, and beautifying the skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other
foreign or domestic toilet soap, however expensive, is to be compared with
it for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines
in One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
best toilet and best baby soap in the world.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PIUS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tastelesß,
odourless, economical substitute for the eele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in sorew-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Ootioura Rimkdiks are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns k Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 6 Rue de la Fail. Paris. Point is Drug and Chem
Oo®p.. Bnla Proma,. Bopf wa. TT. 8. A,.
m
mm
T
BBB%ffls&693^9fi£s
fln^ttgßa
:. Oft
-
jg
§3^2i2^w!iiißjN
«@^*?€S§gi§
iwSwSl
ft ;»«*>«»•« 5
<* <><>
<t ii» V*«iKj
sW¥!Vv,«:js!|
■*«f o <»<*<►.«*'£
■pUSSs^^
r v <* ;#L#i
icje «* 4» « jIMOM
jgs&vitfvv-a
HBStf
s@
sessp
«»:«s ;<£>*,
w w*?? **& <?:>»
Je&•«-* *•> «-».f.*> -..»>■ TL*
»j»-«»w ,«k
*'<«► *4*y»Ar&. <*:>i-;
I^fSRsHHIHHnni
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
Til Bullkltit and moil Comlortablt Underwear lor Mil, Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imiuiio.ni being told under similar
names.
The public are warned againat buying imitations when described
as “just as good as Aerte*.“_
SOLE AGENTS
'
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 King: Street*
GOOD
KA.IR FOR
ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
tSt For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES'"OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
4®- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington 11. Souo & Co.i
Vitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Bold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & JIAUKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Koekhampton, Queensland, and 6
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
WILL ANDRADE’S ust of BOOKS
ĥ
ħ
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over SO engraving's,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-To-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for. Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 60. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Bald heads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise Tlypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hotle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-To-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates a,nd engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is Bd.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith's Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
and any book you want.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5: Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —~
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHtS.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
' These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J. LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following are some of our best known Maohlnos
in ueo :
The “ Challenge ” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill) —3d. Slot-
pays value in goods.
The “ Australia”—6Slots Spots and P. Machine—3d. Slot
—pays value in goods.
The Monte Carlo—s Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays value
in goods.
'•’he Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
MTOur Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like niasric, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Writ#
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
Mr
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAHT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
THAT REFRESHING FEELING
of thorough purification given by
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
-• C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND.
m
CHOICE
TIPS
From the Famous
Farms of South
Africa.
Black, White, or Cream
5/ The Bunch Worth
/ Post Free. 15/-
We make this special offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips.
WRITE NOW ! Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHERSHOP,
Corner Bourke and Bwanston Streets, Melbourne.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]


In the Grip of La Grippe
MANY COMPLICATIONS LEFT BEHIND.
All Banished and Health Restored
by CLEMENTS TONIC.
The Case of Mr. J BARTLETT.
(BY ▲ SYDNEY REPORTER.)
It is to the interest of this country that
all citizens should be so educated that they
may become a self-reliant and prosperous
people, and to put this idea into practical
effect a reporter was commissioned to bring
before the community a matter here dealt
with by Mr. James Bartlett, of No. 5
Patten’s Buildings, Kent-street, Sydney.
“In the time of a great epidemic,” said
Mr. Bartlett, “ when influenza was ram-
pant in Sydney, I was one of the many
who failed to elude that terrible disease.”
“Were you in danger of meeting with
serious consequences? ” asked the wiiter.
“ There was every likelihood that I
would never get well again, as I was in a
frightfully low state for many months.
Matters went so badly with me that I
thought I was fighting a hopeless fight
against an overwhelming force, and as I
1 was laid up for weeks, and could not do a
stroke of work for seven months, I think I
had good cause to form that opinion. I got
so thin and ghastly white that everybody
thought I was going into consumption, be-
sides getting awfully weak into the bar-
gain <*T lie pains in my head were enough
to rui it! way with one’s senses, being of that
heavy, depressing nature which makes the
victim feel as if there is only care and
sunow in the world, It was not the in-
fluenza itself that I had to regret so much
as the effects it left behind, for my system
seemed so upside down that there was not
a sound part about me. My limbs were so
racked w ith aches that if I walked a few
yards I had to sit down and rest for the
purpose of easing the pain, but another
reason why I could not go far without
taking a spell was because I used to turn
very giddy. Through that cause I nearly
fell down stairs several times, so
that I was almost afraid to move in case
of meeting with an accident. I wondered
what was the good of living in such misery,
for I had no energy, no pleasure, no any-
thing that was worth having. For weeks
and weeks I could not get any sleep, and
there was a feeling in my eyes as if they had
swelled up. A dark haze was visible at
every turn, my sight being so bad that I
could scarcely see, and if I wanted to get
anything for myself I had to grope about
as if it were dark. I could not hear very
distinctly either, owing to a strange drum-
ming in my ears, so that I was not much
use to anybody. Indeed, I was a nuisance
to myself, and would like to have been out
of the way of the persecuting pains which
came to the small of my back and almost
paralysed me whenever I stooped. This,
together with the thickness of my urine,
told me that my kidneys were disordered,
and I was af erwards told so by the doctors
Whom I was treated by, with the additional
information that my liver was also dis-
eased ” 0
“ Did they give you any medicine ? ”
“ Of course they did, and I was never
behind hand in taking it, as my enforced
absence from work meant a great loss to
me, and I wanted to get better. But, some-
how, my condition remained stationary.
When I examined my tongue it was al-
ways furred and rough, while my mouth
had a foul taste as if I had been drinking.
Not a morsel of food could I enjoy, but I
am not one to give in till I am fairly beaten,
and I used to make myself eat; but it
would have been better if I had spared my-
self the trouble, as everything seemed to
decay in the stomach, and give rise to ex-
cessive torture in the form of windy spasms.
My chest also felt as if a piece of lead had
1 dged there for the purpose of stopping my
breath, and there was no relief to be gob
till I vomited everything up again. The
weakness of my stomach was so advanced
that I could not keep my food down, so
that accounts for my feebleness and the loss
of flesh I sustained. There was also some-
thing wrong with my heart, which pafpi-
tated as if I had been indulging in some ex-
cessive exercise, and with my nerves all
gone I was completely wrecked from every
point of view. A twitching pain below my
neck irritated me, but for that matter X
was always in an irritable mood, even the
sound of voices raised in laughter being
sufficient to annoy mo; but I was so
desperate and despondent that I did not
know what to do with myself. In any
short stretches of sleep I got there flashed
an awful picture upon my vision, and when
I woke up I could not help thinking that
something I dreaded would surely happen,
although I recognised that death would
have been preferable to any more suffer*
ing.”
“ Why did you not try a change of
medicine
“If I had not done so I would not be
here to-day, as I was sinking very fast after
the long and torturing captivity in the
hands of my diseases, when a fellow-work-
man prompted me to try Clements Tonic.
It was not till I carried out his advice that
the influenza was beaten, and now, after a
long and convincing experience, I am sure
there is no medicine on earth like Clements
Tonic, for after taking a couple of bottles I
was feeling a new interest in existence.
The improvement was then so marked that
I ventured to hope that a possibility still
existed that I would yet recover, and by
closely pursuing my latest course of treat-
ment my heartfelt hopes were gratified. I
started on the right track with a slight
appetite, which came through using
Clements Tonic, and which that medicine
continued to increase. Then my liver be-
gan to work more regularly, a fact which
afforded great relief in several ways. For
instance, my headaches slackened off, and
the sickly taste left my mouth, besides hav-
ing full use of my eyes in consequence of tho
disappearance of the haziness before them.
The pains in my back and shoulders were
lighter than before, and I had no trouble in
breathing, as my chest was quite free from
oppression. A feeling of vigour crept
through my system through th® medium of
Clements Tonic, and I was gaining in flesh
already, which showed that my food was
digesting well. I marvelled at the rapidity
with which my vomiting troubles were
stopped, while the action of Clements Tonic
on my nervous system could not be too
highly spoken of. When my liver and
kidneys had been relieved of all symptoms
of disease by Clements Tonic I hardly knew
how to suppress the gladness I felt, es-
pecially as no cause remained for anxiety
as to the state of my heart, which ceased
shortly after flatulence was
remedied. 1
“ And now your health is perfect, I
believe ?”
“It could not be better, for I took
Clements Tonic till I was cured outright,
and for the past three years I have scaled
over 13 stone. lam thankful to be able to
give this information, which you can pub-
lish in any way it pleases you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Jamds Bartlett, of 5 Patten’s Buildings, Kent-
street, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, conaising of four
folios, and consecutively numbered from
one to four, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonie_; and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, thi»
twenty-sixth day of March, one thousand nine
hundred and two, before me,
WM. P. FITZGERALD, J.P.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
%
■■ n.*--~tc‘*gns>es:
COVERS.
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimate* Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOB LIST .
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
SYmffßY.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. It
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. tor free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. RlcorcTs Marvellous Medicine
5/- Bottle; Postage l/»
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Writ* for Free Booklets,
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Sub-Agents
' Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne.
[ Faulding & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Prloi> - - * Foated. Bd.
h
means
DANGER!
Wilson’s
Commonscnse
Ear Drums
mean relief and
SAFETY
Send a postcard to-day for
descriptive booklet (posted
free) ,gi vi ng testimonialsfrom
Australian users,Established
8 years: sales largely increas-
ing. Address: J. Chalmers,
923-331 Collins St., Melbourne
JQ - OTIC 111 TO MHM.BOURNR VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kllda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF (or
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS. •^CATERER,
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
•elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
lar the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied*
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE GOGOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S _
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRISCUIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, Helbourne.
£fer£lu,Ls'b /lights
* *n
- - - . £ •"1
TRY
3r/i.e
ĥ
Refuse a//fm/faf/ons
Satisfying, Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Ncuris/ung
AGFJVfS POP SYD/ffV:
SAYfPS AULPORT 6t POTTF#
RIDCES FOOD MILLS LONDON. Enc
DEBILITATED
■WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
w trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Drunkenness
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FREE
BY ' POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences.' A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
siriDasriEY.
Cockroaches!
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Oas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Cideradb, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
Bs., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready lor use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Boot. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
Til Try It. H
The Only Certain
Uouttache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
Th* Hetutt.
CRAIG & AITKEIM. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance X came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Uahufacturers or TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Blrsotlona for Use.— Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
to hettte
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Ci rbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd*
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy*
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk <& Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD in two sizes, 9d. ifc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdustrb »fe Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colouies.


ħ
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
Business Announcements.
h
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURSE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’B, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
TeL 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each.' Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle. ,
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BW A Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers .
The
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved from the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food no. 1. Milk Food n®. 2. Malted Food N 0.3.
Prom birth to thro* month*. From three to six months. From six months and upwards.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management fret from
495, BourJce Street , Melbourne,
TSlalaEN & M7KNBURyS latdL, IaONOON.
Imported expressly for those who place
QUALITY first.
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
ARE
NOT
“CHEAP” CIGARETTES.
Write for
Booklet.
RUBEROID ROOF PROTECTION.
'
Measured by years of service, you cannot
better the original and well tried
Ruberoid.
No other roofing can compare with it,
No other roofing so well fulfils every point.
It has stood the test of years.
Ready for use—adapted to any style of roof.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY and
BRISBANE.
Full Particulars in other States from
Fremantle, W.A.:
J. M. FERGUSON, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A. :
A. W. SANDFORD & CO.
Melbourne, Yic. :
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., Ltd.
Launceston, Tab. :
HEDLEY BUTTON.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1249.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1004,
Pric 1
1 MACEDONIAN VEHMUERICHTE.
LONDON, January 13, 2.G5 p m.—An 111-famed j
Macedonian Insurgent named Chernopejeff and j
other members of the Vehmgerichte, who are l
punishing Macedonians for deserting the cause,.;
ahot and wounded Captafu Stojanoff. who had re- *
j hla membership ef Zontcbeff's rommittee, j
and also Judge Semerdscbieff. ou the highway, |
sOeor Sofia, the Bulgarian capital. The assail-1
pnta escaped.
The assailants escaped, ehl Well, that’s
bad enough; hut think of the expense of
repairing the cable after all those hard names
had been transmitted 1 The question arises—
What will happen in the event of a Basso-
Japanese war, when all the outlandish proper (t)
names of the belligerents begin to come through t
REDUCTION OF MEMBERS IN N S W.
Lord High Executioner sings —. ‘
There s John See and O’Sullivan, they’re first upon the list;
They never would be missed, they never would be missed.’’
Loudon, Sunday Afternoon.—The Pope has directed that no lady considering
herself a good Catholic should appear in a decolletd gown at gatherings attended by
cardinals and prelates. .
Hia Holiness has also ordered the removal of images and ornaments of little
religious or artistic value in churches.
Ore op Them : « Holy Father, do you think it’s impossible for a Gibson Girl to
enter the Kingdom of Heaven t ”
A NEW ' RUBBER STAMP.—AUSTRALIA’S
gov.-generaL Has arrived.
London, Tuesday Afternoon -The T.mes eulogises Mr. Seddon’s services to the Empire,Aut .hopes that
his proposed protest from the colonies against the introduction of .imported labor in the .Rand trill not
receive much support
The Transvaal, states The Times, although previously a Crown colony, is treated as a self-governing
colony, and knows its own mind best. J 8
' noinlnnJhnf P *h««^ ° AZETrE .declares that Mr. Seddon and the other Premiers are entitled to their
opinions, but these opinions cannot have a compulsory effect on the Transvaal, which should settle Its own affair*
Kiyo Richard : " Here, I say, I’ll play this Empire game as long as you choose, hut I haT
playing with the Chinaman.”
The editor of the Sydney Evening News (who shouldn’t notice such, things)
»yp.“ There are indications that short skirts &re coming in again."
Well, there’s one comfort; jf they get too “decollete,’’.the. Pope will
be down on ’em like a tbous.and of bricks. -
THE HUMOR OF SOME THINGS.


The Bulletin.
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the AustraUana. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, ol
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOT ICS.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Edit* r
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
' The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable). Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are notresponsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A inatwx in Itlacle and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawing' in line or w»sh, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M. S'.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Luilgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, S 3 llout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
llhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
llong Kong.—Brewer and Co., 33 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1904.
The Australian Sickness.
N.S. Wales Premier John See, talking a few
days ago, said that he did not regret the expendi-
ture of public money during the last year or two;
to borrow and spend was, he believed, the only
possible policy in the circumstances. In the same
spirit, members of the N.S.W. Labor party, while
confessing that they wish borrowing could be
stopped, have lately declared that they don’t know
how the last year or two could have been weathered
without it. Put into plain English, this means
that they don’t know how this country could have
lived during the last little while if it had not been
subsidised. In Victoria the situation has been
as bad or worse ; professedly in order to meet
it, the pensions of the needy pioneers of
the State were cut down, and the roads
and railways were allowed to go to ruin,
and even then the sinking funds established by
former Treasurers were stolen in order to
make the State s accounts look square. Queens-
land did no great deal of borrowing simply
bee use it couldn’t; it tested its credit, and found
that there wasn’t enough of it left to be worth
mentioning. Nevertheless it had to borrow some-
thing, or if it couldn’t borrow it had to either
steal or owe, for in the last four years its ordinary
revenue has failed to meet its ordinary expendi-
ture by £1,343,469. South Australia last year had
one of the most profitable times it has ever
known, and still, with the Northern Territory, it
ended up with a deficit. So did Tasmania, whose
position was much the same. In even an un-
usually good year, these two States had thus to
be subsidised, too ; and they got the subsidy by
pledging some of the proceeds of future seasons,
whether they be good or bad ; and the best of
them can hardly be better than the present.
Westralia certainly wound up its State’s financial
year with a small surplus ; and it promptly sent
across warnings to the eastern States not to be
misled by that circumstance and rush over there
for work, because there were droves of unemployed
already on the spot.
* * * *
While these things were happening, Australia
was told by its public men and its unpatriotic
newspapers not to worry. It was assured that it
was passing through a time of great depression—
such a time, in fact, as it had never had before,
and inighfc make pretty sure it would never have
again. So long.as the drought lasted this seemed
fairly convincing ; and, except here and there,
Australia did not woiry. It was content to
believe that what it was suffering from was
quite exceptional, and that the symptoms
would most likely never be experienced again.
But the drought is over long since, and to it has
succeeded the most bountiful harvest ever known
in Australia. So bountiful is it in N.S.W. that,
though last year’s was so much of a failure,
the average of the two is greater than
that of any other two consecutive years
in the State’s history with a single exception.
And still there is no sign of that prosperity
which, we were lately told, was bound to
return with the first good season. I hat fact
alone throws a shadow of doubt and sus-
picion over the comforting theory upon which
we proceeded to borrow throughout last year and
the year before ; and the more inquiries that are
made the more disreputable and leaky does the
theory become. In the first place, even if there
were a failure of the wheat crops in two or three
of the. States, there was such prosperity in other
directions as had not hitherto blessed the con-
tinent. The N.S.W. coalfields never had such
an output before. Newcastle’s export was more
than twice as great as it was 10 years ago. Every-
where gold-mining flourished. Many fields topped
all their previous figures. Down to 10 years ago the
Australasian production of this metal had averaged
for many years an annual £6,000,000; last year it
reached £18,250,000, a growth of over 300 per
cent, in 10 years. This total Australasian gold-
production is equal to about 13-times the value of
the average wheat crops in New South Wales.
Moreover, as to New South Wales, although the
wheat crop failed in 1903, in 1902 it was the second
largest on record, and in 1901 absolutely the
largest. In Victoria also the 1903 failure followed
hard upon a succession of record harvests. It
was the same in Queensland. The fact, then, is
that there was unusual prosperity in some indus-
tries in all the States last year, while there was
unusual prosperity in even the agricultural indus-
try in some States; moreover, the year, even as
to the worst industries, followed a succession
of the fattest years Australia has had; never-
theless it is deliberately stated that, had we not
been subsidised (by men who will want it all
back, with interest added), we should not have been
able to pull through. After years of unexampled
production, we ought to have put by enough for
a year of absolute failure; and yet, even when
the year was a failure in only one or two
branches of industry, and when it was a gor-
geous success in others, Australia had to borrow,
so it was pleaded, in order to fill its people’s
mouths, it had to cut down the poor pittance it was
allowing its pioneers, to steal trust funds in order
to square its ledger, and to let its public works
go to pieces for want of paint and putty. And
even then it didn’t square its ledger.
• * * •
The Bulletin asserts, therefore, that last year
and the year before that Australia was not suffer-
ing from any unusual depression whatever, and
that the borrowing boom and the other things
mentioned in the last paragraph were therefore
achieved under false pretences. It asserts that
the drought was not responsible for the tight place
in which Australia found itself ; and it also asserts
that the tight place still exists, and that Australia
is in it, even now that the drought has passed.
Further, it is clear that even something more than
an ordinary success in the harvest fields alone will
not get us out of the difficulty. Tasmania and South
Australia, as before remarked, had unusual success
in that direction last year, and still they were
very little better off than the other States ; each
had a deficit and unemployed, and those who were
employed got poor wages. A country suffering
from a burst of prosperity ought not to show those
features. What is the matter ?
* * * *
Mainly borrowing. Mainly the absentee.
Mainly, in short, the “subsidy” that it is
deolared we couldn’t have done without last year.
Mainly the drug that we debauched.on last year,
and the year before that, and years before that
again. Australasia has now returned to it so
often that, at the present time, it has to export
about £11,000,000 a year more than it imports in
order to satisfy its public creditor. For 10 years
past the wheat-crop of N.S. Wales has averaged
about million bushels. At the present price of
wheat it would take nearly eight-times that much
to pay the Australasian bill for interest and charges.
The weary old gag is that the money has been
“ spent on reproductive works.” We know that,
to a great extent, that is not true; but that does
not matter fcr the present. The point is that the
money has to be paid, and that, to satisfy the
public creditor alone, Australasia has to send to
him every year eight-times as much as the whole
of the average wheat crop of N.S. Wales is worth
at present prices! How much is necessary to
satisfy the private creditor it is almost impossible
to average; in his case the amount is not fixed.
In the allegedly bad year of 1903 the foreign-
owned banks made profits of just over £500,000.
That was Australia’s tribute to one small set of
private creditors. Take another set, the insur-
ance companies doing business in N.S. Wales:
there are 79 of them, and no less than 57 have
their head offices outside the Commonwealth. Of
the larger mortgage companies, and especially
those that have their claws upon the “natural
producing ” industries, there is hardly one that is
not a foreigner. In the mining industry, lately
so prosperous, there is the same drain of Austra-
lian life-blood. No front-rank Australian mine
to-day is mainly Australian-owned. Two-thirds,
certainly, and probably more, of all mining divi-
dends are paid and spent outside Australia. Add
to the tribute payable to the public creditor this
other tribute payable to the well-nigh innumer-
able private creditors, including the foreign
manufacturer of the goods we ought to be
manufacturing ourselves, and we shall get some
idea of what is the matter with Australia, and
why its back is bent and its head bowed in even
a fair season.
• • * •
But, as a matter of fact, we have not in the
past been in the habit of sending away this 14 or
15 millions’ worth of our products in excess of our
imports. We have simply exported an excess of
seven or eight millions, and owed the rest ; that
is to say, we have added the balance to our princi-
pal debt. While we could do this, the burden
was not felt ; it seemed a burden, not of 14 or 15
millions, but of seven or eight millions only.
Now, however, when our creditors say “Pay,”
and when all of the bill has to be provided for,
what ought to be prosperity is turned into the
other thing. So we throw it upon the drought.
We blame Providence instead of our own im-
providence.
The “Afternoon-Tea” Politician.
“Well, anyhow, I hope it won’t be Kingston.”
That was the summing-up of a talk on “the
political situation ” by a well-known daily-paper
reporter, who possesses the valuable quality for
one of his calling that he has no particular preju-
dices with regard to political principles. “ And
why?” “Oh, because he is such a surly beggar.
Newspaper fellows all hate him. He’s never
really civil.” That was a judgment on politics of
some significance. Australian public life—chiefly
because of the absence of large ideas, and the
neglect of high traditions—is to a very great
extent governed by petty little considerations of
personal amiability. The man who can provide
the right kind of drinks at the right time for
the right persons possesses a valuable political
asset. As a statesman he may be fool or rogue,
as a financier he may be reckless, thriftless, or
even dishonest; but if, as an entertainer, he has a
taking way with him, some degree—perhaps a
very distinguished degree—of success is open to
him. He can “shout” his way to a Premiership
and a title—taking “shout ” in its broadest sense,
of providing for this man whisky, for this man
flattery, for this man nepotic concessions, for this
man afternoon tea.
* * * »
For even afternoon tea is not to be despised as
a weapon of political warfare—especially in these
days when the word “ man ” in politics, as well
as in anthropology, denotes man and woman.
Indeed, the afternoon-tea politician is often the
most wily and assiduous in the art of making
small personal attentions take the place of large
political principles as reasons for public advance-
ment. Mr. Joseph Carruthers, for instance, is
at the present moment artfully afternoon-tea-ing
his way into the hearts of the women voters;
hardly a political woman of any importance can
come to Sydney from Bourke, Booligal or
Bathurst but goes, literally, to have afternoon-tea
(with two lumps of flattery) with the statesman
who leads the Opposition in N.S.W. And in dis-
pensing afternoon-tea, Mr. Carruthers is making
no precedent, only following the freetrade tradi-
tion in N.S.W. In his struggling Opposition
days Mr. G. H Reid used to give “ afternoon-
teas ” to Labor members, and he then cast his
macaroon biscuits on the waters with notably
excellent results to himself personally. Later, in
power, Mr. Reid failed to keep up his hos-
pitality, and in time Parliament gave him
the reputation of being a “dry push.” Setting
aside tne questions of public policy which brought
about his fall, and looking deeper, a great deal of
the explanation for the sudden dramatic going-
out of Mr. Reid’s light, after a long and laborious
kindling, was that he had forgotten the art of
afternoon-teaing, had neglected the little flatteries,
the personal pleasantries, and the concessions with
which he had wormed his way into power—had
forgotten them and had no real foundation of
ability and principle to fall back upon, and so fell
to make room for Mr. Lyne, the most artfully
affable man in Australia, who established a record
by winning over a whole newspaper proprietary
by the aftemoon-tea method. Of course, in that
case, the tea was metaphorical—billets for direc-
tors and staff-members, titles in prospective for
proprietors and the like.
• ♦ * *
But whether it takes the form of afternoon-tea
for the women-folk, cigars and whisky for the pro-
minent constituent, bland smiles and courteous
consideration for the reporter, promises of titles
and billets for the newspaper proprietor, local
works for the roads-and-bridges member, artful
flattery for the young and impressionable member,
this bribery—for it is, in effect, bribery—has a
huge influence in Australian public life. The
dull plodder, whose affable smile was destined by
nature for the ribbon-counter of a genteel drapery
emporium, goes into politics and finds that smile
a way to advancement. The instinctive “boss,”
whose only chance of disgracing public life should
be as a ward-politician, manoeuvring kerbing and
guttering jobs for his supporters, creeps and in-
trudes into large affairs of State, and shapes the
fate of the Government of a State or a nation,
by the concession of a bridge or a road. The
thin-haired, rabbit-brained religious fool or
schemer pushes into politics with the help of
creatures of his own type but of slightly inferior
intelligence, on the strength of promises of hell
on this earth as well as in the next world for the
followers of other brands of Christianity. (To
some types of men the most welcome “shout”
you can afford is to promise them perdition for
their neighbors.) Such affable nobodies. 1 ‘ bosses ”
and sectaries —necessarily of no special ability
and no real strength of character, since other-
wise they would not seek prominence by such
paths—crowd forward, and in crowding for-
ward often prevent men of real worth from
entering into public life, until pessimists fore-
tell the time when it will be a rarity to
see a quite honest man in politics, relying on his
honesty alone as a claim to power; refusing
to wheedle any sort of personages; not seeking
to conciliate with bribes or flattery: demanding
support on high grounds of principle. Still, it is
comforting to reflect, there are yet some such
men in politics; and, assuredly, there would be
many more were it not for a prevailing miscon-
ception that the voters really want the afternoon-
tea type of politician, and would prefer him to
men of ability and principle if given the choice.
Experience does show that the people are
sometimes so foolish as to give power to mere
schemers. But they are seldom so foolish as to
deliberately reject the better for the poorer type,
With a bold enough lead from men of tried
worth, the electorates are generally sensible
enough : it is the lead that is so often lacking.
* * * *
The history of such men as Ballance,
Kingston and Turner, who never worked to
power on afternoon-tea lines, does not suggest at
all the hopelessness of honesty and largeness of
mind as an equipment for a career in politics.
There is no such corruption of the public mind as
to make honesty hopeless. What does exist—an
evil truly, but not so great a one as that—is a stare
of public mind which allows men, dishonest or
small-minded, to get to power by arts of corrup-
tion and of flattery. There is a lack of that
austerity in the Australian public mind which
would greet with scorn the small tricks of the small
men to creep into power, and would reject with
contempt even able men who used such devices
to eke out their talents. There is no better task
for the Australian Nationalist than to preach ever
the need of that spirit. A democracy—especially
a democracy verging towards Socialism—must be
governed by austere men. A despotism or an
oligarchy may with safety have its friendships,
its corruptions, and its jobs. A social democracy
cannot. When the people rule themselves and to
a large extent employ themselves, when the men
they put into power are at once their servants and
their masters, those men must be of the type who
stand aloof from all temptations of courting
popular favor at the price of the popular welfare.
A democracy with rulers of the intriguing, pan-
dering type must drift downwards. In truth,
there could be no higher compliment to Kingston
than that he is an “aloof man,” with none of the
small graces with which smaller men eke out
smaller talents. It is the type the Commonwealth
needs.
For the Sake of a Bloated City.
Its choice as the Federal territory will, if wisdom
guides the Australian Parliament, shortly open
up the Monaro district of N.S.W. for the popula-
tion which it is fitted to support. In the mean-
while, it serves as a conspicuous example of the
evils of that policy of land monopoly and centrali-
sation which N.S.W. has pursued so consistently.
The Monaro, half a century or so ago, attracted
the notice of a daring speculator, Mr. Boyd, who,
if his ideas savored of megalomania, at least
founded them on an entirely reasonable basis.
He saw the capacity of the Monaro coun-
try, and he saw, too, the right path for its
development— a seaport at Twofold Bay, and a
road, ultimately a railway, into the interior table-
land to bring the products of farm and pasture
to the coast by a route extending not much
more than 60 miles. Boyd died after planning
and beginning to build a magnificent city on Two-
fold Bay, leaving behind a few fine buildings and
a valuable hint to future generations. The build-
ings are now perishing as rapidly as their solid
character will allow. The hint is still ignored.
Settlement has come to the Monaro, attracted by
its eternal streams and its rich pastures; but
the natural port of the district has been left
neglected, and the Monaro cut off from com-
munication with the outside world. Sixty miles
of railway from Bombala to Eden would have
opened up the finest tract of country in N.S.W.
to every Australian market. But it was never
built, never even seriously thought of by succes-
sive Governments, their thoughts always bent on
aggrandising Sydney, and smothering all develop-
ment in the country which would not serve to
further swell the bloated metropolis. Lately a
railway has been pushed down from Goulburn to
Cooma on the edge of the Monaro country ; in
time it will probably reach Bombala. But even
then it will not be the railway wanted. Goods put
on it must be dragged over 300 miles to Sydney,
though the coast is only 60 miles away, and the
coast is the door to the markets of Australia
and of the world. With a railway from the
Monaro to Eden 25 years ago, the district would
carry to-day, probably, a population of 100,000.
Farmers would have flocked to land which needs
no clearing, which is never drought-parched, and
through which perpetual streams flow.
* » * *
As it is, the vicious system of centralisation
has bred land monopoly, and smothered Monarc
development. Small settlers came to the Monarc
originally, but most of them were in time starvec
out. To grow wheat, oats, hay, fruit was useless
The produce would have to be carted to a far
distant railway, and then hauled to Sydney.
Carriage would thus eat up the whole profit, and
even more. So the fertile land fell into the hands
almost exclusively of graziers, who have put
it to the best use under the circumstances.
But at what cost to the country of population
and of wealth ! The vast Bibbenlulce estate on
the Monaro is said to regularly employ only
seven men. Its area of 65,000 acres could easily
keep 100 families in comfort with close settle-
ment. Very recently 1100 acres of the estate
were, by an exchange, thrown open for settle-
ment, split into three farms—average size less
than 400 acres. The land attracted over 200
applicants, and every man reckoned that to
succeed in getting, as a homestead selection, 300
odd acres of this land was to be “a
made man for life.” The areas offered were
of the average quality of the estate: so clearly
this great tract, which now keeps half a
score of workers in employment and half-a-dozen
absentee proprietors in luxury, might be support-
ing in comfort, at least, 100 families. But first
the Monaro must have railway communication.
At present a few small farms can exist with
dairy-farming—teaming the butter down to the
coast, 60 miles distant—but obviously if, instead
of a few, there were some thousands (there
is land for 10,000 farmers on the Monaro),
the transit conditions would have to be
changed. Land monopoly on the Monaro is
at present propped up by want of railway com-
munication, and the fact explains to an extent
why the residents of the district are anxious for
the choice of the Australian Parliament to fall
upon the locality as the site of the Federal
territory. The Federalisation of the Monaro
would kill land monopoly by a resumption, at a
fair price, of the large estates, and at the same
time give the district railway communication with
the coast.
• • •
Why the railway has so far been lacking would
puzzle a stranger who sees the rich deep soil,
capable of growing almost anything, and the per-
petual rivers fed by the snow-beds of the
Australian Alps. But to the man conversant
with N. S. W. politics there is nothing
mysterious about the smothering of this district.
Its natural path of development was towards
its own port at Twofold Bay, as old Ben Boyd
recognised. A_ railway to that port would have
been, comparatively, a small matter. But then it
would have possibly allowed some of the Monaro
trade to escape from Sydney. The Monaro wool
and wheat and meat might have gone direct to
Europe and America or—shuddersome horror—
some of it might have gone to Melbourne. The
Monaro man’s tea, sugar and shirt might also have
escaped paying toll to the Sydney importer by going
direct to him through his own port. That could
not be allowed. N.S.W. Governments have never
ruled for the State, but always for the one city of the
State. A natural development policy would have
sent railways out from Grafton, from Newcastle,
from Sydney, from Jervis Bay and from Twofold
Bay, and if railway construction had followed those
lines the population of the State would probably
be by now 50 per cent, higher than at present; but
the population of Sydney would be slightly less ;
and all political effort is directed towards further
bloating out an over-swollen city. It is the
tendency of Federation to combat, and in time to
destroy, that vicious policy of centralisation, which
in a measure explains the fanatical hostility
towards the Union which the ‘ ‘ Cabbage Tree
Mob” of Sydney and equivalent coteries in
Melbourne show.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Blackleg 1 of a New Era.
The worst wrench that the N.S.W. Arbitration
Act has had conies from Newcastle, the district
which for years past has been most in need of the
Act and has suffered most from its absence, and
which therefore might reasonably be expected to
guard it now. The men at two of the smaller
collieries up there went to the Arbitration Court
some time ago, and asked for more pay. It was
agreed that the common Newcastle system of a
hewing rate based on the selling price of coal, was
the fairest, and a schedule was drawn up by the
Court—the miner was to get so much for his work
when the owner got so much for his coal.
Both parties were apparently satisfied; anyhow,
neither kicked. The owners put in weighing
machines, and prepared to start the new system
and 1904 together. Obviously the court could
not say what the average selling rate was going
to be in a period win -h was not then completed ;
that much had 10 be .eft to some outside account-
ant with the owners’ books to guide him. But
the accountant’s first certificate disappointed the
miners ; the selling price had not been as high as
they had expected, and therefore, under the court’s
award, the hewing rate could not be as high, either.
Instead, in fact, of the men getting the rise they
had expected, they had actually to suffer a re-
duction. In their keen disappointment, and act-
ing, it is satisfactory to know, against the pointed
advice of the “district officers” of the miners’
association, they refused work. The award had
provided for a mixed committee to deal with any
disputes which might arise under it; but they did
not even seek its services. They simply took up
a position of open hostility to the award of the
court, and therefore to the court and the law


. And > incidentally, they did worse even
than this ; for they put into the mouths of the
opponents of Arbitration the gibe that workmen
don t really believe in arbitration, and will only
support it so long as it puts an extra few pence
into their pockets—that, in short, unless
they can play “ heads I win, tails you lose ” with
it, they will jump on it enthusiastically. And
vov! 1 * 1 * s P° ss i^ e to answer to this gibe ?
What those who want to wipe out Arbitration say
is true in this case at least—true, every word of
Had the award been in the workmen’s favor,
they would, have accepted it; because it is not,
they flout it. That the other side has, in some
cases, flouted and so far defeated the court and
the law, too—especially in the case of the shearers
is no answer. One crime does not excuse
another. And, anyvay, there is even less to be
said for the worker breaking the law and weaken-
ing it than for the other side. It is essen-
tially the workers’ law. The employers, as a
rule, did not ask for it ; the workers did.
It was the leading plank in their political plat-
form for years. The hostile employer may there-
fore be expected to be always ready to show how
weak it is, and how it can be defeated ; while the
worker ought to be relied upon to strengthen it
and to prevent its defeat. If he does not do that,
he is no better than the blackleg of the old days
of strikes and lockouts. He is, in fact, the black-
leg of the new era—the man who is careless of the
effects of his actions upon his fellows, and does
what he thinks will suit himself best, no matter
whether others sink or swim.
Throwing- the Bill into the Cradle. -
Tasmania has added something more to ita
shocking financial record ; it has lived beyond its
means in one of the most prosperous years that
ever came its way, its expenditure during 1903
having been .£877,000, or £18,792 more than its
receipts. This makes the 13th time in 20 years
when the same story of either dishonesty or in-
capacity has had to be told. In the last three
years the record has been as follows :
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1901 .. £826,163 .. £870,442 .. £44,279
1902 .. 734,663 .. 850,684 .. 116,021
1903 .. 858,208 .. 877,000 .. 18,792
Total deficit (three years) .. £179,092
The population of the State at the end of 1902
was 177,080; so that, in those three years, the
island has dodged taxation to the extent of over
£1 per head, and lias simply thrown the Bill into
the cradle for the next generation to wrestle with.
In other words, the Tasmanians of to-day are con-
demning their children to pay not only their own
taxation but a large share of their fathers’ as well.
Something can be said in extenuation of a
borrowing policy pursued for the purpose of
providing permanent public works. But nothing
'''™?’cr can said in extenuation of a “policy ”
of drifting into debt for the policeman’s pay, and
the railwayman’s uniform, and the scavenger’s
wages. A State which does that—which does it,
not under stress of most untoward circumstances,
but as an ordinary thing ; which does it even in a
year of unusual plenty, when its produce was
retching an almost unheard-of price in the neigh-
boring markets—comes perilously near inviting
the coming generation to repudiate the debt
or its cowardly, Micawber-like parent. And
almost worse than the figures themselves
I s the horror with which the prospect of any
iuture surplus is viewed. In the State itself acres
indignant protest are being printed because a
tax is being collected which, it is thought, may
next year bring in a few pounds more than will be
necessary to pay out-of-pocket expenses; and
pretty well every daily-paper editor in the small
island is pouring out his sympathy for “ the tax-
ridden people of Tasmania.” As a matter of factj
they are not at all heavily taxed now ; but if they
are “ tax-ridden,” as they say, to what are they
condemning the Tasmania of the future—the
Tasmania that will be expected to pay up its
father’s debts as well as its own !
♦ :
A Death-Bed Repentance.
The Reform movement is quickening in the
N.S.W. State Labor party; but some members
are discouraged by the argument that a “death-
bed repentance” is a bad thing. It undoubtedly
is. A better time for the Labor party to have re-
pented was years ago. A still better policy would
have been never to -have sinned. But the question
is not now, in 1904, whether it would have been
better to have repented in 1902, or better not to
have sinned at all. The issue is between a death-
bed repentance in 1904 and a death-bed non-repent-
ance. And there is at least this much to be said,
that the Labor party’s reputation for sincerity
and truthfulness is still good. It has never, for
instance, gone into power as a Freetrade party
and continued to protect all its friends’ industries,
from Freetrade newspapers upwards. On the
whole, it would be reasonable for the electorates
to trust the N. S. W. State Labor party if it now put
forward a Whole Hog programme of financia
reform ; certainly it would be more reasonable to
trust that party than any other party. Finally,
irrespective of whether the step leads to a party
victory at once, or only at some future time, is it
not a good thing for the organisation which was
started with such glowing professions of honesty
and reform to get into the right path again ?
—_
Reduction of Members.
It is said that there is still some chance of the
N.S.W. referendum vote for the reduction of
members being ignored, or at any rate postponed
for a Parliament. The fact that 35 members of the
present House must disappear, and that probably
70 members have a secret fear that they will be
among the 35, is sufficiently good explanation for
the rumor. But it would be a very serious
mistake —even for the N.S.W. Assembly—to
attempt any hanky-panky move in the matter
at this juncture. The Referendum has spoken
and should be promptly obeyed. Almost
equally regrettable would it be if any
attempt were made, as is forecasted, to gerry-
mander the new electoral subdivisions to give
the country man a much greater representa-
tion than the city man. It is true that rural
interests have in the past been shamefully neg-
lected for the sake of the bloated metropolis ;
but the remedy is not to be found in a negation of
the democratic principle of one-man-one-vote-one-
value. It is true also that a fair re-distribution
will give a far greater preponderance to the city
vote than at present, and thus, to an extent,
strengthen the bad influence of the city news-
papers. Still the case for going against a vital
principle of democracy is not made out. The
people must be trusted, and it is their vested
and inalienable right to make fools of themselves
if they wish. The remedy is to educate them
better, not to disfranchise them. The logical
complement of reduction of members will be a
thorough system of local government: that will
do away with the grievance of the country-folk,
that with huge electorates their local interests
will be neglected; a distribution of seats so that
the country man’s vote would be of greater value
than the city man’s would not effect that end
nearly so thoroughly.
A Letter from Our Creditors’ Country.
Michael Flubsoheim, the well-known economist,
in a letter to The Bulletin, from London, goes
into one of the byways of the present fiscal con-
troversy in Britain, and propounds the rather
startling theory that the foreign debts to Britain
are a source of Britain’s misery
The immense excess of British imports over exports is
aocounted for principally by the rent, interest, and divi-
dends which England receives in the shape of foreign
products. But the State receives no interest or dividends
from abroad except for the Suez Canal shares owned by
the British Government. Not England, but English
individuals, capitalists, get these other dues. It may he
said that this is merely a play with words ; yet I main-
tain that this want of exactness in terms is the cause of
a most fatal oversight in the discussion. If it were the
State that imported merchandise for tribute dues from
abroad, as it did in old Borne, such imports would benefit
the people, provided they were evenly distributed. But
the matter is entirely different where the income is due
to individuals, as is actually the case. Here all depends
on the spending of this income. If it is realised in the
shape of imports consumed by the owners of the incomes,
no deleterious effect is had on the producers of the
country to which the capitalists belong, though it would
be better for them if the incomes were paid in money,
and that money were spent at home. But the case is
entirely different when more goods are imported in pay-
ment of the interest than are consumed by the capitalists
at home, because in this case the excess is bought by the
people who otherwise would consume home products.
Every pound’s worth thus purchased will deprive a cor-
responding number of home producers of employment.
We have no statistics to guide us in the estimation of
the amounts thus absolutely taken from the employ-
ment fund. I only know that the amount is much larger
than we might judge at the first look, for most foreign
investments are made by parties who put aside a great
part of the money thus earned. Many of them live
entirely on their home incomes, and re-invest abroad their
foreign incomes. After making allowances for freight,
insurance, commissions, etc., and adding the amounts
spent abroad by English tourists (Switzerland alone
obtains four millions a year, of which perhaps one-half is
paid out by Englishmen ; Italy probably quite as much),
and then valuing that proportion of the remainder which
is imported without having its equivalent consumed by
the capitalists who draw the incomes from abroad, I do
not think I am far out if I count the actual deficit as
amounting to £100,000,000. This amount is really taken
off from the legitimate employment fund due to the
English producer. We may well count the total not
spent in England, but in foreign markets ; and we may
safely say that over 5,000,000 people are thus deprived
of work. In reality it is mostly not a case of total unem-
ployment for the million families, but partial unemploy-
ment for many millions.
My reasoning does not at all stand in the way of the
old Freetraders’ axiom that “ products are always paid for
with products.” This is only a question of date and com-
pound interest. The investments of England abroad (to
use the usual term) have been valued at £2,500,000,000 by
Thorold Rogers. As this was something like 20 years ago,
the increase through compound interest of the uncon-
sumed portion of the income will probably have increased
the amount since. How did this enormous amount origi-
nate except by the postponement of the importation of
the product—that is to say, by letting the debt, or part
of it, remain at compound interest ?
What compound interest is capable of Proudhon
showed : 100 francs, invested at 5 per cent, compound
interest during 600 years, would reach the enormous sum
of 107,854,010,777,600 francs —a sum 20 times as large as
the value of our globe, with all its moveable and immove-
able wealth—at the time he wrote !
This is from the point of view of England, which
lends the money ; The Bulletin looks at it from
the point of view of Australia, which owes the
money :
(1) It may be bad for England to get paid in goods ;
but it is worse for Australia tehave to pay. In England
they can’t get the work to do. Australia can get the
work all right, but somebody else has to get the product.
(2) Flurscheim says, truly, that many English capital-
ists “ live entirely on their home incomes and re-invest
abroad their foreign incomes.” That is to say, after
Australia has paid interest (in goods) the English
capitalist sends back other goods—he “re-invests his
income.” Thus the English workman, who makes these
goods, does gain something by the re-investment. He
supplies us with steel rails and other things which
Australia ought to make for itself. So if the English
workman is done out of one lot of production, the
Australian workman is done out of another. And he was
also done out of the manufacture of the goods repre_
sented by the original investment.
(3) But, though money is re-invested, repayment in
products is “ only a question of date and compound in-
terest”—and £1 at 5 percent, becomes in 100 years £l4O !
The £1 borrowed to-day becomes an appalling thing a
few years hence, when deficits follow —in other wo ds,
when the interest bill is not kept paid. And, as Flur-
scheim says, this is how the enormous debt has grown
up—“by the postponement of the importation (to Eng-
land) of the product.” In plain words, we don’t pay up,
and the bill grows amazingly. But “it is only a question
of date,” and the product will have to be paid. That or
repudiation. Flurscheim shudders at the effect on the
home (English) population of the payment of the £l4O in
goods. The Bulletin shudders at. the prospect of Aus-
tralia having to pay it. And yet shuddering won’t do
much good.
(4) Flurscheim evidently suggests the protection of the
English workman from these payments in goods. Whereat
The Bulletin shudders some more. Australia, with its
vast debt, its huge interest-bill, must find a market; and
England, under Freetrade, suits it very well. It may
be very hard on England’s own people ; but if England’s
own people got the work instead of Australia, it would
be very hard on Australia. If Australia hadn’t got chin-
deep in foreign debt, and if it hadn’t to pay interest,
Britain might shut its door and protect its own people,
and Australia would say that it was doing the sensible
thing; but, as matters stand, once Britain closes its
doors—once it decides that its own people shall have em-
ployment—Australia will have to work harder than ever
in order to meet its enormous obligations, unless (which
is unlikely) it can find equally good markets elsewhere.
And yet, in spite of the fact that this will probably
happen in the future, Australia, instead of reducing its
obligations with all the speed that it knows how to put
on, goes on increasing them !
»
His Honor’s Liver.
“ Burglar Bill ” : I am waiting for an up-to-date
member, who understands the weighty influence
the liver exercises in determining verdicts and
fixing sentences, to bring in a Bill called “ The
Prisoners’ Fair Dinkum Bill.” The liver is a
pessimistic organ at any time, and it generally
throws its weight on the side of the prosecution,
which is not fair to the prisoner on trial. One
never recognises its power till he is in the dock
before a Judge, whose yellow, bilious-looking skin
proves that his liver is on strike just at present. A
conviction will be a safety-valve for his spleen, and
he imagines, as he reads up the maximum penalty
before the case opens, that it is his keen percep-
tion that tells him of your guilt. One can almost
imagine his Honor’s liver making lunars at the
prisoner through his Honor’s bloodshot eyes.
The first clause of the proposed Bill should read :
Every Judge before taking his seat shall make a sworn
declaration that to the best of his belief his liver is in
good order, that his digestive organs are performing
their duties in a commendable manner, and that he has
no brown taste in the mouth or specks before the eyes.
This is especially necessary because a man, as a
rule, doesn’t become a Judge till he reaches that
period of life when the liver goes on strike. A
minor clause might be drafted to include
gout, toothache, lumbago, and other devilish
ailments which upset the proper administration
of justice; but the liver is the most important.
After his Honor has thus testified that the pri-
soner has a good chance of securing a fair and
impartial trial, he should be allowed to take his
seat. Every juryman, before being sworn, should
be called upon to give his liver a character upon
oath. In the case of jurymen I should insert a
special clause asking them to declare that the
fact of being empanelled on a jury does not in
any way interfere with their business—that the
old woman, with the help of the boys, will be able
to run the “public ” or the grocery until the court
is over. The thought of the old woman being
unable to serve the rush of thirsty beer-drinkers,
or sugar-buyers, oftimes brings about hurried
verdicts.
♦
Some Tasmanians have taken up the English
Nonconformist-conscience cry of “passive re-
sistance,” and propose to meet the income-tax
collector with a martyr’s air of resignation, but
no cash. The situation has its humors. Tas-
mania threw Lewis out from the Premiership with
a violence unparalleled in the Speck’s political
history, and put Propsting in his place. Lewis,
recognising the State’s hideous financial drift in
the past, had proposed to collect enough taxes to
keep things square; while Propsting talked re-
trenchment and reform, and proposed to remit
the tax on personal-exertion incomes, and to put
the incidence “on a more scientific basis.” And
the Dodery House, whose business it is to keep
the scientific basis off the premises, laid low and
said nothing. Then Propsting brought in his
measures—and Dodery promptly threw them out.
The Speck had forgotten its Dodery. Even now,
when it has been called upon to pay the very tax
which it so enthusiastically kicked Lewis out for
proposing to collect, it can’t bring itself to
seriously think of kicking Dodery out. Lewis
may be kicked; but Dodery represents something
too sacred for that. Heaven knows what it is;
but it is something. Therefore, as Dodery mustn’t
be kicked, the only protest it can think of offer-
ing is “ passive resistance.” Apparently it mis-
takes itself for a cabbage, or a codlin moth at the
most.
♦ —-
Copt of characteristic agreement between land-
lord and tenant in S.W. Victoria, where condi-
tions tend to the growth of a haughty squirearchy
and an enslaved peasantry :
The tenant shall once in every year, immediately after
harvest, and before any wheat shall be removed from the
land, but not in any case later than the 28th day of
February in each year, pay to the landlord the rent (viz.,
10s. per acre).
The tenant shall destroy and keep down all rabbits,
thistles, and noxious weeds on the land.
The tenant shall not burn off any stubble, straw, or
waste without the previous consent of the landlord.
The tenant shall not be entitled to graze or feed any
stock upon the land except the working horses used by
him in cultivating the land and in harvesting the crop
thereon.
The tenant shall not keep any dog, or allow any dog to
be kept or to be on the said land.
The tenant shall not make, construct, or put any gate
or gateway in or through any of the fences surrounding
the land, except at such points as may be agreed upon
and approved of by the landlord. Any such gate shall be
good and substantial, and shall be made and erected by
the tenant at his own cost, but to be approved of by the
landlord. Upon the termination of the tenancy the
tenant shall within one calendar month remove the gate
and restore and make good and perfectly stockproof the
fencing at the point where any such gate shall have been
constructed.
The landlord shall in every year, immediately after the
harvest and until the next ensuing ploughing, be solely
and exclusively entitled to the right of grazing over the
whole of the land, and to the exclusive use and enjoy-
ment of all stubble hay and straw for the time being on
the land. The landlord shall be at liberty at any time to
enter upon the land for any purpose.
The tenant shall, immediately prior to the termination
of his tenancy, plough a strip of land at least 15ft. in
width round the whole of the land hereby demised so as
to form an effectual fire-break.
A heavy moan from Launceston Examinee
The Tasmanian Parliament has brought its session to
a close, and we think we are within the mark in saying
that never in the history of the island has there been
such an absolute waste of time and such a travesty on
representative government. Tasmania is governed by a
little coterie of about ten men in a Legislative Council
elected by a few thousand people. Like the old Venetian
Council of Ten, they constitute an oligarchy of the worst
type. A short six months ago the electors, by an over-
whelming majority, returned an Assembly pledged to a
policy of reform, a repeal of the personal exertion sections
of the income tax, and a general system of retrench-
ment. They ignominiously dismissed a Ministry
which had refused to carry out this policy. The
Propsting Administration took up the reins, and
initiated a policy in accord with the expressed wishes
of the people. That was carried through the Assembly,
and although in doing so Ministers made some errors in
Parliamentary tactics, they adhered honestly to their
pledges. But the “Council of Ten” stepped in and
blocked every progressive measure. Arrogating to them-
selves a position which is at variance with the spirit of
the constitution, and contrary to the principle
of the bicameral system of Government, they
contemptuously ignored everything the Ministry
had initiated, threw the measures into the waste
paper basket, and practically told the representa-
tives of the people they were a set of idiots. The
“ Council of Ten ” went further. They took the financial
administration of the State into their own hands. They
imposed what taxation they thought necessary. . .
The session has been absolutely wasted. Everything is
where it stood before the last election took place. For
five months one Chamber has been framing measures in
accord with the express wish of the electors, and the
other Chamber has been as industriously rejecting them.
Not one measure of importance has been placed on the
statute book, and we have arrived at a legislative impasse
when one House or the other must give way. We do
not think the electors will be content to see the Assembly
and the Ministry sink into mere marionettes, to dance at
the bidding of ten men, nor do we think they are agree-
able that the Council, some members of which are getting
too infirm to attend to their duties, shall arrogate to
themselves the position of rulers of this State.
And then the stodgy old paper solemnly warns
the people not to do anything violent to the
blessed system of having two Houses of Parlia-
ment, and keeping a Council either t® say ditto
to the Assembly (in which case it is useless) or to
flatly contradict the Assembly (in which case it is
noxious and disastrous).
4
It is to be hoped that the efforts to revive the
agitation for a Greater Sydney will reach success.
The wasteful extravagance of the present system
is only equalled by the futile showmanry of the
battalion of gawky fellows who ape dignity
while acting as asses. The multiplication of
municipalities is the multiplication of mayors,
most of them noodles; of aldermen, most of them
duffers; aud of clerks, auditors and inspectors,
most of them creatures of a noodle or a duffer.
Over 40 mayors make the area of what should be
a single municipality a scene of riot and refresh-
ments, and the 700 aldermen would have killed
the municipal idea long ago—they are incom-
petent enough and viperish enough to do it—but
stupidity is so ingrained in the bulk of them, and
pompous exhibitions of importance keep their
brains so windy, that their most strenuous work
ends in puff and blow. Citizens should back up
heartily any scheme promising a central com-
petent authority responsible to a wide public
opinion, and not to a mere clique here and fusion
of personal interests there. A Greater Sydney
must mean better men; it could not mean worse
or as bad. Even if the benefits were not visible
or immediate, the satisfaction of bundling out of
office the present unwholesome crowds of arrant
humbugs would be something to go on with.
4
Victorian M.L.A. Roberts had hardly taken
liis seat before he followed M.L.A. Wilkins
in laying several charges against the Melbourne
police force and demanding an inquiry. Irvine
and Murray asked for specific complaints, with
names of witnesses, etc. Two specific charges
were promptly put before Murray to go on with.
First concerns a constable in the metropolitan
force alleged to have been found, when on
duty, drunk in a house of pleasure. Second
charge is against an official, that he accepted a
bribe—specified amount £3ooo—to stifle a prose-
cution for burglary. The, as yet, not particularly
specified charges, as to which the witnesses want
further guarantees of immunity, are even more
serious—including, as they do, sharing proceeds
of robberies, blackmailing, suborning to commit
felony, and suborning to conspire to illegally con-
vict. Evidently either the Melbourne police force
is very bad or it has a very bad lot of slanderers
out after its reputation. In either case the neces-
sity for a clearing-up inquiry is obvious.
J. G. Goddard, in Westminster Review, criti-
cising ecclesiastical justification of the late Boer
war:—
To glory in England’s record as the fear of the
oppressor and the hope of the oppressed is, no doubt,
highly patriotic, but when Englishmen themselves are
the oppressors what becomes of the hope ? The Boers did
to some extent interpose barriers to the gratification of
the greed of the capitalists; and surely there is an un-
conscious irony in the suggestion that we are to guard
the natives from exploitation- we who exploit more than
any other nation ; we who exact from India five-six-
teenths of her prodnce as the price of our government,
and who refused to make her a national grant when
stricken by famine beoause we were spending two
millions a week in extending our territory and empire ;
we who grant charters to conscienceless companies, and
strike bargains with mine-owners, whose sole concern for
the native is what they can get out of him. Yet the
prognostication was confidently made as a justification
for the forcible suppression of the Boer regime
of “ inequality ” and “ privilege.” We who, having
been “ led to believe ” that the treatment meted out to
the natives was unworthy of a civilised power, and having
now uttered our recantation, are appealing to the Kaffir’s
love of finery and extra wives as a mode of inducing him
to spend his days in the bowels of the earth for the white
man’s benefit—we it was who were to protect the native
from exploitation, and then vindicate the war to that
section of our people who regarded it with grave appre-
hension. Oh, the pity of it! Oh, the shame of it! What
can equal the smug complacency which sits in false judg-
ment upon others, and is blind to the existence in our-
selves of the very vices attributed to them !
4
Sydney D.T., in a spasm of candor, com-
ments on the cause of the municipal-reform spirit
in Sydney Council:
The new Municipal Act, which enfranchises everyone
even to the casual lodger, has altered all that. The land-
lord interest is no longer supreme, and the Lord Mayor
who undertakes to compel property-owners to keep their
places in a sanitary condition has not the same powerful
influence to restrain him now as his remote predecessors
had. This fact has been marked by a noticeable improve-
ment in civic administration, which Mr. Lees will have
no difficulty in following up.
When, however, the Labor party sought to apply
to the whole State in a Local Government Bill the
same franchise conditions that have worked so
well in Sydney, G. H. Reid, with the approval of
the D.T., dropped the Bill in shocked horror,
arguing that municipal government must be left
in the hands of the property-owners. The plague
was the result of property-owners’ government in
Sydney, and gave the first great lift to the Labor
party argument for adult suffrage in municipal as
in State politics.
Scaring Away Capital.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thk cove wot ’as the capital is grindin’ out a
curse,
’E’s goin’to cart ’is cash away, for things is gettin’
worse,
’E’s goin’ to pack ’is tram-lines in ’is little carpet-
bag,
And stow away ’is batt’ries in ’is jolly little swag.
An’ if ’e goes to foreign lands—whatever shall we
do?
A race like us who boast we came of ’eroes ’cross
the blue.
We sha’n’t know ’ow to feed ourselves or wipe our
little nose,
If this ’ere cove wot ’as the cash gets up ’is oash
and goes !
Tiie cove wot ’as the capital—’e thinks a lot, does
’e;
’E reckons ’ow the likes of ’im is lords of you an’
me;
’E reckons if ’e left the land there’d be a pretty
brew ;
’E reckons if ’e took ’is ’ook—why, we would ’ook
it too!
I think I see ’im goin’—with ’is vengeance in ’is
eye !
The crowds a-weepin’ on the wharf an’ wailin’ out
“ Good-bye ! ”
’E’s got the railways in the ’old—the railway
shortage too—
An’ several stacks of paper that are branded
“1.0. U. ” !
’E’s bin a good old friend to us—the Man who’s
got the Bag;
’E’s let us sweat and labor since our Fam’ly was
a Lag;
’E’d let us sweat and labor still, and never make
a moan,
But ’e cannot stand us thinkin’ that the Country
is our own !
So ’e’s off to good old Yurrup, and ’e’s off to
London town,
And e’s off to see the Kaiser and to tell the British
Crown,
’Ow the fellers in this country, with the hard and
horny paw,
They are meddlin’ with the makin’ of their own
pertickler Law !
For ’e knows the land is settled when ’e waves
’is last adoo ;
And ’e knows the day’s a-comin’ when the Land
will ’ave to rue ;
And when all is sunk in Ruin ’e will cry—“l
told yer so—
Yer drove the Cove wot ’ad the Cash ter get ’is
Cash and Go !
Q.
P.L.


The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ...
*265,597,775
£19,915,124
*73,855,783
£4,889,175
*15,418,151
£620,434
±16,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, MB MLC
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. ' ' *
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor,
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.Y., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland*
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn bim into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. F „ further particulars, address—
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Beauty and the Beast.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Eternal City.”
Lyceum “ Saturday Night in London."
Criterion “ For the Sake of a Woman.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Queen’s Hall Mel. B. Spurr.
Pal Ace “Mania’s New Husband.”
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatee .. “ Shakspeare Comedy Co.”
Theatre Royal “ In London Town.”
Bijou “ Little Red Riding Hood."
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
“ For the Sake of a Woman," though
which woman is still in doubt at the end of the
piece, winds up Charles Holloway’s six months’
season at the Criterion; and those who haven’t
seen this company of mostly Australian and
mostly young players are hereby encouraged
to go and do so before it takes its passage in about
a fortnight, by Maoriland boat, to the modern
Mecca of theatrical managers, where The Bulle-
tin trusts Holloway will find a profit of great size
awaiting him. Also those who saw the co. when,
six months ago, it first appeared in “Two Little
Vagabonds,” might do worse than turn up, if only
to note what great good half-a-year’s hard work
alongside Holloway, and Alfred Dampier, and
finally C. 8.. Stanford, has done for the infants
of the crowd. Miss Holloway is now quite able
to open her mouth when she talks, though some-
times she still forgets to do it; while Vivian
Edwards, the other “juvenile lead,” doesn’t always
talk as though he were competing with a violent
thunderstorm. Altogether, in fact, it is a better
co. than started the season; for, though Miss
Conroy has lately gone touring with one of Ander-
son’s co’s., Miss Gresham has come in with Stan-
ford ; and Miss Irby Marshall, 1903’s most suc-
cessful amateur, has been admitted to full citizen-
ship in Poverty Point.
• » * •
This time Stanford takes a rest from
villainy, though, curiously enough (it may be
from force of old habit), he does the only killing
in the piece. Lady Clare has married him—
Heaven knows why ; the man who wrote the
piece didn’t, and he didn’t make the mistake of
attempting to explain the inexplicable. He just
married them, and left it at that. Lady Clare
has, of course, a past ; Edwards, who looks about
23, yet owns and controls a great London bank, is
mixed up with this portion of the lady’s career.
After her marriage she has some more past; but
Edwards, being a very moral young man who
doesn’t take married ladies out on a motor-car, is
innocent. It is really Cass, the villain, who isn’t
able to draw these fine distinctions. Still, Stan-
ford, having proof that Edwards has had some past
with the lady before she was married, naturally
concludes (at Cass’s instigation, Cass being, as
usual, after Edwards’s new girl—the highly
respectable daughter of the vicar this time) that
Edwards is the scoundrel who has broken up his
happy home ; so Stanford nearly kills the wrong
man. Meantime, Edwards is married on the
O.P. side, while Cass and Clare artd Cass’s
jackal plot in the centre of the stage. Miss
Holloway is the vicar’s daughter, Hesford
the vicar, and Miss Marshall some other member
of the family with not much to do. J. P.
O’Neill provides most of the “comic relief”;
he wears a Hebrew name and nose, a Scotch cap,
and the Irish brogue that was born with him, and
won’t wash off.
** * #
About a lady who is now in a better and
more tuneful world :
Antoinette Sterling is now counted among the silent
voices. When she toured Australia and Maoriland in
1893 she was already broken down as a singer. Twenty
years of over-energetic work as a boisterous balladist in
England had taken nearly all the charm out of a once
ruggedly-beautiful voice. Of the vocal art Madame Ster-
ling knew little or nothing, and her style of singing was
singularly eccentric. Her strong personality and her
“ sentimental ” temperament as a bawler of homely bal-
lads carried her through. She had plenty of soul, but no
silence. Sensible of the decay of her vocal powers, the
contralto, whose cuteness as a business woman compen-
sated for her lack of culture, ran the “ religious ” ticket
for all it was worth in Australia. At her concerts
she cleverly combined the ballad and the tract.
As a Quakeress the late Madame Sterling carried her
quaintness into her singing. She refused to be bound by
the ordinary rules of music. Once she was rehearsing
“The Lost Chord” with organist Weigand, at the
Sydney Town Hall. Everything seemed to be at sixes
and sevens. The organist could not keep pace with the
erratic singer : she was either half a bar ahead or a bar
behind. At last Weigand lost his temper, and, stopping
short, turned round to express himself with charac-
teristic candor. “What is dis for singing?” asked the
burly Belgian. “ I play dis song for Mess Adder
Crosi-lay. It was all right. She sing the music.
Now I know not what you sing. Everything
wrong. So wrong I cannot play. If you sing
so to-night it is imposseeble for me to play—impos-
seeble! ” Madame Sterling gasped, for breath. She
held the music defiantly in the face of the foreigner and
scorned him : “ You are an ignorant and an insolent man.
Let me tell you that I sing this song as the Lord taught
me to sing it. The Lord is my guide, mv teacher, and
my friend.” Wiegand, the unsentimental savage, smiled
and said in a tone of deep sarcasm: “Your pardon,
Madame. lam very sorry for me. I did not know that
your friend was a musician.”
When Antoinette Sterling toured Australia as a
“ musical missionary ” ten years ago she made a heap of
money out of the pious folk of Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide, who regard the ordinary concert as an irre-
ligious entertainment. Madame’s audiences were very
properly described as “ congregations.” In the day time
the “soulful” singer made a point of attending and
addressing the Women’s Christian Temperance Union
and meetings of the Social Purity Society. “ Daddy ”
Lohr and Tommy Hudson were her managers. It
was a very trying period for Lohr, who had
to sport the blue ribbon and a white tie. Madame
Sterling dressed her hair in the style of the
eighteenth century, and she didn't wear corsets, although
unusually plump and extensive in her proportions. On
the platform this despiser of conventionalities always
appeared in a loose flowing robe. When singing she
never held her music. The words of her songs were
printed in a richly bound book, not unlike a missal. With
this book in her hands, Antoinette was always able to
strike a “prayerful” attitude.
* * *
As the result of recent bold advt., Cirnoc,
who laughs at locksmiths, now provides the turn
at the Tivoli that you mustn’t miss. The other
night a Sydney sporting man undertook to chain
and handcuff him so effectually that he could not
release himself ; but 35 minutes after he had been
cast into his cabinet, he threw off the iron-
mongery and presently appeared, breathless, but
free. Since then, every night, somebody or other
has tried to chain him up tighter, but with the same
result so far. Dewar, the dog-star; Sims Reeves’
widow, and the others last mentioned here are
still on the bill.
** # *
Mel. B. Spurr still monologues at Queen’s
Hall, and of late the local musicians have found
out that he has a most uncommon pretty gift on
the piano. This discovery has raised him in their
estimation far above the rank of mummer, and
increased his audiences too.
#* * *
“Resurrection” is in rehearsal at Her
Majesty’s, and will be the next production at that
playhouse. Meantime Monsieur Beaucaire tells
his love in the ivory moonlight, and the beautiful
Lady Mary turns love-lit eyes on the marble
Diana, and the rest of the co. fight or show
jealousy, and act their parts perfectly from much
practice.
** * *
The American musical comedy co. still
does excellent business at the Palace with the
light, bright inconsequential trifle, _ “ Mama’s
New Husband.” In its fourth week it can still
fill the house with laughing audiences.
A benefit
concert is to be
given in aid of
the widows and
orphans of the
unfortunate
fellows who
were killed in
the Wallaroo
disaster. A big
programme lias
been arranged
by the best of
Sydney’s ar-
tists. Messrs.
J. E. Sykes and
H. N. South-
well, the promo-
ters, should see
the Town Hall
full next Satur-
day week.
The last
THE LATE MR. JOHN
M'INTYRE.
Photo by T. Humphrey , Melb.
nights of ** The
Great World of London” with its railway
express murder and Salv’army doss-house
scene are announced, and next Saturday
will be staged “ Saturday Night in London,”
which it is fair to presume will be full
of sin, sorrow and sensation. Also it is even
money that there will be a thieves’ kitchen and a
ballet of coster-girls, and if there is not a horse or
two in the show then the Lyceum will be accused
of deserting its old traditions.
** # m
With the aid of clever stage management,
the pantomime at Sydney Royal keeps an air of
perpetual youth ; new “ business ” in the comedy
line is introduced almost nightly, and the local
jokes are—-well, jokes. Another strong feature
of the show is the collection of pretty girls with
more or less leading parts—from Miss Olive
Lenton and Miss Elsie Moore down to the Ama-
zonian chorus. Seemingly, most of the clever
little children and fine-looking tall women in
Sydney have been pressed into the Royal ser-
vice ; you may see a ballet of girls averaging 3st.,
and then a march of others averaging 12st. or
thereabouts. This variety shows a praiseworthy
desire on the part of the management to please all
tastes.
In a plain prose way of speaking, these
are the last two performances of Musgrove’s
Shakspearean co. at Melb. Princess’s. The
“Dream” will be played in its entirety for the
last time to-night (Thursday), and to-morrow
the co. will farewell in sundry acts and scenes
from divers plays, whilst the orchestra, which is
a very handsome feature of the entertainment
contributes, overtures, marches, and all kinds of
music to the proceedings. In addition to the
extracts, from “ Twelfth Night,” “Dream,” and
“As You Like It,” there will be the balcony
scene from “Romeo and Juliet,” with Miss
Kerin as the yearning spinster and Miss Rignold
as the misguided youth who let her rush him to
his doom. It is not generally remarked (by such
as take their Bard medicinally) that gentle'Juliet
talks matrimony to her victim before he has
breathed a word on the subject. Most of
Shakspeare’s women do the same.
I** * #
An unexpected performance of “She
Stoops to Conquer,’’ for one consecutive night,
has been announced to happen at Melbourne
Princess’s next Saturday. Denny’s Tony Lump-
kin is the principal reason given for this revival
of Goldsmith’s comedy, which has not been staged
in Melbourne since the days of Brough and Bouci-
cault at the Bijou. On that occasion Mrs. Brough
played Kate Hardcastle to the Tony of Robert
Brough. On this occasion the leading ladies will
be unknown to fame, but Norman Partridge and
other male members of the Shakspearean co. will
assist Denny to put the performance through.
** * *
These are the final opportunities for wit-
nessing the picturesque Australodrama at Mel-
bourne Royal. Bland Holt has had four weeks’
hard wear out of the thunderstorm that slays the
wandering lunatic, and he now proposes to give
the angry heavens a rest. Real rain, provided by
the local Bard of Works, will fall no more after
Friday. The programme for Saturday is a re-
vival of “In London Town,” a drama composed
by Sims and Shirley.
** * *
“ Little Red Riding Hood,” at the Bijou,
continues to encounter the wolf on her way to the
new Federal capital, where the good fairies
come from. The attendance at last Satur-
day’s matinee was so large that a photo-
grapher was called in to flash-light the mul-
titude, and the majority of the multitude, being
juvenile, thought that they were getting fireworks
with their panto. Seems that Saturday was the
first anniversary of Tom Perman’s birth as a
Melbourne manager, wherefore his loyal forces
presented him with an impressive diamond ring
after the evening curtain had fallen. The event
they celebrated was Perman’s opening of the then
sorely neglected Gaiety, with a good enough
variety co. and a reduced scale of popular prices.
It is an interesting sign of the times in Melbourne
then that, although the old-established theatre
managers found business very hard to get, there
was a steady flow of customers for the new show
at a “ tray,” a “ tanner,” and a “ bob.”
** * *
At Her Majesty’s, the best items in “A
Country Girl” are still received with the pro-
verbial roar of applause, except on very warm
nights, when it is only half a roar. Also, the
periods between the best items are generally con-
sidered to be bright and lively. There are two
opinions about these matters, but the “Noes”
are in a large minority, and the ‘ ‘ Ayes ” argue
the point with enthusiasm. Every heated dis-
cussion is another advt. for the comedy, anyhow.
** * *
At the Opera House last week’s bill was
renewed on Saturday. Clarke and Hamilton are
there, likewise Winton, and the unremarkable
’cellist who endeavors to imitate Chirgwin more
or less. The biograph is still taking a Trip up
the Thames, and the muscles of Miss Vulcana’s
back deserve the same particular approbation as
before. Vulcana and her brother, Atlas, give a
quick and lively turn of its kind, and when their
heavy weights come down whump upon the floor
the question as to whether Pagel’s weights would
vhump any louder is one which doesn’t seem
worth raising. It is too heavy.
His run for the Senate as one of “the
Argus Four” killed “old John” M‘lntyre—he
died in a Melb. suburb on Monday night. Forty
years ago he was reckoned a goldfields Radical,
and as such Sandhurst sent him to Parliament in
’77. Later he moved on to Maldon, and sat for
that district for 15 years. In his younger days he
was one of the “ jolly-good-fellow ” type of poli-
ticians ; later he lived on his reputation as one
who knew a lot about the.mining laws; finally
he degenerated into a knight and a Tory, and all
that was left of the “Jock” MTntyre of old was
his personal popularity. The Bulletin’s picture
shows part of him in kilts. Years ago he was
Vic.’s best-known amateur Scotch-character
actor.
Bulletin, 14/l/’O4 (Sundry Shows), dis-
cussing “Twelfth Night,” refers to “The
spectacle of three drunks stretched upon the
floor, two of them ‘ blind speechless ’ whilst the
third man hath music in his soul,” etc. Mark
the difference between the days of indiscriminate
guzzle and these comparatively sober times.
D.C.L. Whisky _ taken moderately gives the
maximum of convivial enjoyment and the sweetest
strains of “music in the soul” without affecting
the legs of the imbiber. Shakspeare didn’t
christen D.C.L. the Whisky of the Wise, but
doubtless the Bard would have been the father
of that happy phrase had he lived three centuries
later.*
Drs. Freeman and Wallace’s new Institute in
Melbourne was opened last week simultaneously with
several cases of champagne—the other cases for medical
advice were probably waiting at the door. There was a
large and festive gathering present, and if the Drs. F. and
W. treat their patients as effectively as they treat
their guests they must indeed he benefactors of
humanity. The Institute, which has commodious and
comfortably appointed rooms, is in the heart of Melb., at
the corner of Elizabeth and Bourke Streets.*
“ As You Like It ” let it be
Tuned to “Twelfth Night” revelry:
Dreams of Summer, drowsy Mid,
Hover nigh thy shut eyelid.
Nonny ninny, stout or skinny
Every Womsel and his Winny
Wackling well the fairy grot
(This is baldest tommy-rot—
Bard-like, but devoid of reason)
Mourn the end of Shakspeare Season.
Sing its praises ere it closes;
Seasons come and seasons go;
Perfumes of the fading roses
Linger on the winds that blow—
Dainty fancies, songs and dances,
Called to mind by fickle chances,
Vex the brain,
Joy is pain
If it come not back again.
The Wild Cat Column.
During the next five years Australasia has
£21,500,000 of loans falling due. N.S. Wales must have
£1,000,000 next year, Victoria must get £4,000,000 in
1907, and little South Australia over £7,000,000 within
three years of that. Not one of these has a sinking fund
to meet Oohen with. This present threatened war has a
significance for Australia that no other ever had.
Following is the record of the 15 Australasian
fire insurance co.’s, as disclosed by the balance-sheets
issued, during the past year. There is a 16th co., but
the 46th, though nominally Australian, is in reality
English. The profits are less the amounts distributed as
bonuses to policy-holders. In many cases the dividends
are really much larger than are shown hereunder, past
profits having been transferred from reserves to capital.
Thus the Australian Mutual’s 16J per cent, is really worth
132 per cent, to the original shareholders, because, though
the capital is now £50,000, only £6250 was actually sub-
scribed, the balance having since been provided out of
undivided profits:
New South Wales.
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Merc. Mut. ..£6,936 20 p.c. =£5,869 £1,067 £80,912
Aust. Mut. ..12,936 16J „ „ 8,248 4,688 166,221
United (a) .. 21,686 12* „ „ 8,528 12,946 119,256
Loss.
N. Queensland 4,369 Nil. 41,195
Victoria.
Profit.
Victoria ..28,195 36 „ ~ 17,975 10,220 79,308
Vic. General .. 3,957 20 „ „ 4.000 12,237
Aus. Alliance.. 7,415 16 „ ~12,500 91,193
001. Mut. ..27,453 8 „ „ 6,000 21,453 142,548
Maoriland.
S. British .. 43,925 25 „ ~16,157 27,768 302,693
N. Zealand ..55,526 15 „ ~30,000 25,526 320,693
National ..27,622 15 „ ~15,000 12,622 175,746
Standard (6) ..15,938 10 „ „ 7,500 6,438 56,644
Farmers’ Co-
op, (c) .. 4,451 6 „ „ 3,402 1,049 12,609
Tasmania.
Derwent &T... 4,141 7$ „ „ 8,938 203 64,320
Mutual .. 6,894 8 „ „ 8,160 2,744 26,852
(a) United.—Written off, £212.
(b) Standard.—Written off, £2OOO.
(c) Farmers’ Co-operative.—A bonus of 10 per eent. is
also paid to policyholders who are shareholders.
This amount is included in the dividends.
• • • • •
The net profits of the Australasian fire co.’s last
year were £261,306 ; in the year before £284,474, a
shrinkage for last year of £23,168. The worst streak of
the bad luck that sooner or later comes to every fire and
marine office fell to the North Queensland, which
made a loss of £4369 instead of, as in the previous
year, a profit of £11,629—a difference of £15,998. But
though profits generally were rather smaller, the reserves
were made to suffer, and not the dividends. The Mer-
cantile Mutual dividend went from 18£ per cent, to 20,
the United from 10 to 12£, the Victoria from 27 to 36, the
N. Zealand from 13| to 15, the National (M.L.) from 12J to
16, and the Tasmanian Mutual from 7 to 8. Only two were
reduced ; the NorthQueensland’sfellfromBtonothing,and
the Derwent and Tamar’s from 10 to 7£. One Maoriland
office (the N.Z.) made the largest profits and paid most in
dividends; another (the South British) made the largest
additions to profits ; while the only two co.’s which distri-
buted more in dividends than they earned were both
Victorian. But, on the other hand, a third Victorian
co., the Colonial Mutual, distributed the smallest pro-
portion of profits and put the largest to reserves.
Neither Queensland nor progressive Westralia has yet
decentralised the insurance business and established a
co. of its own (the North Queensland being now a N.S. W.
co.), though little Tasmania does very well with two.
According to the latest count, no less than 42
co.’s are competing for the fire-and-marine insurance
business of Sydney.
* * • *
Sydney Evening News the other day dis-
covered that N.S. Wales holds the world’s taxation
record, and thereupon severely lectured the Labor party
for “ talking glibly about fresh taxation.” The News
was surprised that more people didn’t know N.S. Wales’
position. The simple explanation is that the News’
figures are all wrong, and that N.S. Wales doesn’t hold
this position. Mulhall as a statistical authority is pro-
bably equal to the Evening News ; so it is as well to
bring the two together, and then people may take their
choice (the figures show taxes per head of population) :
News’ Mulhall’s
Figures. Figures.
N.S.W £3 6 0
Great Britain.. .. 3 0 6 £3 3 0
Victoria .. .. 2 15 9
France.. ... .. 212 0 3 14 0
Portugal .. .. 117 3 113 0
Spain .. .. .. 110 6 2 1 0
Denmark .. .. 18 3 1 15 0
Italy .. .. 1 6 6 214 0
Belgium *. .. 019 9 116 0
Greece .. .. .. 0 18 6 14 0
Germany .. .. 016 3 2 5 0
Russia .. .. .. 0 11 8 016 0
The News’ figures as to N.S.W. and Victoria are approxi-
mately correct. But Mulhall omits revenues from Crown
lands and forests, as well as from services, and this
greatly reduces the figures as to Germany, Russia, and
some other countries. Further, whereas in Australia the
State does almost the whole work of government, in
other countries an enormous amount is left to the local
bodies. Mulhall shows that several English cities spend in
taxes over £5 per head of the population annually, and
many European and American cities over £4 ; and even
then his figures do not cover the period of the recent great
municipal activity. Finally, there is the consideration
of the wealth of the people. Coghlan says that there is
in N.S.W. £265 worth of property per head of the popu-
lation. This is vastly ahead of the average of the
countries in the News’ list. Portugal (Mulhall’s figures
still) has only £B7, Russia only £6l. If Portugal’s
taxation increased according to its wealth, it would
pay £5 os. 7d. per head when it was as wealthy as N.S.
Wales. Spain, on the same basis, would pay £4 os. 6d.
Italy would pay £7 2s. Bd. In other words, N.S.W., in
proportion to its wealth, isn’t taxed half as heavily as
Italy, and not nearly as heavily as most other countries
in the world. The Labor party, if it’s honest, will
therefore continue to “ talk glibly about fresh taxa-
tion’’—enough fresh taxation to allow this country to
pay its way honestly, and wipe out some of the old debts,
and construct new works without leaning upon any
foreign support for the money.
m * * *
There are shadows over N.S.W. breweries, too.
Toohey’B, with last sales at IBs. 3d. when ’Change closed
for Xmas, are down to 16s ; Tooth’s, then at £1 Bs. 6d.,
are now at £1 6s. 3d. The outlook isn’t bright, either.
First, the co.’s have to pay on a prodigious load of capital
represented by nothing but names (goodwill, they call
it) ; then the retail trade is restless, and talks co-opera-
tion, and already the co.’s have had to go in for heavy-
trade discounts (15 per cent, on bulk beer) ; also, with
women in politics, even if prohibition isn’t probable, it is
a good deal more possible than it was, and more restric-
tive legislation is pretty certain in any case. There are,
in fact, numerous flies in what the horse reporters call
“ the amber.”
* * * *
A State’s appeal for a small loan to go on with
reads, nowadays, just like an old-time wild-cat
prospectus.^
The Freehold Assets Realisation Co. (Melb.),
which, as mentioned in the B. 31/12/’O3, hasn’t lately been
able to buy up the deposit receipts of the defunct Free-
hold Investment and Banking 00. at the old alarming
sacrifice, proposed therefore to distribute some of the
money in hand pro rata, among deposit-receipt holders.
But, for some reason which doesn’t show up conspicuously-
on the surface, the co. has been advised that the court
would not sanction any such scheme ; so the old plan of
using the money to buy up such deposit receipts as are
offered at the lowest price will be continued.
♦ * * *
The just-ended summer softgoods season has been
one of the most disastrous on record for the wholesale


par^
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
ttocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING
HSr Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—-Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The attention of mine managers, engineers, etc.
is drawn to the fact that the Dunlop Tyre 00. are now
manufacturing rubber conveying belts for all purposes—
made endless and in any length up to 45 inches. Guaran*
teed the highest quality, and free from stretch. Sample
and price upon application. See Dunlop advertisement
in this week’s issue.*
* » * *
Insurance and Finance Gazette, London, Ist
August, 1903: —“ During the past year the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society’s business was thoroughly
progressive, and a substantial addition was made to the
accumulated funds. The amount saved was about
£110,960, and brought up the total funds to £2,706,830.”*
• * * *
Ore without sulphides in which the gold values
are finely dessimated throughout the gangue, is one
amenable to cyanidation or chlorination. Should this
ore contain sulphides it could not be so simply treated.
It is now recognised to be good practice to first concen-
trate out the sulphurets on Wilfley Tables and to treat the
tailings thus cleaned by the proper lixiviation process.
Should the ore be a telluride that would require previous
roasting, the tendency to “bead” or “shot” in the
roasting is surmounted by passing the leached pulp over
Wilfley tables, by which the values, too coarse to be
dissolved by the lixiviation process are concentrated,
together with any unroasted ore, sulphides or foreign
matter. The Austral Otis Engineering Company of
South Melbourne, are sole agents and manufacturers of
the Wilfley Concentrator.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • * •
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
« • * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products.- Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
» • * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely Surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Normnn Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * » »
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*-
» » * »
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.* .
* i- * * *
“Demos”: Remarks on Slowbart’s electric
lighting squabbles (B. 17/12/’O3) were correct except for
the omission of the most important fact that part of the
Hobart Council is very deeply interested in the Gasco.,
which has had a monopoly of supplying gas and electric
lights for years, atpJ'ttow is excited over the Tramway
co.’s attempts at Competing. It would also be interesting
to know how many M.’sP. who opposed the Tramway co.’s
bill hold stock in the Gas co.
* * * *
Teetulpa goldfield, S. Australia’s last and only
big gold-rtfsh, which for a brief .spell in the eighties
carried 10,0p0 men, has lately suffered another “ revival.”
It is tucketing nearly 20 fossickers now !
CYAN ID E
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagrle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.
houses. With probably everyone of them business has
Deen pad in fact, just as bad as in ’93. Many retailers have
Deen indenting or importing direct, and thus saving the
big profits which the importer makes. In addition, a
deal of the import trade has been killed by local manu*
factures.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne) :
Added Total
Written to Re- Re-
_ Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1894.. £2265 7* p.c. =£2250 £l5 £88,173
June, 1895.. 304 Nil 304 88,477
Dec., 1895.. 256 Nil £45,000 43,733
June, 1896.. 1702 4 p.c. =£l2oo 502 44,235
Dec., 1896.. 1779 5 „ „ 1500 279 44,514
June, 1897.. 1757 5 „ „ 1500 257 44,771
Dec., 1897.. 1705 5 „ „ 1500 205 44,976
June, 1898.. 1722 5 „ „ 1500 222 45,198
Dec., 1898.. 1101 5 „ „ 1500 42,000 2,799
June, 1899.. 1954 5 „ „ 1500 454 3,253
Dec., 1899.. 2693 5 „ „ 2250 - 443 3,696
June, 1900.. 3971 5 „ „ 2250 1721) 817
A.D. and M. Bank shares written up 1400 / ’
Dec., 1900.. 3746 5 p.c.= 2250 1496 8,313
June, 1901.. 2795 5 „ „ 2250 545 8,858
Dec., 1901.. 2783 5 „ „ 2250 533 9,391
June, 1902.. 2436 5 ~ „ 2250 186 9,577
Dec., 1902 . 3168 5 ~ ~ 2250 918 10,495
June, 1903.. 3699 6 „ „ 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903.. 3226 6 „ „ 2250 976 12,020
Though for the previous half-year the dividend is shown
as at the rate of 6 per cent., 1 per cent, of it was dis-
tributed as a bonus. It got there just the same, but
with the difference that shareholders were not led to
expect it to continue. The last half-year’s results,
though they will not safely allow of any more than
5 per cent, dividend (for the past has shown that the
risks in this class of business are heavy), are nevertheless
much better than the average ; and the business gener-
ally shows good features. Twelve months ago the co.
had £6,647,149 of estates in its hands; it has now
£7,324,006. This ought to mean an increasing profit.
The shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year (£90,000 capital and £11,044 reserves) earned
profits at the rate of £6 7s Bd. per cent., as compared
with £7 7s. 3d. for the previous half-year, and £6 7s. 3d.
for the half-year before that.
* * * ♦
The Bank of North Queensland
Recovered Dividend Added
from debts Total (2J p.c.) to Total
Profits. Previously Re- and Re- Re-
Written off. venue. Div. Tax. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
June, ’9B 587 587 587 587
Dec., ’9B 1,479 1,479 1,479 2,066
June,’99 1,675 881 2,556 2,556 4,622
Dec., ’99 2,700 2,700 1313 1,387 6,009
June, ’OO 2,557 901 3,458 1313 2,145 8,154
Dec., ’OO 2,368 1,540 3,908 1313 2,595 10,749
June, 'Ol 2,424 2,424 1313 1,111 11,860
Dec., ’Ol 2,536 2,536 1313 1,223 13,083
June, ’O2 2,038 2,038 1313 725 13,808
Dec., ’O2 2,007 680 2,687 1313 1,374 15,182
June, ’O3 2,153 2,153 1313 840 16,022
Dec., ’O3 2,408 2,408 1313 1,095 17,117
This shows recent steady and substantial progress ; and
an excellent feature of the situation, from the public’s
point of view, is the large proportion of profits put to
reserve. On the paid capital (£100,000) the profits are at
the rate of £4 16s. 4d. per cent, per annum ; yet there is
no suggestion of paying more than 2£ per cent., and
there ought not to be any until the reserves bear a much
higher ratio to capital. The position compares with that
■disclosed 12 months ago in this way :
In-
Dec., 1902. Dec., 1903. creases
Reserves £15,182 £17,117 £1,935
Deposits 261,541 269,269 7,728
Bills and Other Liabilities 56,694 70,378 13,684
Gash and Liquid Assets.. 108,559 121,110 12,551
Advances, etc 305,913 311,713 5,800
Premises 20,258 25,254 4,996
In the 12 months the bank has considerably strengthened
its position ; of all new liabilities to the public (£21,412)
no less than £12,551 is represented by cash and liquid
assets, and only £5BOO by advances, etc. The cash and
liquid assets represent altogether 36 per cent, of the total
liabilities to the public, which is an unusually large
proportion. Almost necessarily, as a result of maintain-
ing this high proportion of liquid reserves, profits are
comparatively low ; on shareholders’ total funds (capital
and reserves), as at the commencement of the half-year,
the recent earnings have been :
Dec., 1900 .. £4 7 7 p.c. Dec., 1902 .. £3 13 7 p.c.
June, 1901 .. 4 7 6 „ June, 1903 .. 314 8 „
Dec., 1901 .. 410 8 „ Dec., 1903 .. 4 3 0 „
June, 1902 .. 312 1 „
• • * *
Cobar has q[uite recovered from the shock which
followed the failure of the Joseph syndicate to purchase
the big mine. The energy being displayed by the Reid-
Longworth party, who are now the sole possessors of the
property, offers the best assurance which the public can
have that there is to be a progressive policy which will
mean steady prosperity. The Joseph negotiations have
had a good effect. The elaborate reports, plans, and
estimates prepared by the visiting experts (reports which
placed Great Oobar in the front rank of the big copper
mines of the world) really opened the eyes of the
ex-tributors to the magnitude of the proposition with
which they had been toying. Preparations are being made
for working the mine on a much more extensive scale,
and it ought not to be long before the output
is doubled. The old 80-ton furnaces are to be discarded
in favor of furnaces which will treat up to 400 tons each
per day. Mr. Blakemore has satisfied himself that all
economic considerations are on the side of the large fur-
naces. Each furnace is to be provided with an indepen-
dent set of blowers, thus ensuring even pressures which
can be easily regulated, and preventing the waste in-
separable from the long air-main system. It is under-
stood that matte-refining at Lithgow is to be discon-
tinued, a converter plant being installed at Oobar. The
electrolytic plant for separating the precious metals from
the copper is likely to be retained at Lithgow. The ex-
tensive alterations in contemplation are not to be effected
in a day, but the end of this year should see them well
advanced towards completion. Water is the essential
requirement which gives the most concern. It is pro-
posed to make a very large excavation in the flat below
the site where the original reverb, furnaces were located.
Lake Blakemore, as it will inevitably be called, will be an
institution of great practical utility, and a thing of beauty
and a joy for ever to the sun-scorched, sand-scored,
sulphur-saturated Cobarites.
• * * *
North Cobar co. is taking a rest. It spent some
thousands of pounds in sinking a 500 ft. shaft on the
wrong side of the lode formation. The cap of the lode is
as conspicuous on this block as are the plumes in a
matinee hat, and the slight dip which exists is to the
east. The co. started its shaft a long distance west of
the outcrop, so that every foot sunk took it so much
further away from where the lode might be found. As
an example of misdirected effort this shaft has no equal
in N.S.W. Next time shareholders feel in the call-paying
humor they are advised to sink a new shaft as far east as
the present shaft is west of the lode-ridge.
* * * *
Local report has it that Cobar Gold Mines
(Fort Bourke) as a free milling and cyaniding proposition
will be worked out by the end of the year. There is
abundance of ore below 200 feet richer in gold than that
in the upper workings, but there is so much oxide and
carbonate of copper in it as to render it unworkable by
present processes, and so much silica as to make direct
smelting an impossibility ; concentration by water is
equally out of the question. No effort has been made to
test the sulphide zone, and there does not seem to be
any present intention to do so. Co. must have abundance
of funds with which to do exploratory and experimental
work, but advices from London indicate the utmost in-
difference as to the future. There may be a lot of method
in this assumed indifference, as the smaller shareholders
may find out to their cost later on. So far Cobar Gold
Mines Co. has existed solely for the benefit of Cobar
people, and their gains out of it have been considerable.
Shareholders have been disappointed where they ought to
have been pleased. On actual returns the mine has
proved to be a better one than it was represented to be
by the original vendors and the experts who reported on
it. The initial mistakes of supposing that a reasonable
percentage of gold could be saved by amalgamation alone,
and of locating the plant so as to save, say, 3d. per ton in
handling at one stage, and necessitating an unnecessary
cost of, say, Is. per ton for handling at the other stages,
are to a large extent responsible for the seeming failure.
The Bulletin asserts that the Fort Bourke mine, even
now, is one of great probabilities, and the smaller share-
holders would do well to combine and arrange for an
investigation by impartial men into the causes of failure
and the chances of success.
* * * •
Cobar Chesney shares are on the up-grade in
Melbourne market, consequent on the acquisition of a
large parcel of forfeiteds by a syndicate. There can be
no other explanation. The mine is no better to-day than
it has been any time these five years past. There has
been another report—John Warren being the lucky fee-
collector this time—which gives no further information
than has been contained in o Jier reports. The problem
presented is no nearer solution. It never will be solved
while the directors are content with the policy of paying
fat fees three times a year to get a repetition of an oft-
told tale. The position is this : ore in sight, hundreds of
thousands of tons ; average value at ruling prices of
metals, about £2 15s. per ton ; ore too siliceous for direct
smelting, and for that purpose iron-flux must be brought
to the mine or the ore must be sent to where flux is abun-
dant ; ore specially suited to concentration by water; abun-
dance of waterin mine; large concentrating plant erected;
if this plant be perfected and worked, shall theconcentrates
be smelted on the spot, or elsewhere, or be sold ? The
latter is really the problem which has to be determined.
An experimental plant, to cost at the outside £2OOO, and
a man of commonsense to run it, would settle the
question. Ohesney people surely have had enough of
the fads and prejudices of mechanical engineers and
metallurgists. Of the original concentrating' plant all
that remains exactly as it was in the beginning is the
housing ; and, as for the metallurgical business, each
expert has been at special pains to proclaim the man
before him an ass ; and so it will go on ad infinitum. It
is amusing to be told by puff paragraphists that Chesney
has £21,000 callable capital. Nothing is ever said about
the co. being in debt over £25,000. However, that would
be trifling if commonsense were allowed to prevail.
» » * *
The syndicate that purchased the heap of cu-
priferous tailings from the Chesney co. is said to be meet-
ing with great success. The exact process of treatment
has not been divulged, but it is understood that the
copper is leached out with sulphuric acid after which the
tailings are cyanided in the usual way. This successful
work ought to be a cue to the mineowners who are con-
fronted with the copper difficulty.
* * » *
The Broken Hill co.’s have made but very little
way yet in the matter of zinc-production ; after seeing
what the chemical processes are capable of (four machines
of this pattern are installed at Block 14), the Sulphide
Corporation has declined to adopt them and has decided
to rather more than double the magnetic-concentrating
plant instead. This plant gets out from 69 to 71 per cent,
of the zinc in the middlings and tailings ; and of this 70
per cent, less than 50 per cent, is saved by the zinc-
smelting or distilling process at Cockle Creek. The final
extraction doesn’t therefore pan out at more than about
a third of the zinc. And yet the Sulphide Co. has decided
that even this is better than the chemical processes.
* * * *
The Broken Hill companies are squeezing the
very fat Silverton Tramway 00. again, threatening once
more that if it does not reduce freights they will build aline
for themselves through Pinnacles and Thackaringa to
connect with the S. Australian system at Cockburn. On
its actual paid-up capital the Tram Co. pays divs. of
anything between 32 and 81 per cent, (these figures re-
present the two extremes), and the mining co.’s .contri-
bute by far the greater part of this. Naturally, when
things are not too prosperous in the silver-lead mining
business, the mining co.’s drop into the habit of thinking
that something a little more modest ought to satisfy the
carrying co. The threat has, however, been made so often
hitherto, and nothing has come of it, that the co. probably
isn’t very much alarmed now, especially as it knows that
the mining co.’s, as a rule, are by no means flush of funds.
Under the Tramway Co.’s Act, the State can only take
over the line on the basis of past profits ; and that means
a figure at which the Department will not look at the
business. Once it gets there, the deadweight of a Private
Enterprise scheme of this sort takes a lot of shifting.
* * * *
The market assessed the Broken Hill mines at
£2,255,000 two years ago, at £1,950,00012 months ago, and
at £2,065,000 a week ago. Sulphides have lost most flesh
proportionately, Junction North has gained most. And,
on present appearances, the Junction Norjih is about the
most hopeless of the whole group.
» * * •
Lucknow was evidently considered a name to con-
jure with in London when the promoters of a co. to work a
mine near the Canoblas, at Orange, many miles west of
Lucknow and in a different belt of country, named it the
Great Lucknow Consols. The mine was described as one
of fabulous richness, but The Bulletin dubbed it “ the
Great Lucknow Joke.” It has panned out just as was
prophesied, or worse. Results have been so bad that
workmen have not been paid. The defenceless manager
was sued the other day, and ordered to pay up within
three weeks or go to gaol for three months. The lot of
the manager of a non-paying mine owned by an English
co. is not enviable. London directors are prompt and
prolific in suggestions which attest their ignor-
ance, and correspondingly remiss in making necessary
remittances of money. The Great Lucknow Consols is
the mine in which some prominent railway officials were
said to be interested.
* * * *
The W.A. December gold yield (202,0700 z.)
brings up the total for 1903 to 2,436,3100 z. This record
should easily be beaten this year, as very much machinery
is being erected, which should easily bring up the
monthly total to 220,0000 z. bullion. The word “ bullion’
must not be overlooked ; a law has been passed that all
returns must be given in fine gold in future, and the
true position of such mines as the Perseverance and
Boulder will now be seen. The actual figures will show a
decrease, but the value should for a while show a 10
per cent, monthly increase in another three months or so.
# * * *
As here mentioned as likely, the Ivanhoe ha 3
declared a ss. div. for Jan., meaning a distribution of
£50,000. This brings the W.A. Jan. total to £189,539.
The Ivanhoe co.’s new 30-drill air-compressor has now
got to work, and the main shaft will be sunk much more
vigorously. A good many surface improvements have
been made recently, and it is very questionable if any
other mine in W.A. has lower costs—to the great credit
of manager Nicholson.
* • • •
Burbank’s Birthday Gift (W.A.), after a run of
years, has closed down its mill indefinitely. It has
been a strangely managed concern. There used to be
no less than five main shafts, with five winding engines,
which meant five times as many engine drivers and
stokers as there need have been. At first the mill was
hand-fed, but eventually rock-breakers and automatic
feeders were installed, which entailed the erection of
another hoist, another engine and more boilers, and
another batch of drivers and stokers. Had the mine
not been a marvellous one, it must have been
closed down long ago.. Developments were never
very forward, as can be seen from the fact that the
deepest workings are only 500 ft. Some three years
ago the mill was doubled (from 30 to 60-head), but there
has never been sufficient ore to keep more than 30-head
going. Recently the control of the mine passed into the
hands of Bewick, Moreing and Co. ; but what they think
they are to make out of it, it is hard to tell. The leases
were all pegged out with the view of getting length with-
out breadth. For this reason, although the co. only
holds 71 acres, they are comprised in eight leases, because
the mining laws of W.A. insist that a prospector must peg
out double the length of fh» width of his 51001.-; therefore.
if a man wants length, he pegs out a lot of small areas In
preference to one big one. The Gift is now in the
unenviable position of having no deep levels, and, unless
Bewick, Moreing and 00. can buy up the Lady Robinson
and other holdings on the east to take in the underlay,
the prospects of the co. are black
« * * *
Kalgoorlie Amalgamated is looking sick; in
spite of a lot of boring, nothing of any value has been
located. Recently the bore on the True Blue West was
carried from 900 ft. to 1000 ft. without payable result. The
extra 100 ft. must have cost a nice bit, as it practically
meant reboring the old hole, which was abandoned
months ago. The Brown Hill people must know to a
nicety where the underlie of this lode is, and whether it
is any good, and manager Salmon would have done better
for his shareholders by consulting 8., M. and Co. than by
sinking a bore-hole. Although, by the way, a directors’
circular recently arrived from London stating that the
co. had still £30,000 in hand, the wages remittance is
nearly always behind the mark. As a result the men are
discontented and the staff disorganised.
• * * •
White Feather Main Reefs, Kanowna, has put
on an extra spurt, and last month treated no less than
1738 tons for 13370 z. The seventeenth div of 6d. will
shortly be announced, bringing up the total since Feb.,
’9B, when co. was reconstructed, to £OB,OOO. For an
outside show it is one of the best; the manager (N.
Harper) has done well to keep things going so smoothly
The main shaft is down 750 ft., and passed through the
main reef at 480 ft. Two winzes with air winches have
been sunk 110 ft. below this level, and both the main and
east reefs have been proved to a depth of 860 ft., vertical.
For some reason or other the Bhares are quoted at a
rubbish price. Owing to a misunderstanding of a state-
ment made by the shift boss, it was recently published in
the press that the mine was to shut down, but this is far
from being the case, as the mine is looking better than
usual
• * * *
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, has started sinking
anew main shaft, 14ft.x5ft., on lease 102, north of the
Ivanhoe. This ground was recently tested by diamond
drill, and proved to contain the Ivanhoe East lode, and
should also have the Boulder main lode further east;
though this has not yet been proved. The north end of
this property has lain fallow so far, and is covered with
miners’ humpies, and, on the surface, looks a most un-
promising proposition. In fact, anyone walking over the
surface of the “Golden Belt” mines to-day would won-
der what instinct ever induced prospector Pearce to peg
out such apparently hopeless country. There is
absolutely nothing on the surface to indicate the wealth
below. Great Boulder will probably greatly increase its
output this year, and may again occupy the position it
held for years, of premier producer of the fields,
* * * *
The Kalgoorlie mines, during November, con-
sumed 18,164,000 gallons of water from the Forrest
scheme. The chief consumer was the Golden Horseshoe,
which took 3,082,000, and treated 11,380 tons of ore ;
while its neighbor, the Ivanhoe, only used 2,445,000ga1.
while treating 11,966 tons of ore. The great consumption
on the Horseshoe is accounted for by its enormous
boiler power. The co. has nine Babcock and Wilcox and
12 other boilers, a great deal more than appears neces-
sary ; but, for some reason or’ other, it takes the lot to
keep things going. This accounts to some extent for the
very high costs on this mine, which are very much above
those of any pf the other big mines, and about 50 p.c.
above those of the Ivanhoe. No great progress is being
made with the extra 50 head of stamps, and a long time
must elapse before they are going.
* * * »
Golden Link’s Eclipse lease (W.A.) December
return w r as 13580 z. from 4655 tons, an average of s‘Bdwt.
only. The two previous returns were 16330 z. from
3968 tons, and 24520 z. from 2646 tons. Manager Haig’s
excuse is that, “having stoped up to within 30ft. of the
surface, the material, consisting of mullock and quartzite,
is so soft that the whole weight rests on the timbers, and
must be stoped out at once to prevent falls and conse-
quent accidents. All oxidised ore above sdwt. will be
put through the mill.” So far, no stoping has been
done below 100 ft. The main shaft is well below 300 ft.,
but sinking is suspended till stoping at 100 ft. is com-
pleted and workings made safe.
* • * •
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, is issuing its 20,000 re-
serve shares, in order to pay off liabilities. This will
bring the capital to £130,000. Of the new issue under-
writers take 11;000 on condition that they get a two
years’ option at par over the remaining 9000. This seems
to be a good deal for the co., as it gets 18s. cash down
for 11,000 shares, or 3s. above market price. This means
£lO,OOO cash, which will pay off all debts, and free cur-
rent profits for payment of divs. The profits amount to
£B5O monthly, or £10,200 yearly. After deducting de-
preciation and London charges, this will barely provide a
div. of 7 per cent., which would make the scrip dear
even at present price. It is hard to see how the position
can be improved without increasing the treatment plant,
and this again involves suspension of divs. to provide the
needful.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) mill is being duplicated,
a cyanide plant is on the way, and very shortly returns
should be doubled. J. Bull abandoned this mine, which
is now owned by a local syndicate.
* * * *
Some mining share-market tragedies:—
Opening Opening Closing
1902. 1903. 1903.
L. V. Consols .. £6 12 0 £2 19 6 £1 12 0
Ass. Northern .. 2 18 3 386 126
S. Kalgurli .. 269 18 0 160
Main Reefs .. 15 0 13 3 8 9
Smith’s Creek .. 14 10J 1 3
Stannary Hill .. 8 9 16
Sulphides .. 9 10J 4 10 4 3
B. H. Block 14 .. 8 2 4 1 3 0
Mt. Morgan 3 19 6 44.0 2 10 6
Mt Lyell .. 40b 25 0)
North Lyell .. 117 0 110/ 100
Of the other sort of movement there have been very few
examples. Even the Associated (W.A.), which during last
year went from £ll4s. to £2 18s , putting up the market
value from £821,875 to £1,450,000, began 1902 at £2 7s. 6d.
Of other Westralian stocks, G Boulder shows the best
results —£1 in Jan., 1902; 19s. IOJd. in Jan., 1903; £1 7s.
in Jan., 1904. The dizziest heights have been reached by
a few Charters Towers and Bendigo stocks which were
held at the beginning by local holders almost exclu-
sively. The most conspicuous of these have been :
Opening Opening Closing
1902. 1903. 1903.
S. New Moon (Bendigo).. £3 18 0 £6 5 0 £9 5 0
Queen Cross (C. Towers) 019 0 210 0 219 0
* * * *
From Charters Towers: Band of Hope is still
sinking straight to cut the Victory Reef, which is ex-
pected in another 100 feet. Present blocks are unlikely
to maintain dividends ; it is intended to prospect several
formations cut in the straight. Bonnie Dundee is under
exemption and awaiting reconstruction. Brilliant P.C.
fossicked out a ljoz. crushing (3d. div.) ; the end of this
great mine is near. Brilliant Freehold has recon-
structed in 150,000 shares of ss. Columbia has aban-
doned crosscutting and driving, and will drill 500 ft.
from the bottom of the vertical shaft, at present 1972 ft.
down. Queen Cross still looks good. It also is to bore
1000 ft. from bottom of present shaft East Queen Cross
follows suit with a bore 1000 ft. from surface.—Vesuvius is
under exemption for reconstruction ; it struck a pro-
mising indication on the eve of hanging up This co.
also may try boring. Queen Central is driving on both
854 ft. and 954 ft. formations. East, on the former, they
have picked up a small vein of fair stone ; west, they are
stoping on Bin. of good stone ; and at 954 ft. they are
driving in a promising formation. Queen Central Block
put up what is claimed as an Australian sinking record
of 140 ft. in four weeks. The shaft is down 530 ft. An-
other Queen Cross pup (the Extended) has 480 ft. of
sinking to its credit. The Ruby looks more promising ;
and the United has picked up a reef of 20in., going well
over an ounce. Three other of the Ruby litter, the
Extended, Macdonald, and the South, are pushing down
shafts. This poi tion of the field Is padstly a gamble at
long odds. LonHohjrSiydfoejMsilfi local holders in Vic-
tory are squabbling over' a reconstruction scheme;
London holders want the head office. The state of the
exemption market under Minister Browne should not be
forgotten in this connection. Vic. and Queen is holding
its own—paid £44,750 in divs. for the year—and will push
on exploring untried country. Vic. and Caledonia
Blocks have neglected exploration. Generally, in fact, too
much ore has been gouged out lately, and there may be
several slumps in consequence. /
C. Reader: Safe Alto : They will probably
recover somewhat; but don’t like them as an invest-
ment Prog :S. Blocks have very slender hopes. They
haven’t any means of treating the ore they have, and it
isn’t saleable at anything like present prices.


PAVBD JONES & COMPANY,
D. J. Orient" Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
1 6/6
I
Narrow or
Round Toes,
SPECIAL
VALUE
16/6
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
m
From Fashion’s Domain.
THE mew
P-D
..CORSETS..
The Leading Shapes
In Straight “Fronted Corsets.
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on
band inside, as illustrated.
Obtainable from leading Drapers everywhere.
Society
[?]
[?]
[?]
DOCTOR ROSS’S LITTLE ACT.
INFORMATIVE SMALL BOY : “ They’ve passed that
Bill up in Parliament to stop us blokes
smokin’ ciggerettes.”
HIS PAL : “Does they want us all to smoke
pipes?"
Pearl of wisdom from a Sunday-sehool
scholar: “ Sins of omission are those which we
ought to have committed and have forgotten to
commit.”
• • * t
Woman is fast usurping all man’s little
prerogatives. A Port Germein (S.A.) lady has
been badly injured in an otherwise trifling trap-
accident, by a wound from a corkscrew that she
carried in her pocket.
An observing traveller on the two great
oities of Australia:
The Melbourne man hustles in an artificially alleviated
dust-hole. He is alert, energetic, and the slave of his
wife.
The Sydney man dawdles in a Paradise, with the sum-
mer climate of a damp Hades. He is nonchalant, tired,
and the slave of some other man’s wife.
• • • •
From an auctioneer’s advt. in an Aus-
tralian country paper :
Under instructions from Constable , who is leaving
the district, the whole of his hr usehold furniture, Ac.,
comprising . . . and eight watches.
• • » •
Examination of the body of the woman
doctor, who disappeared mysteriously in London,
showed traces of morphine in the stomach —weeks
after death. .Quite a number of wives are reckon-
ing that if things get a little worse, there is con-
solation in the fact that morphine doesn’t, like
arsenic, linger in the stomach—as evidence after
death. Just as well to remind them that that is a
fallacy.
* • » *
“ H.” : The wages of sin for a woman
nowadays is her photo, in the papers and a full
report of the divorce proceedings. She seems
satisfied with the remuneration, too. Met a lady
the other day with a sack of photographs. She is
shortly to figure in court on her husband’s appli-
cation for a rule nisi. Asked what on earth all
the pictures were for (there were five or six of
them, all depicting her in her best ball dress), and
was told that they were “ for the papers.”
“ X.8.T.” writes :
Have just met a man who wants me to get him a job
up country. At present he is driving an Alexandria tram
at Ba. a day. I asked his reason for wanting to throw up
a steady Government job. “It’s my health,” he said;
“I’m frightened." He went on to say that he had just
seen a mate of his burled at Rookwood—the third driver
within his knowledge that had succumbed to consumption
of the throat within the last six months. His own throat
had been “ tickling ’’ ever since, and he was afraid. The
man “in front,” he averred, can’t last. His eyes go, or
he contracts disease from the constant rush of dirt and
dust. The men want glass fronts to the trams, but the
Commissioners object. One of the M’s.L. A. who nurses
the railway vote might interest himself to find out if
there has been any extra mortality among tram-drivers
from throat or lung consumption.
* * * *
Bent’s blackleg engine-drivers, whose ex-
perience of a locomotive dates from the strike,
have been putting up records. Last
month, on the Beach Forest line, a
train allowed the Westing-
house to waste, and the train
on an incline began to run
back. At last fireman and
guard crawled along the
train and put down the
truck brakes. A couple
of women are in the
hospital as the result of
another accident on the
Colac line. The War-
burton train daily-
supplies amusement
for onlookers; it
stops outside or in-
side the station, but
seldom at the sta-
tion platform. The
Maryborough dis-
trict reports a
couple of boilers
burnt and fire-
boxes spoiled.
The Department
in the old days
either sacked a
man for this
offence or else put
him back firing for
life, but blacklegs
can do pretty well
anything without
penalty.
* •
The Outtrim(Gipps-
land) miners have now
been 12 months on strike
(or locked out). They have lost about
, £120,000 in wages, and have lived on £14,000
strike pay; have fought three actions at law,
and have an appeal to the Privy Council pend-
ing. The companies declare they are satisfied
with their new arrangements. They send away
930 tons of coal weekly now, in place of 2800 last
year. Surely an Arbitration Act would prove
cheaper than that—to owners and men.
* » * *
“ Viv.” writes from S’Africa
The moment the first Chinese coolie sets foot on
S African soil will be the beginning of the end of British
rule there, for the anti-Chinese sentiment is deep and
widespread.
* * * *
Nice-looking girl, seeking employment in
Sydney as a governess, answered an advt. in
person. The lady of the home asked the usual
questions, appeared satisfied, and added, “ I shall
expect you to be up in the morning and attend to
my husband’s breakfast, as I never rise before
10; cut his ham and pour out his coffee,
but do not sit down.” The governess: “Your
advt. was for a matriculated governess, not fora
housemaid-waitress, and I know that in a fort-
night I should be sitting down, and Mr.
would be cutting the ham, so that discretion is the
better part of valor.” The interview closed.
“ Genung ” writes
1 played draughts
with a blind youth
lately, and fell in.
His board had the
black squares raised,
and we played on
the hollow whites
with circular and
octagonal men. He
played, not by mem-
ory, but solely by
touch. He felt ail
my traps with ths
tips of his fingers,
and laid his own
with the greatest
ease, never placing
his hands more than
twice on a man. I
had almost got the
“ Old Fourteenth ’’
long shot, when he
averted it with a
pathetic 11 1 see you 1
I see you 1 ” I settled
then, as far as I am
concerned, ths yarn
about blind men not smoking. He
cleaned his pipe, filled it, lit it, and
enjoyed it as cockies do free seed
wheat. To my inquiry as to how
much he could see he replied : “ It’s
as dark as a black paint mark on
a nigger in a coalhoie with the lid
on”—which sounded BuLLETiN-esque.
I saw him with his girl, also blind.
Neither of them would win the
hundredth prize in a beauty show,
but they sat side by side practising
the arts of lovers, blind and seeing,
feeling each other’s face, and plctur*
ing how beautiful and comely it was.
And I thought on “ Love is blind,”
and half-envied them their blind-
ness.
a a •
Remarks :
All roads lead to rum.
Olanliness is next to godliness. (Scotch proverb.)
The man who “ goes to the ant ” is likely to get bitten.
Honesty is the second-best policy. The best is a large,
paid-up one in a good office.
It is sacrilege to hit a policeman.
In the Ruination Stakes Wine wins in a decanter;
Woman in a hansom cab.
• • • •
Prohibition is leading to some strange
results in M.L. At Ashburton it has made
to rise in its majesty the “Brotherhood of
Beer.” Members are united in a sort of
club, subscribe equally to the funds, and
indulge in the beer that they buy as fancy
prompts—no charge being made for drinks.
. There is no attempt made to deal with the pro-
blem of unequal thirsts, except a provision that
any member who takes more than a fair share is
liable to expulsion, after two warnings, from the
club. From expulsion there is no redemption; a
man must gnash his parched tongue for ever in
the outer beerlessness.
• • • •
“Petramos”on an Adelaide institution!
One glass of “ pinky,” the cheap colonial wine sold in
Adelaide, would be sufficient to knock many an efficient
boozer oat, but some people are hardened to it, and
drink it by the bottle. It is sold at a beer-bottle-full for
6d. Why it is called “ pinky ” is as great a mystery as why
people drink it; but “pinky” it is and “pinky” is in
great demand. The local S’norton has a column, “ The
Pinky Club,” in which the doings of well known pinky
drinkers are noted.
* • • •
Whilst the Australian is having such a bad
time of it in S. Africa just now, we don't seem to
hear of the Englishman being so intensely unpopu-
lar, though he did take some small part in the late
war. It has been said that the English officer dis-
played more tact in little affairs of arson than the
Australian, and no doubt it is being remembered.
The English gold-lac-er would say, “ Haw, pardon
me, awf’ly sowwy,” as he daintily applied a lucifer
to the kerosened farm-house. But the Australian
put an axe through the family piano with an ex-
hortation to “Gallagher” to “ let her go.”
* * * *
No doubt, as the D.T. found out one dull
news day, liquor is an incitement to many
tragedies, but some of the worst crimes in
Australia have been committed where the available
evidence—as in the Gatton case—indicated strict
sobriety. Generally, when drink has been demon-
strated to be the evil influence, the circumstances
denoted _ low-class, poisonously concocted liquor.
Good drink rarely promotes crime.
• • • *
What Sydney News calls the “Voice of
the People ” attributes increased immorality to
early-closing. The inference is that to work
employees the whole 24 hours would conduce to
perfect religion and complete morality.
• • • *
A Tambaroora (N.S.W.) Chinaman six
months ago neatly trimmed off the branches of
two contiguous saplings, and erected a crossbar
between them. Two months later he was observed
sitting beneath the structure contemplating it
with critical eye. Three weeks later a rope
dangled from the crossbar, and then five days later
again John dangled at the end of the rope
—the final touch to his careful preparations.
AUSTRALIA’S
WEIRD EXPECT-
ANCY—ON THE
BLOCK.
So that there should be no doubt about it„
a M.L. father advertises :
BIRTH.
Brown.—On the 31st December (Chrisy), the wife of:
Sydney Brown —boy. All well. A real second Syd..
• * *
There were five copies of Queen Victoria’^
“My Life in the Highlands” in gaol.
It was wrongly catalogued “My Life in the-
Islands,” author’s name omitted ; and many
prisoners, thinking it was some scarlet'
account of pirate daring in Southern Seas,,
placed it on their library-list. The prisoner-
librarian, who was sour-tempered and vicious,,
brought it along at once. As a prisoner
could only change his book twice weekly, once be-
got the “ Life ” he was locked up with it for three
days. It was once found in the cell of a prisoner -
who tried to commit suicide.
* * * *
A sign of Sydney’s go-a-head-ness is the 1
enterprise shown by private-bar and other ladies
in their endeavors to secure custom. Blushing
sea-captains, for instance, upon arrival, receive
shoals of invitations to come and bask in the-
smiles of witching bar-ladies, and, incidentally,,
pay for a few bottles of gold-top. One sea-
captain’s first batch of letters received at Sydney-
included a round dozen epistles, of which the-
following are fair samples:
Lammemdown Hotel, City.
Capt. Handspike,
Dear Sir,—We would esteem it a great favor if youi
would call up at the above address and see us, as we-
would be very pleased to see you. Hoping you are well.-
Yours sincerely,
Tottie Diddlums.
Seraglio Villa,
81 Cakewalk Avenue, 24/11/’O3.
Say, captain, will you come right along and see m&
when you have a few minutes to spare ?
In haste, Constance.
• * * »
A wholly scandalous reply was that given
by the Public Service Board of N.S.W. to the
query of a teacher as to his status in the
Superannuation Fund. “Teacher” had sub-
scribed to the Fund for 30 years; it is now
bankrupt, largely owing to the swindle of throw-
ing as a burden on its income the provision of
pensions for civil servants retrenched for so-called
economy’s sake. The existing Government —the
bankrupt state of the Fund was more due to G.
H. Reid than to anyone—did something to protect
the rights of contributors, and passed an Act
dealing with the subject in October last—a par-
ticularly complicated Act. “Teacher” wished
to know how this Act affected his position. The
Public Service Board “declined to furnish legal
opinions.” Emphatically, though, it is the
Board’s business to explain to “ Teacher,” who
ha 3 been paying to a State pension-fund for 30
years, “how he stands”; no private life assur-
ance co. could, without serious loss of credit,
refuse such an explanation.
• * • «
A newspaper which has been publishing
le ters on “Why men don’t attend church,” was
o fered a couple, the other day, on “ Why men do
attend church.” The letters will not appear.
THE OIOADAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The shrill cicadas’ ceaseless cry
With keen, persistent, poignant steel
Stabs through the heart of day—and I
Sharp in my heart the stabbing feel.
The great sun spills his golden blood
And bathes me in his beams—
But I walk always through a flood
Of dark and evil dreams.
I had a passion in the night
That burned me like a flame ;
Mine eyes detest the fair sunlight,
For my heart is black with shame.
The darkness caught me ; I was thrilled
With rapture—l was free 1
The chalice of the night was filled
With wine of ecstasy.
The Dawn came in her robe of blue.
With clear eyes virginal
And scornful scarlet lips. I knew
That she, too, knew it all.
The shrill cicadas’ ceaseless cry
In cynic chorus goes ;
And I will hear it till I die,
And after that—God knows.
V. J. DALKY.


At the rec nest of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wede?>
days and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade thst runs from George-street-to Kinpr-st.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
SILVER
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
f>A
USNESS v |.|V E R
and Troubles
The law makes no effort to instruct its
policemen in the rudiments of knowledge as to
mental disease (and the policeman, anyhow, is
kept too busy at non-police work to make any
response to such an effort possible on his part).
Hence some avoidable tragedies. A man and his
wife walked arm-in-arm into the Newtown Police
Court the other day.
hushed tones they informed the constable in charge
that they were surrounded by enemies, and that wicked
people at the Glebe had connected their house at New-
town with a wire, by means of which they were able to
turn on nasty smells whenever they liked.'
The police could not grapple with the problem,
which was, evidently, a dangerous form of griev-
ance dementia. _ The people were not drunk;
they were not using bad language or conducting
themselves in a disorderly way; so they
were allowed to wander out again. Three days
afterwards the man murdered the woman and
then committed suicide. Their blood might have
been saved if the police had been able to recognise
the danger signals.
• • • •
Several morbid Sydney females took their
lunch-baskets down to Circular Quay to wait the
arrival of the Wallaroo victims. “ How many? ”
one asked the first man ashore. “ Four dead and
three injured,” he replied. “Is that all!” she
said disappointedly. Recalls the heroine of the
Mount Rennie infamy, who also remarked “Is
that all ? ” when the cabman was sentenced to 14
years and 50 lashes.
“C.”: Re the recent Bundaberg Kanaka
riot, a Sydney daily, recalling a more serious
Mackay scrimmage of 20 years ago, says that on
that occasion the white men were armed with
revolvers. Untrue. The whites had nothing
more deadly than stirrup-irons to oppose to the
bombardment of empty bottles ; but, even at that,
they drove the niggers off the racecourse into the
surrounding cane and laid out over 40 of them.
Had the gentle Kanaka won the day, Australia
would have been horrified at the fate of the women
and children. The S.M. Herald correspondent
at the time wrote with apparent sympathy for the
savages—“ Several of the islanders exhibit marks
of the most brutal treatment. ” As if any treat-
ment could have been too brutual for a horde of
savages who had planned a wholesale massacre of
defenceless white women and children.
* • • •
Ifc . was originally proposed to style the
President of the United States “ His Highness, ”
or “His Excellency,” and “Protector of the Liber-
ties of the People.” Washington, who was a
monarchist at heart, favored the Dutch style,
“High Mightiness.” The more democratic mem-
bers of Congress, however, laughed the proposal
out of court by suggesting that the Vice-President
should be styled “His Superfluous Excellency.”
Which suggests a. new title for Australian
Governors.
THE SPOILS OF WAR.
“ Your last mistress gives you an excellent
character.”
“My word she had to, or give me another week's
money.”
The “butcher’s bill” of the Broken Hill
mines was a shade lighter than the average last
year. In the past 10 years 173 men have been
killed, while the total for 1903 alone was 16.
Apart from the unhealthiness of the silver-lead
mine, the chances of sudden death there are
greater than in a coal mine. On the average,
2.24 in every 1000 N.S.W. coal miners are killed
every year; in the Broken Hill mines, 2.85 in
1000. .There are at least four Broken Hill victims
whose bodies have never been reached—they lie
under confused masses of ore and timber and
mullock in different parts of the mines ; exactly
where nobody knows, for in most cases they fell
with the moving mass when it broke through into
a lower working.
“Elmore”: Was
walking along Eliza-
beth-street (Melb.),
near St. Francis’s
R.C. church, just
as a marriage party
was leaving, and
when they had
seated them-
selves comfort-
ably in a wag-
gonette, and had
started off, a
Blind Asylum
cart happened
along, loaded
with wicker-
work. Swing-
ing round the
corner, a
cradledropped
off gracefully
right in front
of the bridal
party, amid
loud laughter
from bystand-
ers. The
groom looked
savage, but the
bride blushed
and looked
happy. A
little further
on, a boy came
out of a gun-
shop, proudly
examining apea-
rifle he had just
bought, opening
and shutting the
breech as he crossed
thestreet. A warn -
ing cry, and a man
rushed out, just in
time to pull him from
under the hoofs of a
pair of horses trotting 1
briskly and drawing a i
hearse. A few doors '
higher up, a mangy-look-
ing dog was standing on
his hind legs at the open
window of a butcher’s shop.
Suddenly, he dropped, and came towards me, full
steam up, carrying a German sausage, in which
was stuck a ticket. Out came the butcher after
him, with a cleaver. The butcher let fly, and
down dropped the dog, dead. The spectacle of
the butcher standing over the dead dog, with the
ticket in his hand, on which I read, “ Small goods
fresh daily,” was too much. I left the spot hur-
riedly. Too many events, with shadows attached,
were happening for my liking.
* * • *
Most squatters have taken advantage of
N.S.W. Government’s relaxation of the regula-
tions dealing with shearers’ accommodation. The
huts are mostly as bad as ever.
• » • •
“ Demos ” : Englishmen’s method of
softening the lot of condemned criminals by good
feeding (8., 24/12/’O3) isn’t up to the American
method of supplying cheering fluids ad lib. during
the last 24 hours. Have been told by gaolers that
every subject of electrocution is too drunk to
know what’s happening to him. It is the inten-
tion of the prison officials to avoid “scenes.”
When a reporter says “ condemned was so over-
come that he required assistance to mount the
scaffold, ” it generally means overcome with rum.
• • • •
“ T.D.” : Melb.’s ironically-named Model
School is an establishment just after the hearts of
the piebald
Australian ad-
vocates, being
situated close
to Lonsdale,
Little Lons-
dale, Little
Bourke, and
Exhibition
streets at their
most cosmopo-
litan end. Saw
the youngsters
trooping out
the other day.
Fully one-
fourth were
half-breeds,
Chow, Syrian,
Greek, Indian,
Italian and
mulatto. The
edifying spec-
tacle was pre-
sented of three
pig-tailed little
yellowskins
pummelling a
white boy, and
spilling him,
when done
with, into a deep gutter ; also another white
youngster was “smooging” up to a little brown
one for a draw at a “bumper.” We should
assuredly throw open our doors to all races.
• • • •
First N.S.W. Arbitration Court (constitu-
ted under a voluntary Act which Mr. Barton
fathered) struck a little trouble in a coal-mining
dispute. The Metropolitan Colliery and its em-
ployees were at variance; the case went to the
court with the consent of both parties, and the
award was against the men. There was keen
dissatisfaction, but the award was loyally obeyed.
• * • *
The Tasmanian centennial celebrations
were postponed in September, because of the
smallpox in Launceston. By present arrangement
they are to be held in February ; but the public
resolutely refuses to donate, and the celebrations
are likely to frost. Hobart only wakes up in the
summer—just sufficiently to fleece the recuper-
ating tourists ; and celebrations of any sort that
interfere with that serious business are not wel-
comed with any particular ardor.
HIS FULL FRIEND.
"Drunk? Oh, no, my dearsh. Haveshadn't
drop drink all night.”
“ Don't lie to me. You smell horribly of liquor.”
“ Shmell, do I? Oh, yesh. That beast Traversh
—awful beasht Traversh. He got drunk and
shaid something insulting to the ladies, and
I hit him. Hit him, my dear. Man in-
shults womminsh my preshence I hit him.
And Traversh, you know, he was so full that
when I hit him it splashed all over me. That
accountsh for the odor, my dear. It splashed
all over me.”
Sydney D.T. issues an alarmed cry over
the proposals to restrict newspaper power in
politics. With a fair press such proposals would
never be made, but, obviously, democracy cannot
allow itself to be paralysed by the unfairness of a
press monopoly. The ultimate outcome of present
press tactics will probably be a Government news-
paper. The public must have news (news is as
much necessary, almost, as bread) and it has a
right to claim that it shall have the news fully
and fairly. If the daily newspapers won’t supply
that, the State may have to step in as their com-
petitor, with journals strictly confined to news.
* * * *
The Six Hatters, Petriana, Stelling and
like affairs suggest that the mare’s nest industry
might be systematised by the newspapers. The
Tory papers should frankly join together and
home-manufacture in every damning detail their
own awful political scandals, instead of, as
now, importing some atoms of fact around which
to spin a romance. The mare’s boudoir that is
left to be constructed on the spur of the moment
is almost sure to prove defective. A special cast-
steel she-horse’s lair, constructed by experts,
would serve better. A proper enormity foundry,
manned by efficient liars, could turn out
political scandals and outrages by the gross ; and
when the S.M.H. or D.T. or Argus wanted one
in an emergency it could drop down and take its
pick from a large stock.
“ H.P.” : Another old historical record
knocked endways. Said that Edward Henty was
not the first settler in Portland (Vic.). Stated
that old “Paul the Whaler” was there some con-
siderable time before November 19th, 1834 —the
date of Henty’s landing. Urged further that
“Old Paul” was only a common man (though
a good whaler), hence his claims to distinction
were pushed overboard by the more aristocratic
Henty family. Do any hoarders of ancient
records know aught of this ?
“Boree”: Tarraville, in South Gipps-
land, is enjoying a brief season of remembrance as
the birthplace of a star. Distance has apparently
lent enchantment to her native village in the mind
of Miss Ada Crossley. M.A.P., a year or so ago,
published an interview with the singer wherein
her home was vaguely and gracefully alluded to in
terms that suggested an old baronial hall, some-
what after the pattern of the “stately homes of
England,” standing beautifully in a proud park.
She recounted how her earliest grief had been
losing her pet porcelain doll by dropping it from
the balcony. When this touching statement had
soaked in, Gippsland, I should think, smiled a
large, slow smile. The picturesque was omitted
when “the Tarra” —as the township is called—
was founded, and there isn’t a baronial hall within
50 miles. There is one street, where the houses
are dropping to pieces across the footpath, sheets
of galvanized iron fall into the gutter, and nobody
marks them. There is but one balcony in the
and it belongs to a pub. which had legends
attached, and which the godly passed on the other
side with prayer and fasting. There is also a
little shop, leaning out now across the footpath,
and long closed. The whole shop-front has
become loosened at the bottom, and it waves in
the wind in a somewhat ghostly fashion. Over
the door shaky letters proclaim “E. W. Crossley,
tinsmith.” There isn’t any balcony. Perhaps
this isn’t the correct shrine, but I always regarded
it as such, and worshipped there. If I have
worshipped in vain I will go and slay that shop in
cold blood.
1 •
The evil ol good intentions ! Place :
Queen’ll Bridge, Melbourne. Time, 2 p.m. Tram
bound for South Melbourne. Old gent, drops
walking-stick. Another tram passes towards city.
Young man, idling on bridge, rushes to help;
picks stick up and rushes eagerly after the wrong
tram. Meanwhile, old gent, stops car, alights,
sees young man running after other car with his
stick. Frantically chases young man. Young
man catches up to back-platform of car; finds no
one there to receive stick, drops it on platform.
Walks back with an “ Alone, I did it! ” air. Meets
irate old gent., who feels that he could not do
justice to the occasion without risk of dropping
dead. Blasts young man with one look. Last
writer saw was old man chasing tram, and young
man looking after him with a bruised expression.
* * * •
“G.R.” writes re the declining birth-rate :
It should not be forgotten that the death-rate of
children is much lower than it was under former insani-
tary conditions, and a high birth-rate is not needed to
make up the deficiency that would exist if the former
proportion died. Also, a much larger number of persons
now live beyond the child-bearing age than formerly, and
the rate must be lower on this account, in which respect
the following figures for the returns for England and
Wales are very instructive :
1851—Deaths per thousand, 22 Births per thousand, 34"2
1901— „ „ „ 16'9 „ „ „ 28-5
Thus, although the births show a falling-off of 57, the
net decline in the rate of increase is less than two-thirds
of one per cent. Through much blind stumbling we are
learning the foolishness of a large production, much of
which would have to be sacrificed. We are getting
beyond the doctrine that a woman’s mission is to produce
and rear a large number of human targets for the rifle-
balls of militarv-crazed rulers.
NO BUSINESS DONE.
“ Got any 'bacca, Bill? ”
“ Yes, and I've got sense, too."
The registrar of births, deaths, and
marriages in a certain Melbourne suburb has a
peculiarity which sometimes upsets the blushing
bride. As soon 'as the business is done, he hands
the marriage lines to the wife, and remarks with
ceremonial pride: “This makes you an honest
woman.” Some day, an irritated lady will rise
up and tell him that she never stole anything in
her life, and-then her newly-acquired Bill will hit
the Registrar, and he will be sorry for his joke.
EVICTED EVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From richly-clustering fruits and fragrant flowers,
From murmuring fountains lulling her to dreams,
Eternity of happy sunlit hours
In velvet meadows fed by rippling streams.
Alas 1 in one fell moment to be hurled —
Poor, foolish Eve ! in all her wayward charms,
into the desert of this stern old world,
Where shrubs have thorns to scratch her soft white arms*
And roses canker-worms to eat their hearts,
And apples codlin grubs inside the core.
Adown the cheek the pearly tear drop starts,
But in a little while she smiles once more,
Drying her tears forgetful of her woes,
She finds her compensation in her clothes.
VIC.
MIMOSA.
WHY?
[For Thb Bulletin.]
When Effie flirts with other men
And I show anger clearly,
She says “ You are a silly goose,
You know I love you dearly ! ”
And holds her lips up to be kissed,
That satisfies me—nearly.
When Effie flirts with other men
And I show no resentment,
But talk and laugh with other girls
In calm and sweet contentment;
I get no smile—l get no kiss—
I get a look of scorn,
And Effie says she wishes that
She never had been born.
DABBER.


piEIDSIECK
“CHARLIE I
EVERY TlflE.”
Miss Nellie Stewart writes : “ ‘ Valaze, ’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin’
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER iDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
$
h
sty
Are the Ideal Rubrics
for
Usf\
RAINCOATS.
f
mu
'oii]
Highfield
Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
*^HOBART.
Newly erected; Commodious;
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 19,1904.
My Dear Arint.—
By the Moldavia which brought our new Gov.-
Gen. to Australia arrived also Mrs. and Miss
Venables Kirk —sister and niece of Lady Rawson.
They are going on to Moss Vale, and will stay
three months with our Excellencies.
By the Ormuz came Commander and Mrs.
Lacey. He went to Melbourne to take his man-
o’-war Mutine to Hobart. Mrs. Lacey, who is Aus-
tralian born, is with her sister, Mrs. Hotham, of
Double Bay—an infant son is also of the party.
What a lot of the Sacred College the Ormuz
brought along this trip. Three R.C. prelates and
some Anglican clerics. Captain Coad himself
looks like a High Church cleric when in his
shore clothes, and in uniform like an academic
chaplain.
Minister .1. G. Ward, of Maoriland, with his
dame and only daughter, will be in Sydney in a
few weeks time en route to the postal conference
at Rome. Daughter Eileen, who promised very
well in the matter of looks—-brunette pallor, dark
eyes, and enviable etceteras—in her long-haired,
three-quarter-frocked stage, is said to possess an
uncommonly good contralto voice. A voice, that
deserves to be written with a capital S. or C., is
as valuable as a sheep-station afterlO good seasons.
Ada Crossley will bank something like £15,000
from her Australian tour. All her audiences con-
sider that they have had good .value for their coin.
The contralto, who is in the West, just missed, on
arrival, the 105 in the shade temperature that
would have made her welcome warmer than that
which the Perthites accorded her.
A Sydneysider, returned from M.L., says he
never stumbled over so many titles during a ten
years’ residence in England as he did during a six
months’ stay in M.L. Providence has been very
good to M.L. in the matter of hot mud and
scenery, and these attract the titled folk. My
tourist ran up against the Chermsides (who
Excellency Queensland), Sir Donald and
Dame Robertson (who do something British
at Mysore); a Right Rev., who is also a lord,
and who smoked a short briar pipe and slept
with loud emphasis after dinner. Then there
was a peeress accompanied by a Lady Somebody,
who travelled with their own physician and
servants, including a Chinese “boy.” The last
wore his national dress, wide skirts, sandals, two
yards of pigtail, and used to stand behind his
owners with hands folded inside his wide sleeves,
and his narrow eyes fixed and unwinking—just
like those of a tuatara lizard. These persons
were all doing the Hot Lakes, or slithering down
the Rimutaka incline, or fording the famous
Wanganui River. Which reminds me T must ask
the M.L. Tourist Bureau if the Wanganui is
fordable.
Further, my informant took care never to be m
the Bureau’s offices within an hour after passen-
gers ex the English mail steamers had landed in
Wellington for fear he should learn to say
“ Haw.” For within that hour the place would
be full of tony British women talking at the tops
of their voices to men who responded with
“Haw.” No wonder M.L. is becoming a
rendezvous for Australian Society desirous of
meeting, or just looking at, English ditto. Or,
for that matter, desirous of bringing its speaking
voice up to fashionable English currency. Poetess
Barrett Browning writes somewhere of “voices
low with fashion, not with feeling,” bub now if
you want to appear as those who form the
inner circle of the Preserved Nectarines, vou
must not be low—in the matter of speech.
A beauty-lover of this city who fell in love
with the portraits of the Princess of Pless,
determined to see the original when in London.
Succeeded. Walked close to her coming out of
church. Disappointed. She is very florid, not to
say red-faced, very blue-eyed and fairly tall, and
she was barely outside the “sacred portals”
before she “began to talk and laugh in a loud,
screaming, cockatoo voice.” Worst of it is that
when plain Miss Brown talks like a cockatoo
people say she doesn’t know any better. When
the gilded tourists that infest M.L.’s hot mud
beds make themselves heard like a sohool of
kookaburras, the plain Browns listening reveren-
tially and say, “How. natural and unaffected.”
And they say truly. It is to-day fashionable to be
natural, just as it was fashionable for Lady Mary
Carlyle and her friends (“Monsieur Beaucaire”)
to be unnatural.
What a lot of men profess to be shocked at the
transparent, or pneumonia, blouse for street wear !
I have met only one man who frankly owns to an
admiration for it. All the letters I get abusing
the fashion are from men. White violets! Here’s
one of them:—
The newest caper of giddy block-walkers seems to. be a
tight-fitting under blouse or chemisette of creamy white
just the tint the wearer’s bosom is supposed to be.
Over this she wears a lace-topped blouse—preferably of
black —and as she knows her skin isn’t visible she wears
the lace very decollete, but the casual observer isn’t so
well informed and naturally concludes the damsel is air-
ing her hide, at least as. much of it as the necessity for
keeping her dress on her shoulders will allow.
Christinas, the time of the open heart and re-
laxed purse, is,past, but now is always an acceptable
time to. help a worthy cause. Women’s Hospital,
Crown-street, Surry Hills, is the worthiest cause
for charity that I know of for the moment. If
you give it a sovereign the Government will add
another, for it has only private charity and the
Government subsidy of “same as you give’-’ for
support. I am sure some one of our brilliant
amateur dramatic clubs will see a way to help
with a performance an institution that succors
poor women at a time of greatest need. This
hospital is still in the same cramped quarters-
some two-storied terrace houses. The most minute
calculation of economy in space must be prac-
tised to allow the reception of 30 patients —
some of them surgical cases. There is a little
cottage at the back where the laundrying is
done, and where some of the waiting patients sleep.
The rent for these houses runs to £4O a month, and
the absence of a hot-water service makes the gas
bills very heavy. So great is the pressure on the
limited space that expectant mothers are given
temporary beds in the ironing and bath rooms of
the cottage. District nursing, averaging 40
cases a month, is carried on in the large and
very poor area around the hospital. The
nurses tell painful stories of the miserable
homes they visit—often not a vestige of furniture —
and the mother lying on a mattress or a heap of
rags. And these are, they say, not necessarily
the homes of drunkards. Naturally no payment
can be expected by the hospital from such
patients. Nor do those admitted, except in rare
instances, contribute.
Any bacilli entering the Women’s Hospital
would get a sterilising reception. No wonder it
has never had a septic case. Even the cotton
wool, which is already supposed to arrive microbe-
less, is tied in sheets and boiled, and once a pot of
vaseline is opened it is put away until it can be
re-sterilised. Miss M'Leod, the matron, looks a
real vital spark, and is thin as a willow wand.
She is the originator of many inventions in
hospital appliances: for instance a baby’s bath—
an oilcloth well hung on four slender iron legs—
and a bath and bed combination, as well as
wonderful arrangements and improvements in the
matter of baby’s kit. One of the committee of
the Melbourne Women’s Hospital (Mrs. George
Godfrey), who visited the institution lately, took
back with her to her own gorgeous hospital
several samples of the inventions. In the mean-
time, remember that he or she who gives quickly
gives twice, and money is very urgently needed.
Committee of hospital has been waiting and
hoping that the inscrutable ways of Providence
would give it the School of Industry building, and
so enable it to benefit more poor humanity. The
property belongs to Mr. Mark Poy, and is under
offer to the committee for £12,000, or the very
reasonable rental of £3OO a year.
Someone signing with the alias of “ Amor ”
(why not “ Calf ” ?) writes to know why girls close
their eyes when men kiss them. All the damsels
that “Amor” (or “Calf”) thus salutes in Sydney,
Hobart, and Melbourne ( what a naughty vagrant
calf it is !) shut their eyes. He wants a scientific
explanation. Note the vanity of the frisker—he
wants to put it under the label of science. As if
the general appearance of the Australian youth
wasn’t reason enough. I take it that “Amor’s”
numerous girl shuts her eyes so that she shall not
see the kisser. However, “Amor” may console
himself with the thought that if women don’t love
him, God will.
“Pomona loves the orchard and Ceres loves the
vine, and Pales loves the straw-built shed warm
with the breath of kine.” I started mumbling
that as I prowled amongst the stacks of wheat
and barley (beshrew me but the room was full of
the fragrance rare of new-mown harvests !) that
with other cereals are doing the Harvest Home
act at Sydney Exchange. Wool is also there,
and butter and tinned fruits, so the quote is not
so very inapplicable. At least, if there isn’t actual
butter there’s a table showing that in 1902 we
had 23,600 boxes of it and in 1903 there are
125,000 available. So there oughtn’t to be any
dry bread in this year 1904. Pine pumpkins,
which please cows but vex the soul of man when
appearing too often as a vegetable, are also present,
and there are photographs of some of the huge
grain and wool-growing stations in Dubbo and
other districts. Owners must have been meek
and, therefore, blessed, so much of the earth have
they inherited. Some scrolls are on the walls,
bearing singular statements in semi-biblical
phraseology : “The harvest is plenteous, but the
laborers are few and “Nature hath done her
share, do you yours.” What is the moral?
The Exchange shouldn’t scroll in parables.
Opening of State Parliament as a Society Show
has been waning dull and duller for the last few
years. Federation put the extinguisher on its
brightness, and now if a woman had to make her
choice between visiting her grandmother’s grave
and attending opening of Parliament she would
unhesitatingly choose the first. State Legislature
inet last Tuesday and there was the usual Governor
and military demonstration. For the rest—those
who are not out of town visited their grand-
mothers’ graves.
Other night at “Mama’s New Husband,” th'e
funny American piece at the Palace, Charles
Stine, in trying to stroke down the terrible Mrs,
“Pearly” Brood and make her purr on his
shoulder (and give him a cheque), did a bit of
Julius Knight that made the audience choke with
laughter. “ Turn to me ; turn to me.” The out-
stretched arms, the raised chin, and the tremulous
voice, low and vibrant with passion : no wonder
the lady turned and purred—and chequed.
Most fashionable winter wear in London and
Paris is velvet, so I suppose we shall put some of
the same strokeable material into our apology for
a winter. The velvet of to-day—the to-day of
the northern hemisphere—is not the thick, heavy
stuff of some years ago. It has all the softness
and richness of the velvet of other days, but it is
known as chiffon velvet, and is light and graceful
as panne, has a deep pile with a slight rib.
Popular colors for day wear are black, mole-
mouse, and brown, but for evening there
are rose, sapphire, cream, lilac, or any
other gay shade. Little Emily Soldene, in
chronicling a very be-titled wedding, mentions
that every second woman wore velvet—one was
in sapphire shade. And a Sydney girl who has
got married in London sends me a half-mile of
panel portrait of herself with the assurance that
the gown is oyster-white velvet. In the picture
it looks a cross between crepe de chine and satin,
and the train swirls down into the foreground and
lies around in soft folds and curves that have a
sleepy, rather fascinating effect. All I remember
of “ Moths,” the Ouida book, is that the beautiful
Countess wears a white velvet dress on the night
that her noble Sergius Alexikoff (or some such
name) waddies her. Olga Nethersole played the
Countess part in her M.L. tour, and as she wasn’t
in white velvet I didn’t think she did it well.
But the velvet of the old days must be as gunny-
saoking compared with the ethereal velvet de luxe
of the present. I hope every woman who has
good credit at her draper’s will wear velvet dur-
ing our alleged winter, and so add to the gaiety of
our nation.
Some weeks ago the cableliar told us of the
elopement of a Princess of the House of Bourbon
—Princess Alice of Schonburg-Waldenburg—with
her coachman. Now the yarn is contradicted,
and the Princess given a clean bill of moral health.
The coil in which the Princess involved herself by
assuming an innocent disguise reads like the plot
in a Family Herald story. She had considerable
reasons for leaving her husband’s home, and, until
she could get the Vatican consent to a separation,
she went to live on the Riviera, assuming the
name of her maid, Materni, in order to avoid
public attention and annoyance to her relatives.
Recognised by old acquaintances whilst walking
in the neighborhood, it was inferred and noised
abroad that she was in reality the mistress of the
husband of the maid whose name she bore. It is
a dull day on the Riviera when its dwellers can’t
chase an aristocratic scandal —which mostly proves
phantom.
Lady Hamilton, once an Excellency of Tas-
mania, has read a paper on the Uganda railway
before the London Austral Salon. A paper on so
gritty a topic would want punctuation with tea
and cream cakes. Lady Brassey has been pre-
sented in Paris with a gold medal by Mdlle. Irma
Dreyfus, on behalf of the Alliance Framjais.
Wonder does Irma still keep her 18-inch waist and
40-inch bust ?
Mayoress Lees’ first reception held in her room
at the Town Hall last week didn’t glitter quite so
much as a comet. It had a butt-end-of-the-
season appearance. Mrs. Lees will hold a series
of how-do-you-do’s at Easter. By that time
society will have got its resurrection aspect.
Miss Sylvia Blackston’s farewell concert at
Sydney Towrf Hall was not the financial success
it would undoubtedly have been if held at any
time other than that between Xmas and Easter.
No artist can fill or half fill the Town Hall in this
period. Concerts are out of season and most
concert-goers out of town. Yet I see that Miss
Maud Dalrymple is going to have her farewell
song on Feb. 17th. Miss Blackston, who was in
fine voice, gave her hearers a charming programme.
She leaves for London shortly. By the same
vessel go Mrs. Burdekin and her daughter and
son.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ The top-notchers of the official world had to
hurry over, their morning chop on Monday to
reach Spencer-street in time for Lady Northcote’s
coming. Mesdames Turner, M'Eacharn, and
Hutton toed the line mostly in morning rig and
an eager spirit. The Mayoress toyed with a great
cluster of red roses and appeared to be rehearsing,
sotto-voce, her impromptu words of greeting.
Treasurer Turner, flushed and painfully well
coated, bent his spectacled eyes on the railway
lines and accounted as nought the clatter around.
He was plainly uncomfortable. Commissioner
Tate, limping on a stick (a knee fracture), was
spruce and sweet and well content with things till
he saw the Northcote party dumped down at the
shabby end of Spencer-street. Irate at the bad
management, he had to join the reception mob,
herding fast from the prepared place of the
palms.
“ The Northcote dame is a slight lady with the
sort of pallid complexion that comes from India.
She’s not imposing or dashing, but she has an
expressive face and a charming manner. People
who know her describe her as a ‘ gifted conver-
sationalist.’ She arrived in Melbourne wearing
pale-blue, with filmy cream vest, hat with
feathers (some black, some white), and pearl ear-
drops. Her friend, Lady Margaret Knowles, is
not a fashion-plate beauty, and at first, with her
unclassic nose and cool, Tussore silk gown, obser-
vers pronounced her less impressive than the usual
Government House girl, but she holds trump-
cards in her fine eyes and creamy skin, and like
her friend, the Gov.-Generaless, looks brisk and
bright. Anyway, she is careless of local criticism,
as she is only booked for two months in the
Commonwealth, and ‘ wishes to see something
of all the States ’ in that time.
“Captain Balmain, A.D.C. to the Northcotes,
was at the station to meet his liege-lady, and
looked pretty tired and tanned after his work in
taking over from the Federal Government
cutlery, linen, etc., to the value of £17,000. In
Sydney he’ll have to inventory household stuff
worth £20,000.
“ In the printed lists of Gov. Northcote’s staff
no mention is yet made of ex-Aide Nevill,
although, up to a few weeks ago, it was under-
stood and given out that the amiable lordling was
to be on the staff. Society chroniclers are so
beholden to Dicky for his amiability and obliging
little ways that they’d be more than sorry to hear
that he wasn’t going to stay.
“The Western and some of this State’s papers
fell into the error of imagining that Mayoress
M'Eacharn travelled as far as Perth as a sort of
honorary body-guard to the departing Lady
Tennyson. The truth was that she was clinging
to her only son to the last. He was on his way
to Eton.
“The M'Eaeharns mean to be in front with the
entertainment of the Northcotes. They have a
feast listed for Friday, the night after Lord North-
cote’s arrival. The Northcotes have, anyhow,
reason to be grateful that they are spared until
Friday. They might have been paraded on
Thursday.
“Of all the affecting farewells vouchsafed to
‘the big-hearted contralto,’ as the well-informed
(ahem !) portion of the press persists in dubbing
Ada, she owns that the Tennyson brought her
quickest to her favorite tears. Theex-Governor-in-
Chief can wear a lugubrious visage at times, and
it must have been turned on when he gripped her
palm in the strenuous manner and murmured,
‘Good-bye, child, and God bless you!’ Child!
One hears Malvolio gurgling delightfully over
‘Fellow. Not Malvolio! not Steward! not
Friend even, but Fellow ‘! I know an advanced
spinster with wrinkles and whitening locks who
is still addressed as ‘ Kid ’by a bachelor rake who
was once nearly spoons on her. Kid ! That is her
romance—it never fails to produce a thrill. It
has a subtle, sweet enchantment to her ageing
ears.
“Such an ingress of globe-trotters to this corner
of the Commonwealth ! And such a return of
gadding Victorians ! Mrs. N. Thornley and her
daughters, rich with rustle and full of ideas of
bustling Toorak to a smarter pace; the Misses
Jackson, daughters of the oculist, with ideas
ditto and improved looks; and many others.
Mullen’s was as a Babel, the other day, when a
lot of these gadding ones converged at the Book
Exchange counter and talked fortissimo, as if their
voices had still to fight for ascendancy with the
waves. News is brought along of residential
Victorians in Mayfair—of their swagger ways—
their parties—and the nobby names on their
visiting lists. ‘We live in London,’ is quoted of
one dame. ‘Australia means existence merely.’
Rather it means the means of existence only.
“The little brown boys who were petted and
dangled by the big white girls of Melbourne
when the Japanese squadron lay out in Hob-
son’s Bay last year, have been explaining,
in letters to the said girls, with mis-spelt
enthusiasm their joyous anticipations of a war,
and expressing in acrobatic syntax their fervent
faith in a grand Jap triumph ahead. One of the
Hashidate middies looks forward to the conflict
because ‘it makes so good a sensation after nice
hospitality in your kind Australia.’ Another
specimen dismisses the war subject with an
epistolary shrug of the shoulders as much as to
say, ‘ Well, the idiots brought the trouble on
themselves,’ and goes on to declare his undying
love of Miss Nora Kerin. ‘I love Kerin,’ he
states, ‘but I have not told her so, and never met
her. Her photograph (sweet Titania !) is with
me. I will never depart from it. Please send
me a big photograph of nice Kerin.’
“When Miss Edith Newton marries Mr. Lang-
loh Want, of Sydney, it will make the third match
from the ‘Are You aMason?’co. There seems
just now to be a slump in the comic-opera ranks,
as far as wealthy matches go. One of the recent
C.O. gilded engagements, by the way, doesn’t
exactly gallop to matrimony.
“ The Pursey Chirnsides are not the only people
hereabouts adopting the customs of the English
squire. The S. F. .Staughtops, at ‘Staughton
Vale’ (Western district), supplied cakes and ale
to the tenantry, don’t you know, and other country
yokels this Xmas tide. They say that the said
tenantry pull their forelocks quite prettily when
the squire notices them.
“Latest news is the engagement of Mr. C. J.
Roberts’ eldest daughter to one of England’s
landed gentry—an elderly Lincolnshire potentate.
Miss Roberts has just passed through Melbourne
on her way home to Sydney.
“The late Madame Antoinette Sterling is
remembered in Melbourne for many things, but
for none more by her intimate friends than the
pattern she gave them of her divided under-skirts.
The stout singer was an enthusiast over the
rational dress theory, then just showing its head
timidly above Fashion’s horizon. I recollect an
afternoon-tea rally of Antoinette Sterling’s friends,
at Menzies, when she hoisted her skirts and
exhibited her ‘bloomers.’ As trousers they were
entirely satisfactory. The trouble with Madame
in her later years was that she allowed her trousers
to get on her voice.
“ There are no Turkish baths at present in Mel-
bourne. It will be months before the new baths
go up. In the meantime the electric wash at a
Oollins-street establishment is largely attended
as the best substitute.
“Garden-curator Guilfoyle is gleeful over a
novel collection of brilliant flowering shrubs
known to the aesthetic as * Flower of the Morn-
ing,’ but to the botanic erudite as ‘ Mesembry-
anthemums,’ in which there seems a useless
redundancy of the ‘ m’s.’ Over 50 specimens of
the bloom were landed a while ago as a gift from
the Lord of the Scilly Isles (sounds all right), and
their riot of color intoxicates the flower-loving
sense. They are hardy and enduring, and, unlike
most showy flowers, triumph on hillsides and rear
lustily above the hard bed of a rockery in the face
of the sun and the winds with equal unconcern.
Just now the Gardens are resplendent with blooms.
“ The pert and very interesting society charmer,
whose appearance on the boards in the front
ranks of the chorus was bo suddenly made and so
unceremoniously ended, is now taking a demure
look on the stage from the circle.
“ Governor Le Hunte, of the State alongside,
led the demonstration at the Orossley concert in
Adelaide. He punctuated the applause by stand-
ing up and making several profound bows to the
singer.
(Continued on page 26.)


LITTLE ILLS.
Life is spoilt by the little ills—the headaches and backaches, the weakness and weariness, the nerves
and neuralgia, and the little ills of stomach and liver. These are the little ills that wreck health and
happiness—and every single one of them is due to bad blood. Purify, enrich and strengthen your blood
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and all these little ills will vanish like magic. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills actually make new blood. By doing this they have cured the- worst cases of rheumatism,
neuralgia, dyspepsia, eczema and blood poisoning. Is it any wonder, then, that they cure all little ills so
quickly? They were the making of Mr. Arthur Mackin, 161 Bourke-street, East Sydney, when he was
completely run-down and out-of-sorts. And they can do the same for you.
“ There is nothing to compare with Dr. Williams' PUV Pill* for building .up the system and setting a man right,” said
Mr. Mackin. “Two years ago my health began to break down Th« doctor said my trouble was all in the blood. He treated
me"for months, and made me take a trip to Brisbane, bvt* I getting weaker and weaker. I hadn’t a bit of energy. Even
my eyesight went back on me. After the lightest meal I ■*»« nearly doubled in two with indigestion. My chest felt as if it
had been pounded with a sledge-hammer. I could no» tUep. and my nerves were all in a tremble. Nothing straightened me
up till I took Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Mr. Henry Barr»4i, of Charters Towers, told me about them. He said, ‘lf it’s your
blood, they will soon set you right, for they actually wwvL *«w blood.’ And they did, too. Inside a fortnight I could feel
the new blood flowing through my veins. When the Vox was gone I was as right as rain. Since then I have been in
capital health, so I know lam cured for good. To-dx* 1 a new man—thanks entirely to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.”
2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d. Dr. Williams’ Mo licine Co., Sydney, N.S.W. Accept No Substitutes.
I
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
C. C. Kingston has gone to the M.L.
sulphur baths in search of health improvement.
Sulphur? It sounds ominous.
Profit Dowie is said to want to buy an
island for Zion. Goat Island, in Sydney Harbor,
should just fill the bill for his disciples, and Shark
Island for the Profit himself.
Mr. Willis, N.S.W. M.P., threatens, ’tis
said, to abandon local politics and enter the
House of Commons. Well, the threat is to
England, not to Australia.
Gladstone Dowie (age 38), just arrived in
the Commonwealth, “has never yet,” according
to Father Elijah, “kissed a girl in his life.” It
is a freak family, that of the Zionider.
Premier Jenkins (S.A.) was, until New
Year’s Day, only a naturalised British subject in
his own State, but now the limited Australian
citizenship which he acquired some years ago will,
under the Commonwealth Act, be made general.
Tom Mann, who did sterling work for the
Victorian Labor party as organiser prior to the
late elections, talks of giving up politics for agri-
culture, but an effort is now being made to secure
him as general secretary of the Vic. Political
Labor Council.
Mayor Cohen, of Adelaide, expects to be
put on an equality with the gaud Mayors of
Sydney and Melbourne at the next distribution of
Imperial baubles. Governor-General Tennyson
practically promised something of the sort in a
public speech the other day.
Q. lawyers don’t, as a rule, aspire to the
Federal Parliament. Only three tried at the
recent elections. One, barrister Groom, had a
walk-over for Darling Downs ; and two others,
Mac Paterson and Morse, were beaten by Dr.
Culpin for the Brisbane seat.
A Methodist clergyman prayed over the
body of John Farrell, laid in the R.C. portion of
the Rookwood cemetery —Rev. W. H. Beale, an
ex-president of the Methodist Conference, who
attended the funeral as a friend. No R.C. priest
attended at the grave-side—through a misunder-
standing, it is explained, which was remedied, as
far as possible, later on.
OUR POLITICAL CAT-FISH—SENATOR NEILD.
Dr. Todd is about to add to his other
avocations that of author. He will compile a
guide book for Sydney Zoo. He is already coroner,
medical doctor, and barrister. In accordance
with the best coronial traditions, his book will
probably be light and flippant.
There is hope yet of seeing Johnaynes
fighting his secession fight behind a bayonet or a
blunderbuss. “ Men follow true leaders to
death,” he writes in the D.T. Still the men
whom John is addressing may reflect that any
fool can lead them into that mess.
The Bulletin is soon going to lose an old
political “property.” Cornelius Job Ham, who
has served to point many a moral, will not seek
re-election to the Yic. House of Landords, of
whose incapacity to represent the people he has
been a conspicuous example for 20 years.
Thomas Edwin Hill, of Melbourne, pro-
bably possesses the champion pair of brittle legs
in the Commonwealth. He has had his legs
broken in all eight times—four times to each leg.
They began breaking when he was seven years of
age, and they are still at it and doing well.
Chief Justice Darley, of New South Wales,
is due to resu me duty early in next term. There
are rumors, however, that, in consequence of the
death of his son-in-law (leaving his daughter with
an infant son and an £BO,OOO estate) Mr. Darley
will not remain in office but will return to
England, after winding up his own affairs, to look
after the interests of his daughter and grandson.
Labor member Holman, some years ago,
called to see John Earrell, and found him busy.
“Oh, I won't disturb you.” “ Don’t moind. Go
on ; I was only writing a leader.” To Mr. Hol-
man, then, a leader suggested awe. He said so,
and stated how he imagined that to write a leader
was a task of serious responsibility. “ Well, no,”
said Farrell cheerfully, “if a mon knows a good
deal about a matter, or if he knows nothing at all
about it, it’s all the same, it comes pretty easy.”
Icy Irvine’s threatened retirement from
the Vic. Premiership, for financial reasons, was a
“gag” which his legal brethren in the House
refused to take seriously. The fact is that
barrister Irvine has become richer rather than
poorer through dropping into his present billet.
Representative Jimmy Hutchison, the new
Labor member for Hindmarsh district, spent his
Christmas week in camp with the Scottish corps
at Strathalbyn. He is a full sergeant in the
kilted regiment, and probably, like Kingston, he
will decline promotion beyond that democratic
rank.
Artist Julian Ashton went over to see
Henry Parkes just after little Cobden was born.
“Cobden? Cobden? What an extraordinary
name,” he said to the old man ; “ you’ll have ail
the boys at school calling him Cobby.” “Well,”
replied Parkes, “ I intend, you know, to call the
next one Julian.”
Ex-Senator John Downer is tipped for the
next vacancy on the S.A. Supreme Court Bench,
expected as a result of the retirement of Judge
Boucaut. Downer still feels rather hurt because
he neither got a Federal Judgeship nor the
Ministerial office in the Senate vacated by Mr.
Justice O’Connor.
The Times snubs Seddon for his protest
against the introduction of coolies to the Rand,
alleging that “ the Transvaal knows its own mind
best.” That’s what Kruger thought, but Seddon
backed up Britain in insisting that outsiders were
better fitted to administer the laws. Now Seddon
is beginning to feel what Kruger felt.
John Douglas, whose retirement from the
position of Resident at Thursday Island was
recently mentioned, has returned to duty, though
now 76 years old. He sat in N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly for Darling Downs before Queensland
was a separate State ; he held portfolios in several
Queensland Ministries. He has been Resident at
Thursday Island since 1885.
James Dalgarno, who retires from the
N.S.W. Deputy Postmaster-Generalship, and G.
P. Unwin, who succeeds him, are Sydney natives,
and representatives of old families. The former
is the son of Captain Dalgarno, who was contem-
porary of Capt. Dibbs, father of G. R. and T. A.
The other’s father was a solicitor, in large prac-
tice, in Sydney, and one of the earliest directors
of the A.M.P. Society.
A. W. Hendry, the blind manager
of the S.A. Industrial School for the Blind,
has just had a trip to Europe, and seems
to have got as much pleasure out of it as
any man who can see. Hendry, very keen
in business himself, admired most in that
line the progress of a totally-blind Bir-
mingham merchant, who began 35 years
ago with a capital of one sovereign, and is
now in the first flight. In other directions,
about the most remarkable thing he struck
was a blind man’s reporting of the whole
of Chamberlain’s Birmingham speech in
Braille shorthand.
The dignity that doth hedge in a
Premier came pretty nigh to the breaking
point on a recent Ministerial junketing.
Premier See had for one of his party a
member who never before had the honor
of accompanying the head of the Govern-
ment, and who now rose to the occasion,
and shadowed his boss affectionately. It
was “ Sir John ” on every side on the first
day. On the second day familiarity re-
moved some of the awe, and the member
joked with the Premier whom he now
called “See old man.” The third day
saw the persistent M.P. dig the Pri minis-
terial ribs and address their owner as
“John.” The fourth day brought the
climax, when the familiarised legislator
publicly alluded to the Premier as “My
friend Jack.” Then something broke.
Capt. Purefoy and Brigadier Finn,
at the recent Highland gathering, dis-
claimed being Scotch, but boasted of Scotch
wives. Old Sydney will remember the big,
bluff, beer-drinking Sergeant Dalton, who
was in charge of the guard at Government
House under several vice-regal personages
up to the time of Loftus. He claimed to
be a Londoner though he had a brogue
you could cut with an axe. When asked
how he came by it he always said: “I
served fifteen years in an Irish regiment
and I married an Irish wife.” Dalton
was all through the Crimea and charged
with all his brogue at Balaclava.
“G.H.”: I like Australian artist
Percy Spence’s big men, who stick their
arms akimbo and spread their legs out all
over the landscape. Judging by the
physiques that all the other local black-
and-white artists give their subjects, one
would think (wrongly) that we Australs
were a low-chested, consumptive lot of
beetles, about 4ft. high. I don’t know
what size Peroy Spence is, but notice that
pretty well all the other Australian artists draw
men, physically, replicas of themselves. And
that’s not fair to Australia.
MORE EXTENDED EXPERIENCE.
WIFEY : “Do you recollect that once, when we
had a tiff, I said you were just as mean as
you could be?”
HUBBY : “ Yes, darling .”
WIFEY : " Oh, James—how little did I know
you then!”
At recent Federal elections a woman,
asked to vote for Vida Goldstein, retorted, “ Vote
for her ? Not me. A person who could stand
and get photo’d with only her stays on, will get
no vote from me.” The old dame had in her mind
a well-known corset advt., with which she mixed
up the Senate candidate.
In the Tasmanian polling, the once
popular Hartnoll was badly beaten by Protec-
tionist Storrer, a Launceston undertaker—the
man who, it was alleged, “ broke up ” Melba on
her memorable visit by allowing her to open the
carriage door, on their arrival at the Brisbane
hotel, with her own hands !
It is a slow process Australianising the
imported cleric. R.C. Archbishop Kelly, in an
address to a lot of Sydney children, recently,
asked them what it was they caught fish with,
and when he answered himself by saying “a
little fly” there was a general snigger, and the
intellectual value of an archbishop slumped sud-
denly in several children’s minds.
It would appear that Miller, of the Anglo-
Australian prospecting party, perished quite
within coo-ee of help. W. Carr-Boyd, old “ Pot-
jostler,” with a party, was among the ranges, and
the scene of the disaster was within 30 miles of
the water discovered by John Forrest in 1874.
Miller’s earlier illness had probably a lot to do
with his succumbing in such country.
A popular Victorian M.L. A. owns a “desir-
able brick villa ” with half an acre of garden in
front. Embowered among the foliage are three or
four plaster statues which the politician has care-
fully painted in “ real life ” colors. One statue of
Innocence specially attracts; the lady wears
auburn hair, an extra-vivid blush on her cheek,
and a pale blue gown with green frills.
The Maoriland Baron Von Mueller medal
for original research in natural science referring
especially to Australasia, has been awarded to
Mr. A. W. Howitt, of Victoria, for good work in
ethnology, geology, and botany extending over 40
years. Mr. Howitt is a son of William and Mary
Howitt, writers, and was leader of a party sent
out to search for the explorers Burke and Wills.
Lieutenant-Colonel James Macarthur
Onslow, of —haw —Camden Park, who has dodged
from one constituency to another in a vain effort
to get into Parliament, has evidently given the
game best. The Deformer intended, if defeated
for the Gwydir, to fight John Kidd at Camden,
but his ignominious licking at the hands of a
Labor candidate has disheartened him, and he’s
not going to be a candidate any more.
Shiels’ home is one of the least conven-
tional in Melbourne. His children, three
girls and a boy, are being brought up on
free-and-easy lines. After posing in the
limelight of politics, Shiels goes home and
becomes a boy again with his children.
They talk to him just as they talk to
one another, express their opinions
about religion, life and death, and don’*
hesitate to tell IShiels the parent and
playmate what they think about Shiels
the politician—which, if they are wise
children, is not much.
Ex-Justice Foster, pensioner of
N.S.W. Supreme Court, still struggles
with bad health. He might on the
whole have enjoyed life better had he
stuck to his farm on-the Upper Hunter
and let law and late' hours ,in Parlia-
ment slide. When Mr. Fo tir can.e to
Australia it was with the hope of pur-
suing an outdoor life as farmer and
grazier in a sunny land, but a few
seasons went against Him and he turned
the ploughshare into the legal shears.
Easy-going “ jaunty-Johnny ” Gordon,
the new S.A. Judge, was expected to follow the
line of least resistance; wherefore he staggered
the bar when, in his very first case, after Senator
’Siah Symon had triumphantly produced a ruling
of Senior-Justice Boucaut’s, he smiled, and re-
marked : “But I don’t agree with'Mr. Justice
Boucaut, and therefore shan’t follow his ruling.
I rule against you. Please proceed with the evi-
dence.”
A dreary wreck drifted into Adelaide
“Benevolent” about ten years ago, and,'being an
expert tailor, was set to work, a'nd giVeri half-a-
crown a week as pocket money for special ser-
vices. The other week he flabbergasted the
authorities by stating that he was going home to
Germany, and showing them a huge belt worn
under his clothes, and containing every half-crown
he’d received for the last ten years ! The money,
over 400 pieces and weighing nearly 131 b., was so
blackened that the shipping people refused to
accept it until it was tested.
An English correspondent who was present
at the recent banquet to the Governor-General in
London, writes: —
The first glimpse of Lord Northcote was very dis-
appointing. He is a little man with no claim to good
looks. He appeared to be both shy and nervous and
created a rather unfavorable impression altogether. In
speaking he has a sermonic method, a drawling tone, a
level intonation, and a curious catch, suggestive of inci-
pient sort throat or prolonged vocal strain. He is a very
correct personage and he makes up in self-confidence for
what he lacks in stature. But he has money and hia
wife has more, so that perhaps his deficiencies will be
overlooked.
A Tasmanian M.L.A., who upbraided
the members of a political association for not
bringing their wives to the poll, is a bachelor.
The audience told' him to take his own medicine,
and he replied that he did ; that is to say, having
no wife he took another man’s wife to the poll.
Here, a voice full of gleeful vengeance and
jealousy : “I’ll tell —The orator quailed,
and when the applause ceased, the chairman
announced an impending division required Mr.
’s presence in the House.
Inherited instinct breaks through the
veneer of European civilisation in the Jap occa-
sionally. Coming down the Lane Cove river
(Sydney), the other day, a high official of the
Japanese consulate was reading the war-cloud
news, and, deeply absorbed, he unconsciously
folded his legs under him and squatted on the seat
in primitive Jap fashion. The excitement of the
news passed, and the Jap almost blushed as he
thought of his top-hat, his patent-leather boots
and his flogger coat, and sat again in strict accord-
ance with his European clothes.
Broken Hill's gaoler, Sidney Neil de
Montfort Bromley, who suicided the other day,
was the dandy of the N.S.W. prison service.
Stories of mighty relations hung around him ; he
claimed direct descent from Simon de Montfort,
the 13th century fire-eater, who married a king’s
sister and came very near being a king himself.
When Deputy-Governor at Goulburn Gaol Brom-
ley wore qavalry gloves and carried a cane—he
had been in the army—but a hint from head-
quarters made him discard them. He was hypo-
chondriacal, and the dull prison service is no
place for such a man.
A link with the long past of Australia is
James Hassall, of Matarai, Corinda, Brisbane
(Q.), an Australian native now in his 81st year.
Grandpa Hassall came out to the South Seas in
the missionary ship Duff in 1796. But the natives
showed their teeth, so the missionaries came to
N.S.W., where most of them took to secular
pursuits. Thomas Hassall, the father of James,
was then a child of three. He married the
daughter of Samuel Marsden. J. S. Hassall was
born in 1823. He went to school at Mulgoa,
where he had as schoolfellow the late Mr. King,
P.M. and Resident at Norfolk Island. Quite
recently the two met —the last of the Mulgoa
schoolboys—and ten days afterwards Mr. King
was dead. G. W. Rusden, an acquaintance since
the 30’s, died recently. Mr. Hassall’s recollec-
tions of Sydney go back to the year 1830.


h
ĥ
THE LEADING WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLY STORES
IN THE COMMONWEALTH
PHONOGRAPHS, GRAMOPHONES, and RECORDS
of all the Latest Songs and Up-to=date music.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—POST FREE.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
260 Collins=st.,
fIELBOURNE.
37
ADELAIDE.
90 Queen-st..
BRISBANE.
m.
Ltflu&l
Brothers.
Gem Merchants,. Watchmakers, lewellers
Best Electroplated
ASPARAGUS
DISH
Made in two sections,
with strainer,
£3
Others more elaborately
fitted, including Sauce
Boat, to £5.
ħ
WRITE FOR HARDY BROS.’ 1904 ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
13HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY. &ATBBISBAHE&LONDDN
Aboriginalities.
Dear B.—None of your aboriginaliars
know what a real damper is—the damper of the
bush. If you asked an “old hand” to make a
damper with baking-powder, he’d take a fit. —
War E.
* * * •
“ Dal.” : A sheep-killing pig has turned
up in Gippsland. So far 13 sheep slain in one
night is its best average. The farmers are taking
shifts to watch for the cunning porker, but so
far without success.
* • • *
A turtle weighing 3cwt. was, last month,
captured, after several hours’ tussle, by a party of
men near Freebum Island, Clarence River. It
was shipped to Sydney, by the Kyogle, alive.
* • * *
Nat Gould, in “ Who Did It ?” speaks of
Munda as being “an immense station of some 40
square miles of country.” An average shearing
was “130,000 sheep.” Forty square miles of
country is 25,600 acres ! Over five sheep to the
acre on this station !
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —It wasn’t the boom of
the bittern that “J. Carew ” heard at all. It
was the muffled roar of the Tory Freetrade press,
gnashing its food-renders over the Federal elec-
tions.—Grant Hervey.
* * * «
Three boys of one family, residing near
Deniliquin, are minus one finger. Each was
bitten by a snake in the finger, and each promptly
chopped the finger off.
* * * *
Re Colonel Templeton’s massive “ shout ”
(8., 7/l/’O4). They had a custom, called “locking-
in,” on W.A. goldfields in the uproarious ’9o’s
that entailed some vast drink bills. The custom
decreed you must stand “treat” for the whole
house if found behind the bar, and if you didn’t
drift behind the taffrail of your own accord you
were generally helped there—that is, provided you
were “flush.’
BAD SHEARING,
SHEARERER (whose “blow” is lofty, but whose cut is poor, to boss cocky): “ Where are ye sindin’
yer wool this year, Mr. Bales?”
MR. BALES (with emphasis): “Most of it is going back to the blanky paddock!”
• 4.u T 7^ a : The Maon Wlfe of a wlllte man
in the King country (M.L.) recently gave birth to
triplets, whereupon was started a subscription list
which panned out £25. Shortly afterwards
another Maori woman produced a trio, and her
husband blessed his stars in antirimUn,, „r
*nnth«r £9*-r.J ® J 1 l n antl<H patlon ° f
anotfier hZo. But not a cent was forthcoming,
and now he IS bitterly cursing the aforesaid stars,
* * , ,
C. H. Read on Tasmanian bush labor :
d. << •> . *
tion of Tasrnarihi. YR er ? ingr the oocky P?P“ la -
° 3) V Low^ 8 wa » es are ln the
back-bush portions, they are not so low
men ” i u M -° st ° f Ta ® man,a s “ fin e axe-
X their own and certainly wouldn’t
thlvil?! ? f f a b u BBu A d f er £1 f P u r week - General,y
nnYhi tr « ot WOrk ' A ex P er t live
K an vf’ Purveyors would find it difficult to procure
oJl < i^Vini 18b,11 .? n under . 2ss -P er week and tucker. I know
Sh ?? corner in Tasmania, and am acquainted
n °nH th 2« U fn 10 ! 1 n fh th f ®?u fch ’u easfc ’> ™ es /'’ and
V d f 0 Bushnian s story re
tne social state of the back selectors. I have found more
honesty, unselfishness, hospitality, intelligence and
charity among the cockies than I did on the West Coast.
“ Elmore ” : Ever see a gohanna stalking
game? I watched one, t’other day. He went,
one foot at a time, cautiously and silently, his
tongue darting in and out, expectantly; every
yard or so he would slowly raise his head, and
immediately lie flat again, just like a oat. About
30yds. away was a small patch of scrub, and as he
neared it he appeared to go slower than ever.
But at last, when about 10yds. off, a streak of
gohanna shot out, and there was a great disturb-
ance for a couple of seconds. Going over, I found
he had a full-grown hare. It took him 34min.
to go about 10yds., and about 3sec. to go the other
10yds. and get outside of puss. He swallowed her
whole, head first.
• • * •
“ Courabyra ”: In the Upper Murray dis-
trict stringy bark, peppermint, messmate, etc.,
have tempted bunny with their bark, though it is
of such a dry nature. In places where rabbits are
very thick, the above-mentioned timbers are being
ring-barked wholesale by them. Cattle are also
on the ring-barking job in Upper Murray and
Murrumbidgee districts. During last summer in
many places cattle in good condition where grass
was fairly plentiful started eating the bark off
stringy bark trees and various other timber with-
out, seemingly, doing themselves any harm.
Perhaps the Australian beast is being taught by
successive droughts to live on calico, wood and
other such substitutes for green stuff.
* • • •
“ Eiddal ” : Can’t understand why, in this
age of destructive insect pests, the Department of
Agriculture should tantalise the suffering cookies
and fruitgrowers. One of the principal attractions
at out-back shows a few months back was the
series of exhibits pertaining to different branches
of husbandry, such as flax-growing, fruit pre-
serving, etc., etc., shown under the auspices of
the Department. Round the sides of the Depart-
mental marquee were beautiful specimen plates of
the different kinds of insect pests, fungus, etc.,
etc., that worry “the man on the land”—but all
the letterpress available was printed in French or
German ! Never felt more aggravated over mis-
applied art in my existence before. The powers
that be may take a hint from this, and, while
their “pest” plates are printed in Germany, let
the information be given in English !
Instructive pen-picture of the return of a
recruited Kanaka to his native island, from Frank
Patou’s just-published book
™• , '
™ aß CO I“ In JC do d vn , m torrents, and a heavy sea
ws setting in. As the boat neared the shore we saw a
r ecrmt on board with his box. He looked wet and miser-
able in the boat; but when he was put over the side he
presented a ghastly sight. Emaciated and racked with a
fearful cough, he was too weak to walk out of the water,
but stood helplessly gazing about him. There were no
friends to welcome him, so we agreed to take care of him
an d return him to his village. .. . I had to walk very
slowly, and presently Notiang (the recruit) stopped and
said, “ Me sore,” and would have fallen had I not caught
hold of him. We had to half carrv him to the house. By
this time he was in a state of collapse, but Mrs. Paton got
him a cup of hot tea, and his eves fairlv gleamed as he
saw it We got him to bed, and every two hours we
gave him nourishment, and he came round wonderfully.
... All night long his cough sounded through the house,
...For two or three days he lingered on. Then his
brother came and took him on his back and carried him
home - It was only that he might die in his old village.
Notiang’s story is only too common in these far lands,
, .
And it would continue to be common if the anti-
White Australia crowd could get its way.
“San Remo”
sends a tale of sin
from Queensland :
When I was a lad
learning my trade the
Army used to perform
outside our shop every
Saturday night. ’Twas
in a certain Queens-
land town where the
cullud pussun was
mightily respected, so
a nigger walloped the
drum and a Chow car-
ried the banner of
blud. Said Chow also
acted as treasurer and
tax-gatherer. Charlie
Soo was a pillar of
the Army, an example
to hold up for the be-
nighted “ White Aus-
tralian ” heathen’s dis-
comfiture. But fate,
per medium of Borne
small boys, brought
about Charlie’s down-
fall. One night the
Army was going
strongly, the collec-
tion hummed, and
souls were gathered in
at a great bat. Busi-
ness being slack in the
shop that night, we
lads proceeded to have
a lark with Charlie.
With some pincers we
heated several coppers
over the gas jets till
they assumed the
Army’s hall-marked
fire-and-brimstone
temperature. Charlie’s
eagle-eye sighted the
coins ere they touched
ground, and he pounced on them with his usual thanks,
“ Glory, friends, glory! ” When the Celestial struck
those hot coppers he went heavenward with a yell,
making frantic efforts to shake a penny off his hand.
When Charlie got back to earth the language he
used was painful—almost sinful. “ Whaf for ! whaf
for: you blelly lallikin. Whaf for ! ” The nigsrer got
a fright and fell over the big drum. Recovering
himself with a severe look at Charlie, he went for the
cash, drumstick in hand. Wonderful what an instinct
the Army has for bullion. Tommy Tanna yelled when
he struck a hot’un, and let his drumstick fly off at a
tangent. The bewildered captain stopped it with his eye,
his surprise being as great as Charlie’s. Then a buxom
lass took a hand. Saying to Charlie, “ Pray with me,
brother,” she flopped on her knees. Unfortunately she
knelt on a hot copper, and hopped up with a squeal.
But when an old lady with a tambourine, convinced the
devil was afoot, fainted on the spot, we got scared and
left. We missed the rest of the performance, but heard
afterwards that the Army rescued the coppers with the
assistance of the fire brigade. Charlie repented, but he
was never the same old Charlie again.
* * * •
“Myrtle”: At Tiaro (Q.), near Mary-
borough, some years ago, I secured two young
butcher-birds from their nest and reared them.
Finally they escaped. Cold weather of following
year saw them return. They came from the bush
(often when whistled for) regularly twice a day
to be fed, flying down to my shoulders, head or
hands, and, after a song in the fruit-trees, return-
ing to the bush. Caught also other young
butchers, and after feeding them well for some
considerable time, finally let them go. They
returned and remained months with us. Find
this a very effective method of rearing bush birds
without any wing-clipping. Only once did one
fail to return. For devilment I showed it itself
in a looking-glass, and it never was friendly with
me after.
“ Pyalla ” : Does any “ Aborigi-
nally” man know anything of “Jimmy
the Rambler?” The character in ques-
tion, a station and shearers’ cook, died
about ’93, and, as his sobriquet denotes,
was chiefly known by his frequent and
sudden exits. He is said to have cooked
at every station in N.S.W. After
working a few months or weeks at a
station he would quit without the
slightest notice. His manner of going
out was after this fashion. Suddenly,
as the shearers were filing in at meal-
time, he would yell out: “Here, y’are
boys ; bread and brownie in the trough,
and here’s the blanky cloth in the oven,
and be to you all! ” Then Jimmy
would take up his swag, and with long
strides disappear along the track.
• » * *
“W.W.”: “Tag’s *’ information re
growth of trees (B. 3/12/’O3) is not cor-
rect. The main branches of almost every
tree are formed when <irhe tree is only
a few inches high, and yearly, until the
tree has reached full height, the distance
between the earth and the main branches
increases. Therefore the barrel must
grow upwards in same proportion as the
other,] limbs do. Surveyor’s marks, &c.,
don’t travel upwards, for the spot
chopped, or bored with a fencer’s auger,
remains dead even after new bark grows
over the marks, as dead wood is life-
less ; and that’s why such marks remain
stationary.
* * * *
War. E.” : The clerical calling
gathered a rich store of opprobrious
appellations from irreverent Australians. Some
that I have heard : Sky-pilot, devil-dodger, gospel-
puncher, snuffler, amen-snorter, bible-banger,
crow, pulpit-puncher, never-touch-it, spirit-mer-
chant, thrum-scragger, copper-chaser, snuffle-
buster, fire-and-brimstone ; there are others, but
they would make a religious paper like The Bul-
letin blush, and burn the Red Page to cinder.
DIDN’T PASS THE LANGUAGE TEST.
IMPORTED DUDE: “ Will you he so kaind as to diwect me to the United—
aw—Extended Orwiferous Chwushing Mills?”
JOHN FOSSICKER: “ No saves ! Wha ’ fo’ you no speekie Englis, allee samee me?”
“N.D.W.”: There is no doubt many
horses lose their lives through farmers’ ignorance
about broken limbs. I never saw such a case as that
mentioned by “Stan P.” (8., 10/11/’O3), but I
once saw a very fine colt's leg broken in the
branding-yard. The youngster was allowed to go
back into the bush with its dam, on three legs,
the fourth (off-fore) flopping. When it was
brought in again three years later it had between
the knee and the fetlock two large, callous lumps
and the foot was half-turned out. This deformity,
however, did not seem to make any difference to
the brute’s activity, and the leg was perfectly
strong. The colt was broken-in and proved a real
good one.
* * * *
A tourist who was walking, with a com-
panion, in the Waikato district (M.L.), between
Waikare Moana and Te Arolia, lately, witnessed
an exhibition of tohungaisrn. An elderly Maori
tohunga, coming towards these two, met a young
native on horseback carrying a bundle of eels.
The old man asked for some, and on being
refused raised both hands above his head and yelled
in Maori, “May your heart die and rot!”—the
deepest curse a Maori can use. The young man
galloped off, howling dismally. Three days later
the same tourists were returning to Waikare
Moana, called at a Maori pah named Rawhiti
(Rising Sun)„found a tangi in full progress, and
learned that the deceased was the victim of the
curse. He was a man about 25 years of age, of
splendid physique, and apparently in perfect
health. On his return from fishing he told his
wife of the curse, lay down on his mat, refused
all food, and died on the second day. An inquest
followed, but medical evidence assigned no cause
of deat*
HE THOUGHT HE’D MENTION IT.
HARRY THE HATTER (very casually): "Say,
Heeley, your missus has just fell down the
well. D’ye want her?"


%
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
Bush telephony is an institution now in
the Poverty Bay district of Maoriland. For a
start they tried using a wire of the fences, as
Australian way-out stations do; but it didn’t
answer, for there is too much wet in M.L., and
consequently too much leakage of current at the
posts. Now, therefore, they strap light manuka
poles on to the fence-posts to carry the wire, and
still the whole cost doesn’t run to more than £3 a
mile. Nearly 200 farms are connected, and
can pass remarks to one another about the weather
and the last litter of pigs without any of the old
bother.
“ Havelock ” Watches.— The demand for the
famous advertising premium of the British Australasian
Tobacco Co., Ltd., known as the “Havelock” Watch, is
so great that although 30,000 were landed at the begin-
ning of the year, they are rapidly disappearing. We are
requested by the proprietors to inform people in the
country that, if they are unable to get the watch from
the local tobacconist, they can write direct to the British
Australasian Tobacco Co., Ltd., Elizabeth and Park
Streets, Sydney, and enclose 4s. 3d., made up as follows :
—Watch 2s. lid., plug of “Havelock” tobacco Is.,
postage 4d. No watches are sold, except to buyers of
the tobacco. Smokers are further reminded that they
can get the watch for 100 tags of “ Havelock ” plugs pur-
chased in New South Wales.*
Bread Plates
We have just opened some
wonderful lines at ... .
16/6
They are the best value ever offered in Sydney.
They are in various designs.
They are heavily plated on white metal.
They will last a lifetime.
They bear our name.
Bread Knives, 8/6 extra, electro-plated handles.
We stock every style of Bread Plate, in all the many
prevailing shapes, up to 407-
BREAD KNIVES, also, in endless variety of
handles —some especially beautiful ones in Solid Silver
up to 12/6 each.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
The Oldest Jewellery House in
Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
h
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY
ADAMS’ HOTEL
HEET n E AT THE HARBLE BAR.
PITT STREET.
“Hermit”: Re treatment of snakebite
(B-, 12/11/’O3). When the bite is below the knee
°. r the elbow joint the ligature should be tied
tightly above the joint, as one below does not pre-
vent the blood from circulating. If the victim be
bitten above the joint, ligature between thebiteand
the heart. This applies to the bites of all Australian
snakes except the death adder, bite of which is
best treated by incision, sucking and hypodermic
injection. My authority for most of the fore-
going is a Melbourne University professor whose
lecture on snakes, delivered a few weeks ago, and
published in the Australasian, should be in
every country home.
* * * *
“Thurla” : Recently saw in the Manila
River (N.S.W.) a fierce fight between two jewfish.
I hey had nests in the same waterhole, which was
very shallow, with gravel bottom. I scared one
from its nest, and it darted away and stopped
close to the other nest. The other fish savagely
attacked the intruder, swimming rapidly past
it with its side fins and spike rigid, and attempt-
ing to rip the enemy open. Failing in its attempt,
it would dive and come up under the other,
which, to avoid being impaled on the back spike,
would rise rapidly to the surface and leap out of
the water. Watched them until they got too far
away, but could still see the splash of the water
long after the fish were lost to sight.
♦ * * *
“ H.” : How is this for tired ! A man,
discharged from the Shepparton (Vic.) gaol after
serving seven days for insulting behavior, went
along to the village settlement just outside the
town, sat down on his swag, and continued to sit
there for several days and nights in spite of
heavy rain. Eventually the police took notice of
the man’s stagnation and arrested him again for
“ insulting behavior.” He was sent to the hos-
pital for treatment.
* * * • 9
“ Harry S ” about a battle :
I once witnessed a fight between two aboriginal tribe*
in South Australia, about 150 miles west from Adelaide.
It was a pre-arranged affair, heralds having gone in
advance.to fix matters up. The senders of the challenge
were painted with white lines on each rib, and broad
white rings around their eyes, and the hair of many of the
most distinguished warriors was adorned with plumes of
thin acacia twigs, peeled so as to closely resemble
ostrich feathers. They advanced first in a long, extended
line of crescent form, which, every now and again,
became two lines, one man directly in front of another.
The stamp of their feet upon the ground could be heard
for a. long distance, and was as regular as clock-work.
Their opponents were also painted (but not
after the same fashion as the challengers), and they
also came on in single file and crescent formation ; then,
suddenly changing into closer compact they sent up their
shout of defiance. So sudden, distinct and shrill is this
cry, and so accurate in time, that it sounds as the voice
of one. man. Then both sides once again changed into
open line, and an equal number (about 20) of each
advanced until within about 25 yards of each other.
They expanded their chests to their fullest capacity, bent
down their bodies the while the great muscles of their
thighs shook and jumped in an extraordinary manner,
shouting “ya-yooa (“yes, yes”) and “ purdni, purdrii ”
(“ come on, come on ”). Suddenly they stood erect, and,
taking a half-step back, each man hurled his spear at the
enemy directly opposite to him. Soon the air was alive
with spears passing each other and those at whom they
were aimed in the most remarkable manner. A shoulder
would be dropped, a head turned, the body wriggled, a
foot lifted, or the danger glanced off by the weapon held
in the left hand. During the engagement probably 500
spears were thrown and only one man was hurt, and that was
through the spears colliding anddivertingoneintendedfor
another foe out of its proper course. Some of their
movements during this combat were so marvellously
adroit as to surpass belief if notpersonally witnessed. No
fear, no hesitation ; eye and hand acting in perfect
unison, and with a grace of motion possessed by no other
living race.
* * * *
A shearing shed joke out back is to get a
“softy” to ask the manager for a copy of the
verbal agreement, to have a look at before he
signs it.
TRANSLATED.
SWAGMAN (who has applied for
a job): “ Vot yer fader say?
Zat I vas too old to vork? ”
COCKIE'S SON: “ Naw.
He said yer moleskins
were too shiney be-
'ind.”
“ Lindon ” : “ Ciro’s ” two-headed snake
(8., 3/12/’O3) accords well with what are called
“stumpies,” or “two-headed lizards,” up Wim-
mera (Vic.) way. Their tails are the same shape
as their heads, but smaller. They are harmless,
but strangers to them might easily be alarmed by
the way they open their mouths and dart out
their blue tongues.
* * * *
“ E.H.P.” : As a thirst-quencher prickly
pear beer takes a bit of beating. As the niggers
in Cape Colony make it, it’s a hair-raising and
stomach -blistering swizzle, and a man who has
had a carouse on it won’t forget it in a hurry,
Before fermentation it is a sickly sweet liquor;
after, and when it has been strained, it is more
acid, and when not too concentrated it is palatable
and pleasant enough.
Re “Nymsie’s” inquiry as to
age of white cockatoos (8., 31/12/’O3). My mother
has one 40 years old, which is a well-plumaged
bird still, and early last year laid two eggs.
* * * »
“ Rhaupo ” : Most noted Western charac-
ters get into The Bulletin, but the coast has
its hard cases as well. For over eight
years on the Great Northern road,
from Dungog to Walcha and back
again via Singleton, there has
tramped, with unswerving -
regularity, a diminutive
and ancient whaler,
always wearing a
straw boater and
neither moustache
nor beard, though his
garments are the
orthodox. He leads
a pony as well known
as himself, and as old.
First met him eight
years ago, damning
capitalists generally,
politicians individually,
and parsons collectively.
He affirms the country
folk are in league against
him, and attributes to this
their refusal to give him
work. Have met him every-
where since then, and he still
damns capitalists, politicians
and parsons. But work with
him is a dim memory, and the
north road folk are good to him ;
so he goes his round, year in and
year out, damning everything.
• • •
“ Uloola Recently came
across what I thought was a
novelty in the way of a kooka- ""
burra’s nest. Away up the
trunk of a huge mahogany
was a knob of white ants’
dirt, a couple of feet across,
and protruding about a foot
from the butt. In this the
“Jacks” had scooped a hole
sufficiently large, and there,
when I discovered it, the young
ones were ensconced. A native
of the district told me it was
common—the goburra won’t build if
he can find a suitable ants’ nest. The
king-fisher acts similarly. Young “Jacks”
are the noisiest things in the bush. There are
two near my hut, and throughout most of the
day they make a row like a soore of fowls arguing
over one worm.
* * • •
“ Old Tom ” writes :
“ R.H." (B. 10/12/’O3) is not correct in all he says re
swagmen. Have seen diggers (I was one of them) travel-
ing, in N.S.W., from one diggings to another, and the
majority carried walking sticks. I affirm, with a bang,
that in mountain country a good stick is a wonderful
help. In the flat country ’tis not necessary. Again,
“ R.H.” says that swagmen do not carry tucker-bag on
same shoulder as swag. He is half right, or thereabouts,
for, since his par., I have taken stock of swagmen who
called where I dole out the orthodox “ banjo ” of matton,
and have noted that of 29 callers 18 carried “ nose-bag ’’
over the same shoulder as swag—ll over opposite
shoulder, as “ R.H.” suggests. Artists, please note. By
the way, the digger loves his bowyang. Have seen a
dozen of him wearing them in church ; also have seen lots
of him asleep in them —after a wash-up.
• • • *
“ Argo ” : A boundary rider on a station
out-back makes a specialty of dyeing emu skins.
Latterly he has taken to dyeing his poultry and
pets. You can see a blue sheep, ohased by a green
terrier in and out of a flock of magenta fowls. He
is considered quite sane, too I
A Chinese gardener at Kew (Vic.) re-
ported recently to the police that sundry mis-
creants had raided his house at midnight, and
robbed him of the only £lO he possessed in the
world. Investigation, however, showed that Ah
Pang, wishing to send £2O to his aged parents in
China, had trumped up the robbery yarn, in per-
fect confidence that his local compatriots would
subscribe the money intended for a purpose which
so strongly commends itself to every Chinaman.
“ I wantee gettee money for my poo’ ole faler an’
moler,” whimpered the dutiful heathen. “ I pay
im allee back; me welly solly.”
• • • •
“ Drif ” : Re longevity of yellow-crested
cockatoo (“Nymsie,” B. 31/12/’O3). I know of a
bird 67 years old ! It is still in good plumage,
though most birds of the kind become very scanty-
WITHIN AN AGE.
“ Did you see ennybuddy you knoo in Sydney,
Dug? ”
“ Well, wan day I thought I see old Billy Kerrins
in Lizzie-street, but it wasn't Billy after all —
it was nearly him, though .”
feathered with age. It is a hen bird, and never
fails to lay two eggs every year. It belongs to a
Stanmore (Sydney) resident.
* * * *
“ A.K.C.” re damper :
The “gummy” fraternity, who had teeth once upon
a time, prefer the soft, flabby, not to say “puddingy”
concoction. Broken into lumps and well soaked in
strong black tea, it has much to recommend it. Those
who have managed to hang on to a molar or two
generally take on the iron-clad damper. This sort is
mixed up stiff and baked in the ashes. Time, three to
nine hours, according to thickness. When cooked, and
about half an inch of charcoal chipped off all round, it
should be well flogged with a hat to improve its appear-
ance. To Ml up with iron-clad would require the
protracted labor of a ruminant. Hence great economy.
Turned flat side uppermost, and with the necessary
holes punched in with a nail, a cribbage board and table
combined is the result; and, taking care to cut all round
equally when using, and always to turn the flat side
down when sitting on the iron-clad, a long and useful
career for it is assured. I’ve given up dampers now,
and have taken on scientific cooking with yeast. I take
time, and do the thing properly. Struck a cool Change
last batch. Followed the sun round the tent with the dough
for the first three days, brought it in out of the rain
4th day, chanced it the fifth day (thought the fire would
raise it). Sixth day had to make a feed on gruel, and
gave bread away to a German (they’re terrors on sour
tack). Bested 7th day.
• • * •
The real lunatic, as distinguished from
the crank of fiction:—
“ A.P.R.” : A queer crank struck our camp one evening
about dusk. He was a small, whiskered man with a
gentle voice and a mirthless laugh, and was attired
chiefly in a green mackintosh. He didn’t know where he
had come from, but it must have been a long way, as he
devoured all our spare tucker. Then he asked if we
liked fish. We liked fish, so he offered us a fiver to buy
some, though we were five miles from anywhere.
“ Where’s this war ? ” he asked suddenly—“ it upsets me.
I've tried to find it. Is it in this country?” He turned
in for the night on a few bags we spread for him, after
requesting us “not to touch him” during the night.
The thermom. was very low, and we heard him presently
say, “ It’s awful cold. I think I’ll make a fire.” He kept
on saying this at intervals for several hours, and then he
got up and left We didn’t see him again.
• * * *
A few Victorian place names :—Goora-
madda, Bonegilla, Baulkamaugh, Boorhamana,
Yaughar, Drumanure, Jeeralang, Buckrabanyule,
Eurack, Wonwondah, Boomanoomanah, and
Pirronyalloak.
Visited the scene of Gordon’s
much-boasted horsemanship at Mt. Gambier
(S.A.) recently, and came to the conclusion that
it wouldn’t take a very massive wager to tempt me
to do it on my bike.
* * • *
“ Hiphen ” : Can any Bulletin contri-
butor inform me how it is that once a cat haß
taken to eating locusts or grasshoppers it never
puts on flesh again, no matter how well fed, but
remains thin and looks famine-stricken for all
time ? That it is so lam positive, from personal
observation as well as hearsay, yet I can find no
reason why.
♦ * * *
“C.P.”: In a Victorian backblox settle-
ment, where the residents spend most of their
time in not keeping sober and chasing the flies,
a little old maiden lady keeps a school. Her
pupils comprise 10 boys and 12f girls, the other
quarter having been amputated as the result of an
adventure with a fox-trap. To keep the boys
amused on “rag day,” when the girls are
learning to tuck and hem, she formed a cadet
corps. “Eyes front 1” she yells in a field-
marshal tone of voice. “ Right turn ! —face
to’rds the public house! ” —they all know
where that is and swing round like regulars.
“Left turn! —face to’rds Patsy Brannigan’s ! ”
“ Quick march ! ” —and she conducts them into
the bush about half a mile away, and commands
each “cadet” to arm himself with a rifle. For a
few moments a sound of ripping and tearing
greets the ear, then each youth appears with a
substantial lump of timber on his shoulder. Back
they march to the school-yard, and go through a
few more exercises from the old drill-book.
“ Present arms ! ” The boys present with vigor.
“Ground arms !”—with still more vigor. So the
old lady gets firewood for the rest of the week.
* * * *
“ Pyalla ” : Moree to Inverell railway ;
slowest travelling in N.B.W. ; open road, no
fences, flat country, sheep lying asleep on railway
line, firemen throwing coal at them, engineer
getting down at intervals to kick jumbucks off
the rails. It makes me tired.
* * * *
“ H.S.” : Very curious are the pecu-
liarities of the flight of the boomerang, and the
implement requires to be understood before it can
be successfully manipulated. There is a differ-
ence in every skilful thrower’s style ; so the native,
when fashioning his weapon, adapts it to suit him-
self. Some boomerangs go from the thrower’s
hand in an almost direct line and nearly parallel
to the ground for up to 60 yards, then suddenly
rise to a great height and come almost directly
back to the thrower. Others go for nearly the
same distance on a gradual rise, and then as
gradually fall on their return after describing an
almost complete circle; others take an almost
similar flight to the last, but “ dwell ” or
“ sleep ” in the air when near the thrower,
whilst others again form in their flight almost the
figure 8. The wind is a great factor in
boomerang throwing. Should it be gusty and
irregular, coining from different directions, the
most expert will fail to do himself justice. The
aborigines hardly ever throw where little hills
divert the wind, for the reason above stated.
N.S. Wales, Queensland and Victorian boomerangs
are mostly flat on the under side and slightly
rounded on the upper side. They are made from
the black ti-tree, acacia pendula, mulga, gidyea,
myall, raspberry jam wood and tire she-oak tree.
Return boomerangs measure from about 13in. in
length up to over 30in. The return boomerang,
when made of heavy wood, can inflict a very ugly
wound with its keen inner edge, the force caused
by the rotatory motion being very great. It is
said that a few African tribes use a kind of flat
throwing stick much like the Australian boomer-
ang, and the ancient Egyptians and Mexicans un-
doubtedly had very similar weapons. On Cooper’s
Creek, Central Australia, the Dieyeri tribe use an
immense boomerang, often measuring over five
feet in length, several specimens of which I
possess. These weapons are used with both
hands, and, though true boomerangs in shape, are
in reality two-handed clubs or swords.


THE POLITICAL CURIOSITY SHOP.
MR. CODLIN LYNE (to Little Nell): “NOW, REMEMBER, CODLIN S THE FRIEND, I TELL YOU; NOT SHORT. YOU STICK TO CODLIN, NEVER MIND SHORT; COLLIN’S THE FRIEND!”


j)vliW % CricKtW
Sip w MMiVs
direct nce-d [U\f HoW'
/j lejr toWleH
(if litre's not I<K W /
Itane ve n° more {
i‘d<*s in%wU) - \
A Yes-No
uqdeY-ovt't' deliVer/ S
witj-f A deceblTve tmt
fo i on-off my bo/ j
Should Mile /
M e,n L
iw«W ft
Wvice- -
J i)e, over2 l
will be exAmirred
fitwejj.
'tfow 15 hoU it Hj w 'll k»«
ftnls Wntfaji 'income of
fie>r to go
J duffed;
> b« good ,
"M«i7 rrjwst'Joo^
i more to J? e vr
Si COuhTry t$^ n ‘J e
City jOr 'Tempi no
S.CWWS’ 'Asre
The ioono «*•> \rrf
Careers round {-..0-
V -A_ Just See one . gertin' over -rtje Jp!|-fljeire
HOC Old noA")* -,f- e be OmttC g’ll f&tch un ,
Aflfisoti&Jijfit A^oo^Koi \
JjomeA Gvt ko *"i« ( v,c )
h r Brown " CohUhTJ)*. Rthm
af> % WOl-K f
No? l?je.kfcfi«e fas
J.„« iti *»■* -
Ll U u U
wo,y,v
leCl£ '' K ) :i ‘
■ 'jbS ! W»s« '• A
V,li-j donh ftr M
"+' «orK k lev" ™ /mm
~ qrtcen of / r
'owje ?
Mictor.* no
2, Cabbie (Me*)
Vr'b * lM
1 kh ' iti I sMKM 31«%, ~•
S E %r MJ sel f -4-15^5
qflbowri/e Clerfy
Ibfe, / tt/inKirjjX
forni'wti b\ 0(7101-7 i
To
>n 'tye"'
KinejT
Railway njVi (to clerKj'
" You went on
•flje- side ot 'jour -s
employed /''did
Cowid io
cal' union riow -you see you
Wajif one. you^elVe^-
tj 6WW Clv-Kt ve Sljartcnw f«ir
|or election^
fije exclusion cVi«l<dretT untie*' 6
front ihe Schools would h^ c
‘life effecr of UDsin£ flj«m U
Commence 'ffjeir educrfion «n nwUn
streets " WG-iW tfv»«< f?n § oft^r*.
As *»•
it Vov m a r ! ''
taocK i
7 6U ( v
n*sty rude Jj-fHe toy.
4 b«j ' Well'. druv
bje ouY' Scljool^
y lv< g*T lb le^rn
Some-^^e^.
Vfe? is ft<&~
4«dv«<( i r
am»qi»7Bn , r' .-~*.
~jf|i£ 15 fyoW
v tjao/e I)a4 ts
* |°* 's>* f>^r
A FEW VICTORIAN PICTORIAL NOTES.


Key,
£3 10s
St
m
mmw:
mS
m
BE
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cup. Hand Finished. Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Watertight. £8
10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer
Balance, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £B. Solid
Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O. A written certificate for
3,4, and 5 years. Try one, you will not
regret it.
Keyless,
Free-
trade
Prices
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable
WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s :
New Model, G., 18s 6d ;
Extra Quality, J-plate, 18a 6d and £1;
Silver, 85a;
Gold. £2 15s.
The reputation of these watohes is a suffi-
cient guarantee of the reliability.
ranee,
20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled Non-magnet- LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cates,
Dust and Water tight, 20s ;
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
Black
or
Nickel,
£3 10s.
rv ' 7"'
W T w'\
£
<4-N=*
A.SAUNDERS MKgVIBIS GEORGE,SB tTT _im.il — = hS
Xm&v
g®g/i
v
'^im'iin’iiu'itttw"
A. SAUNDERS.
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel 01 Black. Extra
Quality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ; Split
Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5,
£6, £7, £6, and £10; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6
years. TRY ONE.
Silver
£5.
Solid
Silver
£2los
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers. Pure Solid
Silver Hunting Cases, Extra Quality
Movements, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5
5s ; Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s £l5,
£2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
£4 4s.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £O, £olos, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s. Sena for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Friendship G<dd Motto BROOCH, 20s
15ct. gold, 35s ; 18ct., gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Ivy Deaf BROOCH, 12s 6d ; 15ct. gold,
Gem Set, 30s; Diamonds, £2.
S'-
A
w, ss
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-mounted Tusk BROOCH,
Chain and Bell, 15s 6d.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles. Prices
according to width, 265, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; lac.
Gold, £B, £4, £3, £6.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Nellie Stewart Secret Snap BRACELET, Beautifully
Finished. £4 10s; 15c. Gold, £6 10s and £7 10s.
Similar, £2 15s, £3, £3 ss, £3 10s, £4.
ISot. Gold Pearl Star PENDANT
or BROOCH, £5 10s ;
with Diamond centre, £7 10s;
with double row of Pearls,
Same Price.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Diamond, 2 Red or Bine Stones, 255.
a. Saunders.
Diamond Cut Amethyst BRAOEDET, Gold-mounted, £4 10s;
Heart Amethyst Padlock, £5 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
GoH Band Name BRACELET,
in Three Sizes, 255, 80s. as above,
ana 40s wider ; 15ot. Gold, £3, £8 10s. £4.
15c.t. Gold Double Heart
and Knob PENDANT or
BROOCH, £4 10s ;
Diamond in centre of Bow
£6.
A. SA.UNDERS.
Registered Good Wish Gold BROOCH, 13s
6d ; 15ct. Gold. 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Two-Bar Opal and Four-Diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s, Very Effective.
es mm
es
8- Bar Amethyst Gold BROOCH, 255;
15ct. Gold, 455.
Solid Gold Peril Set Twin Love Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s 6d.
a pis
Goll Name BROOCH with Raised Flow'ers,
7s 6d ; loot. Gold, 15s ; any Name Free,
s
f=
High Grade Indies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Hull Jewelled, S-plile, f 2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, and £4 10s. In Solid Gold, £slos, £6
10s, £7 10», £8 10s, '0 guineas, £l2 10s,
£l5, and £2O. Guar. 3,4, 5, and 6 Yrs.
15ct. Gold Fan BROOCH,
Diamond and 2 Rubies, £3
3 Diamonds, £4.
Gold
SLIPPER,
Chain, Nob,,
and Pin, 6s 6df
Metal Pin, 5s 6d,
Silver, 2s 6d.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM, 4s 6d„
A. SAUNDERS. _ „ ,
TT,mrU-,mR Solid Gold Floral NECKLET, set with Pure White Pearls, £8 { Extra Quality 15ct. Gold, Pure Pearls,
£5 ss, in Silk-lined Case.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front BTUDS,
8s 6d, 6a 6d, 7a 6d each.
ĥ
Pi n
OkE
os
A. SAUNDERS.
■Gold CHA.RM, Pearl
Star and Crescent,
82s 6d ;
Larger, £2 2s.
Good Friendship
CHARM, 103 6d;
with Erin-Go-Biagh,
10s 6d.
Indies’ Long Gold Muff CHAINS in every
Style and Pattern made. £2 10s, £S, £Blos,
£4, £4 10b, £5, £5 10s, £3, £7, £B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Cut Diamond,
80s. 40s ;
Ruby or Sapphire, 255.
A., SAUNDERS,
Good Duck Gold HEART,
Cham and Pin, 7s 6a. i
A. BLUNDERS.
Gold- Amethyst and
Pearl Heait CHARM,
10s 6d ;
A. BLUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting
Keyless, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Solid Gold
Keyless, £2. £3, £4, £5 ; Superior Quality,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-Bar BROOCH,
with Double Cut Diamond Centre.
£3 10s;
larger Diamonds, £4 10s
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s t>d ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; Three
Opals, £2.
, Band RINGS,
with Name, 9ct. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s ;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Signet I'iain RING,
9ot. Gold, 20b, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 80s, 85s ;
18ct. Gold, £2,
£2los.
9ot. Gold Heart-shaped
LINKS, 12s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 25a,
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby. 35s
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
FRi
!Bct. Solid Gold,
; Diamond and Two
Rubies or Sapphires.
£2 10s ; 3 Diamonds, £3.
18ct. Gold, 4 Diamonds,
•with 3 Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6.
'9ct. Gold LINKS, 22s 6d
Kct. Gold £2 ;
in Solid Silver 4s 6d.
Two Diamond Spaiks
and Kcd Stone,
ISct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3 10s,
£4, £4los ; Five Diamonds, £5.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia
raond, Pure Rubies
. or Sapphire, £2.
Latest Style Gold Bow and Chain
Photo PENDANT to Hold Two
Photos. 255, 27s 6d, 80s.
A.. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Pearl Star
PENDANT
or BROOCH, £3,
very neat.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELIER AND
SILVERSMITH,
815 and 817 George-street
(Nearly Oppei.te
Kail way Station),
Sydney.
18ct. Gold Hall Hoop,
Five Double Cut,
Diamonds, KING £5,
Larger Diamonds, £6;
£7 10s, £B, £lO, £l5, £2O,
18ct. >old Buckle,
Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s;
8 Diamonds, £4
Uent.’s 9ct. Solid
Gold Amethyst RING,
25s ; 15ct. Solid Gold,
18et. Solid Gold Two
Hearts,Opals,
Three Pure Double Out
Diamonds, £4 10s.
18ot. Gold
Pure Double
Out Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
18ot. Gold
5 Opal BING, £2lo*l
Size Larger,
£Blos.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, 9ct.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6deach; loot. Gold, 15s;
Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ; Extra Heavy, 30s,
355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
18ct. Solid Gold
Buttercup Pure.
Diamond KING,
*B, £4, £O.


Business, Robbery, etc.
The cane-cutting season just finished on the
Clarence (N.S.W.), lasted 24 weeks, the longest run for
many years. Estimated- that 70,000 tons of cane were
put through the mills. The rebate on white-grown
sugar in the district amounts to £12,000. The cutters’
wages panned out about £9OOO. .
* * * *
Victorian Government Analyst has just given
his version in support of the sterling honesty of the soft-
goods importer. In a report to the Board of Health he
says that, after testing 25 samples of clothing sold to the
inspectors as pure woollen, he finds that but seven were
of the material alleged ; the other 18 containing cotton in
amounts ranging from 5 per cent, to 66 per cent., the
average amount being 44 per cent.
* * * »
Shark registry offices are fond of advertising
for “ educated young gentlemen ” as assistant teachers,
tutors, and secretaries. The shark has found by long
experience that “ the educated young gentleman ” is
more easily victimised than hard-faced Bill or Jim who
wants a job tearing up the ground or milking cows. The
“educated young gentleman,” after paying his five
shillings registration-fee, is told to call again, and again,
then the shark curses him or lets a chair drop on his toe
and he doesn’t come again. He merely fasts for a week to
make up for the stolen five shillings, whereas the ordinary
Bill and Jim, whose stomach is a rebellious organ, is apt
to go down to the shark’s office and break his window or
his nose.
* * * *
Some dealers in secondhand boots and shoes in
Sydney employ respectably-dressed women, who canvas
families in the suburbs for cast-off boots and shoes,
ostensibly for charity’s sake. The articles, after a little
repair, are sold to needy customers.
* * * *
The drought, apparently, has no lesson to teach
the average Australian. Recently thousands of acres of
waving wheat, oats, barley and luxuriant native grasses
enclosed in the N.S.W. ruilway fences have been pur-
posely burnt-off as a precaution against fire. Almost
within the municipal boundary of Wellington (N.S.W.)
they recentty burnt off their lucerne and grass. But of
course there will be no more droughts.
* * * *
“ Old Cove ” : Bad job for Australia that India
and Ceylon ever started tea-growing. If tea were three
times its present price and none but China variety were
available it would be a lot better for us. As a suitable
drink for the Australian climate, the strong, syrupy
Ceylon tea is no more to be compared to the light China
tea than are heavy ales to light lager. And the use of
Ceylon tea is now almost universal in the bush. What
about a Royal Commission to inquire into the evils of
drinking strong Indian tea, with a view to putting 2s. a
lb. duty thereon ?
* * * *
“Long Jim,” 7ft. 2in. in height, who has been
advertising a patent medicine in Adelaide for some time
East, left recently for S’Africa, which he will tour on
ehalf of the same firm. Dwarfs, giants, hairy politicians
and other freaks are beginning to be in demand for ad-
vertising purposes.
* * # *
The collecting craze in boys runs in all shapes,
but nearly always in some shape. One S.A. country-
bred youngster has just been unearthed whose mania
runs to gathering different varieties of grain and growing
them : this season, besides oats, barley, and rye, he grew
47 sorts of wheat, gathered from all parts. Both the
boy’s father and grandfather—the family name is Frame
—are well known wheat-growers ; either the grandfather
or a neighbor (it has never been decided which) grew the
parcel that gained the world’s prize at the first London
Exhibition in 1851, and helped to get for S. Aus. the
name of “ the Wheat State." The parcel, by the way,
is now preserved in the Adelaide Museum.
* * * *
“P.T.F.” :Be cotton. In 1853 N.S.W. Govt,
offered premiums for the best sam pies of Australian-
grown cotton, the first prize of £3O being won by Mr.
Ambrose Eldridge, of Brisbane. Also, in 1852, that
enthusiastic believer in the future of Australian cotton,
Dr. John Duntnore Lang, submitted several splendid
samples of locally grown cotton to the Manchester Cham-
ber of Commerce.
A PHANTOM OF THE FUTURE—KING
COHEN, THE PARLIAMENT-MAKER.
A proposal for the formation of a co-operative
bakery among the hotel and restaurant keepers of Sydney
is now being seriously considered. The venture will
require a capital of £2OOO, and this has already been
guaranteed many times over.
* * * *
“Josdon” asks for advice: Can any one
suggest a permanent cure for a lazy boss? The one
who keeps me out of Parliament takes the cake for
downright criminal laziness. He comes in at 9.30 a.m.,
throws himself into a chair, picks up the paper, and
starts absorbing why Smith was found in Jones’ bed-
room, and then mutters abstractedly, “My oath, it’s
hot.” I weirdly expect something to happen. It
happens. “I say, Thompson,” he yells. “Ye’sir.”
“ Bring’s a drink of water, will you; I’m too hot to
move.” When I bring the water he mutters, “ Put it down
there, so’s I can reach it without gettin’ up.’’ After five
minutes peace he breaks out again with “Thompson,
hold the glass while I get a drink ; I’m too tired to get
up.” Told a pal about him once. “ Why don’t you
chuck it over him ? ” he suggested. Followed his tip.
“ My oath, that’s all right,” the boss casually remarked.
I suppose he was too lazy to give me the sack.
* * * *
“Rypo ” has the gold fever—and recovers : We
moved to a gold-mining town recently. I had always
yearned to live in a mining town. I believed that any-
body who wanted a shilling or two thereabouts must be
a lop-sided, dull specimen of humanity. Was there not
always fossicking to fall back upon if work got slack and
funds ran low ? So I determined to get an idea of the
game the first chance. It soon came. I got a mate with
mining experience. As compensation for his superior
knowledge I supplied the tools, and we shared
the gold equally. Loaded with dishes, shovels, a pick,
a couple of old buckets to carry “ stuff ” to the nearest
water, a “ jigger ” each to cut up the lumps and stir the
dust in the dishes, until it was reduced to a degree suit-
able to work with the hands alone, and a 61b.,jam-tin to
hold the “ pannings,” we set out. I was shown the likely
“ stuff’’- the pipeclay round the old holes and the wash-
dirt. I learned the exact angle at which to hold the
dish and the proper depth of water to rest it in for suc-
cessful washing. Stir, stir, stir ; slop, slop, slop ; shake,
shake, shake ; swish, swish, swish. Water very cold.
Hands soon likewise. Feet wet and cold. Legs
cramped with squatting over the dish. Backache.
Fingers start to wear out. Mud and clay from head
to foot. Saw an occasional speck of dull yellow stuff on
the bottom of the dish—after giving the remaining hand-
ful of sand the proper swirl to uncover it. This was the
gold, my instructor intimated. Never saw such small
results from so much toil. The remnant was put into the
61b. jam-tin aforesaid. At length the sun sank below the
hills. I thought it never would. I was prepared to swear
those hills were levelling down. Never felt so tired, and
cold, and dirty, and wet, and miserable before. I judged,
from the exertion and discomforts entailed, that that
jam-tin should be half-full of pure gold, though I didn’t
know where it could have come from. “We’ll pan her
off,” said my partner. He did it. He would not
trust a new-chum like me with such wealth.' “ Few nice
specks,” he admitted, “about half a ‘weight’ for the
day.” Half a weight—one shilling each. We had a
smoke. Then the stars began ro peep out, and the moon
rose upon the scene. I went home, dug myself out of
the mud, put salve on my hands, hung myself out to dry,
warmed myself, and went to bed too tired to even dream
of gold-mining. Gold-mining! Bah ! Wood-chopping
is better and cleaner, and drier, and warmer, and more
remunerative.
* * * *
“ Eiddal ”: I have been experimenting with
the “Silver watch for nothing” puzzle business. The
one I struck looked much as usual. Some simple motto
was published, with the vowels omitted, and a silver
watch was offered as a prize to each successful solver of
the mystery. Competitors were expressly warned to
send no money with their solution. I purposely sent an
incorrect solution of a very simple motto-puzzle, and
received by return post a reply to the effect that my
clever solution was correct, and, provided I sent 265. for
a silver chain, I would receive gratis one of the adver-
tiser’s famous watches—all its wonderful advantages
were set off, even tj its hands being of best steel. Being
in the trade, and having to handle these free watches
frequently, seeing that not one in 50 is in going order
when they arrive, I didn’t bite. Swiss watches are now
catalogued by British exporters at ss. each, jewelled,
keyless &c. ; and a good price for a silver chain is 7s. 6d.
imported, or ss. to 6s. made locally. I figured out the
whole proceeding as a method whereby 12s. worth of
watch and chain were sold at over twice their value, and
the seller got a reputation for philanthropy thrown in,
and the public worried over a silly puzzle as a side-show.
• * '* *
“J.F.D.”: The European tradesman who has
struck a bad mark is generally pleased when his rivals,
who have picked up the custom, fall in also. Not so the
Chow. My landlady askid her comparatively new John,
a few' days back, to chalk up a few shillingsworth of
vegetables. He inquired if she was in (he house long,
and on being told that she had only just occupied the pre
mises, he chalked up. I asked him why he gave credit
to new arrivals only, whereupon he showed me where Ah
Spud, or some such savage, had inked on the gate a
Chinese equivalent to “ Dashed bad egg,’’ and a date in
Chinese. He had made his inquiries to assure himself
that my landlady wasn’t the aforesaid egg. When X
attempted to rub it out, he said, “ No, no ! stoppum
there long time ; no other wegitable Chinaman come.”
The Chow’s Trade Protection Society is simple and
efficient.
• • * *
Competition is keen among Sydney’s cheap
restaurant-keepers ; when two of them are close together
the fight is full of meat and hate. One sausage-flinger
employs a nicely-spoken, but hard-up, new-chum to sit
how at one table and now at another and softly “ crack-
up” the tucker. He tells the customers, in a low voice,
that the soup is equal to Voissin’s or that of the Caffe des
Ambassadeurs in Paris. Mellifluous name 3 breathed in
the wharf-lumper’s ear soothe his iron digestion when he
is bolting a piece of shark-fin or struggling with a mass
of aged ewe. In such moments he likes to be addressed
kindly, and to hear nice things about foreign cook shops.
The above restaurant also hires athletic individuals to
kill the rival hash-man’s business over the way. One of
the agents was a huge American nigger. He walked in
when it was “ full house ” and ordered rabbit-pie. In the
middle of his feast he appeared to extract from the
potatoes something which resembled a dingo’s hind leg ;
it was covered with tawny hair, and it dripped as he held
it between his finger and thumb. “Say, boss, come
a-here ! ” There was a yell in the nig.’s voice, the yell of
Pope addressing Sayles at the Tivoli. “Is this a
white mahn’s food ? ” He stood up and waved the hind
leg at the quailing restaurant-keeper. “By Heaven,
mahn, d’ye kill yeh meat in a menagerie? Why d'ye
give a mahn paw feat? Ain’t there nothin’ but paw in
de house?” The hash-keeper made some inaudible
remarks, but the nigger continued his address in the
voice of a cyclone. “ Foh Heaven’s sake, mahn, put up a
card an’ call it de Dingo Dining Rooms. Blank me, yoh fry
de meat in bear fat!’’ Herewith the ebony blatherskite
began a stirring eulogy in the interest of his boss’
restaurant over the way. He referred to it, in the voice
of Sayles, as a place where the boiled pig’s cheek wore a
heavenly and sylph-like expression. “ Be Heaven, yeh get
clean mahn’s food ober de way, boys. Yeh won’t find de
animal’s feet in de pie, sonnies. " Ef yeh want a clean
chaw come ober de way. S’long, sonnies, dis place gives
me bile.” And the colored hireling departed, after
executing a cake-walk, to the hash-house where the
animal never misbehaves when you elevate the pie-
crust.
* * * *
“J.”: Met a man selling clocks on time-
payment yesterday, and I inspected the document which
bound the unfortunate hirer to the instalment vulture.
The final clause was a masterpiece. It ran thus : “ The
hirer, in the event of his returning the articles to the
owner before the final payments are made, shall pay the
owner a sum equal to weeks’ hire of the article, as
a set-off for wear and tear given to the article during the
period of hire.” I asked the canvasser how many weeks’
hire he considered a sufficient set-off in the event of
anyone relinquishing a clock valued at 255. He said
that he left that part of the agreement blank, the boss
filling it in when he took the signed form back to the
office ! Thus Henrietta Brown, after paying 10s. on the
clock, finds herself unable to meet the other payments,
and returns it to the owner to find herself confronted
with a clause whereby she loses the clock, loses the 10s.
already paid, and has to pay ss. as well, to console
the shark for getting his goods returned. The time--
payment vulture is a greater evil than the "two-up”
school. At present he brings on his cases before
magistrates who seem to have a special interest in his
welfare, and he waxes fat and wears much jewellery.
The Inky Way.
A Press Olub is being formed in Sydney to provide a
meeting place for pressmen (membership strict] v confined
to them). The club is to be run on limited liability lines,
and the prospectus reads well. The sec. pro tem. is Mr.
R. Asher, Sydney Morning Herald office.
» * * *
“A good double murder—say of wife and child-
occurring at the right hour, is worth,” said the evening
paper publishing-man, “about 15,000 extra copies. If
the murderer will then take to the bush and defy the
police efforts to catch him for a couple of days, it pans
out to another 10,000 a day. The trial is not worth
much, and hangings are not what they used to be—worth
about 5000 at the best, in ordinary cases.”
*** - »
Sydney D.T. has bought the King and Castlereagh
streets corner, whereon the Metropolitan Hotel stands,
and, on expiry of present lease (a good few years ahead
yet), will build there. The S.M.H. seems quite content
with its present antiquated and not at all central building.
A few months ago it had the opportunity of buying an
adjacent block of land (the old Bank of New Zealand
premises), but let it slip.
* * * *
“ Old Boy,” of the Argos, who took Donald Macdonald’s
place as cricket reporter during the latter’s eccentric
candidature for Corio, is R. W. Wilmot, who has written
for the Australasian since his school days. His cricket
notes are much more correct, technically, than Mac-
donald’s, but lack something of the other’s style.
* * * *
“ Vulcan ” : The Maoriland Government is now sharing
with Canada, the expenses of supplying private persons
(newspaper proprietors) with 500 cable words per week.
The Australian papers aren’t enjoying the same plum,
because the Australian Government took the Tory press
advice, in this matter at least, as to subsidising private
enterprises.
* * • *
J. H. Finlayson, late editor Adelaide Register, will
probably return to S.A. early this year. He has for some
time been its ’Ome correspondent.
* * * *
On Jan. 2, The Ovens and Murray Advertiser, pub-
lished at Beechworth, Victoria, saw its 60th year of
publication as a tri-weekly. In the half-century number,
Mr. Richard Warren, the proprietor, addressed his sub-
scribers and patrons in a retrospective article. He is
probably the oldest pressman in harness in the Common-
wealth to-day. He has spent several fortunes in mining,
retaining his active interest in his journal all the time
* * * *
Brisbane Daily Mail doesn’t set out on its fight with
the Courier with too much capital behind it. It thought
first of tackling the job on £16,000, but changed its mind
(so far, it doesn’t seem to have much mind to change)
and made it £20,000.
* * * *
The Atchison Globe, Kansas, U.S.A., is a plain-spoken
paper which does not take too severe a view of current
events. It says : “ Jerome Hoover was on the streets to-
day with a hole in his pants. However, in justice to his
wife, whom he got by advertising, it is only fair to state
that she can’t mend them until he gets a new pair.”
THE LATE MR. W. D. ASTEN
(of the American Tobacco Go. of Australasia).
“G.H.”: Of all the newspaper-Mikados I have con-
descended to be employed by, John Norton stands out as
the gentlest, mildest-mannered, most lovable, and most
unassuming. I remember with pleasure how the staff
used to meet regularly in John’s sanctum every morning
for prayers and fatherly admonition and advice ; and
how the curly-haired counter-clerk and the earnest sub-
editor and the religious person in charge of the Sportsman
used to sing Moodv and Sankey hymns in a deep voice
while John beseeched powerfully into the waste-paper
basket. There is no more affable and benevolent news-
paper boss in all Australia ; and anyone who insinuates
to the contrary is a fisherman and a cablegram.
* * * *
Mr. H. W. Robinson, District Judge, and the holder of
multifarious other offices at Nelson (M.L.), has just been
retired, being over the age limit. Robinson mined for
gold in Victoria in the early days, and eventually took
on journalism, succeeding Julius Vogel, as editor of the
Maryborough and Dunolly Advertiser in ’6O. Subse-
quently Vogel induced him to cross over to Maoriland
and sub-edit the Otago Daily Times and act as editor of
the Witness, the weekly off-shoot. When he was offered
the billet of warden and R.M. in ’63, however, Robinson
forsook the press and has been in an atmosphere of
officialdom ever since.
The boss was indulgent, but wise after a fashion.
“Mr. Storekeeper,” said the editor of the bi-weekly
Gulch Meteor, “ I’ve been here three years, now, with-
out a break, - and something I take to be brain-fag is
coming on me. Could you let me away for a month ? ”
“ I’m sorry to hear it,” replied the storekeeper ; “ your
work is very good, and I don’t see how I can get on
without you. You know I’m not much good.” “Perhaps
you could put on a man for a month?” “Exchequer
wouldn’t run it. But, see here ! A month means eight
issues. You write me out eight leaders, throwing your
mind into the future as well as you can, and relinquish
half-pay, and I’ll try to fill the gap. I must have the
leaders before you start.” And the leaders, with the
editor’s mind thrown into the future, are appearing.
“ D.” : The old blocks in the country newspaper offices
possess a vast amount of adaptability. When I was a kid,
the local paper had three, but one in particular I remem-
ber. It was a well-known block of a man riding a buck-
jumper. The local saddler had it fqr years, then he fell
out with the editor and withdrew his a'dvt. The chemist
invented a cough mixture about that time, and the editor
fixed up the block with the words, “ If you can’t throw it
off, take Billy Smith's Cough Mixture.” The rider was
supposed to represent a cough. It pulled through three
different circus companies, and brought them excellent
houses. Then it set’led down to do steady work for the
local storekeeper, who was advertising riding-boots,
cabbage-tree hats, etc., which the buckjumper luckily
wore. One day, the paper came out without the block,
and the editor inserted an obituary paragraph informing
the town that a spiteful and villainous travelling comp,
had put it under the guillotine and cut it in halves. The
paper didn’t seem the same, and the storekeeper lost a
lot of business.
..ri dail . y r !°®“ t ! y Published an extraordinary
seues of letters about Eichenflopper steel plates.” Tha
correspondent, who started the joke, wrote in reference
to a vessel he called the Urumtees: “On the vessel’s
arrival at Solothurn I had the honor of boarding her and
making experiments with the plates on this vessel, and
applied the celebrated Eisbein test, calcium oxide. I
molar indentation of animalcule had taken
P ~e- tus anot her correspondent (or the same)
replied : Some three years ago, through the courtesy of
the manager, I was shown over the works at Andermatt,
where these plates are manufactured, and where most of
the world s biggest ships are fitted. I was greatly struck
with the huge stock of machinery used in the punching
of the rivet crafters and lumbers, and the great
precautions taken to prevent the warping of the
steel grangers that overlap the bilgers which the plates
are cast from. The exactness of the grab chain when
entering the flying wood crank was astounding. The
fritishness caused by the slinging hungers can be dis-
tinctly felt b} r placing one’s hand on or near any small
quantity of waste or fire-damp when the pressure gauge
indicates eighty per cent. lb. to the inch, which pressure
the Discovery had to undergo. As all engineers know,
in fixing the plates, the pressure (automatic) should be
placed clear of the plate, to allow for the warping, and
the steam would consequently clink the top flyin»
clunkers, instead of there being any chance of clunking
the clinkers. The letters spread into a column or so
before the joke was perceived, and an angry editor shut
down on his scientific leg-pullers.
A BALLADE OF SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Editor lurked in his lair
Gloomy, and grumpy, and glum ;
There entered a party, whose hair
Was lengthy and roughened and rum.
He said.to the paper-man : “Come,
Just list to this sweet little thing ”
—He cleared his throat softly : “ Ha ! Hum i
Oh ! Hark to my Ballade of Spring 1"
“ Sweet Spring is a maiden so fair,
Her charms it is hopeless to sum ;
She breathes in the bloom-scented air,
She laughs in the bumble-bee’s hum.
Then he who can mope and be mum
When everything bids him to sing,
Must sure to all feeling be numb—
Oh ! Hark to my Ballade of Spring I
“ Sweet Spring ” He just dodged an arm-chair,
A book and a bottle of gum 1
The Editor glared at him there
And cried : “ Depart, ye base scum ! ”
(The poet fled, quite overcome.)
“Spring indeed I Spring yourself, or I’ll ring ”
— He pressed a small knob with his thumb—
“ Just hark to my Ballade of Spring ! ”
Envoy:
Ye print-hoping poets, a crumb
Of advice in these verses I bring :
On the subject of Springtime be dumb ;
Remember my Ballade of Spring !
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under*
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
milted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (oj any
State) accompany.
H.: If it were made “ Plain Australian ” instead
ot Plain English ” the public might expect more blanky
than we have type for... .Hiphen : Bear poem hadn’t
enough claws Maraquita : Insipid Jack Tar: Ex-
cellent sentiments, but too familiar... .General: Matter
of a special type might he kept for years ; it is paid for
before going into “ stock.”.... J. A.O. : Cabbage-tree Ned
is now a worn-out vegetable G.H. : “Why?” Well,
if you can t see why, you can’t be made to understand
why.... Hiphen : Not a bit; or you can Australianise and
call yourself “Dash,” if you like... .O.L.J. : One good
incident— the camel stampede ; on the whole, the
yarn halts Infali: We love Biljim, but can’t shape
all our verse to suit merely the roughest of him.. .
P. : Refused reluctantly ; the verses have some melody
and sympathy... .John Goff : Too much undressed Flossie
in it... .The Barber : Your literary razor is too blunt
Goggles : Sentiment all that could be desired, but metre
very jumbled.... J.T. : Too splenetic... .G.H. : The same
old girl with a slight variation.... H.H. : Pretty verses
well suited to a limited circulation of one—your best
girl.... H.P. : (1) Your lady’s hose is not a well filled
enough 3'arn ; (2) facts you cite are absurd, but the posi-
tion is not illegal; many a position is absurd without
being illegal Kelpie: What is your poem about ?....
B.L. : Three poems ; two bad, one medium, no hope....
J.M. : “Light-o’-Love” a doused glim now. ..C.P.S. :
“Adolphus ” a worn subject.... Argo : Tired of the bees,
which are, in the main, imported insects H.S.R. :
AVhy trouble about the reckless statements of such a
rabid print ?.... Mj-rtle : No more damper—we’ve got in-
digestion already....H. : Not worth while refuting
such theological notions, in Australia anyhow.... J.S B :
No time to wrestle with such illegible stuff... .Aurelia :
Has pathos and some power, but not quite skill enough.
....J.W. (0.T.): Not altogether bad, but not good
enough... .L. A. : “ Fitful Blast ” poem brought from us
a fretful blast.... J. McC. : Copy is often rejected at the
eleventh hour—especially copy that is just about good
enough. The only copy really safe is the bit of prose or
verse that makes you wish you could hurry up publishing
day to get it to the public Esau: Story not nearly
hairy enough F.R. : You have a good idea of a yarn,
but Bush Detective” is hardly well enough worked
out... .Truth : (1) Not in any civilised country ; can’t
speak for any others. As a matter of fact, a hopeless
and horrible case is looked on rather with favor at
most clinical hospitals. (2) It is, so far as is
known, impossible for a woman to conceive under
such circumstances; the second of the causes you
mention is always accepted as the explanation
E. Duffy Sorry to say no concession. The Bulletin
would be inclined to give a bonus to Schools of Arts not
to subscribe, only it finds it cheaper to get the clergy to
Becure the same result by objecting to the paper “on
high moral grounds.” Donkey L. : Trenwith repre-
sented in that fight a good cause—the revolt against
daily newspaper tyranny. And The Bulletin, to quote
a recent critic, “is consistent and persistent; its politics
are not shaped by the rise and fall of parties or by the
vagaries of individual politicians; it will back any man,
just so far as he will carry out some fragment of its pro-
gramme and notan inch further.” Prodigal : Rather a
large order, but on the whole N.S.W. State education is
more generously run than in Victoria; the latter’s State
system is, however, more truly secular. Sydney Uni-
versity is richer than Melbourne ; but they are both of
about the same type. London University is an examin-
ing body chiefly ; its degrees in science subjects (such as
medicine) are much valued. The two big Australian
Universities compare well with British Unis, as regards
scholarships and so on, but they lack to a great extent
the true University sentiment—as witness recent narrow-
minded attempt by Sydney Uni. senate to crush Pro-
fessor Wood for expressing an honest opinion on the Boer
war... .CJ.H. : Your naive letter is good, if your poem
isn’t—“l have composed a poem; I don’t think the
grammar is right, or the stops, but if they are
not right please make them so, and please insert.”
C.L.R. : “Flight” is a mixture of crude verbiage and
false sentiment....H.D. : Literary green-sickness....
W.M.W. : Both flat and uninteresting Harry Tower ’:
Verse rather good ; prose-sketch well-written, but out of
our line E.K.: Reasonably well-written A. 8.: Not
worth so much fuss Boston : Too juvenile Will 0 •
Don’t care for “ The Mimic.”... .T. 8.0. : Rather weak in’
spots Sigma : Too clumsy and involved Rita S. :
‘Keeners” not up....D.0.0. : Too far-fetched
Hippo : Don’t touch it ; it’s an impudent swindle....
R.F. : Returned accordingly....W.W. ; There are pro-
mising touches about it.... Rio : No, “The Wolf” doesn’t
belong to “The Bohemian Girl” though the song is
frequently interpolated in the part of “Devilshoof.”....
Prospector; Matter good; treatment too sloppy.. ”
Q.E.D.: Not much above doggerel level Bloomer:
Too long and unwieldy.. ..P.W.: Yes, if suitably terse
and pointed Bandar: An unsuccessful attempt to be
horrific Maggie : Not up to mark, and much too long
in any case Gerald B. : “Awakening” fairly well
versed, but theme hackneyed. “Reverie” best thing
you’ve done, so far... Andrew M.: Do not keep on
sending; have already told you we’ve no use for a series.
Drifter: Hardly worth print Prospector: Big shearing
tallies are “off.”.. ..N.E.D. : Too wordv and windy....
Overland: You have ideas, but are at sea expressing
them E.H.H. : “Baby ” rather good, but out of our
line.. ..Chaos: In our line, but not good enough....
Old Jim: Good stuff, but we’ve no time to do the
necessary re-writing... .Jumbo : Graphic but unskilful
Unsuitable : W.M.H.. A.G.A., A.S.S.T., Arnold Sherer,
8.J.8., A.K., Barak, F.W., The Postman, F.W.H., H.E C
E.H.H..C.H., A.C.T., G.F.R., Tom S„ Socker, H.R.o’
E.M.W., Dickinson, Grampians, Mac., Turkey R., R.A.K.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.C.S. : May use one or two of the jokes ; drawings all
unsuitable J.B.M. : Drawing too dim forreproduc-
tion, and joke not very fresh....R.H. : Drawing nearly
up to mark, gag 01d... .R.R. : Drawings hopeless ; jokes
also.. ..Unsuitable : A.G.A., Will C.
Mr. Wilson D. Asten, late managing
director of the American Tobacco Co. of Austral-
asia Ltd., died in Melbourne last month. Few
men were better known in the Commonwealth
than he, his business interests taking him every-
where. And where known Mr. Asten was like<d,
his honest worth and kindly character gaining
him friends.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
[ennon’s Hotel, B f isbane,
Has been Be-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door —a penny
section to'any part of the City.
S. M. COLLINS, Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
h
—FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our niarvellously-aoourate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING ‘ PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
ĥ
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
4 Hunter-st., Sydney,
ħ
GrO XO HELL-
IUOLANJ) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hager),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists grpMs.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Suggested song for the Jolmaynes’ Seces-
sion Party in N.S.W. : “Johnny, Get Your
Gun.”
Canada’s present attitude to Britain is
defined by London Daily Chronicle as one of
“ passive hostility.”
Henry Parkes carried an Elective Legis-
lative Counoil Bill through N.S.W. Assembly in
1873, but the Bill was rejected by the Council on
the ground that it had not originated there.
About the best thing Deakin could do to
show that he is not altogether tired-out is to join
heartily in Seddon’s well-justified protest against
the Chinese invasion of the Rand.
James Martin, before he became Chief
Justice, proposed in N.S.W. Assembly. that
Ministers of the Crown should have salaries of
£2500 a year while in office, and pensions after-
wards.
Mr. Bruce Smith’s name is “ mentioned ”
in connection with the post of Chairman of Com-
mittees in the House of Reps., which is a very
small thing for the haughty Myth to be mentioned
for.
There’s one thing the N.S.W. Secessionist
fragment does not spare, and that is adjeotives.
The more its cause is treated with contemptuous
amusement the more weird and wonderful become
its adjectives.
The Sydney Morning Herald bewails
the fact that a successor to William M‘Millan, as
Mr. Reid’s lieutenant in the Federal Parliament,
is not easily procurable. Which is a savage
criticism of the intellectual value of the Freetrade
members.
A PHANTASY.
So benevolent were some of these saints that they
would prevent the vermin falling from them lest the
insect should perish. —Old church history.
The Commonwealth probably does not value the
secessionists over much; but, for reasons , will
retain them.
Germany, in its Freetrade days, was
a country that was emptying of its population.
In 1881 —the first year of Protection —the emi-
grants numbered 4.86 per cent, of the population.
The proportion steadily declined until, in 1901, it
was only 0.39 per cent.
Speaking at a political dinner at Hamilton
(Vic.), F. Tudor, M.H.R. (referring to preferential
trade):
For him it was Australia first. England or the Empire
could come second; but Australia first, emphatically,
and any others afterwards.
Complained by some of the people in-
terested in Federal capital sites that, when tour-
ing legislators were provided with coaches and
driven around “to see the district,” they often
spent their time on the road absorbed in cards
instead of in studying the landscape.
Actually, as a result of the re-arranged
“provinces,” there is talk of one or two contested
Leg. Council elections in Vic. For the Bendigo
“ province,” which takes in the whole Northern
“ province,” there is the almost unheard-of thing
of three candidates in the field. But all are old
and Fat.
A proviso in the Immigration Restriction
Act which might be put to good use is that under
which any person, not a British subject, convicted
of a crime of violence, is, at the expiration of
bis sentence, subject to the educational test,
failure to pass which renders him liable to de-
Eortation. Rigidly enforced, this proviso would
elp Australia to get rid of the worst portion of
its alien population—the convicted criminals.
The S.A. National Ass brays blatantly
concerning the need of legislators having “a
stake ” in the country, but it is still a fact that,
with one exception, all its Federal candidates
were very hard up, and contested the election
more for the sake of the salaries than for any
other reason, whereas all the elected Labor
members are quite capable of earning a decent
living altogether independent of their pay as poli-
ticians.
“ H.S.R.” hatterises a little :
I have asked many N.S.W. people, who assure me that
we have got hold of an expensive toy in Federation, to
name any articles they pay more for now than before,
and the only refuge they have is in hats. Now, if, owing
to Federation, a hat will cost me Is. 6d. more, as I require
one in a year or two, lam going to secesh. It is too
much to expect a patriot to drop Is. 6d. a year on hats.
What is Johnaynes’ address?
A feature of the Federal elections in
Queensland was the growth of the white labor
vote at Thursday Island—the very blackest spot
of the piebald North. 1901 : Villiers Brown (pro-
nigger) 68, Bamford (white labor) 6. 1902 :
Hamilton (pro-everything colored) 47, Gough
(white) 53. 1903 :W. T. White (pro-kanaka) 64,
Bamford (white) 179.
Fully a dozen lately-defeated politicians
are applying to be accredited as Australian repre-
sentative on the Imperial Defence Committee in
London. The chairman of the Committee cables
that he would prefer a Minister; but not even the
Prime Minister, were it possible for him to go,
should be allowed to commit Australia to any-
thing at the back of Parliament.
The mismanagement, of the Victorian State
irrigation works, at the instance of the people
who now form the Kyabram party, is being used
as an argument why, in N.S.W., the work of
irrigation should be given over to “ private enter-
prise.” But that, too, has conspicuously failed—
as witness Mildura. Private enterprise and dis-
honest State management have both broken
down ; the call now is for honest State manage-
ment.
Earl Grey, when in the Colonial Office,
concerned himself greatly over Australian affairs.
He recommended in one despatch to the N.S.W.
Governor that Parliament should consist of one
Chamber only. If, however, one Chamber were
not approved of, he suggested that the second
Chamber should consist of not more than eight
members, and that these should be elected by the
first Chamber.
Chief Justice Griffith’s Queensland con-
solidated criminal code gives two years gaol and
a fine of £5OO for defamation of a member of
Parliament by “a stranger.” It is a grotesque
looking item. The defamation is to be by “a
stranger” ; one member defaming another does not
come under it. If a member loses his seat and
continues to talk as he did while holding it, he is
liable to jug and fine. And both together ! Sam
Griffith’s shadow is very like Alfred Stephen’s.
The Kyabrammers of Vic. were delighted
whilst the lamentable Bent snorted and sacked
men and otherwise worked his foolish will as head
of the railways. But now, when the hungry
Kyabrammer is in a hurry to get his stuff to
market, and there is only one man at most country
stations to do three men’s work, the straws are
flying out of Kyabram’s whiskers with the vehem-
ence of his cursing of Bent and all his works. He
is quite busy raking up instances of departmental
sweating, and passing scathing resolutions about
them at shire council meetings.
Some of the superfluous energy which so
frequently inspires N.S.W. legislators to call one
another liars and perjurers might profitably
expend itself putting through an Act to prevent
Bull and Wilhelm and Sam from choking the
local markets with underweight tinned and other
package goods. A dozen reputed pounds were
weighed lately in a Sydney suburb and in each
case barely reached 14oz. The Statute called the
Weights and Measures Act applies only to
Sydney and five miles from Circular Quay. And
even within that area it passes most of its time
asleep.
Says Crozier, a fine English thinker, not
too well-known even in England :
All undue bulk is x weakness, like that excess of fat
which is a sign of degeneration rather than of develop-
ment, or that overgrowth of territory beyond the arm of
central power, which historians have noted as a real
source of debility, and a sure precursor of decline.
Crozier is a man who knows, and, furthermore,
he is a man who thinks ; and like all sane English-
men who know and think, such as Morley and
Bryce, he sees in Britain’s Imperialism, and
its habit of annexing a square mile every eight
minutes, a curse.
Cable :
Mr Balfour believed that the Imperial Defence Com-
mittee would play a useful part in promoting the closer
union of the Empire. Every part should share its labors,
including India. The other day the Canadian War
Minister (Mr. F. W. Borden) had attended a meeting of
the committee, and assisted at its deliberations. Possibly
that principle would soon be universally applied.
Yes, and Mr. Borden went away from that meet-
ing and decided that the Canadian militia should
in future have a home-grown boss, not an im-
ported Imperial officer. Australia would not fear
to be represented in Imperial Councils by men of
the Borden or Laurier stamp ; but the Bartons,
the Copelands and the John Forrests, bewildered
by the glare of Imperial gauds—they make the
difference.
THE CALICO MAH.
Trying to cotton on to another dog now.
A very large number of stockowners who
gave the Victorian Railway Department pro-
missory notes for the freight of their starving
stock have not yet paid up. The Railway Com-
missioners have given notice that all promissory
notes will be presented, for payment on Feb. 29.
G. H. Reid told an Adelaide interviewer
that the fate of the Federal Parliament is in the
hands of the Labor party, which, he said, is a
“most deplorable thing.” In a sense G.H.R.
struck it. The Federal Labor party may either
keep Premier Deakin in office, which Reid natur-
ally regards as deplorable; or it may get office
itself, which would be very deplorable for
Reid ; or it may put Reid in office, which would
be deplorable for everybody except Reid.
“G.H.” : I saw that capitalist George
Pile wrote about, who was going to invest
£16,000,052 in iron-works or brick-bats or ping-
pong sets or something. He was standing in
front of the S.M.H. office, reading the Senate
returns for all Australia, and with the £16,000,052
tied up with some bananas in a bag. When the
clerk came out and pasted up the complete re-
turns, the capitalist groaned, and made a grief-
stricken remark about the curse of Socialism.
Then he asked me for the gift of a tram-fare to
Surry Hills.
Chamberlain’s latest speech declared “ a
scientific tariff is needed to protect our home
markets and to enable us to deal on equal terms
with protected nations,” and Balfour, the same
night, declared —
If a Protectionist meant a man who thought that the
old laissez fain school of political economy was out of
date, who thought the Government could not wholly
stand aside while every other Government intervened in
industrial affairs, and who regarded with contempt the
maxim, “We must look after the consumer, but the pro-
ducer must be left to look after himself,” then he was
proud to be a Protectionist.
The Cobden joss is having a hard time in Eng-
land now.
Ex-Gov. Brassey fell off the chain at a
recent meeting of the Colonial Institute, when he
said that, when he was Governor of New South
Wales (sic— London Standard report), he had a
conference with George Turner as to whether he
would give a preference to British goods, and that
Turner had said he would like to see what
England would give in return. Brassey said he
did this in consequence of instructions from
Chamberlain, and the Colonial Secretary then
dropped the idea. Which serves to show that
Higinbotham’s old contention, of secret instruc-
tions in Australian affairs coming from Downing-
street, was true.
Some violent language has been adorning
the Melbourne Age in a discussion between
Crouch, Federal member for Corio, and S’Malkum
M'Eacharn, Consul for Japan. Crouch started
it by telling the cold truth, at Queenscliff, that the
Japanese were a greater menace to Australia than
the Russians, and that he would rather see a
victory for a white than a colored race. M ‘Eacliarn,
as a brand new consul, rushed inbreathing hard and
said Crouch was misinformed, ignorant and unpatri-
otic, and that he was setting his opinion against
that of England, which had allied with the yellow
man. Then Crouch replied that the Japanese
Consul was not a free Australian, but had to serve
his superiors and principals at.Tokio. Afterwards
the controversy drifted on to shoals of mud-
language.
G. E. Roberts, newly-elected democratic
member for Richmond (Vic.), misconceives what
should be the true aims of his party. He is
credited with telling Richmond P.L.C. :
He looked upon the village-settlement scheme as one
of the greatest dangers to the Labor movement. The
settlers in Maoriland were with the Labor party until
they found themselves prospering, and then they formed
a Farmers’ Union and opposed it. It would doubtless be
the same with the Kooweerup settlers when they reached
the same stage of affluence.
Is not the main aim of the Labor party the
betterment of the workers’ condition? Mr. Roberts
really argues in favor of keeping the workers poor,
lest they desert the democratic ranks.
Shiels’ passion for display and theatricals
in public life came up prominently when he was
conducting the affairs of Victoria in the absence
of Iceberg Irvine on a cycle tour in Tasmania. It
was his custom to wait until each department had
a large number of papers for his signature. Then,
at a very early hour in the morning, he would
order the various heads of the departments con-
cerned to be at his office together. They would
all be shown into his room, and, while one was
getting his papers signed, the others would have
to sit around, admire Shiels at work, and laugh at
his jokes. Shiels is to be opposed for the new
district of Glenelg by T. M. Burke, secretary of
the Civil Service Co-operative Society, and one
time of the Railway Department.
There, are various indications that a dry-
rot has taken hold of the N.S.W. education sys-
tem. Out of every 1000 children aged between 5
and 15, Maoriland has 665 attending school;
Queensland has 605; Victoria, 546; S. Australia,
489; N.S.W. has only 469. The number of
ohildren attending school in N.S.W. actually
decreased by nearly 200 between 1900 and 1902,
while the number of teachers increased by 338.
N.S.W. was the only State where the sohool
attendance fell off.
Just before Vic. Parliament was prorogued
a new measure was put through giving shire
councils further powers to insist on cleanliness in
dairies. But the enforcing of the regulations is
permissive. When the measure was under dis-
cussion Kyabram cried that in some districts the
farmers were so poor that to compel them to keep
clean spelled ruin; and Parliament foolishly
agreed to a clause whioh leaves it to each muni-
cipal council to decide whether it will keep clean
or remain dirty : i.e., whether it will adopt the
new Act or not. As the majority of the muni-
cipalities did not take advantage of the old Acts,
it can be taken for granted that they will now
unanimously decide to continue dirty.
“ Exile ” writes from Inverell:
A big estate, containing a large proportion of good
land, and within reasonable distance of the town, has
been offered to the Government under the new Closer
Settlement Act. Surveyors have been appointed to
make the necessary valuations, and their reports will be
submitted to the Local Land Board as the Act provides.
Meanwhile, another estate, nearly as extensive and
suitable, has been purchased by a Sydney syndicate, and
has been cut up with a view to offering it in small areas
for sale. As it is common talk that at least two mem-
bers of the Ministry were also members of this syndicate,
I want to know what the Government’s little game is.
Either property will supply the present demand for
dairy farms, and it becomes rather an interesting ques-
tion whether the Government is really going to take
advantage of the Act, or whether some of its members
are merely going to look after their own interests.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Joseph plays
the Oily Gammon part to perfection ; welcoming
his new Illawarra follower in the daily papers:
Mr. Allen will be a credit to the electorate, and a
worthy member of the Assembly. He has developed
into an effective platform speaker, proving himself to be
a student of politics, well versed in the facts surrounding
all public questions. He adopted a high tone in his
addresses, which won for him the respect even of his
opponents.
And every member, or prospective member, of
Joseph’s party is just as good, or better, according
to Joseph. The Liberal and Deform party is, in
fact, a herd of saints under the charge of the-
holiest cow-boy that ever was.
The tin god of the Calico Jimmy, the
obsolete prophet of Frgetrade, Cobden, in writing
of his fetish :
You might as well doubt that the sun will rise to-
morrow as doubt that in ten years every civilised nation
on earth will have followed our Freetrade example.
Cobden has been dead now for 38 years. The-
world is vastly more Protectionist now than it
was when he died. Britain has lost its manu-
facturing supremacy and begins to talk of taking
to Protection to recover it. History has proved
Cobden a false prophet of the worst description,
and yet to this day interested Calico Jimmyism
quotes him as an oracle. Looking at the above
statement, what a leak there is in the oracle !
The female candidate for Parliament has
one advantage over the mere man. When &
ticklish question is handed up, that she isn’fct
disposed to answer, all she has to do is to declare s
“The question which
has just been handed
up to me would be an
insult to any wo-
man.” Then the pro-
pounder, who may be
a white - whiskered
pillar of a church,
and a man of the
weightiest morality,
is seized by a
chivalrous multitude
and hustled out
to the cold and
gloomy footpath on
his ear.
" The Consul of Japan has received a dozen offers from
Victorians to serve with Japan in the event of war with
Russia.”
AUSTRALIA: “ Gee-whizz! if I didn’t think you
wuz dead this long time.”
Some linked facts :
1. A Foreign-trade Government, to obtain the support
of the Sydney dailies, agrees to carry their bulk parcels
of papers free on the Government railways and tramways.
2. Twenty-seven years later. Labor member Griffith
gets the Assembly to appoint a Select Committee to
investigate the matter.
3. As chairman of that committee he (Griffith) pre-
sented to Parliament a report something as follows :
“ That the practice of carrying free on the State railways
the merchandise of the Sydney newspaper proprietors,
was illegal, being based on a mere Cabinet minute which;
had never received Executive sanction. That the rail-
way by-laws enacted a legal rate for bulk parcels of-
newspapers (i.e., quarter of parcels rates), that this rats
should be immediately enforced, and that it would yield.;
a revenue of £lO,OOO a year to the Kailway Commis-
sioners.”
4. The Government, braving the hostility of the Syd-
ney dailies, enforced the payment of this £lO,OOO a year.
5. Griffith throws up his seat in the N.S.W. Parliament
to stand for the Senate.
6. The Sydney press tells the people to vote Griffith
down, and they do it.


Ladies who are Particular
ABOUT THEIR ATTIRE WILL FIND
THE CALLAGHAN
SHOE
Perfect in form and finish, and will also find
that it will give full satisfaction
as to comfort and wear.
THE
COLLARETTE
GIVES
A VERY
NEAT
APPEARANCE,
■Vi
Post Free
Duty Free
for
13/6
All over the States except W.A.,
12/11 a pair; or, post and duty paid, 13/6 per pair.
Fine GLACE kid, patent toe caps, pointed, medium or
broad toes, lace or button.
You can have a pair of these shoes sent to you.
You can closely examine them.
YOU CAN TRY THEM ON.
You can exchange them for others, or
You can have your money returned if not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 george st., Sydney.
READ WHAT
VITADATIO
IS DOING.
Ganington,
Late of Northam and York.
W.A.
IWO3.
Dear Sir, — I wieh to tell you of the wonderful effect
VITADATIO has had on me. I suffered for eight years
with Chronic Liver Complaint and Stone in the Bladder.
Dr- , with other doctors of Northam and York, also
doctors in Perth attended me. I was also in the hospital
for two months, but got no relief, and I lay suffering
till VIT>y)ATIO was introduced to me, and I have
recovered solely by its use. (The stone that was brought
away weighed 2oz. 8 grains.) I got the medicine from
Munyard and Kenworthy, Grocers, of Wellington-street-
The people of my acquaintance are surprised at my re-
covery, and Dr. Black who attended me is astonished, as
he reckoned nothing could be done for me. I thank you,
and hope my testimony will be means of help to others.
Signed,
JAMES COOPER.
Dongarra, W.A.,
30th October, 1903.
Dear Sir, —Please forward by Tuesday’s train six bottles
of your VITADATIO. lam very pleased to think same
is doing me so much good. I have enclosed my cheque
to cover same ; be sure and forward, and oblige.
Yours faithfully,
W. CRIDDLE.
WHY HALT BETWEEN
TWO OPINIONS
When the danger is in delay ?
To-day is yours, to-morrow they say never comes,
Try VITADATIO to-day.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street. Svdnev.
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
QALLARAT SCHOOL OF MINES
WILL RE-OPEN 9th FEBRUARY.
Chemistry, Assaying, Metallurgy, Geology,
Engineering, Electricity, Mining, &c.
Ores tested by Battery and Amalgamation, Cyanide or
hlorination. FRED. J. MARTELL, Director.
The elevation of J. H. Gordon to the S.A.
Bench breaks up a legal firm remarkable for its
personal successes. Within ten years Gordon has
been made K.C. and now Judge ; his brother
James was police magistrate while still a young
man, and Paris Nesbit, K.C. The old firm is now
completely at an end, Bright (Gordon’s brother-
in-law) and J. ft'. Anderson (his son-in-law)
having agreed to practise separately, and the
firm’s managing clerk—with an offer of a partner-
ship from each of them—having just made a fatal
mistake with some carbolic acid in the dark.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 157-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
A ST " SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
Amusements.
The “Wallaroo” Disaster.
GRAND CONCERT
in aid of the widows and orphans of the unfortunate
sufferers by the “ Wallaroo ” disaster,
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY, SATURDAY,
JANUARY 30,
Under the Direction of J. Edward Sykea and H. N
Southwell.
A. Specially Selected Popular Programme
PRICES— Ss., 35., 2s.
JOHN S. SHEARSTON, Hon. See
ALFRED G. MILSON, Hon. Trees.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Paling's
Opens, Saturday, Jan. 23.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY
OF N.5.W.
Grand Commonwealth Show.
30th MARCH to 7th APRIL, 1904.
PRIZE SCHEDULES
MAY BE HAD ON APPLICATION.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 1 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
r
Sir Charles Cameron, M.D., Ex-President
of the Royal College of Surgeons, certi-
fies to the purity of the materials of
which Sunlight Soap is made.
SUNLIGHT
SORP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
h
3 of the World’s Best
A
a
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine ill the world. Used end endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
BYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Websteb & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HedIey Button.
Amusements.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY,
• Lessee and Manager, Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
FOURTH WEEK, and Still Playing to
HILARIOUS HOUSES, DELIGHTED AUDIENCES
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY
in the Comedy Convulsion in Three Spasms,
Mama’s New Husband
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee & Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Mr. TREE’S COMPANY, including
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT, and MISS MAUD JEFFRIEB
in the Reigning London and New York Success,
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 23, THE ETERNAL CITY.
6W Box Plan at Paling’s. Carriages at 10.40.
QR IT E rFon THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S Powerful and Popular
Dramatic Co. in their Latest and Greatest Success,
WHY WOMAN SINS.
SATURDAY, JAN. 23, FOR THE SAKE OF A WOMAN.
POPULAR PRICES.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wed. and Sat. Afternoon, at 2.
FOURTH WEEK of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
SPECTACULAR COMIC PANTOMIME,
entitled,
SLEEPING BEAUTY AND THE BEAST,
or Mother Goose and the Seven Champions.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
■ YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George M usgro ve.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FOURTH WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Magnificent Melodramatic Attraction,
THE GREAT WORLD OF LONDON.
SAT. NEXT, JAN. 23, SATURDAY RIGHT IN LONDON.
Prices— 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
Q VEEN'S HALL, BYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8.10,
MR .'T’ill DERT FLEMMING presents
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER
AN ARTIST WHO STANDS ALONE.
PRI ES—3s, 2s. and Is. Doors Open at 7.30.
'latinee Every Wednesday at 2.30.
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
Pupil of Madame fierce Richard (of the Opera), Paris.
CENTENARY HALL, YORK-ST., SYDNEY,
FEBRUARY 10. FEBRUARY 10. FEBRUARY 10.
Plan at Paling’s. ss, 3s, 2s. J. EDWARD SYKES.
Amusements.
the mutoscope.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
-a OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. Admission FREE.
T l «, V , Ci L L ‘ l . THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success of THE CIRNOCS.
Magnificent Success of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Marvellously Trained Troupe of CATS and DOCS.
Enthusiastic Reception of MRS. SIMS REEVES.
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
Miss MAUD FANING, THE CLARENCE SISTERS,
Mr. ERNEST FITTS. Miss JENNY GREY
Miss NITA LEETE. Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN*
Mr. LES WHARTON.
H
O p E O R , A „ HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Great Success of CLARK and HAMILTON, Comedy
Sketch Artists, and JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical
Comedian. Re-appearance of J. W. WINTON. Splendid
Reception Accorded Miss VULCANA, Exponent of Physical
Culture, and ATLAS, World Renowned Athlete.
MISS RAY JONES. THE COLLIERS. ALBERTO
DAISY SYLVESTER, ELLA WELLINGTON, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, IRVING SAYLES.
a A i ES X Y ’ 8 t h=atre, Melbourne!
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
FOURTH WEEK.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAMBON'S ROYAL COMIC OPERA OOMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock.
■■■HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager C. Simonsens.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A DESPERATE CAME.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 23,
• BL 4 ND . HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
m Reproduction of the Interesting Domestic Melodrama
IN LONDON TOWN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
To-Morrow Evening, Friday, LAST NIGHT in Melb of
Mr. CEORCE MUSCBOVE’S GRAND ENGLISH
SHAKESPEARIAN COMPANY, in
o Cfc n *,<mi i MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.” Hedire
Scene, “TWELFTH NIGHT.” Act IV, “A MIDSUMMFR
NIGHT’S DREAM.” Act IY, “ AS’ YOU LffiE ”
Balcony Scene, “ ROMEO AND JULIET" tup
NIGHT" G MARCH. Kitchen Scene, “ TWELFTH
QIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE;
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Mr. TOM PERMAN.
SECOND EDITION of the
Magnificent Spectacular Comedy XMAS PANTOMIME
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
NEW SONGS, NEW DANCES.
MATINEES, MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
*
SHOOTING THE GHUTES «, TOBOGGANING
Steyne Court, MANLY*
A Pronounced Success.
AND DON’T FORGET
the fiery dragon.
F. K. Griffiths, the man who 30 years ago
had to do much of the cleaning-up, after the
collapse of Northern Territory mining and
land boom left S. Australia with a worse mess on
hand than it ever had before or since, died a few
days back. The fever and ague which he con-
tracted up there took years to kill him, but did it
at last. Walter Griffiths, the bright youngster
who for a while was M.P. for the Territory but
died suddenly, was his son.
A Sydney music-publishing firm recently
received from the lady secretary of an up-country
church choir a request for “ a book of voluntaries
suitable for playing while the collection is being
lifted.”
The sea air does not agree with the ancient
headstones removed from the old I)evonshire-
st reet cemeteries. At La Perouse the stones are
flaking, and in a few years the inscriptions will
have disappeared.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
•how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
•casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
•only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
■Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Some 22 years ago Lord Kelvin stated his belief
that the supremacy of the steam engine as a motor would
goon be challenged by the internal combustion engine
operated either by gas or oil. It has. Foremost among
the challengers stands the Campbell Gas Engine Co.,
Ltd., of Halifax, Yorkshire, England, whose products
are to be found in every part of the globe where men
use engines. Their oil engines are of special interest to
pastoralists, farmers and fruitgrowers in the Common-
wealth, and are made in various types. The ordinary
horizontal or vertical pattern, suitable for driving any
kind of fixed machinery. They are combined with
pumps for irrigation or water supply, and for winding
and hauling. The “CAMPBELL” Portable Oil Engine
is supplied either light or heavy ; the heavy type, for use
where water is scarce, is fitted with a cooling tower,
wherein constant circulation is kept up and water loss
reduced to a minimum. The light type is for use where
water can be drawn from a stream or tank and returned
thereto after passing through the cylinder jacket. Both
these types can be used to operate absolutely any kind
of machinery, from sheep shearing to electric lighting.
They will work with ordinary kerosene oil from 120” to
250" F. test. They are very reliable and easily man-
aged. They have only two valves, and are simplicity
itself. They maintain even speed, with all variations of
load, and the oil consumption never exceeds f-pint per
horse-power per hour. There are many other advantages,
which will be cheerfully explained by Mr. R. A. Hervey,
corner Clarence and King streets, Sydney, who is the
agent in N.S.W.*
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
h
t Calling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS
WE
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
»r.s.-w.
fflont deplete fl.si |. Co., £td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
>74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Quaranteo
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Svdney : lion. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Faruanr ; Brisbane, K. Wit,son ; Perth, A. VV.
Earouiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
EXECUTORS
THE TOUSTEES.
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP AOO.OOO 0 0
KESEKVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 10 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Ollicer, Esq. ; lion. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOlt ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage*
Shipping.
IST. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
ĥ
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANUA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 2nd MARCH.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 17th FEBRUARY,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application,
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dcilgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Baaoonsflold Parade
BT. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
A the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
QCBA.KTIO
SXE A. MS HIP
COAXPA.JNT'?.
A. AND A. LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates! Including St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
v— Tiirc~>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robsrtb
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.tt.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miij.kr.
Accumulated Funds, .£2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses pouitably distributed.
Head Offioe:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE'
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital « .. £2,500.000
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Offioe: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS,Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.000 ... £350.000
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyNE
~ sslex ~
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKOHCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c -» beara
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“ If I vyere asked which single medicine t should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to ilia
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
Feb. 1, Feb. 29, March 21.
The Route to England via
St. Louis.
Rocky Mountains, Niagara Falls,
AND THE CITIES OP
New York, Chicago, Montreal and
Boston En Route.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney'.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP . £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Epwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
1 Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PLACE^
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
The Shipowners, Railway Companies,
and all Users of Steam.
m
i —*
E=n
& i
Ample testimony is given by expert
engineers that by the use of the
Spiral Steam Tube Cleaner Co.’s
apparatus best results are obtained
in cleaning in a few minutes as
against hours by the old method
without wear or tear on the tubes.
No up-to-date firm or corporation
using steam should be without this
appliance ; as an economiser of fuel
it pays for itself in a few months, and
the marvellous rapidity and effective-
ness with which it does its work not only prolongs the life but leaves no excuse for dirty tubes.
Why run risks of boiler
explosions? Loss of time
in long passages, etc., etc.?
(Vide extract of paragraph
re the sad disaster of H.M.S. Wallaroo in Herald
of 8/l/’04):—“ Constant patching, he said, was
necessary in order to keep the boilers in working
condition, and it was only with the greatest diffi-
culty that steam could be raised for anything like
half the
assumed
indicated
horse
power.”
NOTE.—SAVES TIME, SAVES FUEL, SAVES WEAR and TEAR on the tubes,
minimises risk of accident.
All particulars ar.d numerous testimonials may be seen at the office of
The Spiral Steam Tube Cleaner Company*
Ltd., 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
J. H. DECENT, Manager..
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAT
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Porta
S.S. Friday, Jan. 23,
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne).
'S.S. Yongala (Newest and
Fastest Steamer on the
! Coast), Saturday, Jan. 30,
at 10 a.m.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oalrna
S.S. Gabo, Jan. 23, at Noon.
S. S. Allinga, Jan. 29, at 5 p.m.
S.S. Rookton, February 6,
at Noon.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after ths
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime 3
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, tinder Postal Contract with t'iB
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADIS*
LA IDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
ħ
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Chin*
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGU3II
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
h
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe v',% Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-Bt., Sydney,
H. NEWMAN’S
KFYI FSS
WORKERS’ WATCH
35®
mr\i
Specially imported by H’. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s* (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
ĥ
TOOTH-ACH
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Save*
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Nenraleic He attach eft V all Nerve
Pains remoTed by BUNTEB'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
ħ
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hara
Used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S
WORSD-I.L’S
h
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyapepala, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &«,
Of ul Stores.
“ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” points out
that there is a city named Centralia, with about
8000 people, in Illinois, U.S. This name has
been suggested for the Australian capital, and
also for a new Central Australian province. There
is a district called Austrasia in Germany, having
borne that name long before Australia was dis-
covered.
“Eiddal,” from a Yic. agricultural dis-
trict :
Just passed down the street, on the nag that used to
take all the prizes in the 12st. hunter sections (must be
■close on 30 years old now), the one-time prize-farrner of
the district. Fourteen years ago his name was a house-
hold word throughout the State ; now he is only Old Bill.
At every show in the district this man was the terror of
■exhibitors in his favorite sections—the best bag of wheat
and all the butter classes. He has medals and certificates
by the score. His neighbors were interested in seeing
the prize for the best wheat and butter come to their
■district. After attending to their business first, they
would step over of an evening during the slack months
and give the cocky and his family a hand at “going
over ” 20 or 30 bags of grain, to pick out the plumpest
grains with which to make up the prize sample, or bag,
or to give the women a turn at the churn (when their
own butter was on the road to market, not before).
They knew that the old man’s success advertised
the whole district, and made its produce fetch
better prices. They made money, while the
other man accumulated medals and certificates.
Then when the rabbits came they could fight the pest—
they had influence and money I Old exhibitor was nearly
always away from home, with members of the family,
during the show season. All he made in prize-money
went in expenses, and more. Then the labor-saving
machinery, that does away to some extent with personal
skill, came along. Old exhibitor didn’t do so well then.
About this time the mortgagee began to knock at the
door. So the exhibiting game had to slide; there was
nothing for the family to do but ask the old chap to take a
back-seat, while they took up his responsibilities and the
mortgage. Now mother and father live in the memories
of the good old “ prize ” days—for they have only the
medals and the memories to call their own—and the
horse ; that’s dad’s, but he, too, is a “ light of other
days 1"


THE
COLINM ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane River, 5J hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
40,000 Acres
of Rich River Flats, and well-
grassed Ridges, cut into Dairy
Farms,
Zn Areas of 100 to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the HEAD STATION BALL-
ROOM, on
EASTER MONDAY,
and following Days,
sth to lOth APRIL,
at XI o’clock each day.
Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., of Kensington Downs, a Director of the Q.N. Bank
and of the Queensland Meat Export Co. reported on Colinton on 7th April, 1900:
“It is impossible to ride over the rich lands of Colinton without coming to the oonclmion
that no just or accurate idea of their value can be arrived at by merely treating them a a
grasinr estates, as the largo proportion of arable land embraced in them justifies the
belief tnai in the future a very muoh enhanced value must attach to them for cutting up
purpose*."
COLINTON is composed of a variety of sloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid percentage of Luoerne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Runs, as well as one of the beat fastening Runs in Southern Queensland.
COXiINTON la magnificently watered by 18 miles double frontage
to tbe Brisbane River, as well as by upwards of 48 miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
COLINTON has been kept free from pests such as lantana, thistle, and
burrs, and there is no nut grass and, above all, no ticks.
THE MAGNETIC TERMS :
One-Tenth Cash, no payments for 2 years, and the balance
up to 20 years at per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
profusely illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may be
obtained from the office of this paper, or from
ISLES, LOVE & Co., Auctioneers, Brisbane
r
rj
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE
IF THERE WERE ONLY THREE WOMEN LEFT IN THE WORLD, Two
of them would get into a corner and talk about—What ? The other ?
Oh, no! About FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE, the Absolute and Mar-
vellous Cure for Indigestion, Headaches, Neuralgic Pains, Gastritis,
Liver Troubles, and Rheumatism.
Mr. THOMAS FORSYTH, of Ashfield, writes, and declares on oath the following
fr 0 1" aol > te inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. Mv tongue got a thick coating
, 1 c ° nstant Jy suffer e f l from nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly vomiting. I consulted
, o< ?', rs !n Ashfield for years without getting relief. But in three weeks FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE
is 1 a, ‘! Not l le Gra,ld of the L °y al Ashfield, M.U.0.0.F. I have been in the Lodge for
is j ears. Most of the members know of my illness. Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE always
takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone know of my case
Haif-an-hour before Breakfast, Eight Drops in Water counteracts the dele-
tenous effects of over-indulgence in a most remarkable manner, removing
a<l Headache. ALL CHEMISTS, 1/-j Four Times the Quantity, 2/6.
POST FREE TO THE COUNTRY EVERYWHERE.
ASK FOR FISHER’S. -
TAKE NO IfIITATION.
WiiEN PROSTRATED by the HEAT, “ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE ” will easily Pick-You-Up.
THE GREATEST OF AIL TONICS.
A Famous Tonic for Delicate Gentlemen, Ladies and Children. A Great Blood Builder
and Nerve Tonic during the hot weather. FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE makes you eat and
makes you sleep.
FISHER & CO., Manufacturing Chemists and Druggists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotelkeepers! Make your own SODA WATER
WITH
Eckersley’s Improved Aerated Water Machines
SODA WATER costs tJd. per dozen.
lemonade. (UNGER BEER, GINGER
&c«, &c., 4d. per dozen.
Owing to the number of unscrupulous imitators attempting to exploit a
trade which by virtue of the superiority of our machines we hold, we desire
to point out to intending purchasers:—
(1) That our machines are used solely by His Majesty’s Australian
Squadron, after an exhaustive trial, in which other so-called aerating
machines competed.
(2) That on all the Victorian Railway Refreshment Rooms, after careful
trial and examination, our machines were unanimously selected for
the excellence and purity of the serated waters produced by them.
(3) That the leading Hotels and Clubs throughout Australasia have dis-
carded all other makes of machines and have given ours the preference.
(4) Being by far the largest importers of Puie, Natural, Liquefied Carbonic
Gas in Australia, we can insure to purchasers of our machines an
unfailing supply of this gas.
A few of the hundreds of users of our machines are given below, and
they will be pleased to furnish inquirers with their opinions thereon
The Flagship of the Australian Squadron (H.M.S. Royal Arthur)
George Talmage Lessee Victorian Railways Refreshment Rooms at
Geelong, Ballarat, and Melbourne (Vic.),
John Rowan, Railway Refreshment Rooms, Warragul, Sale and
Iraralgon (Vic.).
J. P. Rowan, Commercial Hotel, Leongatha (Vic.)
R. G. Drummond, Victoria Hotel, Hamilton (Vic.).
S ’ J (W A b ) Srry ’ Sportsman ’ 8 Arms HoteI > Star of the East, Murchison
Thomas Barclay, White Cliffs (N.S.W.).
J. J. Kahl, Tattersall’s Hotel, Blackall (Queensland).
We are also Manufacturers of Small Machines for
Cafes, Confectioners
and Private Use.
Descriptive Catalogue and
Full Particulars from
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen St,
Melbourne
The Monaro Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thr Monaro is a hospitable land ; true, poison is
aid for tea-agents and book canvassers, but they
are accounted outside the human race. A Monaro
squatteroo casually told me of how lie rode down
to a homestead one twilight, to hear the owner
explain to a stranger that the township was only
two miles further on and the road quite good ;
and of how he had for a moment loathing in his
heart for this inhospitable fellow who would send
the stranger away from his gates as the shadows
deepened into darkness, when the hearths
should glow for house-father and unbid-
den guest alike. But, looking closer, he
saw that the man sent forward was a book-
agent, and knew that the law of hospitality
had not been broken. But it is the law in
Monaro—food for the stranger and his horse—
though some few are outside the law. A man
with a buggy drawing up to a Monaro homestead
al ways takes his horses out. He knows that he
will be asked to take refreshment, and he wants
his nags, too, to have a bit of grass.
Wonderful distances will these Monaro horses
travel with no food but the grass the country
provides—rich sustaining grass which never comes
to the luxurious rankness of the out-west herbage
in a rainy season, but practically always offers an
honest nibble to stock. The Monaro nag, one
notices, is always ready for a nibble. Give him a
loose rein for a moment while you look around at
the scenery, and he slides over to a grass patch
for a mouthful or two. He is accustomed to
travel long spells without a rest, and experience
has taught him to feed whenever he can.
They are tall folk on the Monaro mostly, and
tell tall stories. Swopping kelpie yarns, this
cropped up. “Buckley Tom had a blanky fine
kelpie, could do anything with sheep. But
what made Tom the gratefullest fellow going in
regard to that bloomin’ dog was when he
went down to Sydney once. He brought the
kelpie with him and put it up in the back yard.
The boss of the pub. says as how it couldn’t sleep
in his bedroom. Well, Tom found they needn’t
have been so blanky particular about their bed-
room, for ’twas just swarmin’ with insects ; and he
couldn’t sleep a wink for them until he thinks of
the kelpie an’ whistles for it. That dog came in
and set to work, and in half a bloomin’ hour he
had every man-jack of those insects yarded into
the bedroom basin and kep’ ’em there while Tom
slept comfortable. It was a darned knowin’ dog,
I tell you.”
Ihe Monaro man doesn’t come to Sydney very
often. . The distance is great and the journey
expensive. I told of the man who wanted to
know “ who kept the pub. down in Sydney now,”
a nd was told “That’s not so curious. Why,
there’s —— ; he hasn’t been to Sydney since
45, and I’ll swear there wasn’t many pubs, there
then. And ” (pointing to a man apparently 40,
really 70, frisking about) “when he was in Syd-
ney he used to walk across the fields to school
where Crown-street and Riley-street are now.”
You meet Monaro folk who can recall when
Boydtown was a. sort of rival to Port Jackson as
a seaport. The inhabitants have a habit of living
long _ and lustily. One old Monaro man, Mr.
Jardine, of Curry Flat, was born the same year as
Queen Victoria, and he can walk up a big hill
how, or go out on horseback after cattle with the
mere youngsters of 60 or so. Austin Chapman,
Who represents the district in the Australian
Parliament, relates that when Bombala wished to
have a cemetery it was found that there must be
at least one burial as a preliminary to dedication.
After waiting weary years for someone to die—
Until, indeed, the situation got on the nerves of
the oldest inhabitant—a corpse was finally im-
ported from some less healthy locality. The men
and the stories of Monaro are tall.
It’s a patch of old Australia bright with the
nne, hearty hospitality of the early days, is the
Monaro. Even the banker there becomes a man
and a brother. Still, there is about the average
amount of human nature in the Monaro man
when it comes to a horse deal. He is not a saint,
but he’s an Australian to the marrow. Trout
fishing in the Moombah River one day, I caught
just a couple, and the Monaro men thought there
wasn t enough fun in that, and wanted me to land
the fish they had hooked. (This is not a “snake.”
It s hard to believe, but it’s true.) The man who
will let a guest have the glory of his fish catch
surpasses the traditional Arab in hospitality.
The Monaro man marries the Monaro girl
pretty frequently. Driving up from Eden to
Bombala one day I struck a honeymoon party—
the man, the girl, a buggy, a horse, and two small
trunks. Heard the man had about 255. a week
income. He evidently also had courage; and so
had the girl. But the actual landowner, small or
large, is almost always prosperous, and he marries
early and populates the district; there is no birth-
rate problem on the Monaro. Still, of late, the
fact that there is no land open for agricultural
settlement is making paterfamilias wonder what
he is going to do with his boys.
Make him a Federal territory citizen, give
him the chance of cultivating his fine dis-
intensely and getting to a market —the
chance which the N.S.W. State Government
has never given—and the Monaro man will provide
a firm backbone for Australia. His bracing
climate and his great breezy downs free him from
the incubus of That Tired Feeling. He would
give the best of soldiers, sailors and farmers to the
Commonwealth.
F. R.
Latest medical ukase is “aseptic silence f>
—a surgeon should keep his mouth shut whilst
operating, lest bacilli should escape with his
words.
The French Government has declared for
the total suppression of all teaching by religious
orders, and has a majority of the Chamber of
.Deputies with it in enforcing that programme.
“ Little Mary ” : Have just finished read-
ing three lurid accounts of Nelson’s woman of
pleasure, Lady Hamilton. Have come to theoyni-
cally sad conclusion that, from Eve unto the end,
the wanton shakes the world.
In Cretan excavations Dr. Evans has
discovered several statuettes 4000 years old, which
delineate precisely the arrangement, to the
minutest detail, of the muscles and surface veins
of the Cretan arm of those days. These are the
earliest of all records of human anatomy and they
are perfect in detail. Four thousand years of
evolution have not effected the minutest change
in the structure of the human arm.
“ Petramos ” : I live about 300 yards from
the penny tram section (Adelaide). There is a stout,
sensible lady living near me, who has three children
and rheumatics. She always takes two penn’orth
of tram herself, but, when the three youngsters are
with her, she bundles them out at the penny
section, and they run alongside until mamma
alights at her front gate. It doesn’t take a pro-
fessional ped. to keep up with an Adelaide horse
car.
A Sydney man complains :
How’s this for “ fits of abstraction" by postal officers?
Have a relative in Fiji who subscribed to Tub Bulletin
for two years, but, as he only got a copy about once
every three months, concluded to “ chuck ” it. I took a
hand, and here is 12 months’ record : Bulletins posted,
52 ; delivered, 11. Magazines posted, unregistered, 17 ;
delivered, 5. Registered articles turn up about a month
late, while books and small articles such as ties, studs,
etc., disappear as completely as the political honesty of
Yes-No. _ No doubt where fault lies, as Bulletins posted
to M.L. invariably reach addresses. Now send B. care-
fully hidden within a S.M. Herald. Fijian postal
depravity evidently has its limits—it does not descend to
stealing a Herald.
NATURAL MODESTY.
The natural modesty of many people who have
used Chamberlain’s Colio and Diarrhoea Remedy
for Diarrhoea, Dysentery, etc., with splendid
results, makes them hesitate about giving their
opinion for publicity. Still these same people
have done much to make Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy a household word, for they
have by word of mouth informed their friends
what a good medicine it is to have in the house.
Once used, always kept, follows this medicine
around the world.*
A theatre-burning is, of course, only a
one-horse show compared with the great fires on
the globe. Perhaps the Chicago fire of 1871 was
the largest ever known. The loss was set down
at £39,000,000. Next may be placed the Nero
fire of Rome, a.d. 64. It burnt for eight days,
destroying 10 out of the 14 city wards. Modern
historians doubt whether Nero set it ablaze, and
he appears to have endeared himself to the popu-
lace by activity in helping to quench it. The
third fire on the list may be that of London, in
1666. The fire of the Paris Commune, 1871, was
not one of the most extensive, but it involved the
appalling loss of £32,000,000. The Moscow fire,
of Napoleon’s invasion, 1812, is set down as having
cost £30,000,000. Other expensive fires were at
Boston in 1872 with £15,000,000, Hamburg in 1842
with £7,000,000, and Constantinople in 1870 with
£5,000,000. The Chicago fire is said to have been
caused by Mrs. O’Leary’s cow kicking over a
kerosene lamp.
“ Hiphen ” paints another picture :
If “ Athos ” (B. 7/l/’O4) wishes to see the Melbourne
“ bloke ” on a Sunday morning, let him cautiously enter
any metropolitan or suburban park, creep quietly along
the fence, and he will behold the “ lad” at his busiest,
brightest and best, exalted in his Sunday “ clobber,” en-
thralled in “ two-up.” (“ Athos” may also get a prod in
the jaw, being mistaken for a “ D.”, but that will be a
small price to pay for wisdom.) If, however, the gentle-
man does not fancy that, let him select any quiet, dingy
pub, in any quiet, dingy side street ; and let him knock
at the door three times and blow gently through his
teeth. A touselled head will appear over the back fence,
gaze at him suspiciously for a moment, then, if he looks
sufficiently like a “good bloke,” he will be allowed to
enter into a darkened, fly-blown parlor off the bar, where
he will find the persons he accuses of “ listlessly leaning
against the corner,” drinking beer and playing euchre.
Also, “Athos” says the river Yarra shares the Sunday
stagnant calm. Untrue ! Never is the Yarra busier. It
is invaded by myriads of scantily-clad youths from five
different rowing clubs, who lounge about the bank
smoking and talking to the girls, and who call themselves
oarsmen. lam one of them, so I know.
“ L ” writes on some unpleasant diseases :
Re par 13/8/'O3 as to leprosy being contagious. Dr.
Ashburton Thompson, president N.S.W. Board of Health,
tells a yarn about a monastery, somewhere on the slopes
of the Alps, devoted to the care of lepers. For one of the
monks to contract the disease would be for him a good
title to a front seat up above, and for the monastery a
splendid advt. ; so many of the monks do their level best
to catch leprosy, wearing the clothes and sleeping in the
beds of the lepers. But although the monastery is
somewhere in its second century of this work, there is
no record of any monk being infected. The tendency of
the public is to greatly exaggerate the chances of
infection. If their ideas were correct, doctors and
nurses would spend a very short life, and that in bed.
When the plague was on, one of the doctors employed to
visit suspected persons went to examine a girl, the
daughter of a small dairyman. The case was manifestly
plague, and he was just leaving when the father
staggered in with a full cargo of liquor on board.
Informed of the necessity of the girl’s removal to
quarantine, he told the doctor it was a lot of crimson
rot. He had the plague himself, but took good care
that it did not interfere with his business. The doctor,
on examination, found that he really had the plague.
But he was convalescent, and had evidently passed the
crisis of the disease whilst delivering milk and drinking.
T.P.’s Weekly summarises Labouchere’s
oharacter:—
Rich, he despises the wealthy ; clever, without judg-
ment ; unsentimental, yet wrong-headedly emotional ;
thoroughly in earnest, yet always regarded as a trifler.
He used to give out that he really had no time to get
married, and yet he espoused Miss Henrietta Hodson, an
actress of some note in her day ; and he has managed a
theatre, from which he gained a good many amusing ex-
periences, without any monetary profit. He has played
many parts, but has never achieved success in any parti-
cular one.
At the Coogee-Fortunato Figari Mariner
Court inquiry:—
The president of the court asked one of the stewards 1
whether it was true, as stated by a previous witness,
“ that the only stores sent from the Coogee for food sup-
ply to the passengers who had been shipped on board the'
Italian vessel consisted of a small bag of flour and a few
boulli tins.”
Mr. \V. H. Croker (counsel for the Coogee officers):
“The Bulletins were, of course, sent, your Honor, as the
most effective and invigorating mental pabulum.”


The Liver.
The Cause op Constipation, Biliousness, and
Many Stomach Troubles.
When you are constipated and bilious, and your
food does not properly digest, your liver is inactive
and needs a remedy that will cause the bile to
flow. Such a remedy is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. “They touch the liver,” aiding the diges-
tion and assimilation of food. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a searching remedy, driving all
impurities out of the system. They are a perman-
ent and positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments. Packed in
amber bottles, and sold throughout Australasia.*
The royal road to learning! “Dr.”
Andrew Carnegie is now Lord Rector of St.
Andrew’s University.
In consequence of the necessity for special
care in the binding of the book “Phil May in
Australia,” it has been found desirable to post-
pone delivery until sufficient copies are available
for all subscribers. By the beginning of next
week the binding will probably be completed;
and at the earliest possible moment copies will be
placed in the hands of purchasers. The delay is
regretted; but the publishers desire the book to
be as far as possible satisfactory in form, and, in
their clients’ interest, are endeavoring to make it
so.*
ĥ
ħ
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model RED BIRD BICYCLE
Built for Speed and Strength. Every part of a RED BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearings and Chain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for years. Cash or terms.
Second-Hand Bicycles
taken in Part Payment.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 king 51, Sydney
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE... LAGEI
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
“In a big audience sampling ‘ The Country
Girl’ on Saturday night none showed brighter
lustre than Miss Edith Sutton, out from Africa
tor a jaunt before settling to matrimony. She
was in sunset pink and cloud-white chiffon, making
as pretty and Frenchy a confection as possible.
One of the stall occupants, same night, was an
ornamental young grace, whose trappings were
wonderfully fine. Her swan neck reared out of a
black-and-gold frock, and supported a coy head
with a towering erection of golden thatch. Lan-
guidly she waved a fan, perfumed and laden with
roses. Blushingly she talked with her escort —
one of the best-known racing identities in Victoria.
“ A word of warning to the girl of the gossamer .
Once securely enveloped in this charm-enhancing
face drape, let her remain in it. The removal of
the drape at mid-time reveals a woeful sight.
The confined breath, acting as a vapor bath,
steams and lards the face, so that her neighbors
discover the soft peach-bloom to have been a sad
delusion. Some leave the ends of the gossamer
flying, and this gives the fresh air a show, but the
effect is nothing to that produced by the gossamer
that closes up and lends its enchanting haze to
the fair countenance.
“ They’re talking in Paris of the approach of
the hoop skirt. Victoria seems safe from the
crinoline as long as the Bent system of railway
running lasts. Since there’s scarcely room for a
skimpy skirt fold, or superfluous sneeze, in any of
the morning or evening trains from. Suburbia,
there’s no chance of the hoop-la fashion coming
here.
“It’s just as well Ada Crossley’s Australian
pilgrimage is near an end; the presentations,
en route, which she seems to consider herself
bound to wear, are beginning to weigh down her
svelte figure. At the first Town Hall concert an
absence of all gee-gaws impressed itself on the
public mind. Then came the musicians’ long-
tailed lyre-bird, and that at once crowned the
singer’s chablis-colored hair. Other gifts were
added, and yet others, and on the damp day of
departure all were sported on Ada’s person, to
the joy of the givers.
“A swagger matron from N.S.W. squatting side
—who has come here for an interesting domestic
event —attends all the shows in magnificent attire
with her husband in attendance and a nurse
within coo-ee.
“Sojourners at a big hotel are tickled at a pair
of picturesque mummers whose manners are bor-
rowed from the book they learn their lines from.
The morning is never too bilious to affect their
grand air of superfine fellowship. The practice is
for the male person to dawdle about the lounge
until my lady appears. She eschews the lift, as
the hydraulic shocks are opposed to the aesthetics,
and takes the stairs. As she descends, he comes
forward, sweeps his hat off, and, advancing, takes
her hand, bowing over it to an inch of the
knuckles. Then he resumes his hat, and the pair
talk in polished phrases, posturing the while
before cynical hall porters who know too much
even to smile. The superior mummer is a
curiosity. Two of the kind, pledged as twin
souls, make a whole museum.
“A globe-trotter just returned from abroad
tells of the unchanging nature of the Celestial.
He visited in the country of the Pigtail an old Uni-
versity fellow-student who went through a suc-
cessful Arts course in this State, and had all the
manners, habits, and tastes of his ‘shop’ chums
in those student days. But since returning to his
home among the yellow men he has resumed the
native customs, the native dress, the native
thought, and is as true a Chinaman as any. The
same globe-trotter marked how different is the
effect of travel on the little Jap. He is naturally
assimilative, drops into English manners readily,
and returns to keep them in daily use.
“The illustrious spouse of King Cole (of the
Book Arcade) has much to say about the weird
conditions of life in British New Guinea, where
she ‘touched’ on the journey to Japan. At a
little coastal village, she found her arm seized by
a warrior chief. The captain of the ship (who was
acting as cicerone) ordered the local potentate to
‘ Let go ! ’ The warrior did as requested at the
moment, but soon repeated his grab of the lady’s
substantial limb, smiling the while. ‘ What do
you mean ?’ said the captain. The warrior bowed
his crested head and replied, ‘ Good eating ! ’
Then the gallant cap. talked firearms and cold
steel to the gentleman with few clothes and many
feathers, and the coveted arm was squeezed no
more. This is Mrs. Cole’s story ; and she’s still
anxious to have the black man as a brother.
“Miss Maud Milton as Maria in ‘Twelfth
Night ’ flaunted a hearty laugh. It is the laugh
that only the charmer with teeth sound, strong
and pearly to the very wisdom stump, can give.
How few women may laugh ! In these times of
exquisitely fine dental performances—the crowned
molar, the gold bridge, and such triumphs—the
feminine mouth is re-arranged, the adopted aids
bring about a different bite, a different expres-
sion, and a different smile. Woman laughs in
brackets, never in a full, flowing, rounded period
—like this Maria in Shakspeare’s comedy.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Times man’s estimate of the relative merits
ol Australian and English bowling looks very foolish in
the light of the Trumper-Hill-Duff performance on the
first day at Adelaide. Up to the fall of Trumper’s wicket
just before I o’clock, the English bowling had been “ col-
lared” all the time—not merely pottered with, as the
Englishmen pottered with the Australian bowling on
New Year’s Day—but “ collared.” The batsmen never
showed any fear of it—2Bo runs was the T.-H.-D. aggregate
last Friday. The same three batsmen, in their second
innings of the Ist test, scored 320 for the loss of two
wickets, Trurnper carrying out his bat and Hill being run
out. Granting that Trurnper and Hill are the two best
in the world, and Duff is as good as any of the others, it
needs the lynx eye of a far-off Times man to discover
“ undoubted superiority ” in bowling which gets fairly
pasted on a hard wicket, and which was proved not quite
as deadly all-round as the Australian bowling on a sod-
den pitch.
* * * •
The third test match has at last shown the
Australian team in something like its true form. In the
first match the Australian representatives were obviously
suffering from That Tired Feeling or the Don’t Worry
Spirit. In the second match conditions were too damp
to allow of a true test. After England had batted
on a good wicket, Australia had to splash along in the mud
to certain defeat. But in the match in Adelaide the luck,
if anything, was on the side of Australia. The game
opened with weather and wicket perfect. Noble won the
toss for the first time, and sent in Duff and Trurnper.
Duff shaped best, scoring 79 with ease and grace.
Trumper’s usual brilliancy was clouded over, and he
“ played the game ” as Warner’s team has taught it.
Duff more than doubled Australia’s champion batsman’s
figures while he stayed. The partnership was in striking
contrast with the Britishers’ play in the second test. The
day’s total of 3.55 for 6 wickets was poorer than the first
partnership promised, but was well up with fastest
scoring records. .
The second day the remaining four Australians
vanished, leaving only 33 behind them, and the innings
was over for 388—exactly the score made by the
Englishmen on same ground two years before. The
Englishmen found the wicket too fast for them, and the
Australian bowling and fielding baffled them. At close
of day they had lost 8 for 199. Their exhibition was
cramped and slow. Kelly and M'Leod made sensational
catches, Kelly getting Tyldesley off a leg glance when
the Lancastrian had started to run. Tyldesley was
momentarily paralysed with sheer astonishment. M’Leod
secured Warner at mid-on close in. The only English-
man to master bowling was Hirst, who, like Duff and
Trurnper previous day, fell to the last ball before adjourn-
ment. Hopkins bowled splendidly, getting 3 for 52 with
deliveries that swerved in a fashion that was very
puzzling.
Third day (Monday) the remaining four
Britishers were disposed of inside an hour, having added
46 to previous day’s total, which left the side 143 to the
bad. Australians opened more cautiously than in their
first essay, and this time Duff did the waiting while
Trurnper piled the runs. With the score at 48 Duff (14)
was caught, and 81 saw Trurnper out l.b.w. ; he had been
at work ljh. for 59, and notched 7 fours. Hill occupied
half-an-hour making 9. Just over the century further
trouble came, Hill being clean bowled by a fast one for
16. Gregory followed. Noble had made 38 when
Lilley missed him badly off Bosanquet. Two
hundred showed in 2h. 55m. At this period Gregory
was shaping perhaps as well as ever in his
career- cutting, leg glancing, and hooking in fine
style and amid continued plaudits. Noble and Gregory
were together at 32, but by the time the side’s figures
reached 227 Gregory had scored 61 to his skipper’s 11,
and the pair had the bowling completely collared.
Gregory’s hundred appeared in lh. 55m., and, a minute
later, Noble made the half century, 2h. 12m. from the
opening of his innings. Five minutes before stumps
draw Gregory’s brilliant effort closed. He miss-hit
Braund, and was easily held by Rhodes. Gregory’s share
of the 263 for four wickets was 112, which included
seventeen fours—all without the semblance of a chance.
Day’s play left Australia with a lead of 406.
* » * »
On Tuesday the Australian side again showed
that it had a tail. With an overnight score of 263 for
four wickets the innings total was only 351. Noble and
Armstrong were the only men to bat at all well. The
Englishmen were thus left with just on 500 runs to get to
win, and as The Bulletin went to press they were facing
that apparently hopeless task.
* * * *
A. E. Johns told a ’Tisek interviewer in
Adelaide that he had “ the best of reasons to
know ” that, in future, test matches in Eng-
land will be played to a finish.
Melbourne C.C. people should do
as is done in Sydney when play is doubt-
ful-exhibit notices that it is so, and that
people paying at the gate enter on the
distinct understanding that no money
will be refunded. This would remove
any real grounds for complaint.
It was Malcolm M'Eaoharn who hatched the
idea of offering a 250-guinea urn “ for the ashes in inter-
national cricket.” He didn’t do the thing at first openly.
The Cricket Association sensibly declined the offer.
* * * *
The proved importance of the bowling of
Arnold and Bosanquet to the Englishmen when the
wicket was good in the Ist and 3rd tests shows how lucky
the visitors were to get Australia on a wet wicket in the
2nd test, when Arnold and Bosanquet were unable to
play.
* * * *
Maclaren made an awful “bloomer” in pre-
dicting that Braund would prove the most serviceable
of the English bowlers in the test matches.
♦ * * *
Batting champion Vic. Trumper lost a little
sister last Saturday. She was blind from her birth, and
had never sat up or spoken.
« * * *
Trumper’s innings in third test brought up his
total runs in tests this season to 467, which pans out
at an average of 93'4 runs per innings—a record which is
far the best of -the Australians. In six visits to the
creases he has scored two centuries ; and by consistently
piling up three'-figure scores has earned a distinction
(with Englishman Maclaren) of being the only player to
have accumulated four centuries in test matches.
* * * *
“ M.” : On a wet or damaged wicket English
bowler Rhodes is a phenomenon, as witness his 15 wickets
for 124 runs in the wet, slushy second test. But on a
good, true, hard wicket Rhodes is not seen to such
advantage, and Captain Warner, wise in his generation,
never keeps him trundling on such a wicket very long.
The captain appears to be nursing Rhodes so that he will
go home with a good average, or to prevent a break-
down, which, as Rhodes is a professional cricketer, would
mean a serious loss. In eleven-a-side matches Rhodes’
average is 14.10 for 40 wickets.
» * * *
There’s plainly heaps of coin for the promoters
in the Sydney bike spec.- Attendance Thursday, Satur-
day and Monday nights last easily exceeded 40,000. On
Thursday in the opening heat of the Furracabad Mile
Handicap Mutton rose to the form of a Taylor or a Law-
son and made the sprint of his life, beating Goodson
and Yankee MacFarland just when the race looked sure
for or.e or t'other. The third heat saw Taylor, streaking
remarkably, overhaul a hot bunch inside a quarter of a
lap, and win a length from Farley in 1.57 2-5, an out-of-
the-way fine feat. Farley (60yds.) gathered the final
brilliantly from Don Walker (iOyds.), ’Murkan Dowling
(10yds.) and Taylor (fourth). Concluding run of the
International Test first distance (half mile) brought the
four fastest riders (Taylor, Lawsqn, MacFarland
and Walker) of the day together. All of the
quartet had it all out from “go,” and a high tension
race saw Taylor blocked so badly entering the straight
that he had to drop back and come on the out-
side. Bumping occurred, and Lawson appeared to crowd
the black down on to the grass fringe of the track, where
he ran fully 30 yards, and had not a chance in conse-
quence. MacFarland won, a length to the good, from
Lawson, with Taylor third, and Walker fourth. Both
white Americans were vigorously hooted. Subsequently,
the event was declared no race. Later Lawson won the
Five Miles Scratch magnificently from 17 others; he
caught Taylor near the finish, and beat him by a length,
with Mutton close up, third, in world’s record competi-
tion time of 10.37 2-5. The last lap occupied 31 2-ssec.
The same throng that hooted Lawson a minute or two
before now cheered him excitedly. N.S.W. man Mutton
made a wonderfully speedy dash over the last lap.
MacFarland “punctured,” and had to retire.
Saturday night’s bike sports proceedings bristled
with interest, and were often sensational. Big feature
was the four mile distance of International Test, wherein
Lawson and Taylor met. Tussle proved an exceedingly
fast one, each mile being traversed in just over 2min.
The last lap was a staggerer. MacFarland, with Lawson
on his wheel, shot out. Lawson, in the circumstances,
had the winning position, for MacFarland is a remarkable
pacer. When Taylor found an opening he made a bril-
liant effort, and got his feet going at a rare clip. Mean
while MacFarland had fairly run the other* off
their legs. At the members’ gate Lawson dashed
for the tape amid an uproar. The negro was fairly
flying four lengths away, but with only 100yds.
to go his task seemed absolutely impossible. Foot by
foot he crept nearer to the leader. MacFarland and
Downing were passed as if standing, and, though Law-
son finished at top gait and brilliantly, the colored man
landed the honors on the post—a wonderful effort that
brought thousands to their feet. Lawson and MacFar-
land refused to line up for the re-run half-mile distance
of the International Test, and Taylor and Walker had it
between them. The Australian never did better. After
the pacer withdrew the two raced locked together.
Rounding the bend they toiled dead level for the tape,
and fairly hurled themselves over the line. Hundreds
thought Taylor just pipped his man, while a big section
placed Walker first, but three judges agreed it was a
dead heat. In one of the big mile battles Taylor beat
B. Rolfe and Don Walker in 1.63 3-5, thus creating a new
world’s record.
The sport continued Monday night. Melbourne
Handicap (lm.) saw Glencross win his heat in 1.57 3-5,
while D. Harvison got home in 1.58. Ivor Lawson made
a bold bid for the fourth, and put in a wonderful lap and
a quarter, but had to retire half a lap from the end, and
small wonder, for winner, E. Payne (with 90yds. start)
threw the trip behind in 1.51. Taylor won his heat
splendidly in 1.56 4-5, and could have done seconds better
had it been wanted. Floyd MacFarland also scored, the
watch making him do 1.54 2-5—4-ssee. outside Taylor's
world’s best, brought into existence Saturday night.
For the final 12 stripped—Taylor and MacFarland being
scratch, with Mutton (50yds.) nearest of the others.
’Murkan couple were with the front lot entering the last
lap. MacFarland went round the field with Taylor on
his wheel, and 100yds. from home the issue was between
them, but pacing had taken too much out of the black,
who couldn’t fight it with his man at the end and was
beaten by over a length in 1.55.
* * * *
Cyclist Taylor may be criticised as a sanctimonious
cycle-buster who feels the finger of Heaven whirling
his pedals round a bit faster when the enemy gets
in front, but he’s always a favorite with the Sydney
crowd. Men and women shout for the colored
brother, and at the slightest appearance of block-
ing him, howl like wolves. At present, one of the
most popular fixtures that could be made would be
a pursuit race between Taylor and Lawson for a substan-
tial prize. It certainly should be a first-class contest, and
would settle a large and very vexed public question. At
present, it is impossible to drink one’s cocktail in dreamy,
meditative peace, owing to the wrangle between men in
silk waistcoats and pot-hats as to which is the better
of the two Yankees, and in the public interest the matter
should be placed beyond all doubt.
* * * •
Harry Parker, who won the Maoriland tennis
championship, at Napier, a few weeks back, is a small,
alert, nervous, little chap, who plays with specs, before
the eyes. His picking up and line playing are simply
marvellous when he is in proper form. Parker will com-
pete at the South Australian championship meeting in
February, and also, if there is time, in the Tasmanian.
AN AMUSING GAME.
The Petriana affair forgotten, the D.T. falls
hack on baiting John See.
Lobethal, a mostly-Grerman village in the hills
behind Adelaide, has a shoot for a “ kingship ” every
summer, and latterly it has attracted the attention of
the State’s best rifle-shots. J. T. Lake, one of the chief
of them, has just won the kingship for the third time,
but has made himself locally unpopular by refusing to
walk at the head of a procession wearing a laurel crown
and other fripperies. The committee is uncertain
whether to obtain a guarantee from every future com-
petitor that if he becomes a king he will behave as
foolishly as a king should, or to restrict the shooting to
Teutons, who could be depended upon to frivol as desired.
» * • *
Jack Perryman, Bometime Australian champion
lightweight wrestler, whom Dan Stewart (M’Leod) threw
out years ago, wrestled Gunga Brahm at Perth (W.A.)
recently. The white man made a good showing in a
stuffy house, and bumped Gunga on to two shoulders in
2min. 15sec. But the next two falls went to the chutnee
man in 2m. 20s. and 10m. 14s. respectively. Pair will meet
again with Perryman in better condition.
* * * $
Australia’s wonderful swimmer, Dick Cavill,
chipped 3-5 seconds off his own world’s record for the
100yds., and left it 58 secs, dead, last Saturday at Sydney,
in a specially arranged match with Island swimmer Wick-
ham. They left the platform simultaneously, but Cavill
rose two yards ahead. Wickham passed him, and at the
45 wa3 leading by two yards, but at 90 yards Cavill was
again in front, and he finished a yard to the good, with
Wickham a second behind him. Same day Cavill took
5 4-5 secs, off his own time for 500 yards (6.31), winning
from end to end. Another speedy display same day was
Cecil Healy’s win of the “ Hundred ” final in 59 4-5 secs
* * * *
English billiardist, H. Stevenson, who recently
toured this continent, didn’t take long to strike form at
’Ome. Playing Harverson last month and conceding
2000 in 9000, he made a break of 703 and won with 2290
in hand ; he afterwards challenged Dawson for the world’*
championship.
* * * *
Sydney bowlers’ competition for the club
pennant reached an interesting stage Saturday, when
third round was decided, and left City, Victoria Park,
and Chatswood the only clubs of 16 original competitors
without a defeat. Gladstone Park and Parramatta
dropped out, and Redfern, Waverley, St. George, Peter*
sham, and Manly have each only one life now. Closest
and most interesting, game of latest round was between
Waverley and St. George, former finishing up 18 short of
the opposing side’s total
Meteorite, who shaped brilliantly at recent
W.A.T.C. New Year’s Day meet, was once between the
shafts of a buggy. Later his owner parted with him at a
low figure, and now he is among the highest-class
sprinters of W.A.
* * * *
Brisbane Tatt.’s Club’s annual balance-sheet is
a doleful document. Debit is £325. Seven meetings at
Deagon resulted in £513 loss, while four at Albion Park
brought £209 profit. Year opened with a credit of £2712,
but a loss of £1522 occurred during succeeding 12 months.
Committee recommends that Deagon racecourse be
handed back to vendors in terms of purchase agreement.
* * * *
Mr. P. Bolger, Westralia’s big and generally
prosperous horse owner, who topped the prize list at
recent W.A.T.C. meeting, is an ex-jockey. There are
many instances of riders making money as trainers, but
mighty few of them have done nearly as well as Mr.
Bolger at racing their own nags.
* * * *
Carbine’s stock in England during the last
season failed greatly by comparison with results for the
previous season, the figures of the total winnings of the
progeny being past season, £4959; previous year,
£22,126. The Duke of Portland gave 13,000 guineas for
Carbine, and the animal hasn’t yet proved a good invest-
ment at the stud.
* * * *
Father and son met in competition as jockeys,
at Dunedin (M.L.), recently Jimmy ” Cotton and his
son had mounts in both hurdle races
* * * *
Record long odds were put up recently in a race
in England when Sceptre started at 100 to 1 “ on,” and
beat a solitary opponent easily.
* * * *
Jockey Hewitt still makes the pace a cracker in
M.L. His “ Auckland week ” record was 13 firsts, 5
seconds and 2 thirds.
* * » *
Westralian sports were good buyers at the
Auckland (M.L.) thoroughbred sales. Wittenoom, T.
Fenton, and H. J. Saunders spent about 1300 gs. on
youngsters.
• • a •
Sylvia Park stud (M.L.), the early home of
Carbine and other celebrities, has been dispersed for the
second time, the wealthy Nathans giving the game best.
The whole realised 11,387g5. Seaton Delaval, the pick of
the proved sires, was grabbed for the Wellington Park
stud at 1700g5., but San Francisco was allowed to go to
Mr. H. O. White, of Havilah (N.S.W.), for 1500 gs.
Maorilanders may yet feel sorry they didn’t keep him.
He is by St. Simon—lsabel, and full brother to the whilom
English crack St. Frusquin. His stock have yet to race.
* *
W. H. Smith, the crack lightweight, is booked
to leave for France during the year under engagement to
Three-Star Hennessy at a big salary.
• * * *
Glean Sweep, Melb. Cup winner in 1900, and
still reasonably young, was sold at Newmarket (Eng.) for
£3O. Bought by trainer Seoliie for 90gs. as a yearling, at
three years he scooped Coongy Hep., Moonee Valley Cup,
Melb. Cup, V.R.C. Spring Stakes, St. George Stakes,
Loch Plate, and A.J.O. St. Leger. Less than a year after
these triumphs the horse went to England for 2000g5.,
and was a dead failure. Still, as he has Musket, Fisher,
and Tim Whiffler blood, he’s worth more than £3O. Eng-
lish buyers considered him too small for a country
stallion, but if his purchaser brings him to Australia as a
sire he will make a handsome profit on that £3O.
* * • *
Negro Starlight and second-rater Jack Willis
fouled so deliberately in their fight, at Sydney Gaiety
A.C., last week, that the police stopped the contest in
the eighth round. The black, one of the straightest and
best behaved of fighters, was hooted, though he fought
fairly till the Caucasian introduced objectionable tactics.
Negro fighters in Australia, with the solitary exception
of Peter Jackson, have never had fair treatment, and
latterly no show at all. No man could have fought more
fairly than did Felix in the Scanlan and Ruenalf fights,
and yet in both cases the crowd hooted his legitimate
work and applauded the other men’s unfair tricks.
• * * *
Most promising-looking pug. seen in Sydney
for some time is Maoriland champion lightweight, Tim
Tracey, here on a holiday, and to arrange a match for
Easter. He resembles Billy M'Coll. So far, Tracey’s
best record is that he finished the stone heavier Yankee
Brown-Parker, a rough-up fighter, more quickly and
decisively than middleweight Snowy Sturgeon did.
* • * •
Match at Sydney National S.C. last week,
between Peter Toohey and Victorian little ’un Feeney,
for bantam supremacy of Australia, proved a bitter dis-
appointment. Whether because he didn’t do his best or
that he was so very much inferior to the other in point
of skill, Feeney made a decidedly poor showing, and,
after actually being counted out in the first round, was
allowed to go on to be disqualified in the next, subsequent
to getting a punch on the chin that, as far as appearances
went, rendered him deaf to the count and compelled
assistance to remove him from the ring.
* * * *
Age and the strain of fighting continuously
are rapidly sending Jack M'Gowan among the back
numbers. In his match last week with Tasmanian Billy
Maher, bar the 18th and 19th rounds, the last named had
a decided lead. Yet the referee declared M’Gowan the
winner—a surprising decision.
• • • *
There’s a curious mixture of pugilism and
religion about Newcastle’s lightweight, Paddy King, now
on his way to Westralia in search of further ring victims.
He used to be a member of the Parochial Council con-
nected with the church he attended, and carried away
with him a huge presentation Bible. He doesn’t swear,
drink nor smoke the least little bit, but woe betide the
man who takes him on in the ring if he doesn’t come
along with a good stock of skill or a hide of iron.
• • # *
In connection with the Wolfe’s Schnapps £5O
cricket prize for the fourth test match, we have to
intimate that the amount will be given away to the
person who, if not giving the actual result, states the
result most closely. An advertisement appears in this
issue giving full particulars, and competitors are asked
to carefully follow instructions.*


Drink
Franz Josef Lager
. , . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
THE
I
mk
LETTER BOOK
Make* a complete outfit
with which any maw, wo-
man or child can write •
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy«
Item O. Pltjmvbr, Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
Straw Hat Manufacturer. August 18, 1902.
Two months’ trial of the Pro Carbon Iron Book obtained from you has satisfied oa
that your
r
roduce
reserve
revent
|F®UrBON
lean
(opies
onfusion
Letter
egible
asting
oss and
|^OOKS
ills
right
ad Language
Tours faithfully, C. PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH &CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
va
xj
H
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
■U
H
MAKERS OP
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1B03)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output-NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT
Wallace
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
274 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Qoods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & CO.
34 Queen St.,
Melbourne
ENOS
FRUIT
SALT.’
FOR ALL
A SIMPLE REMEDY
OF THE BLOOD.
IMPURITIES
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c. t
EVERYWHERE.
mis
■pOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
sitmated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
office - Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
Advfc. in Melbourne Age’s matrimonial
notices (possibly strayed from the Flemington fat
stock market column)
/7J.ENT, 53, tall, good appearance, £lOO, would meet
respectable, dark, solid, well-built young lady,
Protestant, view above. Steady, Age Office.
advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF 114 lbs.
h
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. _
SHARPSHOOTINC
ĥ
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKt
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nbtt.V
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Kepresentative).
GH AS GILBERT’S
H(/> zmrnco
AT THE BEQUEST
of numerous customers living far away, the date mentioned
for refunding half, third and quarter cash, respectively, to
the three customers sending the three biggest orders, will be
EXTENDED till FEBRUARY 20th. The winners’ names
and addresses will be advertised in The Bulletin, February
25th, 1904. Full particulars appeared in this paper on
December 23rd. Read it!
STOCKTAKING SALE
IS BOOMING!
Have you written for patterns, or sent an order for
anything in Men’s Wear?
This firm guarantees
“Money’s Worth or Money Back
ħ
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
SPECIALITIES
Moore’s Almanac for 1904 is the 53rd appear-
ance of the work, which contains a considerable mass of
information useful to country residents.
The Year Book op N.S. W. for 1904 is to hand.
It is a separate binding of the N.S.W. section of the
Australian Year Book, a trustworthy and comprehen-
sive reference work on Australia. From it, it is possible
to discover even such a trifling fact that there are
192,862 pigs in the State (these numbers apply only to
pigs which may be turned into bacon).*
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ;
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Dunlop Rubber
Conveying Belts
for ail purposes, made to order
in any length, and up to 45 inches
wide —endless. Guaranteed highest
quality of Material and Workmanship,
and FREE FROM STRETCH.
Samples and Prices on application
“ Petramos ” on Salvarmy captains :
It takes a man with brains (of a sort) and lung power
to be a good Salvarmy captain. He needs the gab of a
cheap-jack, the confidence of a spieler, and the persuasive
nature of a commercial traveller. He must also possess
the face of a low comedian, or be capable of making any
number of contortions of the physiognomy. At W
they had a really first-class man, who gathered in many
shekels, to the glory of God and the army, but one night
he received a free pass to Heaven and the lieutenant was
promoted. He was a mild youth whose jokes were
mellow, and was a sad failure. Booth or something
shifted him on at length, and a lady took command. She
perpetrated no jokes—only smiled a large, cracked sort
of smile that didn’t do much damage, but didn’t benefit
the Army. Now we’ve got another good man with
Darwinian features, who composes original hymns that
apply locally. But the youngest (and prettiest) female
Salvarmyite says when she becomes captain she will clasp
the hand of the sinner gently and lead him in the right
path with her persuasive smile, and so many sinners want
to be clasped that there is an agitation for the removal of
the gorilla-like captain and the promotion of the sweet
young thing in his stead.
In our advertising columns will be found
prospectus of the Western Australian loan of
£500,000 at 4 per cent, with a currency of 20
years. The loan is a subscription one, and the
price has been fixed at par. Priority of applica-
tion will be considered, and subscriptions close on
February 3rd. Fullest information as to the
financial position and expenditure of loan moneys
is given in the prospectus. Applicants may apply
through any member of the Stock Exchange.
“ G.H.” : Had I the wings of a bird I
would roost high nowadays and wear a shot-proof
shirt into the bargain. Met a female recently
with half a scrub-full of stuffed wild birds on her
hat, a snakeskin belt, and a fathom of feather boa
round her neck. I felt a desire to seize the ends
of the latter, knot them, and rush violently in two
opposite directions, but weak-mindedly refrained.
When the gaudy female demanded a contribution
of me for the heathen of Fiji, I put my voice
down, however, and told her to send the poor
heathen her pagan hat and other outfit. Then she
sniffed and passed on.
A culinary connoisseur has been seized
with a money-making inspiration, and is mooting
a co-operative cookery co. at Christchurch (M.L.),
to enable householders to get over the difficulty
caused by that sweet and beautiful creature,
Sarah Ann Jane Sophia. This public benefactor
proposes to start with an initial capital of £3OOO.
and supply gilt-edged aristocrats or workers’
wives, who are always late with teas owing to
Women’s Anecdote League meetings, with any
sort of meal from an epicurean poem down to just
plain hash. Subscribers have to arrange their
menus for the week, and the banquets will
arrive per motor car on hot water trays. When
“attendance” is required, a waiter or a bright
and pleasing waitress will whisk along, serve the
feast, and disappear with the dishes. Payment
in advance will discourage the debt-contracting
habit. The scheme also includes a down-town
restaurant for the accommodation of families who
are sick of their quiet, beautiful, and peaceful
home life.
The first Melbourne church was a shanty
where St. James’s Old Cathedral now stands ; all
Protestants used it. Afterwards, the Presby-
terians moved to Collins-street West, near Wil-
liam-street, about next to Batman’s house. The
Wesleyans moved first to Swanston-street. The
Baptists and Congregationals severally pitched in
Collins-street East. The R.C.’s were always on
the St. Francis’ site.
London Daily Chronicle very accurately
sums up the Federal Capital issues which guided
members of the Australian Parliament:—
1. Is this site near my capital city ? If it is, I must
vote for it. If not, I vote against it.
2 Will the trade of the Federal city’s area, if fixed here
or there, benefit my State ?
3. Is this site in my friend A.’s constituency?
4. Will this site be convenient to me to reach shdhld I
be returned to Parliament again?
The mansions of “ our old nobility ” are
being steadily converted into homes for charitable
purposes. The Good Samaritans have got Tox-
teth Park, Glebe, the residence for 70 years of
the Allen family. More recently the Church of
England secured “Strathmore,” on the opposite
side of Glebe Road, and the same denomination
has captured “Avona,” next door. Strathmore,
in the long ago, was the house of W. B. Tooth.
It was then purchased by George Wigram Allen,
whilom Speaker of N.S.W. Assembly. After
him came Dr. Andrew Garran, whose wife kept a
high-toned ladies’ school there. Avona, next
door, was, in the long ago, the residence of soft-
goods man Alexander M‘Arthur, who afterwards
became an English M.P. Subsequently it was
occupied by Mr. A. H. C. Macafee, of A.
M "Arthur & Co., who died there.


ONE WORD ONLY.
If you stop and think a minute, you will realise how impossible
it is to depend upon certain words in the English language. There
are some words which have been used so promiscuously that they
have lost all significance.
Take our English word “GlRL”—it means a female child
anywhere between 3 and 21 years of age; but, nowadays, we call
them all “girls” up to 100. When the baby’s sex is asked, we say “IT
is a girl,” and, when you engage a 65 year old cook, she is still “a
Go into a Restaurant and ask for lamb, and you will probably
get a two-year-old sheep—ask for chicken, and you are sure of
getting hen. ....
• • • m
If you are a smoker, you will have found out by now, that
according to the Tobacconist, everything is “THE BEST”
“COOLEST SMOKING,” “SWEETEST,” and a few other super-
iatives in common use. The fact is, that you cannot, in the
least, depend on adjectives when tobacco is up for discussion;
but use one word only . #
“HAVELOCK”
and you have solved the problem. You will be handed a Tobacco
that needs no adjectives, no bolstering up, and no other evidence than
your own taste and observation.
EVERYBODY SMOKES •*HAVELOCK”
because it just SUITS everybody, and that’s ail there is to it.
Aromatic and Dark. Plug and Cut.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chem sts throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
THE
LONDON”
-
42/- TO ORDER.
SMART
CLOTHES
For Summer are what we are showing—they are
the best and dressiest that it is possible to make.
There must be extraordinary merit in these
“LONDON” 42/- SUITS
to have gained the reputation they have am» g
smartly-dressed men for style and quality o
material. We guarantee a perfect fit if you send
for one of our Measurement Forms, together with
a selection of Patterns—Post Free.
LONDON TAILORING
DEPOT,
OPP. G.P.0., fIELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES).
| PURE LIME-FRUIT JUICE
PO you DRUNK LIME JUICE ?
h
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agents— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell &. Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen &, Co., Newcastle.
.v. x , 1
cordial
r %.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely 3kin.
Is. bottles. Made in London."
ĥ
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderiul remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165-Collins street, Melbourne.
References' throughout Great Britain and Colonitt,
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built-up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and TTav Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address; Dr. p. Harold h a yes’ Asthmatic Institute#
Buffalo, N. Y., u. 8. A.
Belief and Practice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
• The children of Buddha the Gentle, who taught the sweet
teaching of Love,
Who spurned as the spawn of Gehenna the wielders of
glaive and of glove,
The children of Buddha are yearning, a valorous, brown
little breed,
To grip with the Russ in the battle—the Russ who hath
Christ in his creed !
And each one is proud of his Gospel, and each one is
proud of his gun,
The range of his cursfed torpedoes, the carnage his fathers
have done ;
And each will prepare for the battle by blessing his
warriors with prayer
And begging the God Who is Mercy to smite through the
measureless air.
For prate as we may of our prophets, and cant as we may
of our creed,
The Savage will finally follow and cover our Cant with his
Deed ;
For Nature is deeper than Preacher, and Man is but wild
at the core,
And the Innermost Brute that we cherish is joyed at the
tidings of war.
We talk of our Faith and our Morals—the varnish that
lies on our skin—
And over the sound of our talking there rises a thunderous
din—
A din of the bursting of battle—a splashing of blood and
of foam,
And we know by the throb in our bosoms, they shelter
a savage at home.
A savage at home in our bosoms—a savage who pulses
akin
To savages born on the Dneiper, to savages yellow of
skin,
A savage who dances on Gospel, a savage who curses his
Buddh,
And drinks to the creed of his fathers, whose gods were
the drinkers of blood 1
For ever, when Passion is mighty, the Faith is a tether
of air—
A tether that snaps in a moment when bay’nets are
ready and bare,
And the prayer of the priest who goes blessing the tigers
who ravage and bleed,
It is but as the voice of a devil who chanteth a dirge for
the Creed !
For the Russ he will march into battle, a soldier of
Christ the Benign,
And his foemen will face him and rend him and call upon
Buddh for a sign ;
And the savage within us will join them, and joy as the
vict’ries are won,
As the savage hath joyed in the battle since the days of
our race were begun.
Q.
P.L.
Doctor : Yarning with a recent arrival
from Port Darwin, who had been a resident there
for nearly two years, he told me that the people
there were for a White Australia to a man. They,
from experience, know what a curse the Asiatic
race is. Their sympathy is also with Russia, in
her inevitable war with Japan, holding that,
should Japan succeed in vanquishing Russia, the
Japanese would not sit idly by and see themselves
excluded from Australia
Dr. E. J. Williams, of Melbourne,
comes back from S’Africa with the opinion that
the big trouble which is going to strike that part
before long isn’t yellow, but black
The Kaffirs are collecting arms, and are hiding their
time. It is not uncommon, especially near the coast, to
see a nigger chief galloping in on his' horse with a bodv-
> 20 or more colored men behind him, all armed
with Mauser rifles. All they require is combination, and
when this is brought about we can hazard the result.
M.P.D.” : jRe the Full Court, decision in
the copper-plate stealing case (13. 31/12/’O3). Had
u Reused l)een tried under Section 79 of
the Crimes Act, which makes a felony
of the breaking or tearing away of metal
(among other things) from a fixture, he would
probably have been nailed. But the mediaeval
notion, “ What s in the soil is part of the soil,’
effectually blocked the proceedings l>y common
law, and landed the Crown for the inevitable bill
of costs. _ It has been pointed out that one of the
possibilities opened up is that an ordinary carpet
may, on the same grounds, be stolen with
impunity, but as it happens the Crimes Act does
apply to carpets.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press vour finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, barringdon-street, London, England.
Agents i i'CLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for ths registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
(rein label on each box. (Rcgd. copyright).
Should Russia and Japan decide upon
war, the nation whose leaders obtain their
intellectual stimulus from D.C.L. Whisky must
score through superior wisdom. The little Japs,
if inspired by that scientifically adjusted beverage,
have sufficient pluck and other murderous re-
sources to land them on top at the termination of
the contest. On the other hand, should the
Russians suddenly substitute D.C.L. for Vodka,
the Japs will be wiped out in one act. D.C.L. :
The guide that leadeth to success.*
BABY SMILES
when washed with
WRIGHT’S"' SOAP
“Skin soft and comfy, and
no Measles,” he chuckles.
THE NURSERY SOAP
Q. A.
Q. I har# been feeling very poorly lately, and have just been told by my doctor that lam suffer-
ing from uric poisoning. I shall be glad if you will tell me just what uric poisoning means. Is it a
serious matter ?
A. Uric poisoning is caused by the retention in the blood of various substances which should
leave the body in solution. The retention of these substances is due to a diseased or inactive condi-
tion of the kidneys. _ When the kidneys are working perfectly, they filter and extract from the blood
of the average individual about three pints of urine every day. In this quantity of urine should be
dissolved various waste material produced by the wear and tear of the tissues of the body. This is
dead matter, and its presence in the blood is poisonous. The three pints of normal urine should con-
tain about ten grains in weight of uric acid, an ounce of urea, together with other animal and mineral
matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
Q. Then lam to understand that the substances you mention when not eliminated from the body
in the natural manner constitute what is known as uric poisoning. What are the usual symptoms by
which the presence of these poisons is manifested ?
A. Now you are asking a rather large question. Many complaints which are commonly called
diseases are not actually diseases in themselves. For instance, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles, are all caused by uric poisons.
Indigestion, Anaemia, Persistent Headache and General Debility are often solely due to
the same cause. In fact, if the kidneys are doing their work freely and thoroughly, none of the
complaints mentioned could trouble us as the causative poisons would be absent.
Q. I had no idea that so much depended upon the efficient action of the kidneys. I suppose
that when anyone is suffering from Rheumatism, Gout, Neuraljfia, Lumbago, Sciatica,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Persistent Headache or
Indigestion, the scientific method of effecting a cure would be to directly treat the patient for the
kidneys ?
A. Exactly In fact, that is the only way in which a radical and permanent cure can be effected.
The kidneys must be restored to health and activity, so that they may be enabled to remove the daily
production of poisons in the body, or the patient must continue to suffer.
Q. I have always been under the impression that the liver had a great deal to do with the
maintenance of our general health, but it seems that the kidneys are the chief cause of most of the
disorders from which we suffer?
A. The work done by the liver is of the utmost importance and it is closelv associated with the
work done by the kidneys. Indeed, when anything is the matter with the liver the kidneys are almost
always directly affected, and the contrary is likewise true. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver takes sugar
from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to
the blood, gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer.
<£. As the functions of the kidneys and liver are so intimately related, I gather that if there is
reason to suspect that either organ is not doing its work efficiently, a curative agent should be
employed which would act equally upon the kidneys and liver ?
A. Yes, that is the case, and it was the realization of this important fact which lead to the dis-
covery of that invaluable medicine Warner’s Safe Cure. About thirty years ago, certain medical
men, knowing that if they could find a medicine which would beneficially affect alike the kidneys and
liver, they could control most of the common disorders, devoted themselves to the search for such a
remedy. After many disappointments, their efforts were rewarded, and a medicine now known as
Warners bafe Cure was proved to possess the required properties in the fullest degree. Warner's
Safe Cure has a marvellously stimulating and healing effect upon both the kidneys and liver, and
by restoring those vital organs to health and activity, it necessarily cures all disorders due to the
retention in the blood of urinary and biliary poisons, such as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
Even Bright’* Disease, probably the most fatal of all diseases, yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
nitu f S! Ure ’ ** " ° Ur6S affe ° ted by Warner ’ 3 Safe Cure are permanent simply because
From Two Points of View.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I shall never get tired of it, never / ” said the
V»ride of a week, as she rested her hands on the
white verandah railing, and looked eagerly about.
It was in the Spring that he brought her home,
and the wattles were out in the hollow behind the
house their gnarled horny limbs honeyoombed
with bloom, and crazy with wild bees. It was
their heavy scent she noticed first when they
drove in at the top white gate, and the breeze
swung in their faces. The gums were blossoming
along the creek, showering waxen creamy blooms
and pungent leaves into the brown, sleepy tide
below, that circled and eddied so slowly between
the warm mud banks, on resistlessly to the wide
clear river beyond.
“ It is delicious,” she said, following the sweep
of the green lush swamp, that curved in a long
half-moon between the house and the red high
road. The marsh-land was a-glow with golden
buttercups, and a strange wild purple iris her
city eyes had never before seen. Great white
cranes stalked warily amongst the shallows,
gobbling for frogs amidst the blue-green reeds.
Ever and anon flocks of waterfowl swept past
with a furious scurry of wings. “ How could it
be lonely?” she cried. “Listen to the birds.”
In the pepper trees a flock of parrots swung and
shrieked, flashing gold and crimson flames among
the drab green leaves, and shaking the small red
berries tumbling beneath. On the garden path a
family of “apostles” danced to and fro, scolding
vigorously, and ruffling their sober feathers;
while on the fence a magpie—a magnificent dandy
—sang a welcome to the bush.
The sun had set below the distant hills—they
reminded her of vague, purple billows, far at sea—
dying out in drunken crimson behind the white
ra ggcd gums on the plain ; and shadows like
great clouds were stealing from the bush. The
voice of the creek protesting at the weir came
murmuring through the heavy-scented dusk. It
was growing so still. The flights of shrieking
cockatoos sweeping from horizon to horizon had
long since died to silence. The stars throbbed
into the sky, bigger, vaster, closer somehow than
they had ever seemed in the city. A thin saffron
haze told where the light had died. From the
swamp came the booming of the frogs, the thin
“skreel” of some desolate night bird. The clink
of a hobbled horse broke sharply from beyond
the fence. The girl laid her face on her husband’s
arm. “I am content,” she said.
■« * * *
“ How can I bear it ? ” said the wife of nearly a
year, lifting her head from her arm and staring
blankly outside to where the hessian curtain
swung to and fro, giving uninviting glimpses of
the dry, dusty paddocks that throbbed with
heat. _ The high road was deserted, save for the
whirling eddies of dust that, slanting through
the grey wire fences, drifted lazily towards the
house. Where the swamp of buttercups and
reeds had been was a scar of hard caked earth.
The wattles had forgotten to blossom. The
pepper trees drooped languidly, sand-laden, and
all her bright garden blooms were dead months
ago. With them the flowers of her life had
withered away, and her heart was bitter with lost
illusions. This hideous land of torture! Day
after day unbroken but for the whirlwinds of
dust, and the vagrant, floating crow. Her head
dropped. To-day the harbor would be undulating
blue above a sky of faintest steel, with the gulls
cleaving it lazily, sinking, rising, from the cool,
shifting water, and poising delicately midway
above the green, sun-warm swell.
The blackness of night had blotted out the
hills, and the heat that seemed to ooze from the
ground was worse than the vicious sun. Round
the kerosene lamp and about the table lay grey
heaps of singed and dying moths and insects.
The rustle of a week-old paper, and the swearing
of her husband as he mixed himself whisky and
water, reached the girl vaguely on the verandah,
where she crouched hopelessly in a canvas chair.
The sound of trickling water had not been heard
for months; the weir was now a wall of blister-
ing, gaping stones, across a dusty hollow, into
which the drought-seared gum-leaves sorrow-
fully fell. There were no birds to call from the
swamp ; even the curlews—harbingers of drought
—were never heard. A dog howled intermittently
at the back, and the sand, gritted shrilly on the
iron roof. Was there nothing but silence behind
that impenetrable darkness, and those miles of
trees? Her husband stumbled to bed, and the
dog howled on. Somewhere the ocean was
thundering on its beaches. Somewhere the
harbor was whimpering at its wharves. The mail
would be passing soon. If she caught it—there
was money in her room—to-morrow, the next day,
the next, she would be back again in the jargon
of the streets. She rose, the chair creaked pro-
testingly, she listened in apprehension. “ Are
you never coming in?” came irritably from the
room beyond. As she passed in to the stifling
gloom, and the reek of spirits, the mail rattled
and lurched past, and the swaying lights and
the voice of the driver died out among the trees.
C.A.R.O.
Re the committal at Sydney Water Police
Court of John Miller, on a charge of breaking and
entering, on the evidence of the (alleged) identi-
fication of finger prints. In Judge Burton’s time
a, man was hanged in Sydney on the evidence of
finger marks, a piece of a door with the print
of his bloodstained finger tips being exhibited in
court.
Irrigation in Australia.
Tbn or 12 years ago, at a time of the greatest
social unrest that Australia has ever known,
communism was put on its trial in a number of
intensely interesting settlements on the lower
Murray.. The experiment failed as completely as
the similar _ New Australia experiment did in
South America. But, even after communism had
been regretfully ruled out as a beautiful dream,
most of the settlements remained ; and another
experiment, almost as valuable, began—an ex-
periment which it is of particular value to inquire
into at a time when, as the result of a phenomenal
season, the “great natural industries” are being
boomed, and the people are being told that,
if they only had water, every year might
see as bountiful a harvest, it being, of course,
suggested that irrigation might supply that water.
Australia has very few waterways from which to
irrigate; but suoh as there are, these village
settlements have the very best that the continent
can offer—the southern half of the continent, at
any rate. They get not only the Murray waters,
but those of the Darling, Murrumbidgee, and
Lachlan also, when there are any. The settlers,
moreover, began their work filled with enthusiasm;
they probably knew no more about growing fruit
and cereals than most people, but they had
Government advice and they had the before-
mentioned enthusiasm, which was a good asset.
And yet, with all their advantages, only six of the
original 13 settlements have now any existence
whatever, and those six are, for the most part, in a
pitiable state. From first to last the S. A. Govern-
ment (to Nov. 30, 1903) has spent £116,848 on the
experiment, irrespective of a small amount which
was recovered from the abandoned settlements
during their existence ; all it has got back so far
is .£14,424. It has written off as lost £65,235 ; it
recovered a trifle from the sale of plant
on the abandoned settlements; and as for the
balance, £35,489, it has made an arrangement
with the settlers to pay it in 42 annual instal-
ments, and instalments 42 years ahead can’t be
relied upon with any great amount of confi-
dence. Already, in fact, although this arrange-
ment was made less than a couple of years ago,
the Government has been requested to be merciful,
and refrain from calling for the instalments ; and
as one of the settlers’ spokesmen backs up the
appeal with the statement that he only made £l2
last year, and had to keep a wife and three chil-
dren on that, the Government will probably have
no option in the matter. Here and there cer-
tainly are settlers who are satisfied ; but the fact
that, all told, only 89 heads of families remain,
whereas formerly there were as many as 557, is
more eloquent than any settler’s words.
Another eloquent fact is that, although lemon
trees were planted freely during the early
years, and bore splendidly, no lemons whatever
have been sent to market for two years because
there has not been enough demand to cover
expenses. In other words, in order to make these
settlements profitable, even under the most advan-
tageous natural conditions, there must be a larger
manufacturing population of consumers at hand ;
and that, of course, there will never be under a
Foreign-trade policy. For wheat there is, no
doubt, always a market, but only at a price which
makes irrigation impracticable along Australian
rivers, where, in almost every case, the irrigating
water must be pumped. Pumping is a costly pro-
cess—so costly that to grow wheat on land thus
irrigated costs more, in almost every case, than can
be got for wheat when the cost of exporting it is
allowed for.
“G.H.” writes•
Those who have any doubts at all about the
land resumption should visit Wando Vale, near Oasterton
(V.). Four years ago it was a one-horse station-property,
owned by one family, and populated by one manager,
two station-hands, one domestic servant, a couple of child-
ren, and half-a-dozen gaudy, but useless peacocks. To-
day it is oocupied by 66 different persons; some with
families, others young, virile men who may be depended
on to have families later. There are no peacocks or
flamingoes or other ornamental poultry on Wando Vale
at present; their place has been taken by ducks, hens,
turkeys, and other useful if unsesthetic animals. Prac-
tically every holding has a decent dwelling erected on
it. To-day, December 24th, a score or more of reapers-
and-binders are rattling along the hills and flats where a
few cattle and sheep browsed a couple of years back ;
and the wheat and oat-sheaves are falling from the
binder-tables like a golden hail. About the centre of the
settlement, and near the blacksmith’s shop and post-
office, there is a large hall, used as a school, and for
general meeting and concert purposes. (Anyone men-
tioning a concert or other social entertainment at W.V.
in the year 1900 would have been scoffed at as a lunatic.)
An example of another kind is furnished by Muntham, an
estate with better land than Wando Vale. Instead of being
occupied by fresh small-landholders, however, Muntham
was grabbed by a number of local farmers with land
already in their possession, and who are mostly using
their new property for grazing purposes instead of culti-
vation. Wando Vale had its cutting-up and disposal
managed exclusively by the Government, whereas the
sub-division of Muntham was very badly mismanaged by
private individuals. That there is more prosperity and
gain to the State in one quarter of Wando Vale than in
the whole of the larger and agriculturally better estate
is a pretty terse commentary on the benefits of Govern-
ment cutting up.
♦ —
Advantage is evidently being taken of the pro-
mise of a good season to work a “ boom’’in
farming land in N.S.W. Speculators are buying
up estates suitable for closer settlement and
subdividing them for sale, while farmers, forgetful
of the recent prolonged drought, are eager to pur-
chase at tall figures. Farms will be sold on terms
on the basis of present conditions, and when a
series of bad seasons returns, the buyers will, in
many cases, not be able to keep up their pay-
ments, their deposits will be forfeited, and they
will either have to clear out or remain as rack-
rented tenants. And this will be no new thing in
Australia. During the land boom, in Victoria a
dozen years ago, a quantity of private land was
disposed of at exorbitant figures to foolishly
sanguine buyers who found they could not com-
plete their bargains, and the land went back, with
their instalment moneys and improvements, to the
seller. In N.S.W. the circumstances at present
are exceptionally favorable to the holders of
country land, for, owing to the policy of using
land-sale money as revenue and making many
non-reproductive works out of loans, successive
Governments have been able to construct all
kinds of public works for country districts with-
out any tax being levied in return. The present
penny in the pound of land tax assessed on the
usual very moderate valuation, is far too light to
destroy speculative holding. Those people who
buy at present values and under present taxes
will find, very shortly, that they have made bad
bargains.]
“Gum-sucker” on preferential trade:—
Can’t you do or say something to put down this
mawkish cant that is going round about blood being
thicker than water ? It isn’t. Who fight so hard as two
l-? et ° n S!! right with e l ve 7 b ? d -Y
else s sister, but can’t hit it with my own. In fact, i
married another fellow’s sister.
<c t A/r » „„ „ m u, , ,• •- j
TV. H aa■ on a Melbourne election episode :
““ ol '
A swell-headed member of the breed entered the 6d.
house where I take in fuel every dinner hour.
He had a cow-face, and, appropriately enough, a
miniature cow-bell hanging from his sign-post tie-pin, a
spotted leopard vest, and a nose whose contemptuous up-
W The girl Tsked Mm whom he intended to vote for, and
he answered in a voice that made the electric fan wobble,
and caused a nervous old man near to give his vest a
drink of soup—“ The Argus faw.”
The little rabbit-faced man opposite him coughed
leo a u P set a y° un K cataract of tea over the
Xttered an apology and grabbed at his hat, which
dropped off the peg on to the Conservative’s cow-heel.
Latter swore a most democratic damn, and the crowd
laughed nastily.
“Marat”: “Rita Sunyasee” (8.,31/12/’O3)
discourses on “the rasping sounds of bush-life
awakening.” A suburban street is a whole zoologi-
cal garden compared to the bush in sound volume.
A tram guard living next door to me arrives home
about 1.20 a.m. and, after kicking up enough row
for a Chinese funeral, goes into the yard and
splashes 200 gallons of water under his bedroom
window to cool the air. He has breakfast then
in the kitchen, and roars out to his wife, who is
in the bedroom, various items concerning his last
“run.” Just as I am dozing off again. Casey,
who lives on the other side, gets up. He has to
be at work at 4.30, but gets up at 3 so as to be in
time. He wears hob-nailed boots, and the row he
makes rushing round to get Mrs. C. a cup of tea
reminds one of an avalanche on a drunk. When lie
leaves he slams the door with a bang that startles
every infant in the terrace ; they perform in turns
till 5 o’clock. Then the milkboy arrives next door,
and that conductor hasn’t put the can out : so
Mr. Cow kicks the door until the neighbor on the
other side gets up and tells him with 319 oaths to
pour the milk under the door —which he won’t do.
My nerves are in open revolt now, and so are the
nerves of M‘Gifford’s kids in the back lane. I
get up and swear forcibly till breakfast time. 1
wish I had the “quivery, quakery, husky call of
the wagtail.” I never heard it, but I’ll bet it’s
tame compared to Casey, and the “piercing
tremolo ” of the peewit is not in it with
M‘Gifford’s kids.


Are You Like A Stopped Clock?
A stopped clock is “run down.” Are you?
Summer s heat and close, trying days tell on the
business man, and still more on the woman in the
home. Loss of appetite, loss of energy, a feeling
of constant tiredness, frequent headaches and
inability to go your old pace—these are the_ signs
of being “rundown.” The cure, if you wish to
apply it without wasting time and running up a
heavy doctor’s bill, is Bile Beans. This is no
mere theory, as witness the following case:—
“ Twelve months ago,” says Cecelia M. J. Monaro,
of 10 Lackey-street, St. Peters, Sydney, “I
suffered considerably from headache, tired feeling,
loss of appetite and sleeplessness. I tried doctors
without success. Subsequently Bile Beans were
brought to my notice and I decided to give them
a trial. The contents of the first box gave me
great relief, and thus encouraged, I continued a
course for a month, with the result that I now eat
heartily and enjoy a good night’s sleep. I praise
Bile Beans highly for what they have done for me,
and always recommend them to fellow-sufferers.”
Any chemist will suppy them at Is. or 2s. 9d.
per box. Don’t take any substitute.*
If the man on the land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his agent. No
results, no payments.*
Knagg’s Almanac for 1904 is now issued by
Messrs. W. H. Sproull and Co., of Newcastle. The
Almanac is of interest to those who go down among
great whales in ships and floating coffins, and relates en-
tirely to the shipping business. The present edition is
much enlarged and improved, compared to those of former
years.*
Diverse replies to Seddon’s invitation to
protest against an Asiatic invasion of S’Africa :
From Cape Colony, the Afrikander State: “ Cape
Colony has not been silent upon the question of Asiatic
immigration. Many public meetings have been held, at
which strong adverse resolutions have been carried. The
Government sent a vigorous protest against it to the
Imperial Government five months since. That protest
has been renewed since the passing of Sir George Farrar’s
resolution a few days ago.”
From Natal, thi Imperialistic State: “The Govern-
ment of Natal holds the opin : on that additional unskilled
labor is urgently required for the development of the
Transvaal, and is unable to join in the protest suggested
in your telegram. A motion deprecating the introduc-
tion of Chinese labor into South Africa was brought
before the Legislative Assembly of Natal during last
session of Parliament, and was negatived by 30 votes
to 2.”
It is a bad sign for British Imperialism that it
should in S’Africa be so completely identified
with Chinese labor. Australia would have
declared for independence if she could at no other
price have got rid of the Chinaman, and it is
dangerous for the British Imperialist faction in
S’Africa to unite together in one opposition all
the genuine whites.
Mr. L. C. RAWLS, Searight, Ala., writes:
“My little boy, five years old, took WHOOPING
COUGH. I thought he could not live. The doctor said
his lungs were diseased, and gave him medicine, but it
did no good. JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED
HIM.”*
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
Viyella
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
tfi§!
pit
1
DAY
NIGHT
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
New Zealand Insurance
Company.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a dividend of 4s. per
share for the half-year ended 30th November last
is now payable at the Company’s Office, 81 Pitt-
J. A. MINNETT, Manager.
NEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. COMPANY, Ltd.,
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders in the
above Company will be held on FRIDAY, 29th inst.,
upon the Company’s Premises, as above, at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Manager.
BUSINESS :
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet, and to
transact any other business that may be brought
before the meeting, in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
Dated 15th January, 1904.
NEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. COMPANY, Ltd.,
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company will be
CLOSED from the 15th to the 29th inst., inclusive.
By order. EUSTACE BENNETT,
Gsneral Manager.
Dated 15th Januar' 1904.
PROSPECTUS
Western Australian Government
FOUR PER CENT. DEBENTURES.
ISSUE - - - £500,000.
Price of Issue, £lOO per cent. Interest payable Ist January and Ist July.
5 months' Interest payable on Ist July, 1904.
Principal and Interest received and paid in any Capital City of the Commonwealth.
1914
Principal repayable at par on Ist January, 1924, with right to redeem or cal] up on Ist .
upon twelve calender months’ notice, expiring on such date, being given by either side.
January,
The proceeds of this-loan will be applied to the completion and construction of repioductiy-
public works, including the final provision for completion of the Goldfields Water Sol,erne ;t e
Fremantle Harbor Works and Dock; the Menzies and Leonora Railway; the Laverton Railv ay
and Additions and Improvements to Open Lines.
The Loan Authorisations of the State to 30th June last were
Issued by Grown Agents for conversion purposes ..
£15,940,929 11
323 16
Floated to Ist November, 1903 15,908,998
Balance of old Authorisations
New Authorisation authorised since 30th June last..
Total of Authorisations available for flotation
The statement hereunder sets forth the position of the State’s Loan Expenditure on 30th Jon
Railways and Tramways.. ..
Electric Telegraphs .. _ ... •• ••••,••
Harbor and River Improvements, including Fremantle Harbor
Public Buildings • •
Water Supply and Sewerage, including Goldfields Water Scheme
Development of Goldfields and Mineral Resources
Roads and Bridges _
Development of Agriculture .. ..
Immigration
Miscellaneous .. •• *»
Loans Unfloated at above date
Total Authorisations to 30th June, 1903
The Railways and Tramways, after paying out of their Revenue £35,000 for construction, of
Stations and Sidings, and .£54,490 for replacing obsolete and worn-out Rolling Stock, returned a
surplus for the year of £322,458, or £33,802 more than was necessary to pay interest on the Capital
Expenditure of £8,905,868, and this year the result will be quite as favorable.
The Eremantle Harbor Works returned for the last 12 months, clear of all expenses, an amount
equal to 3| per cent, on the total expenditure on this work. This is exclusive of the returns from all
other Harbors in the State.
The Goldfields Water Supply is fast approaching completion, and the net revenue from this and
other Water Schemes this year will pay nearly 2\ per cent, on the capital involved, and at an early
date there is every justification for the expectation that the schemes will pay full interest.
On the 30th June, 1903, the total amount expended on Public Buildings, Roads and Bridges
amounted to £2,850,000, but of this large sum only £209,208 has been expended from Loan Funds, the
balance having been paid from Revenue.
The Expenditure under the Heads of “Develepment of Goldfields” and “Development of
Agriculture” contains about £500,000, which is directly reproductive. The balance can only be
classed as indirectly reproductive, although each year increases the direct reproductiveness of the
expenditure under these heads. The bulk of this expenditure was incurred some years ago, and was
rendered necessary in the earlier days of the Goldfields and Agricultural Development, but an ever-
increasing proportion of the votes specified is now paid from Revenue.
The State is constructing from Revenue a number of public works which are distinctly repro-
ductive. From this year’s Revenue provision is made for Railways, £87,000, being for part cost of
the Malcolm to Laverton Railway, the Gooseberry Hill Railway, the Owen’s Anchorage Railway,
and the Jandakot railway A further £25,000 is provided for Public Batteries, which pay working
expenses and interest; £72,787 for Additions and Improvements to Open Railways and Maintenance
and Repairs of Rolling Stock; £28,000 for Rabbit-proof Fencing, or a total of £212,787 is paid from
Revenue for works which elsewhere are paid from Loan Funds. An equal sum was provided on last
year’s Estimates for similar works.
Every industry in the State is solidly prosperous. Nearly £9,000,000 worth of gold was produced
for the year ended 31st December last. The agricultural and pastoral industries, owing to the never-
failing average rainfall, are experiencing phenomenal development. The Timber, Tin, Copper and
Pearl industries were never sounder. The population of the State during the year just ended
increased by 14,000. Employment is regular and capital profitably invested. The Mining Dividends
alone paid during the year ended 31st December totalled £1,988,755. Taking the nominal capital of
the mines now working at £30,000,000, this is over 6J per cent, per annum on that sum.
Three facts stand out prominently in the Finances of the State :
1. The rate of Interest on our Loans is .£3 9s. 6d. per cent., the lowest of any State in
Australia.
The proportion of Interest on Loans to total expenditure is £l3 19s. per cent., or including
the State’s Sinking Fund (amounting to £177,000 per annum) £lB 11s. 4d. per cent., as
against the next lowest Australian State of £26 per cent., or the average of Australasia
of £29 per cent.
Every Loan bears a Sinking Fund, varying from 1 per cent, to 3 per cent. This Fund is
not under control of the State Treasurer, but is sent to London to Trustees, who invest it
in purchasing the State’s own Stocks. Owing to the low price of Australian Stocks
generally, the State is by these means purchasing its own Stocks with its own Sinking
Fund at a Discount ranging from £4 to £l4. The annual contribution to this fund is now
£177,000, and, at the end of the present Financial Year, the fund will total £1,012,000,
or nearly one-half of the total amount provided by all the Sinking Funds of the whole of
the Commonwealth.
The Stock now offered will rank pari passu with the Stock issued and sold under “ The Loan
Act, 1891,” and all subsequent Loan Acts.
The principal and the interest will be payable at this office, or, if desired, in any of the Common-
wealth capitals, free of exchange ; or will be sent by post to any address at the stock-holder’s risk.
Applications, addressed to the Colonial Treasurer, must not be. for a less sum than .£lOO, and
I above that amount must be for multiples of £5O, and be accompanied by a deposit of £5 per cent.
Payment in full will be required on the 10th February, 1904.
interim receipts given at—
Applications will be reoeived and
The Treasury, Perth.
The National Bank of Australasia, Sydney.
The National Bank of Australasia, Melbourne.
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, Brisbane.
The National Bank of Australasia, Adelaide.
The Bank of Adelaide, Adelaide (as Agent for the Western Australian Bank).
The List will close on the 3rd day of February, 1904.
Allotment will be made according to date of applications.
JAMES GARDINER,
Colonial Treasurer.
The Treasury, Perth,
9th January, 1904.
Applications can be made through any Registered Broker of the Stock Exchanges of Sydney,
’ th.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Perth
At Poverty Point.
There is one really bitter theatrical critic in Australasia.
’Tis said that his wife is susceptible to actors, and whom-
soever she raves over he slates with envenomed pen.
Harry Rickards knows. Vulcana, the muscular lady,
is advertised as the “most beautifully developed woman.”
If her muscle was boasted too much, many males might
think she owned limbs strong, but unattractive.
Mr. John Lemmoue writes: Your Melbourne corre-
spondent of the “Woman’s Letter” in last issue is in
error in stating that M. Paderewski is coming to Aus-
tralia under the management of Mr. J. N. Tait. The
great pianist’s Australasian tour is solely under my
direction, and is due to commence in Melbourne July
next.
Advertisement in Victorian country paper
A S there is a rumor afloat that I played “ The Battle
of the Boyne ” on the bagpipes at the Penshurst
Sports last Friday, I herewith give the statement a
most emphatic denial.
Douoald M‘Lean, Piper.
“ Haresfoot” : What became of Barlow, the Blue-Tail
Fly ? I have a dim idea of his great hit in London.
Then he came to Melbourne, and was at Astley’s, I think,
and Cremorne, besides all round the Australasian com-
pass. Then he was amid the Queensland sugar pioneers.
Not much sugar in that. So you found him busking
again—l don’t mean in the vulgar sense, round bars.
Even at L. L. Smith’s Melb. Polytechnic he was a sort of
fly in amber. Long afterwards I was at a publisher’s,
when Barlow came in with a very big idea. It was to
publish his reminiscences. The bookman shook his
head. No money in it. “ What, me I —the Blue-Tail
Fly 1 Barlow, you know 1” The man didn’t know.
Wellington (M.L.) on Boxing Night sported two panto-
mimes and a drama of rainbow tints. At the Theatre
Royal Mr. P. R. Dix produced the “House that Jack
Built,” an old-new work from the pen of Bert Royal,
which caught on at once. The music is by Mr. Alec. Hill,
a local man. The “ Fuller Proprietary ” (who have added
to their real estate by purchasing the Opera House in
Tuam-street, Christchurch) staged “ Robinson Crusoe ”
in nice green tights. The Opera House sheltered the
Anderson company from the wrath of heaven which that
agonising shriek, “Her Second Time on Eartn,” might,
otherwise have brought down.
Ze Great Napoleon Boffard is the latest victim of bad
times in Mel murne. Nap.’s insolvency is quite pathetic-
ally unpretentious, considering the first-class appearance
he has presented to the world for years back. Liabilities,
£3GI ; assets, £6 ss. (consisting of diamond jewellery). A
few of his personal observations on this tragic event, as
communicated to The Bulletin: “The appearance of
M. E. Napoleon Boffard at the Insolvency Court this day
came as a great surprise to society and musical people,
and great svmpathies are expressed to him. Although
he alwavs emphatically deny it, the tenor was reputed a
man of means. But for his personal friends it was per-
fectly known that since a little over two years he had a
hard'struggle to get along. Weary of fighting, without
seeing any good prospects, in the impossibility to obtain
delays with some of the more heated creditors, and acting
under the decision of his advisers, M. Boffard fired his
schedule.” Well, he ha* nothing to reproach himself
with, except bad luck.
The number of competent actors who can’t hope to
earn more than £5OO. a year in Britain is about twentj'
times as large as the number who can earn £lOOO a year
—if exceptionally lucky. Hence the bitter cry of mum-
merdom concerning the salary paid to Consul, the chim-
panzee who rides a bicycle and otherwise apes the ways
of man. Consul is said to get £2OO a week from the
London Hippodrome, receiving the cheque in person and
handing it over to his trainer. There would seem to be a
great opening for a bad actor to become a monkey at a
great salary. There’s Mr. Wilson for instance.
“F.” : Antoinette Sterling, not more than 55 when she
died (last week), is remembered in Australia as an oppress-
ively stout contralto—a somewhat swollen-looking lady,
strong of voice, but scant of breath. Her voice was con-
tralto to a fault, and its distinctive quality was best
displayed after she grew fat, in songs of the sombre
character, such as “Three Fishers” and “The Three
Ravens.” In her prime days she could do full justice to
“ The Lost Chord,” which was written for her by Arthur
Sullivan, and which will keep her name green in musical
history. When Sterling came to Australia in ’93, she was
following Madame Patey, a better preserved and sweeter
voiced contralto, who travelled on her artistic merits,
pure and simple. The huge woman, with the red face
and the temperance principles, travelled as a sort of mis-
sionary balladist under the patronage of the Sex’s purity
societies and shrieking sisterhoods. She invited ridicule,
but she was terribly in eirnest, was Antoinette. When
not singing on the platform she talked, talked, talked
with members of some Christian union or other until her
warble degenerated out of knowledge. And how those
Christians did bleed the soul ! She sang to crowded
Town Halls pretty well all the time, yet at the end of her
profitable tour she had to cable to England for money to
take her home again. The genial Lohr, who acted as
manager for pious Antoinette, would never allow that
there was the slightest taint of business tactics in her
Christian Endeavoring. To lay up treasures in Heaven
was her dart. She wanted to pluck brands from the
burning. In saying good-bye to Lohr on the boat, the
“old girl ” implored him to turn from whisky, tobacco,
and all godless indulgences, and Lohr, like a good
diplomatic sinner, said he would give the matter his
earnest consideration. That he might consider the
matter from a new standpoint, he eventually took the
hotel at Anderson’s Inlet, and when news of Antoinette’s
death came to hand, he probably tied a bit of crape
round the neck of his blackest bottle, and drank there-
from a nobbier to her memory.
“J.A.C.”: I remember the recently deceased Antoi-
nette Sterling about the time she made her London
debut. She was then tall and thin. As a singer, many
good judges thought little of her, for, though she had
a beautiful voice, her vocalisation was mechanical and
cold. Also, she was ever then that extremely aggravating
person, an “aggressively good” woman. It was said
that her religious scruples prevented her appearing in
opera, but a more likely reason was that she was a bad
music-reader and timid —constitutional defects, which
caused her to abandon oratorio, about which she could
have had no religious scruples. When she sang “ The
Lost Chord,” her cheval de bat.aille, in Sydney Town
Ilall, she nearly drove Weigand, who played the organ
obligat', out of his mind. Her fads concerning
W.O.T.U.’s, and that sort of thing, amounted to a vice.
While iri Melbourne she presided at a meeting in the
then Alexandra Theatre with reference to the rescue
of fallen women. The subjects discussed were so strong
that soon the women in the audience began to file out,
followed soon afterwards by the men, who got tired of so
much moral excellence. As one moral detail followed
another, Madame Sterling worked herself into a fine
frenzy, and, burying her head in her hands, tragically
cried out “Oh, my God ! an exclamation no doubt
echoed by many of the departing assembly. But doubt-
less she was sincere enough, and, taken all round, was,
if not a great artist, at leas”- a very good exponent of the
poppycock ballad.
“ 0.K.” : A small thing in theatre panics happened at
Melbourne Royal some years ago. The last act of a
melodrama was being played, and Kate Bishop “held”the
stage, when two men in the gallery came to blows. The
disturbance, with its consequent general rising of the
gallervites, sounded like a rush for the doors; aery of
“ Fire ! ” was raised by a fool in the pit, and immediately
the whole house had the impulse to flee. My recollection
of this exciting moment is that most of us who were
happily situated at the back of the house, in a position
to "et safely off the premises if necessary, showed
“ presence of'mind ”bv yelling “ Sitdown !” to theothers
who had more cause for terror Also, Miss Kate Bishop,
who was clearly “ready to sink through the floor,”
stood her ground at the front of the stage, and
put out her hands beseechingly to the audience.
The panic subsided very quickly, the rush of feet ceased,
people in the front stalls were observed to be taking it
coolly ; somebody raised a cheer, everybody cheered, and
the few people who had actually scooted into the corri-
dors came slowly hack to their places. Some looked
ashamed of their'panic. In more than one case (I am
speaking of the dress-circle) men had left their women-
kind to shift for themselves, and it must be an awful
humiliation to return to one’s forsaken “ missis” under
such circumstances. Some showed a certain moral
courage in confessing that their legs had mastered their
reason. I have in my mind’s eye the picture of a cheery,
sprv voung man who rejoined his cooler-headed friend,
saving—“l had to go, old man ; for the life of me, I
couldn’t have stopped myself.” The candid panicker
was one who might have been backed to put up ft very
good fight under Queensberry rules, but the instinct of
self-preservation dominated his will when he thought Ills
life was in danger.
Total number of Kanakas in Queensland
at present, 8308. In 1903 there arrived in Queens-
land 1037 Polynesians, while 1097 left for the
islands. There are two more vessels—the Clans-
man with 36 recruits, the Lady Norman with 59
to come, and then the importation of sugar-serfs
finally ceases. Already the white workers are
invading plantation work in great numbers.


STRENGTH for the SICKLY
What is it that ails you? That makes you appear like a Shadow
amongst Men, a Burlesque upon Healthy Manhood ? You can-
not Eat, Work or Sleep well. You are incapable of perform-
ing Life’s ordinary duties. There must be a Cause! Your
ill-health is the effect of that Cause. Yesterday as Time
goes, you were Strong and Healthy, taking a delight
in Life and its Pleasures. To-day, you are Puny,
Strengthless, Hopeless, and Ambitionless. In fact, you are a
Failure. What is the reason?
Do you lie awake at night, restless and unrested ? If you sleep, are you troubled with Hideous Dreams, gruesome
and blood curdling, as if falling from High Towers or over Precipices? Do you continuously fear Sudden Death? Is
your appetite poor, your back weak and ashing, your spirit depressed, your nerves shattered, your heart hopeless? Are
you a wreck only of your former self, ashamed of your lack-lustre eyes, your sallow cheeks, your cadaverous expression,
your anaemic body, your attenuated frame? Are you Weak in Vital Power and know that your strength is daily ebbing
away from you ? Have you floating specks before the eyes (a sure sign of deranged kidney processes) ? These are all Vital
Questions. What you want is to wear for a few nights
The Freeman and Wallace “ Invigorator ” Belt
which is sold for One Pound Only, and you will become as strong as Hercules. It acts upon Weak Men like a Magic Charm.
It tones up the Muscles, strengthens and soothes the Nerves, enriches the Blood, improves che Digestion, gives new Nerve
Force and Power to every Vital Organ of the Body. It makes Old Men feel Young and Young Men Manly. It gives you the
Power of Youth, the necessary Animal Magnetism absent from your Body, which is as the Fuel to the Engine. These won-
derful Electric Belts never fail to relieve.
3.
m
t"k+~
s.
*
Bach Specialist asso-
ciated with the Profes-
sional Staff of the
FREEMAN & WALLACE
MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
Sydney or Melbourne,
is under a Guarantee
Bond of £lOOO for the
faithful performance of
all Medical contracts
undertaken.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE, Sydney & Melbourne
Any man may, if he so
desires, through private
reasons of his own, consult
the Specialists, by address-
ing privately “ THE SEC-
RETARY,” THE FREE-
MAN and WALLACE
INSTITUTE, ELIZABETH
and BOURKE STREETS,
MELBOURNE. In some
instances, a man may not
be able to call personally
and may prefer to write
upon matters seriously con-
cerning himself. All such
letters are promptly re-
plied to by the Physician-
in-Chief, Dr. R. Wallace,
M.D., who is Qualified and
Registered by the Medical
Boards of New South
Wales, England, and Ame-
rica. Dr. Wallace’s great
Medical Work, “ CLINI-
CAL EXPERIENCES,” a
book essentially for men,
will be posted FREE on
receipt of ONE SHILLING
IN STAMPS, to pay postal
transit to any address.
Great Cures in Three Weeks.
The Specialists have cured by their
Electro-Medical methods, in the short
space of three weeks, cases alleged by
Medical Men to be “incurable,”
where men and women have suffered
agonies for years from Indigestion,
Dyspepsia, Sciatica, Weak Back,
Rheumatism, Muscular Inflamma-
tions, Swollen Joints, Epilepsy, Kid-
ney and Bladder Troubles, Dyspepsia
or Lumbago. Thousands of testi-
monies are in the possession of the
Specialists, received from grateful
patients in all parts of Australia,
thanking them for bringing again
into their lives the sunshine of
Health and Happiness.
Professional Qualifications
The Physician - in -
Chief to the Insti-
tute, who sees each patient professionally, is a Specialist of great International
reputation and skill, and is registered by Australian and English Medical
Boards (see Victorian and New South Wales Registered Practitioners’ Lists).
His Professional Opinions are given FREE.
A GREAT WORK,
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 570
pages, 150 graphic medical plates,
31 chapters upon General Diseases, embracing subjects dealing with public
hygience of utmost value to people living remote from medical centres.
Described by the Australian Press (comprising 200 leading Australian
journals) as “ A WELCOME ADDITION TO AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE.”
Anyone desirous of possessing this first class medical work, should call on the
Specialists at their address. Special chapters on Fevers, Management of the
Sick Room and Invalids, Sunstroke, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite, Rescuing
Apparently Drowned, Insomnia and Cure, Electricity, and the Cure of
Nervous Disorders, Brain Affections; etc., etc., make it invaluable to country
residents, where medical men are few. It may be obtained FREE by calling
on the Specialists at Sydney, or at the Melbourne Branch, corner Elizabeth
and Bourke-streets, opp. G.P.0., or Post Free on receipt of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
1
ces
II
Gene
Dis
EEMANA
o Medical*
The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch—Elizabeth & Bourke Sts., opp. G.F.O.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
read it.
JOHN DICKS - - - Strand, London, W.O.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
m
mm
ppi^
(
L 5
• i'*.', V
i'r>
>.w
ss
m
\
/
I I
*
N
O
Darkroom
Noui
Mlnd/^WW
mm
rite
%figrit/on this paper
ħ
28$C0LLINS ST
MELBOURNE.
h
Concerning Elgin Watches
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’— 4OB, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
TYPEWRITERS
ĥ
3 of the World’s Best
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
6
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HedIey Button.
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
MADEFROM
piiudi rnum r j.
Fresh Fru |T herbs
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS
NATURES 0 m REMEDY
A TASTELESS a FAISLESS APERIENT.
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes thus: “The action of
Golden Frutex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles
Good for INFANTS and AGED alike.
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS. Obtainable Everywhere—Box, 20 Tablets, Is 6d.
Head Office for Australasia—3l7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted is. Id.
Pott Fret.
A Canadian paper prints this:—
Two hundred moulders were induced to come from
England to Canada to accept better positions than they
had in England. After arrival and incarceration in the
foundry (they were actually prisoners), they learned that
they were taking the places of strikers, and immediately
voted to stop work. However, when an attempt was
made to leave the foundry, constables with drawn clubs
barred the way, and honest workingmen, decoyed from
their homes in a distant land, and housed in cattle stalls
during their voyage across the ocean, were forced to
struggle for their freedom.
■A-nd yet some foolish people denounce as brutal
and barbarous a law, such as Australia and the
United States have, to prohibit contract-labor-
lmmigration, and assume that nobody benefits by
it but the local workman. As this case proves, the
law is really a valuable protection to the foreign
workman as well. He may come, but he may not
be trapped into coming.
There was another “shunted” politician
but the event did not come off. It was in the
years gone by, and Henry Parkes was the shunter.
A newspaper proprietor represented a N.S.W.
country seat. The Government Printership was
about to become vacant, and the newsman retired
from Parliament, having been practically promised
the appointment. Then Parkes pointed to the
rule which said that a man must have been out of
politics for six months before receiving a Govern-
ment billet. That politician-very old now —is
still to be seen on Sydney streets.
“ H.P.” writes from Wellington (M.L.) :
There is only one copy of any paper at that tiny little
icebound calabash known as the Matte Brun hut, away
up among the snow-clouds of the Southern Alps of
Maoriland—a Bulletin of April 12,1902. “The Hermi-
tage ” is some 2500 ft. up the rugged faqe of Mt. Oook.
Fourteen miles away to the bleak south is the stupendous
ice-flood known as the Tasman Glacier, and another ten
miles across this frozen ice-plain, 5700 ft. above the level
of the sea, is the hut known as Matte Brun. In making
the slide across the glacier every half-ounce of weight
tells. Up till last year literature had no part in anyone’s
haversack. Then a devotee of the disreputable paper,
miserable without it, packed up a copy surreptitiously
with his pemmican, and even thus handicapped reached
the tiny haven without mishap. Since that date the old
back-number has been read and re-read scores of times,
and the guides have made that Bulletin tapu.


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES
[yjORRIS’S^
IMPERIAL.”
Ilmpenal
* *
©intment
* Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-.
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb.
FITS CURED
From the first (lose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Missing Friends.
Re WILLIAM RICHARDS DUNSTAN.
— % _. REWARD will be given to anvone furnishing'
£5 the address (if still alive) of WILLIAM
RICHARDS DUNSTAN, late of Ryhnpe Colliery, near
Sunderland, England, miner, but last heard of about 12
years ago from Millthorpe or Tomingley, N S.W ; or, it
he be dead, for satisfactory proof of Ins death. C°npnu-
nications should be addressed at once to WILLIA.M BELL
& SONS, Solicitors, SUNDERLAND, ENGLAND.
Thomas warman bathe, of Wiltshire,
England, who about 55 years ago went to Australia,
or his descendants, are requested to write to the under-
signed when they will hear of something to tneir
advantage. JOHN T. S. COLE, SHAW FARM
SWINDON, WILTSHIRE, ENGLAND.
CRICKET.
England
4th Test Match.
PICK THE RESULT AND WIN THE
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
£5O.
Fifty Pounds Sterling
will be presented to the person who correctly
estimates the result ot the 4th Test Match between
England and Australia, to commence in Sydney on
or about 26th February, 1904. Should more than one
person give the result, the amount will be proportion-
ately divided among them. Should no competitor be
exactly correct, the amount will be given to the
person who states the result most closely, but in the
event of a tie, the prize will be divided equally.
The following is an example for Competitors :
“ I select the Australian Team to win the
Fourth Test Match by innings, ..6..
wickets, ~B..runs.
John Jones,
lilt Mary Street, Junee, N.S. W."
Competitors must cut out the label headed
“ Caution to the Public,” which in on the yellow
wrapper of each bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps, and
write their selection on the back of it. If any other
part of the wrapper is sent the selection will be
informal. All selections must reach us not later than
the day before the Match starts.
All Envelopes must be properly Stamped i
outside Sydney, 2d.; Sydney and Suburban
radius, Id., and must be marked “WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS, £50,” and be addressed to the
44 Proprietors of Wolfe's Schnapps,
BOX 250 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.”
All the results will be sealed before the Mate I
commences, and deposited with the Manager of tli
Sydney Daily Telegraph, who has kindly consente
to hold them during its continuation.
For the Men Folks
At this store the needs of the men are studied and understood. We have
hundreds of useful things suitable for Birthday Gifts or Presentation. We
have things for every age from cradle-days up to manhood, and in variety
such as you cannot possibly get elsewhere, and at all prices except high
ones. Write for Price List.
ħ
No. F 8966.— Solid Silver Military Hair
Brushes for men. Best make, 21s each
No. F69o9.—Heavy 9ct. Gold
Engraved Shield Links, 21s.
No. Fs93s.—The Billiard Player’s
Companion, Solid Silver Billiard
Chalk Holder, 6s.
No. 257.—501 id Silver Sovereign
Case. Best Make only, Plain or
Chased, 10s 6d.
No. F69os.—Torpedo and Shield
Links, 9ct. Gold, 21s.
No. 259 A.—Silver Cigarette
Case, 278 6d.
Plain or Chased, in 9ct. Gold,
£l2 10s.
The “ Kings’ ” Sovereign Purse, just patented, simple and
safe action, quite different from old style.
In Solid Silver, price 14s 6d.
No. F 7354.— New Zealand Greenstone and Gold Pendant
for Watch Chain, 12s 6d.
No. Ps293.—Gent.’s Solid Silver Card
Case, 12s. 6d. Solid Gold, £5.
No. G262l.—Silver Serviette Clip, 2s.
No. E646l.—Silver Case containing
Cigarette Holder, 6s. 6d.
No. F 6235. —New Zealand
Greenstone and Gold
Watch Chain Pendant,
22b 6d.
No. F 7416. —9ct. Gold Tie
Clip, 14s 6d ; Silver, 2h 6d
9ct. Gold Tie Clips in many styles. Plain, 6s 6d a
pair : Heavy-made, 12s 6d ; set with Stones, 129 6d,
14s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d.
No. F936s—Engraved Solid Silver
Match Box, strong make, 12s 6d.
No. 602.— Solid Silver Sovereign Case and
Match Box combined, 27s 6d : 9ct. Gold,
£6 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £9 10s; 18ct., £l5lOB.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. G2394/9.—Silver-
plated and Leather
Whisky Flasks, 6 sizes,
9s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d,
15s 6d, 17a 6d, 22a 6d
No. E6ol9.—Silver-Mounted Shaving
Mug, 10s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather Pocket Book
Solid Silver Mounts, 10s 6d.
No. QB.—Gentleman’s Solid Silver Concave Military
Hair Brush, 18s 6d.
No. F7oBB.—New Zealand Greenstone and 9ct. Gold
Fish Pendant, 22s (id.
m a
No. G4CB.— Faultless Queensland Bean Match Box,
Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
NO SOM
MUSICIANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A sucking Satyr, on a throne
Of flowery-netted silver stone
Espied, one day,
A dainty Dryad, thro’ the trees,
With shining arms and naked knees
In wanton play.
A woodland fountain bubbled near
For joy to hold, reflected clear,
The morrow’s moon,
Too early in the beaming sky
To rule the starry empyry
At Night’s high noon.
Forthwith the Satyr seized his flute
From where it lay, asleep and mute,
Amid the glow
Of dewy leaves; and to his lip
He, smiling, pressed its honeyed tip
And ’gan to blow.
Down every trembling aisle and lane
Like mating birds, the magic strain
Fled hurriedly;
Or whispered in the shy young ear
Of daisies, so they blushed for fear
And modesty.
And never Earth felt sweeter shame
Than when the Satyr’s lyric flame
Fell on her breast,
Most like to that imperial shower
Jove rained on Danae in her tower
With jealous zest.
Now, thro’ the fountain’s timid song
It swept its tidal wave along,
In ravishment,
To woo the Dryad and to raise
Within her heart a sudden blaze
Omnipotent.
She paused. Then listened, all her shape
Bent forward in some half escape
Of daring dance;
Thus was she won, and thus subdued,
A captive caught; no more pursued,
Yet held in trance.
She came (so languid from the stream
It seemed she wandered in a dream)
Between the vines,
Her elfin ringlets, set with drops
Of golden pollen from the tops
Of sacred pines.
Through every trembling aisle and lane
She followed close the magic strain,
And lo! anon,
She spied the flowery-netted stone
Whereof the Satyr made his throne,
To play upon.
She saw the moist-eyed Satyr, too,
Perched leeringly against the blue,
Unclouded sky,
And thought Endymion to pale
In beauty, and the nightingale
Sang jealously.
And so he drew her, thread by thread,
Until he even felt her head
Hide in his breast,
Where now there seemed that all the store
Of myrrh and cassia, musk, and more,
Were sweetly pressed.
His greedy lips forsook the flute,
To hold the kingdom absolute
Of her dear mouth,
When suddenly she sped away,
Like blossoms early blown in May,
Athwart the South.
In vain he spread his empty palms ;
He could not gather back her charms
To his embrace,
While thro’ the trees the cry up-flew :
“I loved your music ; never you —
Old Evil-Face ! ”
And so such Satyrs of to-day
As fancy, when they lightly play
An instrument,
That maidens sigh for them a lot,
Should bear in mind this god, and what
He underwent.
N.S.W.
HUGH R. M'CRAE.
The Maoriland person’s tendency to ad-
vertise that “I, John Smith, am not John Smith,
but another person of the same name,” breaks out
very strongly at times. Recently, a lady adver-
tised in a country paper that two persons, whom
she named, had stated, but not in the presence of
witnesses, that she had had an unlawful operation
Eerforined on her, whereas nothing of the kind
ad ever happened. This seemed to be giving a
reasonable amount of publicity to a rumor which
would be much better treated with well-directed
road-metal, or by pouring a large jug of ink over
the traducer from a balcony.


DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION.
It is not the quantity of food taken, but the
amount digested and assimilated, that gives
length and vitality to the system. OHAM-
BERLAIN’S stomach and liyer
A ELE TS invigorate the stomach and liver, and
enable them to perforin their functions. The
result is a relish for your food, increased strength
riu greater endurance, and a clear head.
Ohamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets are
Just What You Need.” Sold everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE •
\
SEND NO MONEY.
tITE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
W Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE :
The oniy condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**B T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed en velope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your Jetter to our address :
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
h
ĥ
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
The VOLCANIC) AERATED WATER MACHINE is being
used on Messrs. Spiers & Pond’s Railway Refreshment
Bars throughout the United Kingdom.
A Great
Saving
TO ..
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS
ETC.
AERATED WATERS Of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the Best and Simplest
Machine in the Market. HEP” Prick
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS 10 GALS. WATER.
YALYE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same principle, £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine for years.
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depot: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PL ANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“Oavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALVE
ToAnthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... ... ... MADAME VIALTZEVA.
Andante “Favourita” ... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “ Harold ” ... ... MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how ? The answer is ready
at once— By means of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type
£4.
ħ
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32105.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, R/undle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & 00., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & 00., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“BengeFi* Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
r s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Bender’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
J°e Chamberlain reckons that Britain will
ho '!;!? R * re ®^ raf le majority at next election, and
* P e , , j Protection two or three years later.
A tough old dogma doesn’t die in a hurry.
From the letter of resignation of Mines
Commissioner Wybergh (Transvaal):
a^wa y® P u .fcj n the forefront, second only to the
ino- ,v“ 6 . 0f ® rlfcis h supremacy, the necessity of free-
? from the undue predominance in politics
i ?L erests . °* ttle financial, and particularly the non-
tf®nanu ia ’ elemen ts. I cannot but feel that mv
tW °”, s h , av ? been disappointed. It appears to me
- °J , the P olitical influence with the Govern-
•q t c , e * er ° lse d by the financial interests having declined,
increased* 10 * 36 * 1 woul<l do > tbii influence has rather
Strong illustrations of the folly of his
kreetrade policy are now being pushed under
uil s notice daily. For instance, a London mer-
cnant sends along to the press a business letter he
has received from America :
Gentlemen—lf you are shippers to the United States
you are hereby advised that American wooden packing
cases can now be promptly supplied you by Messrs.
* **. ~ street, London. American packing
cases are admitted here free of U.S. Customs duties, but
foreign packing cases are dutiable at same rate as the
goods they contain, therefore by using American cases a
saving of 40 per cent, to 60 per cent, is effected.
“ Anglo-Amerioan,” in the North Ameri-
can Review :
What is it at bottom that makes the English atmo-
sphere so difficult for an American to breathe? It is, I
ben eve, that he feels himself in a country where the
dignity of life is lower than in his own ; a country where
a man born in ordinary circumstances expects, and is
expected, to die in ordinary circumstances; where the
scope of his efforts is traced beforehand by the accident
of position ; where he is handicapped in all cases and
crushed in most by the superincumbent weight of caste,
convention, “ good form,” and the deadening artificiali-
®*. an society. That unconquerable buoyancy
which infects the American air like a sting and a chal-
jenge, and braces every American with the inspiration
that he has a chance in life—that here are open oppor-
tunities, unreserved possibilities, no battering at locked
doors, no floundering in blank alleys ; that here, in short,
iu ..u man himself "’bo makes his career—is something
that the English have so utterly lost as to be incapable of
realising it.
B. : -Be Phil May. A drawing of him-
self, by himself, will be found in Zangwill’s
“King of Schnorrers.’’ May illustrated two
stories in the book—the end-piece of one being a
caricature of himself as a jester.
The present Hobart Treasury in Murray-
street was, in the old days of “the System,” the
Police Court, and was opposite to the gaol and
the gibbet. The old cells have never been
touched, and oan be seen to-day, mouldering away
beneath the Government money-ohangers.
Re Chicago theatre fire. Against the
advice of Dr. Gresswell, ohairman of the Board
of Health, the Irvine Government, a year ago,
dismissed three of the board’s inspectors. These
men were engaged to see that the necessary pre-
cautions in case of fire were taken at theatres and
public halls.
“ D.” : Some parsons know the ear-biting
business down to the ground. Happened to
stroll into a bethel the other day, and when
leaving the churchwarden handed me a little
paper envelope about two inches square marked
“Church Debt. 2/6. Special Collection. To be
placed in the plate at any of the services on the
first Sunday in the month.” I found it empty
and went back and asked where the 2s. 6d. was.
Then he told me that 1 was to place the coin in
it ; the parson supplied the bags and the 2/6 was
printed on them lest someone might put a
sovereign in by mistake. Tf you wanted to give a
sovereign you oeuld get eight bags. He was so
good in explaining mattors that I took eight bags
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ Saltee ” from S.A. :
The salt lagoons which abound on the southern end of
Yorke’s Peninsula are put to some curious uses occasion*
ally. A fair-sized one at the back of a certain town-
ship is used as a rubbish tip by the community generally.
Tins, bottles and other trifles all find a resting place here,
as well as carcases of eats, dogs, etc., with a stray horse
or two. Some years ago a township resident had a large
shark brought up from the nearest seaport for the sake of
getting its teeth, which are considered decorative when
used for breast-pins, etc. When the shark arrived he
found someone else had removed the coveted molars and
the question of disposing of the useless carcase had to be
faced. Ultimately the common dumping-ground afore-
mentioned was resorted to, and the sixteen-footer was
carted down and deposited to work off its superfluous
odor in the lagoon. The salt which comes from there-
abouts is said to be of very superior quality. By-the-
way, the local cemetery is also situated on the bank of
the lagoon. For general usefulness that lagoon may be
said to hold a record.
Related by Fitzgerald Molloy, in his recent
book on “The' Sailor King,” that William IV.
was anxious to be styled Henry IX., but was
dissuaded by the church dignitaries, who recalled
(and apparently believed in) an old prophecy
that, “as Henry VIII. pulled down monks and
cells, so Henry IX. would put down bishops and
bells.” With Edward VII. now on the throne,
and George V. and Edward VIII. to follow in
the natural order of things, the church seems
likely to have a good long respite.
T. P.’s Weekly tells a good story of
Professor Banks, president of the English
Wesleyan conference. Preaching one Sunday,
lie saw a young man apparently much moved.
Thinking to give the youth time to compose
himself, he asked his hearers to join in singing
the hymn, “Sometimes a light surprises the
Christian while he sings.” There was a general
grin, and he then found that the young fellow
had set'his coat-tails on fire by sitting on his
lighted pipe.


TATTE RS ALLS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Fenny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients -will please forward Id. extra for each as.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, Tas., Jan. 27, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 1904, 100,000 at 10/2.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 1904, 100,000 at 5/1.
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
SMELTING &
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA
06 Miles from Sydney).
1001, Limited
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearne
Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption tp develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs' have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. &
BEIWARE OTP COUGHS l
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds a'id bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really' excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. — T is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough w’as so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I uged your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. P. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
** My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford.
Victoria."
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria."
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—o. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
‘Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
W
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J SLATER, Warragul, Victoria."
“ I ini very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine fasiama is worth £1 a bottle.— W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ / have tried lots -f medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Sidini, South Wales." 0
“ I suffered from Ch.-ooic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say lh— I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn R--«r, t ia Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
Cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WUKLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDRED 3 CURED~IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Offloe,
“ 169 Queen-street!, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been oontinually reoom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony*
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithful!v,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertises."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch pepot office i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
SmaH Size. 2s 6d: Larsre. 4s 6dL Sold bv Cliemists and Medicine Vendors Forwarded bu Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.


“Thurla”: Like “Ku-Klux” (B.
24/12/’O3) let me also air my biblical knowledge
to correct The Bulletin’s statement—“ It is
pleasing to note that there is not a single lady
mentioned in the Bible.” The term “lady” occurs
twice in chap. 47, Isaiah :
Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter
of the Chaldeans ; for thou shalt no more be called the
lady of kingdoms.
And thou saidst I shall be a lady for ever; so that thou
didst not lay these things to thy heart, neither didst
remember the latter end of it.
Hiphen One damp evening last week,
a shabby individual, very wet inside (and out),
carrying the inevitable supper cray-fish of the
very drunk, stepped into a tram, seated himself
next a pompous military gent, covered with gold
lace and hauteur, and, after wishing him the
compliments of the season, entered into a lively
discussion as to the prospects of war. He of the
brass buttons and tin spurs stood it for a while •
then remarked freezingly, “I—ah—don’t know
you, sir! You—ah—have the advantage of me.”
The drunk gasped for a moment, then looked him
up and down in beery criticism and turning to me
remarked, “Don’t see where th’ advantagesh
comesh in, d’you ? ” The military gent sprang to
his feet and, drawing his sword, plunged it to the
hilt in the drunk’s body, which squelched grace-
fully onto the seat —at least that’s what he would
” av ® done had it been in Germany. As it was in
the St. Kilda Road he only stopped the tram and
stepped off breathing cuss words.
MOST SUCCESSFUL.
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is
the most successful medicine in the world for
bowel complaints, both for adults and children.
-Pleasant and safe to take, prompt in its action,
ec *' * n resalta - Sold everywhere at Is.
Miss Ada Crossiey’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
Gentlemen,—
I want to tell you how delighted I am with the
Pianola. It is altogether wonderful 1 In an accom-
paniment to several of my songs it has given me
splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Very truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one Pianola.
Sold Only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola free if yoo
will wiite us. Ask for Catalogue B.
Informal Recitals daily 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
You are cordially invited to attend.
Rhymes with
t
/V*N
S.
&
/V%
a
r
m
>
ct
4
'i'S
and so does
PEARS
Brushook's Great Scheme.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wur yer ever on Cooyar Crick ? ” asked Scully,
taking the pipe from his mouth, and chuckling
softly to himself. “It was a pretty lonesome
place when I knew it,” he continued. “That’s
sev ral year ago now. I was dodderin’ along
down the crick with Matilda, lookin’ for a job, as
per usual. An’ hour or so ’fore sundown I spotted
a ramshackle sort of a humpy off the road a bit.
It didn’t have a very invitin’ look to a trav’ler,
but the next place was a good bit on. I put the
swag down an’ stood, consid’rin’. Presently a
queer-lookin’ old feller comes shuffling over from
th humpy. He was an unord’nary squat junk of
a chap, all knobs an’ corners, with a great straggly
beard stickin’ out all round. His face was sallow
an wrinkled, an’ its expression was peculyer ;
he looked as if he’d lost something, an’ had a sus-
picion that I was that something transmogrified.
He didn t speak when I said ‘ Good day ’ to him,
but his eyes kep’ peerin’ at me so rummy-like as
made me feel uncomfortable. He walked round
in ® thought he was goin’ ter hit me at fust—an’
when he come to the front of me ag’in, he stood,
an cast his lamps up an’ down me in a pre-
occupied sort o’ way as though he wur lookin’for
a splittin’ tree, an’ had mistook me for something
of the sort.
“ ‘ How old are yer ? ’ he ses all at once.
'!' —about 40,’ ses I, with a bit of a start.
“ ‘Are yer married?’ he asks next, quite as a
matter o’ fact.
“ ‘No,’ I ses, starin’.
“ * Knocked about the bush much ?’
“ ‘Years!’
“ ‘ D'yer go seein’ gurls, nights or Sundays?’
“ ‘ Dunno any.’
“ ‘ Know anything about kangarooin’ ?’
“ ‘ Don,) a bit o’ shootin’,’ 1. ses, gettin’ more
an’ more mysterfied ev’ry seiond.
Anything of a butcher ? ’ ses he.
“ ‘ Quite a dab,’ ses I.
“He took another look round me. ’Looks just
the thing,’ he muttered. ‘How’s yer joints?
Chuck yer limbs about—let’s see how they work.
Some coves’ joints wants ’ilin’.’
By gum,’ I thinks to meself, ‘ this bloke’s as
cracked as a dry plain. Better humor him.’ I
shook me legs an’ whirled me arms around. He
didn’t seem satisfied.
‘‘ ‘ Gor an y corns or bunions ? Ever have back-
ache ? ’
“ ‘No.’
“ 4 How’s yer teeth ? ’
Oh—purty fair.’
“He took a pin from his shirt-front an’ threw it
on the road. ‘Pick that up,’ he ses, short an’
sharp, as yer might to a dog. I picked it up.
Not too bad,’ ses he; ‘seems just the thing.’
I hen he drew the heel of his boot across the track.
Le s see yer jump,’ he ses, an’ stood aside with
Ins hands on his hips.
“‘But wot yer drivin’ at?’ I asks him.
I nought lie might be one o’ them fool jokers
takin a rise out o’ me . He didn’ seem anyways
unord nary ter look at, now I come ter take stock
0 <l U . m ’ ’ ce P t ’ l }’ his manner was peculyer.
It’s orlright,’ he ses. ‘Yer’ll see it all
d rectly.. It’s a great scheme. But lemme see if
yer can jump.’
‘ I toed the scratch an’ took a big leap ter get
a '??^ rom hini. I was gettin’ uneasy ag’in.
1 Good !’ he ses. ‘That was real good. How’s
yer lungs ? Have yer got good wind ? ’
“ ‘ Oh—fust-class !'
“‘Gome up here a bit,’he ses, ‘an’ le’s see if
yer can run.’
‘‘But wot’s the game?’ I protests ag’in. I
was gettin’ about full of it.
“‘Just up ter this ironbark,’ he answers.
Come on. He waited for me, so I thought I’d
better go.
we got to the ironbark he sung out.
Off ! j an’ started back full lick. I lost about 10
yards start; but he couldn t sprint for sour
apples, an’ I caught him half-way. He pulled up
on a sudden an’ yelled after me, ‘ Can ver
so dder ? ’ J
“ ‘So’dder what?’ sez I, puffin’ like a broken-
winded cart orse.
4< lT‘ n cans .’ he ses ; * I want a good so’dderer ’
I looked at him, wonderin’ what all this tom-
foolery had ter do with solderin’. But I thought
I might as well see the tiling through, an’ told
h’mi a served an apprenticeship to the trade.
iTn , ust th® thing,’ he ses, ‘just the thing*
What s yer name ? ’
“ ‘ J an l? s Scully,” ses I; ‘ mos’ly called Jim.’
Scully ? he ses, musin’. ‘ Think I’ve heard
that name before. Wur you ever in gaol, Mr.
Scully—if it’s a fair question?’
No,’ I ses. ‘lf you met a Scully in gaol, he
was no relation o’ mine.’
He faced towards me, but looked down at me
boots while he lifted his finger an’ give me his
pedigree. ‘Le’me tell you, Mr. Scully, that my
name s Samyel Brushook, an’ it’s sufficient tester-
mony to my noble ancestry ter say that no
Brushook has ever been in gaol. That isn’t the
place ter make the acquaintance of a Brushook
allow me. It was orig’nally a hyphenated name’
1 might tell you. Me grandmother’s name was
Brush, an me gran’father’s Hooke. They put
em tergether an’ made Brushook ; an’ Samyel
Brushook is the larst of a long line ’
“‘Just so,’ I breaks in. ‘l’m glad ter meet
yer.
‘‘‘Yes.’ he ses. ‘Yer oughter think yerself
highly honored. Yer honest, I’spose’’
‘“Well—l hope so.’
‘‘‘S°. d ° L ’Tanyrate, yer look just the thing,
an I think yer’ll do. Gome on over an’ ’ave some
tea.
“I was with him there, an’ we went over to the
humpy, an he put th’ billy on. I reckoned on
gettin a good feed into me, an’ slippin’ away as
soon as it got dark. In the meantime I tapped
him for an explanation.
“‘ I w ,ant a Rood partner,’ he ses ; 1 a man after
me own heart—ter join me in one o’ the best specs
yer could root out m a month o’ Sundays I’ve
been doin’ purty middlin’ with scalps and skins
since I took up this s’lection ; but slaughterin’ for
scalps an’ skins means a woeful waste o’ good
meat—a loss o’ millions o’ pounds, mate. It’s a
big thing; an it’s a surprisin’ wonder no one’s
ever hit on it before. Shows a deplorable lack o’
brains. The natch’rel resources o’ this countrv
' S ( J™P y marvlous, an’ all neglected-sadly
neglected Now, I’ve been tryin’ for months ter
get a good man ter go into the bizness with me
but could never get one ter suit. Most of ’em
would be orlright for a day or two; then something
was bound ter go wrong with th’ works. It’d
be backache or toothache, or stringhalt or screw-
matics Some ’ud have crank feet or broken wind
an couldn t run ; an' a man as can’t run in this
industry am t worth his salt. So of late I’ve been
puttm the apphcants through an examination
an you re the fust one o’ 50 that’s passed muster’
Yer am t pertiekler bout pay, I serpose ? ’
Well,’ I ses, ‘ I should like ter know wot I
was gettin’, an’ I’d also like ter be sure I was
goin’ ter get it.'
“ ‘ I’m sorry ter hear that,’he sez, an’, by gum,
he looked it. ‘ It’s the fust p’int you’ve failed in,
an’ I was beginnin’ ter hope yer wur purfect.’
“ ‘A man can’t work for nix,’ I protested.
“‘The money would come in lumps—big
lumps,’ ses he, ‘but it might be a long time in
showin’.’
“ ‘ That’s a different thing, ’ I ses, ‘ providin’ it’s
morally certain it will come. But give us the
prospectus of the concern.’
“ ‘lt’s this way,’ he ses. ‘As I told yer, I’ve
been scalpin’ an’ skinnin’ a good while "ere, an’ it
goes against me grain ter see all the good mar-
supial meat left rottin’ in the bush. I propose ter
have it all brought in, boiled down an’ canned—
preserved, yer understand—an’ shipped ter W.A.
They tell me the miners there ’ave been livin’ on
tinned dog for years. I hold as dog ain’t a
proper diet for a miner, no matter wot breed o’
dog he might be; and I reckon the Sandgropers
would jump, at good, sound marsupial meat. We’d
label the tins “Sheep’s Tongue,” “Chicken an’
Ham,” “ Veal,” “Beef Paste,”an’ such like. It’d
bust up the dog industry in one act.’
“ * But wot about the plant? ’ I asks him.
“ ‘l’ve collected some pots an’ boilers an*
karersene tins,’ he ses. ‘That’ll do ter begin
with. As bizness expands, of course, we’ll improve
an’ enlarge the works, and I look forward with
confidence to the day when we’ll have a great big
factory in full swing, with a hund’ed hands
in constant work. Of course, we’ll have ter be
satisfied with small consignments for a while.
I’ve collected all the jam-tins an’ sardine-tins, an’
other sorts on Cooyar, an’ when we’ve got ’em
filled an’so’ddered up, they’ll bring enough ter give
us a supply of regulation tins an’ labels. We’ll
’ave ter see about a trade-mark, too, as there’s
bound ter be heaps o’ imitators. There always is.
But we can settle little details like that after-
wards. The main thing is ter get the preservin’
works goin’.*
Have yer made any arrangements with
regard to the supply o’ stock ? ’ I asks him.
“ ‘ That’s simplicerty itself,’ he ses. ‘ The run is
swarmin’ with marsupials, an’ there’s any gors-
quantity o’ blacks ter run ’em in. They’ll do the
yardin’, killin’ an’ skinnin’. Th’ expense ’ll be
nothin’. A little opium an’ terbacca will satisfy
’em, an’ the waste meat ’ll do ter feed ’em on.
Our work ’ll be mainly in the shed—boilin’ down
an’cannin’. We’ll have the gins ter help us, too
—stokin’ an’ skimmin’, f’rinstance. Then there’s
the hides an’ scalps an’ bones. They’ll attend ter
them departments, too.’
“ ‘ You have teams, I s’pose, for takin’ the
stuff ter port ?”
“‘ I ’ave a horse, but he’s crippled. ’Tanyrate
the niggers can hump the stuff down to the
wharf.’
“ ‘ How far is the wharf from here? ’
“ ‘ ’Bout 125 mile. ’Fore we ship the fust lot
we’ll arrange for an agent to act for us in the
West. I know a party over there—if he ain’t dead
—who would be just the thing.’
“‘An’ do yer think it would pay from the
jump?’ I asks him.
“ For a moment speech utterly failed Brushook,
an’ his eyes blinked at me in a way that was pain-
ful to see.
“ ‘ Pay f ’ he gasped at last—* why, man, there’s
thousands in it— millions / If success wasn’t
assured, I’d float the scheme into a company an’
work it that way ; but who wants ter have a lot o’
deadheads pocketin’ divs. they’ve no right ter’?
It’s a simple, inoney-makin’, legitimate spec, that
you an’ me’s goin’ ter work on our own. We’ll be
independent, and kowtow to no gold-glorified
nobody ’
“Brushookstopped sudden, with his lips parted,
an’ a, blank look came into his face as a tall, toffy-
lookin’ man walked into the hut. He didn’t seem
very pleased at seein’ me there.
“ ‘ Take the saddle off my horse, Brushook,’ he
ses. He went through the hut, lookin’ every-
where ; then went out an’ met Brushook. ‘ Who’s
that feller in there?’he asked. ‘Oh, a trav’ler,’
ses Brushook. ‘Well, get rid of him. I’ve told
you often enough not to encourage travellers
here.’
“He came in again, an’ I hurried out ter
Brushook. ‘ Who’s that fellow in there ? ’ ses I.
‘ Oh, that’s the boss,’ sez Brushook, quietly. He
didn’t seem inclined to discuss the matter any
further, but pushed past. All the fire of enthu-
siasm had gone out of his eyes, and they looked
about as live as the eyes of a dead eel.
“I took a hitch in me swag, which I’d left at
the door, an’ while I was at it the boss come out
ag’in. ‘ Excuse me,’ I ses, ‘but I can’t quite get
the bearin’s o’ this establishment. Brushook told
me this was his selection, an’ led me to b’lieve he
wanted a man.’
“The boss laughed. ‘lt was his, one time;
but drought an’ wallabies put the dead finish on
h!m. ( He’s bound’ry-ridin’ for the station now.’
I see ; that accounts for the marsupials
hoppin’ on his brain. Well, good-night,’ I sez
an’ I went down an’ camped on the crick.”
EDWARD S. SORNNSON.
S.M. Herald in a recent Saturday’s issue
pointed with pride to a golden wedding announce-
ment, that of Mr. William Henry Rose, who was
married on December 27, 1853, at Wiseman’s
Ferry, Hawkesbury River, to Miss Jane Green-
tree. He is a grandson of the late Mr. Thomas
Rose, of Dorsetshire, England, who, according to
the Herald, “came out as one of the staff of
Governor Phillip in 1788.” As a matter of fact,
Mr. Thomas Rose arrived in Sydney, with his
wife and four children and a relative —Elizabeth
Fish—on board the Bel lon a, as free assisted
immigrants, on January 16, 1793, just 100 years
ago. As Phillip had left Australia on Dec. 11,
1792, it is hard to discover how Mr. Thomas Rose
oame to be on his staff. Australian history is not
one of the strong points of S.M. Herald, or of
any Australian daily for that matter.


WHAT’S THE MATTER?
EVERY
PICTURE
TELLS A
STORY,
v>
¥
y
,
/
rr
»-E
Doctor ; "Is the pain there ?
Ah I that's Kidney trouble.”
HOW TO FIND OUT.—Does
every cold affect your back and
cause a disturbance of the action
of the kidneys ? Do beer, spirits,
and tea excite the kidneys ? Does
a slight exertion tire you,
causing shortness of breath ? Do
little things annoy and irritate
you ? Do your limbs swell, or is
there a puffiness under the eyes ?
Do you have pains in the hack,
sides, or head ? Have you
rheumatism, gout or gravel ?
These symptoms, and many
more, come from weak or sick
kidneys.
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills
soothe and heal the sore surfaces
of kidneys and bladder, and thus help the kidneys to filter
and pass off the disease impurities. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are a special medicine for the kidneys and bladder, have
no action on the bowels, and are still made of the same roots
and herb 3 as they were 72 years ago.
Another Lasting Sydney Cure.
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenliam-street, Balmain, this city, says:—“Over twelve
months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they
worked a miracle in my case. I had been under three doctors at different times,
but their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad that I would have to be
carried home in a cart if an attack came on when working in the street. Some-
times, when walking, I have had a bad attack, and would be taken to the hospital.
My wife said she never thought I would live through some of these bad.turns. I
suffered with a kind of biliousness, vomiting egg-like stuff. My secretions were
in a frightful state. I could never bend my back or move at all when I had a bad
turn. The people at the hospital gave me medicines, and recommended rubbing
in liniments, but it was no use; they did not benefit me. I saw an advertisement
for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, .stating that these Pills had cured
Mr. Dunn, and knowing him led me to procure this remedy. I only took
one box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they cured me. The first
dose relieved me. When I had finished them I started work, and have worked
ever since. It is heavy work lam doing, but it does not affect me. These Pills
cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was almost instantaneous. I might
state that since then I have had a bad attack of lumbago, which laid me up for
one month. I never thought that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were
good for this complaint. Then I remembered that I had a few in the box,
and, not having any other medicine in the house, I tried thejn. They cured me.”
Mrs. Smith states later on Three years ago my husband gave testimony
regarding Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He has had wonderful health since he
used that remedy ;in fact, never having had a sign of the ailment return. Some
time ago he was lifting a heavy weight, and wrenched his back. He obtained a
box of Doan’s Pills, and thev cured him of his agony. lam firmly convinced he
owes his life to Doan’s Pills, for he could not have stood the pain he used to suffer
before he used these pills. I never saw anybody in such agony. He has never
missed a day at his work since he used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills four years
or more ago. ”
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
Are sold by all chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
I ching and Protruding Piles
Cured.
Mr. Edgar Wood, engineer, Randwick tram,
whose private address is 23 Young-street,
Redfern, says: “For seventeen years I suf-
fered with itching and protruding Piles.
During that time I was treated by several
well-known Sydney doctors. I also tried
chemists’ prescriptions and remedies adver-
tised to cure this complaint, but nothing gave
me the slightest relief. The irritation was so
great that it caused me annoyance and incon-
venience during the day, and kept me awake
for hours at night. I almost despaired of ever
getting anything to relieve me, as I had
experienced many failures. However, I saw
an article in the paper stating that Doan’s
Ointment had cured Mr. Ryan, J.P., of 398
Riley-street, after suffering for twenty years
with this complaint. lat once got the Oint-
ment, and am pleased to tell you the first
application gave me relief. I continued using
it and am now perfectly cured, and this means
a lot to me, and is wonderful, considering I
had been afflicted for seventeen years. Since
my cure I have recommended Doan’s Oint-
ment to other sufferers, and I will always do
so. I wish you to publish particulars of my
cure for the benefit of other sufferers who do
not know the value of Doan’s Ointment.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching and protruding
Piles. It will cure them absolutely. But do
not take the manufacturer’s word for this : ask
Mr. Wood, he knows, for it cured him, and he
lives here in Sydney.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Remember the name —DOAN’S.
A Cycle Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let us go out, for the Spring’s in the morning,
You and I only,
Far from the city, its noise and strife scorning,
Where roads are lonely,
Into the land of the river and sea shore,
Ever enchanted,
Where memories sweet of the days that are no
more,
Deep are implanted.
Grey is the dawning,
Cold is the west wind,
In the lone highways
Brown is the bracken,
Gold the gorse gleaming,
In shadowy by-ways.
Red-brown and long are the roads that we follow
By the tall hedges,
Gleaming and grey lies the lake in the hollow
Framed by the sedges,
A shadowy land where white mists are curling,
When, o’er the ranges,
The sun rises swift, his bright banners unfurling,
And the world changes.
Red is the sunrise,
Cool is the west-wind
In the long highway.
Sunshine and shadow
Link now together
Your way with my way.
Where is the charm in this land of the far West?
Fair land of gladness !
Holding in memory so much that we love best,
Nothing of sadness.
Is it because we first knew it in brightest,
Sunniest weather,
And rode through its long roads with hearts that
were lightest,
We two together ?
In the bright sunshine,
By hill and hollow
Merrily winding,
In all the moorland,
Meadows and mountains,
Some pleasure finding.
Here through the trees we see the sea gleaming,
Washing the beaches,
Rippling and sparkling, ’neath sunlight streaming,
Until it reaches
Far to the ocean, blue and unresting,
Slumbering never, •
With glistening sea-foam its rolling waves
cresting,
And tossing ever.
On the long hillside
Dark are the pine-trees,
Deep are their shadows,
Steadily lengthening,
As falls the daylight
Low on the meadows.
When in the west the sun slowly is sinking,
Onward we’re wheeling,
Travelling slowly, each of us thinking,
Each of us feeling
That the wide world holds a harvest of pleasure,
Ours for the reaping,
To garner in memory’s storehouse, and treasure
Through long years’ keeping.
Redly the west glows
In the pale twilight,
And lights are burning
When to the city,
From the long, lone roads,
We are returning.
M.li.
LILLA McKAY.
Tree'd!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hb was stone-broke. Even his billies and blan-
kets were gone. He asked me to put in a word
for him with the Government Resident regarding
a free passage back to Oooktown.
Like many others, he had landed at Port
Moresby with little more than his swag, and, pro-
foundly ignorant of Papua’s interior, had at-
tempted to cross the island to the goldfields on
the north coast by the Yanapa river track. And,
like others, he returned—only sooner.
‘ ‘ So you are up a tree ? ” I asked.
He stared at me with blanching face and shud-
dered violently.
“Touch of malaria, eh?”
“No-o,”he answered, slowly. “It isn’t that.
You just reminded me of my experience up
there.” He pointed in the direction of the dark
ranges.
I scented “copy.” By the promise to secure
him a passage with next boat, I succeeded in
loosening his tongue.
• * • »
“I was warned not to try my luck single-
handed. But I have carried bluey from Cue to
Coen, and only laughed at their tales of hardship.
I took passage to the mouth of the Vanapa, and
when they landed me I started away by myself,
for there was no mistaking the track through the
scrub The second day out I got to a place called
Kone. It’s the site of a forsaken native village,
and lies right on the bank of the Vanapa. The
river ran past—a broad, deep torrent. A patch of
about five or six acres had been cleared of timber
by the former inhabitants, and all around it the
scrub grew as a dense wall, looking for all the world
like an expectant crowd standing on tiptoe wait-
ing for a procession to pass by.
“But what made me open my eyes were three
enormous trees that had been left standing in the
clear space, their naked, branchless trunks rearing
up to 100 ft. or more, and then opening out into
enormous crowns. Right up into the forks were
built three little houses, roofs and all complete.
I suppose the niggers used them as watch-towers
or fortresses. There was no way of gaining access
to these, but by a kind of rope-ladder, made of
lawyer-vines, and dangling loosely down to the
ground.
"It was late in the afternoon, and beginning to
drizzle. I truly believe it never stops raining in
those hills. I determined to camp for the night.
I didn’t care for any of the empty huts that stood
about on their shaky piles, and so made a big fire
near the foot of one of the house trees, the biggest
of the lot—a giant with a slight lean towards the
river. Soon I had got a decent blaze going, and
stacked a large pile of firewood around the trunk
for the night. Then I had some supper and
settled down for a quiet smoke.
“Nothing can make you feel quite so miserable
as to camp alone in the scrub. And the strange-
ness of my surroundings made me feel doubly
dismal. All the stories I had heard about the
Papuan cannibals and head-hunters came vividly
to my mind. Suddenly something hit me a smart
whack on the shoulder blade. I dropped my pipe
and turned round in affright. Then I laughed.
It was only the swinging end of that Jacob’s
ladder leading up to the top story above.
“I don’t know what put the thought into my
head. I must have been mad. Or perhaps I
needed some excitement to rouse me from the un-
pleasant broodings into which I had fallen. Any-
how, I found myself testing curiously the strength
of the supple vines, and taking a preliminary
swing on the bottom step. Then I climbed
another rung, and another. It was easy, appa-
rently safe, and distinctly exhilarating. Scon I
swung giddily midways between the ground and
the landing on top, and was still climbing.
“ Crunch—crack ! Something was giving ! A
spasm of hair-raising terror shot down my spine
and seemed to settle into my stomach. A
moment’s reflection told me that my only salva-
tion was upwards. I was within about a dozen
feet of the platform. I crawled up the shaking,
swinging ladder. I could now plainly see where
the ominous sounds originated. The rotten lash-
ings that fastened the vines to the lowermost limb
were giving way. I jumped for the ledge above
me, grasped it with both hands, and hung dangling
in space. Then the vines gave way, and fell with
a swish to the bottom.
“Half-crazy with fear I drew myself up to
the level of the platform, and fell down on the
springy bamboo floor.
Then I carefully sat up and looked around me.
The treehouse consisted of nothing but the slight
plat of bamboo strips and a roof made out of
betel palm leaves. It was quite empty. I
crawled cautiously to the brink, and looked over.
The depth appeared frightful. And the lean of
the tree gave an indescribably horrible sensation
of falling. I crouched back and considered.
“I was caught in a trap, and would most
probably perish. Even if some travelling miners
came along, what could they do? It was impos-
sible for a white man to get up or down the
smooth trunk on account of its girth. The very
idea of the attempt produced an attack of vertigo
that made me dig my fingers frantically into the
bamboo latticing. There might be another ladder,
or even a single vine, I thought. I investigated.
But no —nothing !
“ Clutching a roof support I raised myself and
looked out from my eyrie. A splendid panorama
lay spread out below. The river rushed angrily
away under me and wound into the distant sea ;
while, to the north, tier upon tier of mountains
towered to the horizon. But I wasn’t taking any
interest in landscape just then. I felt an almost
irresistible inclination to laugh. But I repressed
it. It seemed unpleasantly akin to madness.
“ Through the cracks in the floor I could see my
camp and the big fire at the foot of the tree. A
high wind from the coast began to rise, and my
castle creaked mournfully. The breeze caught
the flame below and carried it into the spare stack
ot wood. It flared up, notwithstanding the misty
rain, and sent forth dense volumes of black
smoke. I could smell the sweet sandal fumes
scenting the air.
“ The wind grew stronger. The crown of my
tree started tc sway to and fro, and I sank down
in a heap, clinging shudderingly to my support.
Every time the head of the tree bent down before
the gusts, a shriek formulated in my parched
throat. I could have sworn the groaning trunk
would snap. But elastically it flew back again,
and dipped into space in the opposite direction.
My stomach turned, and my hair stood on end.
A choking sensation of dropping, like an ever-
lasting series of epileptic fits, tore my inside out.
I tried to pray. But the gasps and gulps of
terror would not let me. My hands bled, so
frenziedly did I cling to the frame work. The
whole landscape began to turn and turn around.
Sometimes I felt like letting go and ending the
torture. But I could not.
“How long I swung about like that I cannot
say. But all at once I realised that the fire below
was assuming greater proportions. I could feel
the heat intensifying, and heavy masses of
smoke blew up into my face. I put my eye to the
floor and stared down.
“If by any possibility my fright could have
become acuter, it certainly did then. I tried to
wet my cracked lips with my tongue. But my
mouth was dry. I shut my eyes for a minute, and
then looked again. Yes —the trunk of the tree
was on fire !
“I think I must have fainted. At any rate, I
became delirious. I dreamt I was flying through
space for years and years, falling and falling.
And somehow my heart and my stomach could
not keep pace with my body. Far beneath was a
light that gradually grew larger, till at last I had
to turn away purblinded. The heat became
insufferable, and the smoke suffocated me. I
knew I was dead, and yonder lay Hell!
“Crack ! Like a rifle-shot the report rang out
and brought me again to my senses, or, at ieast,
to such fragments as I still had about me. An-
other report, and an awesome grinding noise of
tearing fibres. The flames had enveloped the
whole lower part of the trunk in a fiery circle.
The end had come. I sprang to my feet in a
frenzy, regardless of the danger of toppling over.
At the same time a fiercer blast of wind caught
the trembling crown, bore it down towards the
river, and tree and myself went down into empti-
ness.
“A sharp, shooting pain in my head, a pres-
sure as of an iron band on my temples aroused
me. I instinctively stretched out my hands and
caught at something hard. Then a breath of air
seemed to flow right through mv veins like a re-
vivifying fluid, and I opened my eyes.
“I was floating down the river on a log of drift-
wood. And it was night.”
* * * *
I procured a free passage for this tree-dweller.
And some time after I visited the deserted village
of Kone myself. It was exactly as my friend had
described.
VON KOTZE.
“ The Yic. railway net revenue for Nov.
was .£5738 less than for Nov., 19f 2. The Commis-
sioners point out that the working expenses were
increased by repairs to locomotives and by
‘belated repairs’.” Bent in Nov., 1902; and
Unbent in Nov., 1903, at great cost to the tax-
payer.


CHILDREN WHEN TEETHING
Have more or less diarrhoea, which cannot be
checked effectually, as the cause cannot be re-
moved ; but the diarrhoea can, and should, be
controlled by giving Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy, and an occasional dose of
castor oil to cleanse the system.*
A Stringof Complaints
Languor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,
A String of Complaints Duo to Hot Weather.
US
I
Mr. G. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“ I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
It revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual de-
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will be disappointed with this medi-
cine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure of dis-
ease.’
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system vigorous. Then you will not suffer from the weakening
effects of hot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the blood, tones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable weather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla— Ayer’s.
h
Sarsaparilla
Ayer
ills are a
m
A Tonic for All
"i:
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
17 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations. &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILT, GIVE RELIEF TN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUJW A A BOX."
BEECHAM’S ITLLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System : re-l.oring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen ed re of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud OK Hjcai.th the Whole Physical Eneugy of the human frame. These
arc “facts” admitted by thousands, in ail classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Bee-ham's Pills have the Largest Sale at any Patent Aledieinein
he word. Full directions with each Pox.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
u
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THb BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
■
-
SOLD
fc. I
m
tm
ĥ
Book or Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted,
Magic Up-To-Date, East Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, I3s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window'Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How *ro
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. MiNkrs’Gutde (simple test-sfor mineral*),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Boor of Kata
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), prioe-ls I post, Is. 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Bald heads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d p st< d.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d postei'.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
ntMACfli
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Du, E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plate*. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Page*.
IT IS FREE FRUMVi’ECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
•and questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
?ost. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
hat Rascal Gustave, Is, ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette. Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
f)s6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted/ Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man Ills Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle; What to do and How to do it,
30IKI subjects. Is 3d. Self Instructor ; Every Man
His Own Schooimaster. Is posted. Cab net Makers
Handykook, Is 3d. Macfadhex's Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Sue >ck, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, Cs (id. AH t/iese prices Po6t Paid.
Don't bo fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §O~ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I've grot it,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT .
Writ# for my......
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Seat Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL !NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED. ELSEWHERE'SENT.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is.' ; post, Is. 3d.
Sai-piio, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. (id. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Cj,og
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s .Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d &>ls. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song 800K5,3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire's Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advicbto a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3<l. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s-Large Unabridged Dictionary, 170 i pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
MoOrk’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic*,-101 6 pages, cloth hound, 10s. 6d. posted,, The
Secrets- of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
iLv:'
o':>.
Fee;
.
16
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
Have a greater sale than any other shot-gun cartridge made,
because they are manufactured of the best material, and
cost no more than cheaper-made brands.
GUARANTEED SURE FIRE AND REGULAR.
Specify NEW CLUB, and accept no Substitute.
A CARD.
11l
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P..E., L.R.C.5..E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ ELMLEY HOUSE,"
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting; Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in ail Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising-, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so c< minon throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work <jn the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for " Press Extracts," posted Free throughout
the Commomvea’thi, giving the Opinions of the Press of Austml-win.
ADVICE bv LljlTOEit, ON 2 POUf D (including medicine). I!E.\IEDIKS forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the Slates.
Dr. MARTIN has with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebling, and hnox-Mercer Me: hods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidnev, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). Bj.consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician You are assured of proper and reliable treatm. nt, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing.)
At Poverty Point,
— * —
( Continued).
Nothing annoyed Dickens more than the unauthorised
dramas that were built on his novels. His c< Nicholas
Nickleby” was dramatised even before he had
finished it in serial form. When Dickens lectured
through America he saw hie name writ large over
all the big theatres announcing unauthorised version*
of his novels, but he was spared a Yankee version
which was foaled in London many years afterward*.
One of Tay Pay’s scribes writes thusly on the horror:
“ I shall never forget the indignation caused in London,
some years ago, by the production at the Opera Comique
of an American adaptation of " The Old Curiosity Shop,’ 1
wherein the most curious, but not the most treasured,
article- qf all was a cheeky Little Nell, in silks and frills
and high-heeled shoes, who cheered herself in her afflic-
tion with a banjo, and performed high-kink dances. It
was a very shocking business altogether, the faces of the
critics were set with the expression of insufferable gloom,
to which there came no relieving light when Quilp fell
into the Thames, and Little Nell, who arrived in time to
witness his final struggles for life, picked his hat up from
the wharf and tossed it to him with the feeling remark,
‘ Hi! you’ve left some of your luggage.’”
Lindsay Campbell, a young ex-Melbournian who
understands his business, writes a gossipy letter from
New York concerning himself and other people: "Things
dramatic are in a strange way- almost every ‘ star ’ has
fallen, the cause being in most cages a bad piece. Since
commencement of last season 127 companies have had a
‘ knock ’. . . . The musical comedy failures are appalling
—little wonder when fellows write here that hardly know
C. from B. . . . Patti, beset with litigation, is having a
bad time. Grau, her manager that was, withdrew from
the contract, giving for his reason ‘ complications of a
legal nature.’ Patti is a frost everywhere. Last week
she * held up ’ a concert. Was to receive fiCOOdol., and
there was only SOOOdol. in the house. She refused to
sing until the proprietors of the house came to the rescue
with balance of cash. I heard her in N.Y. and was
bitterly disappointed. I have quitted conducting
for a time, having been selected to "compose
the music for a comic opera. The ‘ book' has been
accepted by a prominent manager, and I am to complete
the score by February. . . . Fay Templeton will, I hope,
sing my ‘ Hush-a-hye ’ in ‘ Runaways ’. She is pleased
with it, and calls it ‘ a classic in coon songs.’ ” Lindsay
Campbell’s success in America should encourage many a
struggling young Australian musician to try his luck in
the same direction. A‘man with a real practical know-
ledge of music can tnake a decent living in the States at
present, and if he has also a talent, or at least a turn for
composition, he can live like the proverbial fighting cock.


We
Send
Garden
Hose
Any-
where
And when you’ve
got it, you’ll know
It’s the best hose
you ever used.
We stake our
reputation on our
Garden Hose, and
we were the first
rubber manu-
facturers in
Australia
too long and
too good a
reputation to risk
on inferior Hose!
THERE’S NO BETTER CARDEN
HOSE THAN OURS.
THERE’S A GOOD DEAL NOT
SO GOOD.
SAMPLES and PRICES POST FREE. “•I
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Rubber
Merchants,
270 George Street, Sydney.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE la. Id. Port Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON.^
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
wr SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. »»«* Newarlt
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, «•<>»*>"
Warren Webster & Co. N « wje r«*y-
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
ħ
TANGYES
Oil Engines
Solb Australian Repbesentatxvbs—
BENNIE, TEARS & GO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
h
ĥ
R
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “ UTOPIA ” ; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Address o»
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc*, etc.
ħ
m
h
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st, Sydney
have .N stock and to arrive- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. ’• New and Second-Hand Maohinery always available.
mGAE
3PS’*
ft®#
mi
bSHbsBmImI
' SIZB > * W * 5 ■
h
and Have
for Sale—
SdlAlfld X3ldna
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Bearings,
etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel. Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 djA-REKTCB STREET, SXUKTE'Y’. * ______
The RAND DRILL CO., New v ork,
MAKE THE BEST
ROCK DRILLS «» AIR COMPRESSORS
ĥ
i-T't'.
$
IN
UNEQUALLED for SIMPLICITY
MARKET.
OF CONSTRUCTION,
DURABILITY,
ECONOMY
y-i t* . - ' ' '*■
LITTLE QIANT DRILL.
OF WORKING AND MAINTENANCE.
The Little Giant and Slugger Drills.
The Imperial High Speed Compressors,
The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coal-Cutting: Machines.
Particulars and Quotations from the Agents
'" '! " • / , 1 » ir-ft 1 : » . .■ V'
71 Clarence St-, Sydney.
ħ
IM
486 Collins St., Melbourne.
