

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROYS CHAMPAGNE.
SS. <3-. WATKIKTS &£, CSO ,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BT'ILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND second-hand plants always available.
McLflREN’8 Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
as
AM aJ 3EM ENT for OLD and YOU&C.
WONDERFUL. VALUE.
A Eight Different Articles, comprising
» nil l;ee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and bi.i wi l out to lffe-size-causes roars of laughter), Book
or t onjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
Xl'&fy tlle /uzzle Ring, the Wizard s Fish (gives the
e.?wf ° f character—very superior for parlor
fh?P TTc S) ’ th - e Joker ' B Love Bond (a good catch),
v,, i» 6 ' '"Pamon or Combination Cornel Candle and
Ma chbox Ih« Wizard’s Ring or the I «isappeai3ng Coin
a, {s* laBt °, f all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
ThfJr,;. U f- , Pac ) of Carrls (instructions enclosed).
f ' ienthd packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d. ,
H * L< HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
V” New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 88 mt str«t, SYDNEY
Sola Agents for J. & H. McLARCN, Leeds, England, Makers of Bteam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stook and have to arrive MoLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; HUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines ;
BROADBENT’B Hydro Extractors; KIRCHMER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES—^
THORNE’S
Estbd 1831.
WHISKY,
A POLICY FOR THE
Price, 6d. § Posted, 8d
HOBART.
XtfcT. —-
fiadfey s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
E.v'rßY BELT GUARANTEED.
J, C. Luoowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
fdg
1£ TO 1000 H.P. UNITS. pf our Engineer, Mr. C. A. Lowe, it now with Messrs. Briscoe, 56 York Street, Sydney. “MB
HIGH CLASS, LOW PRICE.
ET
(Q/H
to
dfg
-Jas. McEwan & Co., Ltd,
Melbourne.
Briscoe & Co., Lid.
- ■ s y«*t”»y.
id Down &Co., Ltd.
Adelaide.
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smellie & Co.,
rhe National Mortgasro & Agency Co., Ltd.
_________ Dunedin.
LINCOLN,
E^euwp..
\ 3 O
A
■Jr\w/
4»To
©t <ll f io
o
EROOM’B
ENDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
»n Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddler*
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
1 0
0.l o
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
PS
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY. v
Have no Worthlisi
Imitations.
ID EDISON
United Electric Lieht
Co., Ltd. *
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-atreet
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,'
Adelaide Street. Brisbane^
THE
6 PLUM’
fd
THE
‘PLUM’
Thisrazor is superior to any other. It Is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
lijce a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOB TWO YEARS. ’ '
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this liazor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
/§! n^] e azor » | n strong 1 Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
t Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
___ Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agrents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
everywhere.
THE
LAST OF SIX.
Fric© Oca..,
Post Free
BOOMERANG
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Jolonial Hospital writes : “Our patients have
rreatly benefited by the use of Joshua’s
boomerang Brandy. It is a very Nourishing
nd Beneficial Stimulant.”
BRAN DY.
ALCOCIDE
a<EOISO?JECREX).;
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Stkictly Confidential.
A. C. LUMSQEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD.
AUBURN, MELBOURNE
%
RAc
A
%
W
o
HERVEY’S
RACKAROCK
IS Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
B 4
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
'W~_ c. & CO.,
DYBRS & CLEANERS, 7
40 YOKK BTK,±IJt;T, SYDNEY
opp. CenDenary Hall).
it a try Orders by punt,from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Btfertnces' throughout Great Britain and CtUniH,
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
, Nothing remains which can
* produce an attack. You
cat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. E»r
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. HAROLD H AYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE.
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. S. A.
memo, Fn lf 1904:
“ AUT HELIDON AUT NULLUS.”
The Bulletin
Vo) 25.—N0. 1256.]
[Thursday, March 10, 10(14.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LATE
er
son
eo
©
Co. Prop. Ltd.
Sladen, Queer Things About Japan, 255, postage Is 6d.
Rossetti (Christina), Poems (Complete edt.), 7s (id, p. 6d.
Wiggin (Kate D.), Rebecca of Sumn brook Farm, -2s 6d &
3s (id,p.6d. Walford,Black Familiars,2s6d& 3s 6d, p. 6d
iestman, Principles of Wool Combing 6s, postage 6d.
layo, Care of Animals (Rural Science Series), 6d, p. 6d.
lann, Mrs. Peter Howard, 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Jeremy Taylor, by Gosse (English Men letters), 2s 6d, p. 4d
Just Published. Third Edition ; Revised and Enlarged—
AUSTRALASIAN POULTRY GUIDE, by Janies M'Cue. Price, Is ; post free, Is 3d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaida, Brisbane & London.
' DON’T GET THE GLOOMS.
If you ever get “On the Tank ” arid need a Mental T!racer read .
“ M ORE ifeX-TA-ISIK TALES” (First published in the New York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable, American. Make a Corpse Laugh. Gives the humourous side of the booze business.
Price 3s. 6d. post paid. American Book Agency, Box 457, G.P.0., Sydney, or Dymock’s Book Arcade, Sydney.
SUCH IS LIFE
Being Certain Extracts from the Diary of Tom Collins
A unique Australian book of Bush adventure and Bush
philosophy. “There is amusement and instruction
hidden away here enough for many a long winter night.”— The Manchester Guardian. From The
Bulletin Co., Publishers; and all booksellers. Cloth, 6d.
1-
For the LUNGS, the THBOAi', the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Laryhx, or organ of
voice.
IS. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
/,. A lobe of one of the lungs.
.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUHENTNOL JUJUBES
« Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
AU Chemists, in tins, 1. 6, or from Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free Ol ? v re ?i^!j o;
stamps. Sydney Depot: sfc7 Queen's Place. Agencies in all Australian States, N.Z.,and32oliegent-st-> > ->
THE RED PAGE.
Comparing current impressions with those of
some five years ago, we seem to be in the hollow
of the local literary ripple—“trough” and
“wave” are too ironical. Five years ago half-a-
dozen of our little bards were sweet and vocal
together, doing what is destined apparently to
remain their best work : there was a remarkable
stirring from 1895 to 1900. To-day Jew things
that are worth reprinting seem to get themselves
written or printed : the age poetic is at pause. As
to prose: the' youngsters rarely show brains or
assiduity for great work ; and maybe this is merely
the autumn of our discontent, with winter to
come. The Universities? Well, the yarn
goes that Sydney woke up and rubbed
its eyes not long ago, and demanded
that its children should recite in praise a long
119th psalm of the University’s literary achieve-
ments. The response came in a loud voice and
very truly, “ Please, Mister Senate, there aren’t
no littery ’chievements ! ” So one turns an en-
quiring eye towards The Sydney Mail competition,
in the hope that all that ink will leave a sizeable
mark somewhere.
But the local author is not precisely snoring.
“ Danton ” —“ D. Fenton”—has recently come to
light in Dawnward? (No. VI. of “ The Bulletin
Booklets ” —a limited edition, exhausted by sub-
scribers) and admits the individuality of Ber-
nard Patrick O’Dowd, assistant librarian of the
Supreme Court, Melbourne. The familiar com-
mentator says that O’Dowd was born at Beau-
fort, Victoria, in 1866—50 that he is a
measurably young (or aged) verse-writer. His
parents are Irish. His early education was gained
in Victorian State schools chiefly, and when he
was about nine years of age the Yic. Education
Act permitted him to receive a certificate as
“sufficiently educated ”(!) He matriculated in
Melbourne University at fourteen ; passed his
first year exam, for B.A. before seventeen; and
then, his father dying, was forced to quit classes
for awhile. In 1888 he resumed ; took his degree
in Arts in 1889, honours in Philosophy in ’9l, and
was admitted to the Victorian Bar. So that here
is one useful writer that the Universities may
claim.
J*
“Danton’s” verse is well-known to readers of
The Bulletin. At best it is uncommonly stimu-
lating. His muse is a half-sister of Emerson’s,
devoted heart and mind to the service of the
democratic spirit. His work is sometimes “tight,”
in the painter’s phrase, but full of leashed force,
and often moving nobly. The plea of ‘'Prole-
taria,” for example, could be printed in any high
company—
Our polyandrous dam has borne
To Satan ami to God
The hordes of Night, the clans of Morn,
That through our valleys p10d...
Tho’ blind and dull, 't is we supply
The Painter’s dazzling dreams ;
The rolling flood of Poetry
From Our dumb Chaos streams
Nay, when your world is over-tired
And genius comatose,
Our race, by Nemesis inspired,
Old Order overthrows:
With earthquake-life we thrill your land.
Refill the cruse of Art,
Revitalise spent Wisdom, and —
Resume our weary part ..,
We are the gnomes of Titan works
Whose throbbings never cease;
Our unregarded signet lurks
On every masterpiece....
And our reward ? In this wan land,
In clientage of Greed,
Despised, polluted, maimed and banned.
To xuander and—to breed.
J*
And if leader-writers read verse, this on
“Compromise,” by Bernard Patrick, might be
quoted every week to Bernard Ringrose—
I pencil glaring wings of Right
With Wrong’s sedater black ;
And rushing Freedom’s crotchets with
Remrgent minims slack.
1 paralyse the hand of God
When He would loose at last
The gales of vengeance on the ripe
Enormities of caste . ..
The tiini id clarity of Truth
I phosphoresce, with lies,
And put sophistic hectics on
The pallor of the Wise.
Altogether, one is justified in considering
Dawnward? as a memorable and enduring
contribution to the literature of Australia and of
social effort. O’Dowd’s bronze does not always
run freely ; but when it does he moulds a statue.
Ernest Sando Emerson (“ Milky White”), who
publishes A Shanty Entertainment (printed
by Ford & Taylor, Melbourne ; Is.), is another
Victorian, dating froni#Ballarat, 1870. His little
book, adopting a favourite device, shows u% half-
a-dozen typical Bush characters gathered in a
public-house to wait for a delayed coach. On a
slender skein of narrative, pleasantly diversified,
the author links various verses contributed to
The Bulletin and other papers. Emerson has bad
wide experience as drover, miner, and journalist,
and bis characters are no literary puppets, but
real denizens of the backbloeks. Often his ballad
verses, as “The Lonely Track,”just miss being
good : he has the right emotion, and enough of
it, but wants skill of form. The sincerity and
pictorial truth of A Shanty Entertainment should
win Bush readers.
For some books past one has felt that Have-
lock Ellis was losing mental grip of his
ideas : that his thought-vibrations were grow-
ing feebler. This does not •\mean that his
knowledge is less : it is greater ; but that his
force for dealing with his knowledge is less. And
how does one feel that ? Chiefly in his style. It
is within the knowledge of every writer that style
reflects the mind, and even the mind at the
moment. You can survey your material, arrange
your ideas ; but if you sit down in a cold mood
little that counts is done. Force yourself to
write, as Zola or Trollope did; and you get
Zola sor Trollope’s result—in the main negli-
geable. To be sure, if the bar is merely
indolence, by dint of striving you can heat
your brain, and end by doing worthy work. Butif
the bar is nervous weakness, want of cerebral
vehemence, you can do nothing at that hour but
something that will serve-to be rewritten later, in
a hotter mood. Then, in that hotter mood,'how
cumbrous the colder phrases seem ! How your
pen runs through them—shortening long sen-
tences, eliminating useless words, lopping off
sprawling limbs of verbiage ! There is a clear
connection between rhythm of brain and rhythm
of style : one depends absolutely on the-other.
‘
Of course, words themselves have a rhythm, singly or
in collocation, and pace fast or slowly according to the
contained eye-impression, ear-impression, arid mind-
impression. And, despite the age's heirloom of rhetori-
cal devices, like Pope’s familiar
The line too labours, and the words move slow
(a typical slow line ; or)
Not so, when swift Camilla scours the plain—
(with the context, a fairly fast line), I do not know
a thoroughly satisfactory essay on the speed of
words. T) he hissing sis usually thought to retard a line ;
but evidently long vowels have a greater share in lessen-
ing speed. Some time ago, discussing a line of Ogilvie’s
Slow bullocks snailing by—
it was pointed out that the use of iambic metre made the
bullocks trot as if the drover was hurrying them up—and
this in spite of the snailing. Put the line into trochees—
While the bullocks slowly snailing—
and the mob pauses at once.
A.W. J. wrote on the point
I take it to be a truism that the long vowels and diph-
thongs—o, a (ah), » (at), 00, &c.—are a drag on any line
they occur in, and that most combinations of two con-
sonants are the same : cf. what you call the “ typical slow
line,”
The line too labours, and the words move slow,
where you have i, nt, 00, ndth, dsm, 00, vsl, 6— all long
utterances, and labours is the quickest word of the lot.
What you call a “fast line” teems to me neither
typical nor fast: nor is its successor, till the last few
words
skims along the main.
But take two of Tennyson’s:
(a) Snapt in the rushing of the river rain
(b) Tall, as the crest of some slow-arching wave
and the drag of the latter is seen to depend on the two
long vowels and the huddle of consonants of the last five
syllables,—perhaps also on the drawling v of the last
word.
So far, things seem evident, and hardly worth laying
stress on : and beyond this I can see only one thing
clearly—that the liquids and semivowels give one a
chance of slowing a line if one feels so inclined. L and s
more especially will do just what you want them to, in
this respect: if you wish to drag out a line, you have
And ice that seals the white sea's Ups:
if you are in a hurry, you can quote
His soul is at one with the reason of things that is sap to
the roots.
The only time when liquids (including s, of course)
seem to have a preference for the slower pronunciation
is when they precede mutes: lisp is a distinctly longer
word than lips, and I fancy elder is longer than meddler ,
though Id is a very easy combination. Bullocks, again,
is a much shorter word than mollusc. You quote
Ogilvie’s line about .“slow bullocks,” hut it goes in a
canter compared to
The staid mollusc snailing by.
On the other hand,
Aslant the billows sailing by
has as much hiss about it as Ogilvie’s line, and yet is
very much quicker. But then Ogilvie has used another
device to make his drag—-the long 6 in a syllable that
should not be accented (according to the metre): in my
line slant is as long a word as slow in his, but slant conies
where you expect it in iambic metre, and slow comes
where you do not.
. J*
Both in prose and verse there is a subjective
rhythm independent of the intrinsic speed of the
words. Illustrate with some first sentences of
Havelock Ellis’s prefaces, to show his mental
attack—
This little book is an attempt to present to the English
reader a critical summary of the results of the science
now commonly called criminal anthropology.— The
Criminal, 1890.
There are at least two ways of looking at books and at
the personalities books express.— Ajflrmations, 1898.
For many years material has been growing under my
hands bearing on the psychological and anthropological
characters of genius, and from time to time I have
examined these data and reached certain, more or less
secure, conclusions.—J Study of British Genius, 1904.
Notice the drag in the third example as com-
pared with the directness of the other two : a
drag that is more obvious in context. When you
find a whole book dragging in that fashion, it is
evidence (other things equal) of deficient physical
energy, of feeble brain-pulse. There is doubt-
fully an exception to the rule. It was because
Macaulay had such intense cerebral energy that
his sentences flew like bullets. When he walked
the streets he attracted’ general attention : his
face worked, his lips muttered, his eye 3 flashed,
he flourished an umbrella with which he thumped
the pavement. “ People gazed curiously at him,
-and stopped to stare when he had passed.” And
when he wrote, his style was a series of ebulli-
tions.
Whafc is spirit ? What are our own minds, the portion
of spirit with which we are best acquainted? We ob-
serve certain phenomena. We cannot explain them into
material causes. We therefore infer that there exists
something- which is not material. But of this something
we have no idea. We can define it only by negatives.
We can'reason about it only by symbols.- Essay on
Milton.
And so on, in direct statement after statement.
Compare the style of neurasthenic’ Darwin, in
his prime congratulating himself on being able to
work two hours a day—
Natural selection will never produce in a being any-
thing-injurious to itself, for natural selection acts solely
by and for the good of each. No organ will be formed,
as Paley has remarked, for the purpose of causing pain or
for doing an injury to its possessor.— The Origin of
Species, c. vi.
A couple of short sentences have been chosen
expressly, though Darwin’s work abounds in long
and difficult sentences; but, even at Darwin’s
best, feel the difference in speed of bis style as
compared with Macaulay’s, and argue the differ-
ence in speed of the mind behind the style.—And
everywhere a similar deduction maw be drawn
from stvle, and tested by fact. It does not
follow, of course, that a quick, lucid style is the
best literary style : that s another story.
J*
Ellis's just-publisheu A Study of British
Genius (Hurst and Blackett ; 7s. 6tf. net) is inter-
esting, as all that Ellis writes is interesting.. But
it is not a study of British genius—in our special
sense of ' genius, or even in Ellis's. Genius is...
what Blake had, for example. Not the spirit that
watched over one’s shoulder in ancient days.
Not the individual’s inborn faculty (though this
is a good current usage). But a type of mind asso-
ciated witli nervous instability, characterised by
exceptional exaltation, capanle of intellectual or
emotional creation peculiarly high-pitched and
(compared with talent’s creation) dazzling.
Moreau’s “neurosis” (quoted by Ellis) meets the
idea. Moreau regards the genius-neurosis as the
synonym of exaltation (not trouble or perturba-
tion) of the intellectual faculties. “ The word
‘neurosis’ would indicate a particular dis-
position of the faculties, a disposition still
in part physiological, but overflowing those
physiological limits.” And Moreau presents a
genealogical-tree with genius, insanity, crime,
etc., among its branches ; the common root being
“the hereditary idiosyncratic nervous state.”
And Grasset, “while not regarding genius as a
neurosis, considers that it is united to the neuroses
by a common trunk, this trunk being a tempera-
ment and not a disease.” With this definition
Ellis is apparently, in agreement ; and one
thinks it would be better if the word genius
were restricted to mean this specific ex-
alted genius. In A Study of British Genius,
Ellis uses it “merely to signify high intellectual
ability.” So his types include hundreds of emi-
nent persons of talent, who lived happy or died
healthy, and had not a trace of genius about them—
Jane Austen or John Opie, for example. And his
types include scores of eminent persons so far
away down the stream of history that their genius
is unidentifiable—St. Wulfstan or Admiral Byng,
for example. Ellis should really have called his
book A Study of Eminent British Persons ; since
that is what it amounts to.
Ellis found his eminent persons in the recently-
completed Dictionary of National Biography. He
omitted royalty and the nobility to begin with,
since these classes are for the greater part eminent
only by accident of birth. Then he took the
eminent to whom three pages are devoted in the
Dictionary , and added others who have less than
three pages if the notice-writers! seemed to con-
sider them exceptionally able. Finally, he sorted
out 975 eminent men and 55 eminent women—and
a nondescript lot they are : one would cheerfully
deny genius in the special sense to nine-tenths
of them. Given the basis, procedure was easy ;
and Ellis proceeded. The weakness of his book
lies first of all in the accidental classification (even
though this be the only satisfactory way of
eliminating the author’s-personal equation), and
secondly in the fact that he builds high on a
meagre statistical basis—builds higher than such
a basis will permit. Yet, if his deductions
be considered as marking tendencies only, they
may be welcomed to that extent as regards eminent
persons, but emphatically not as regards genius.
Ellis, then, says, or quotes, or argues, or shows
that of his 1030 British, persons of “pre-eminent
intellectual ability ” 11 appeared from the" fourth
to the tenth century, 5 in the eleventh century, 11
in the 12th, 9 in the 13th, 16 in the 14th, 32 in the
I.sth, 161 in the lOth, 191 in the 17th, 372 in the
18th, 223 in the 19th— only four of these belonging
to the second half of the 19th (incomplete). That,
throughout eight centuries, a marked rise in in-
tellectual ability has very frequently been preceded
by a marked fall; and in every century, from 11th
to 18th, with exception of 17th, most of the great
men have been born in the latter half (like you
and me). . That of the splendid 1030, 659 be-
longed to England, 28 to Wales, 137 to Scotland,
63 to Ireland ; 97 were mixed British, and 46
mixed B. and foreign. That, judged by the
eminent standard of England, Wales has pro-
duced fewer than her share, Ireland still fewer,
and Scotland , decidedly more (which of itself
would show we are not dealing with genius,
despite th eperfervidvm ingenimn). That there are
three great foci of intellectual ability in England—
East Anglia, the south-west, and the Welsh
border. That it seems impossible to find any
eminent person who belongs to London through
all his grand-parents (accident of birthplace
not taken into account), seeing that Cantlie, who
investigated degeneration amongst Londoners,
could not find a single Londoner in this sense
during four years of hunting. That “there is
neither in Alban nor Ireland,” says the Cuehullain
saga, “an army that can put down the men of
Ulster when once their weakness is gone and their
anger is kindled ” —and people think to put down
Dill-Macky!
s
That (with a breath) the Anglo-Dare appears to
possess (like Newton) a special aptitude for
mathematics ; and the mathematical abilities of
Cambridge are due to the fact that Cambridge
drains the ability of nearly the whole Anglo-
Danish district. That the Irish make eminent
actors, and the Scotch don’t. _That the clergy
breed more geniuses, and more idiots, than any
ocher class. That butchers tend to be fair and shoe-
makers to be dark That a man is just as likely
to inherit ability through his father as through
his mother. That the size of the average genius-
producing family is above the normal—as in the
case of lunatios and criminals. That men of
ability are the offspring of predominantly boy-
producing parents, and women of ability the
offspring of predominantly girl-producing parents.
That it is likely that the maternal exhaustion
which tends to produce males tends also to pro-
duce genius. That genius (like crime and
insanity) cleaves more often to the eldest
and youngest children in a family than to
the middle'-ones. (That Ellis’s argument could
have been greatly improved if he had read
N.S.W. Statistician’s unique birth-rate essay.)
That the universities used to foster a majority
of the eminent, but do so no longer. That
eminent men and women marry later, and are
less fertile and more sterile than the non-
eminent; but they live a long time for the reason
that they must live long or they won’t become
eminent. That gout and consumption are asso-
ciated with genius. That, as Good hart remarks,
“illegibility is a disease.” That lawyers,
soldiers and scientists tend to be fair; actors,
divines, and statesmen to be dark ; and poets and
painters run well in both colours. That men of
genius have very bright eyes—this possibly being
connected with an unusual activity of the cerebral
circulation ; and are inclined to be bashful. That
the real affinity of genius is with congenital im-
becility rather than with insanity (disputed).
That that will do; and for further details and
interesting appendices of the classified eminent
you are referred to the book.
♦
Criticising Brinkley’s Japan, The Athenmm
says that |>V
What part Japan may ultimately play in the Far East
it is hard to say, but, as these volumes amply show, the
Japanese are out of all sympathy and touch with the
West in relation to philosophy, art, music, poetry, and
literature. It is, therefore, open to doubt whether,
apart from questions of commerce and navigation, the
predominance of Japan would be more advantageous to
civilization as understood in the West than the pre-
dominance of Russia, who, after all, is not unsympathetic
"■ith the higher aspects of Latin and Teutonic civiliza-
tion.
Perhaps the best proof of Japan’s progress yet
tendered is given to The Times by Fi H. Balfour,
apropos Herbert Spencer’s warning to the Japs
wot to admit the intrusion of Europe. Says
Balfour—
During my residence in Tokio, more than ten years ago,
I was in the frequent, habit "of dropping into Maruya’s,
the well-known bookseller of Mihon-bashi, who gets out
English books on science and philosophy for the use of
students at the Imperial University. One morning, I
made a remark to the shopman upoij the very large
assortment of Herbert. Spencer's work*with which the
shelves were encumbered —regarding it, not unnaturally,
as eyideuoe of Spencer's popularity. “ Ah, yes,” was the
unexpected reply, “ Spencer is a drug in the market. We
sell scarcely any of his books now, as you see. The
young' fellows consider that he is ‘ passb,’ and prefer
something more up to date ” !) ,
As to books about nun ill id the North.
Capt. Brinkley’s just-published work on Japan
and China is the inost comprehensive survey
of the whole Japanese field df afiairs and
arts. It js in twelve vols. (ten volumes pub-
lished) at 14s. net; and can be seen at Sydney
and Melbourne Public .Libraries. A handier book
on war topics and tbe Russian advance is
The' Path o f Empire, by George Lynch;
10s. net. Bor Korea, read. Kora, by
Angus Hamilton ; 15s. net. For .Japanese
social life, Knkoro, by Lafcadio Hen rue;
ss. net. Other interesting books aliout the
Japanese are The Heart of Japan , by C. L.
Brownell, 3s. fid.—not serious; and Japanese
Physical Training, ss. net—recently noticed.
And Asia and Europe by C. M. Townsend, os.
net, gives you a philosophical view of the rela-
tions of Occident and Orient, brilliantly written.
For maps, consult Stanford’s of Eastern China,
Japan, and Korea, 35.; and Stanford’s map of the
Siberian railway, 10s. 6 d.
MEMORANDA
Arthur Lynch is released from prison “on license,'
with full personal liberty ; but he is disqualified to sit in
Parliament “or to be clewed to any position of trust.
And release on license means that the person concerned
may be called upon at any time to resume serving his
original sentence. , • , i
Some points made by G. H. Lorimer in the new
Graham letters : ‘K-jhi
Figures can’t lie, I know, but that’s only because
they can’t talk.
I never worry about the side of a proposition I can
see : what I want to get a look at is the side that soul
of sight. The hugs always snuggle down on the under
side of the stone. '
There’s only two johs for a man in his own house-
one’s boss and the other’s office-boy, and a fellow
naturally falls into the one he’s fitted for.
Milton received from his publisher for Paradise Lift
20 1. —equal to about 250 1. to-day. The lIS. of the first
book only was offered at auction in London a month ago,
and bought in at 49001. : the owner stating that he naa
been offered 5QOOf. from America. And, after all, though
a veritable MS., it was not in blind MiltoaS script, out
only the fair copy of an amanuensis. So that there i
profit in (some) poetry—2so years after the poet’s deau..
T. W. Crosland, lampooner in ordinary and extraordi-
nary, is not the expected person to complain of unking
criticism. But on 29th January he sued The St.
Gazette for libel in saying—(apropos his statement :
Lovely Woman, “I am prone to wish that all woo
were widows”) “ We are inclined to agree that ■■
only one woman at any rate were a widow, the amount •
human suffering on the earth would be sensibly reducefl.
Verdict for defendants. Plaintiff got advt.; a.
cross-examination based on the book ; and Justice w
tham’s comment that Lovely Woman was “ a libel ol > -
gravest kind on the women of England... sinipb ’q.
gusting... Books of this kind should be entu =
sharply.” Then the bagpipes played “Whaur 5 .
Unspeakable Scot noo?”


g
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
s-smiM-Es-sr.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOIEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS*
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
AEE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE SL, SYDNEY*
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
I\i EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the I ittle Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, 5£ oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s Cd, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS—
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.— sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’
BATS/
No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 G
6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, lsGd, 2s, 2s Gd
BOYS’ BATS,
Cane—
No. 3 4 5 6
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \
All Cane— J
5s 6d, 6s Pd, 7s Gd, 8s Gd
9s 6d, 10s Gd, 11s 6d, 12s Gd
MEN S CANE'j
and RUBBER V
BATS- J
14s Gd, 15s, 15s Gd, 16s 6d
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
Send for Catalogue, Poet Free--full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2b, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
ft Eft BY
3s 6d
hANbICAf*
6s
Standard
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four pla3 T ers—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &o.
Tennis Bails.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation ...
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered..
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion
... 4s 6d doz.
... !)s 6d
... 10s
... 10s
8s 6d
12s Od, 15s
10s
JAYLORS,
jgjas.'-
Lawn BowSs.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including; payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, SYDNEY.
ALL STRENGTH, ALL VIGOR, ALL NERVE AND MUSCULAR POWER have for their base the Electricity that
Nature gave to the body. If you are weak, feeble, or have lost the vim and fire of life, or the energy or
ambition is lacking ; if the Nervous System is run down, and the Liver and Kidneys do not per-
form their proper functions, such weakened and wasted conditions ai’e due to the loss of
Electricity. Most people neglect these symptoms until disease and suffering in
more serious forms make their appearance. It is then that all kinds of
Drug Treatment are resorted to, with scant relief. Why ? Because
the element that causes the troubles needs replacing. Drugs
won’t do it. Electricity alone renews the Health and
Strength that has been lost. Applied by our
Belt, it strengthens, heals, and vitalises,
and never fails to relieve in the most
chronic cases. It will cure when
all other treatment fails.
%
*
Mr.
Charles
Shepherd,
of Jamieson
Town, N.S.W.,
who suffered,
and was a cripple
for 17 years, says:
I was a 'burden to my
people, and a perfect
misery to myself. I tried a
good many doctors, lotions,
and drugs, and got no benefit
from them. My boys sent me to
Sydney to try your treatment, and
since I started it I have not taken
one dose of medicine. I wore the Belt
regular about 5 hours every day, with
great results, for I am completely cured.
Everyone up here was astonished at my re-
covery. I thank God my footsteps were di-
rected to your Institute. Trusting you will cure
many more sufferers.
Or. McLaughlin’
Mr. R. F. SHANAHAN, of 401 Lygon-street, Carlton,
ViC., writes: —I was in a frightfully weak condition,
my nerves being all shattered, memory gone, and
spending sleepless nights, and waking with ter-
rible pains in the head. But lam now able to
say that, with the assistance of your won-
derful Belt, I have completely recovered,
and am enjoying perfect health.
I shall never be able to sufficiently
thank you for the good you have
done me. I shall be pleased
to give any information to
all sufferers. Wishing
you widespread suc-
cess, and once more
thanking you for
what you have
done for me.
*
4
«firV
3
09
•'*'l
*
Mr.
W. G.
Wilson,
of Round
Hill Station,
Culca i r n,
N.S.W., states:—
1 am most happy
to say I have receiv-
ed immense benefit
from the use of your
Belt. I was In a had way,
being unabl© even to lace
my boots or do any work at
all; but to-day I can safely say
I am 20 years a younger man, and
can do any kind ofwork. I am nearly
70 years of age, and if it will make
this great alteration in me, what will it
do for younger men. lam sure if anyone
_ attends to it properly and follows direc-
tions, it will certainly cure them. Thanking
you for your kindness.
Electric Belt.
Mr. R. HEDDLE, 94 High-street, St. Kilda, Vic.,
3ays :—I have worn your Belt for some time, and
.1 am happy to say I am in splendid health.
The Sciatica I had in my hip is gone, and
my back is .stronger. The headaches are
,all gone, and my nerves are as strong
as ever; in fact, I am a new man, and
will do all in my power to recom-
mend your Belts. I have told
people the wonders they can
do, and will be glad to give
my experience to anyone
who calls or writes. I
am very grateful, in-
deed, to you, and
wish you every
success with
your grand
treatment.
Q
O
“Electricity is Life,” and our
Illustrated Books explain fully the
great advantages to be obtained by its use in
all Nervous and Functional Disorders, Weak Back,
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Painful or Swollen
Joints or Limbs, Varicocele, Rupture, &c. If Drugs have been
found of little use—try Electricity ! You will never regret a fair trial.
Many men and women have tried it, and they are thankful that they did so.
These books illustrate our Belts and attachments, showing how they are applied ;
also giving photos, and names of many who have been cured. We will send them
closely sealed, in plain envelopes and postage paid, to any address, on receipt of a post-card.
If you can do so, call and have our advice, Free, and the working of the Belt explained.
FREE ADVICE BY MAIL. ilomrs : 9 a. m. fca 8.30
pm.
f dr. McLaughlin go.
100 W. Market St-, Sydney
Melbourne Office 167 E. Swanston Street.
IM.Z. Office—s 4 Willis Street, Wellington.


GOUT
IS OUE HERITAGE, AND WHAT
TIIE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GUUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
fdg
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/« we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Set. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
V.
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELECTRO-GALVANIC
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and other
DISEASES in all STAGES,
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through al!
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it doet
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTlCE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC) ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Efizabeth-street, Sydney,
fd
“ acts i«ikb a charm.”
JONES’
Khenmaticnro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
23. 9d. PER. BOTTUf
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUM ATICURO CO.
i Cape Town,
l and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourni
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and
apply CUTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the r blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations* from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid CuTICtJBA
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cures. Put up In screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticuba Pills are alterative, antiseptic, tonic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies .r. sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns 4 Co., Sydney. British
Depots 27-38, Charterhouse Bq., London. French Depot: 6 Hue de la Paix, Paris. Pottbb Dbuo a»D CbbßU
Cob?., Sole Props., Boston, U. 8. A.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
too OriginOl
CELLULAR.
The HealtLkst and most Comfortable Underwear tor Mea, Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when describe)
as “just as good as Aertcg."
SOLE AGENTBI—
Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
78 and 76 King: Street.
I
The Unitersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomaoh, Headachy Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician*!
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Female?,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DIN
DS
MAGNESIA
MAGNES
WILL ANDRADES
LIST OF
gf
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, Ss 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, 1b ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric 8e115,,1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
6s. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to M.4AB •*, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, U NSW Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. #***rs Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century ed'«*M very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plat»» »*d engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. **»namos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to W<*We:i, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Hand»ook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Odr New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography fop. Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3 :
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDHEY
(OPPOSITE VIOTORIA MARKETS)
201 80URKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
AND
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS,
&
* V
VANISHED VIGOR
From any cause Speedily
and Permanently
RESTORED.
YOD WRITE. 1 CURE.
mm lps m
IMPROVED
dg
Has completely
Cured Thousands of
SUFFERING MEN.
IT IS NOT A BELT.
IT WILL NOT BURN YOU.
Tljere is Nothing to Wear
It is Sure, Safe,
Speedy, Secret, and Simple.
For All Forms of
NERVE. BLOOD, AND
SKIN DISEASES
Consul the Only Qualified
Specialist who has no Record
of Failure.
Let me give you back your
Manliness.
VARICOCELE CURED
Without Operation or Pain.
SOBGEOH LOIGSTOI,
} M.R.C.S , ENG.,
129 COLLINS ST.t MELBOURNE
NERVOUSNESS.
XiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A. Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free to Men.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mons. Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Arethesame
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
REGULARLY at BEDTIME
oss
CALVERTS
20 per cent
CARBOLIC
SOAP
to prevent Mosquito bites. It is an excellent
antiseptic soap, refreshing and beneficial
to the skin, and a useful remedy for insect
bites, itch, and other skin irritation.
Bach tablet in metal box.
CALVERT’S
15% CARBOLIC POWDER
offers a safe and simple precaution against
the spread of infection and disease.
Cheap to use, as it is so strong.
§ lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England.


“A friend
in need is a
friend in-
deed.” This
is an old
proverb,
but as true
as it is old.
Here is just
such a friend.
Never be
■without it. Keep it
close at hand all the
time.
A
m
EXISSSki
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immediate
relief. You will find it equally true
in old colds, bronchitis, whooping-
cough, asthma.
And you will declare it “the best
friend in the world” if you will use
it for an irritable throat or weak lungs.
It acts as a strong tonic, clearing up
the throat, giving tone to the relaxed
tissues, and greatly strengthening the
lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure you
get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.SA.
' rT ° lm ~ -
SPOONER’S
11
SPOONER’S
V
*
♦
BOOTS
MMT'tEATMF.H
! - :.cw?.r« *»o&
“aSM
i..
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers ol
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
fdg
Latest
{ Models <
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
£2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia,
Motor Cars and Motocydes
Tyres, A ccessories. Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
’Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD GYGLE GO * Dept. 339 b
CHICAGO, U.S.A. and UVEItPOOI/, Bwm.twn,
I
To Avoid
CHOLERA,FEVERS
DYSENTRY
USE
SANITAS
Disinfecting Fluid
Pronounced by the Medical
faculty to be
Zhe greatest
germ Destroyer
known
to . .
Scienoe.
ABSOLUTELY NON-POISONOUS
AND FRAGRANT.
Spread it about the house and you’ll be
Proof Against Disease.
si
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON E.
BONNINGTONS
jr~A
BONNINGTONS
Carrageen
OR
WISH MOSS
George
- Christchurch
CARRAGEEN
ir/sh°’moss
Vi zs mvatuahle medicine 7i&§
the extraordinary property of
immediately relieving the chest
the congealed phlegm.conse-
causing apree expector -J
atiorz without straining. Of pro-
moting heollhy respiration,free ing
the air tubes, andgiving strength, \
to the mus ci/tar organs, \
21/-
21/-
m
*
r Mviswn
bums
J'M
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wale*.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keep* perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Your* truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading- Jeweller.
‘HJ.IIAIS ’d 'H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1902 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
ggjgjfe
THE name “ Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co-
Ltd.
S 3T 33 HXT 3E3 Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Eull particulars will be furnished on application.
IIIMli
O/ri"
Concerning Elgin Watches^
?
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PEICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels,
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to—
Queensland Agents
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pfi*e Medals.
These series
of Pens neither
I scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
fd
Works : Birmingham, England,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Gate.
It was long and long ago
(Did her people ever know?)
When a body, young and pretty, used to wait
With a girlish love and strong
(And she never waited long !)
For another due to meet her at the gate.
How she filled the ears that harked,
And she stilled the dogs that barked,
And her lover knew when father was away.
How they used to coo and kiss
Through a fleeting hour of bliss,
And the lovers’ names ?—l’ll tell some other day.
So we courted on the sly
In the starlight, she and I
(And I wonder did her people ever know).
O, the nights we used to flirt,
Vagabond and Miss Alert,
In the shadows by the gateway, long ago.
I am far away, and, p’r’aps,
“ Someone ” flirts with other chaps—
And as gaily as she ever did with me;
But I know it is the way
Of the old world every day,
And I hope they are as happy as can be.
Other girls have come across
Cupid’s highway; and the loss
Of a dear one’s in the game of love and hate.
But I’m longing oft (Ah me !)
Just for one short hour to be
With that “someone ” in the shadows by the gate.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
A Rhyme of Disillusion.
The lift of the wave and the reeling mast,
The stinging spray, and the whistling breeze ;
The blood runs red, and the pulse beats fast
As we face the gale on the open seas.
Life is a rapture, and sorrow flees
The heights and hollows where seabirds sing.
At least, we are told so, but, if you please,
I don’t think I’d care for that sort of thing.
The gallop of squadrons that thunder past,
’"’’e blazon of bmners above the trees,
FI is ing of sword blades, bared at last
To umpire the nations’ rivalries.
Death by the steel, or by fell disease,
For the land we love —for our home and King.
Thanks ! I prefer to take my ease ;
I’m sure I don’t care for that sort of thing.
The glamor of twilight and eyes downcast,
The twitter of birds and the hum of bees—
“ To this complexion we come at last,”
Snared by the old-new witcheries ;
A dainty touch on the ivory keys ;
A whispered word while the dancers swing—
Yes, poets may tell us of joys like these,
But I’m rather too old for that sort of thing.
Brethren, you care not for words like these,
There is not the least doubt you will have
your fling,
But the years wear on, and by slow degrees,
You’ll find you won’t care for that sort of thing.
M.L.
TAIWA.
Ocean’s Own.
The song that the surf is brawling
Is meant for their ears alone,
Who followed the deep-sea calling
And slaved at it, blood and bone.
Oh ! softly the north wind sings them
A measure that bids them rest
Where Ocean, their mother, swings them
To sleep on her throbbing breast.
The moon lifts gold in the gloaming,
The sun in the west sinks red,
And birds of the sea pass roaming,
But the Ocean’s Own lie dead.
Perchance as they lie they’re dreaming
Of home and a childhood’s tune
That rang through the storm-seas’ screaming,
And sobbed in the warm monsoon ;
Or maybe again they’re thrashing
With spray on the high bridge-rail,
And laboring engines clashing
A dirge to the men who fail.
The world passes on, forgetting,
But, off in the ports, I know
There’s many a brave heart fretting
For the good, brave hearts laid low.
Their ships swept out on the noon-tides,
And lonely their mast-head lights
Were quivering far, when the moontides
Swam glittering through the nights ;
And strong where the storm-stars flicker
They drove through the wash and roll,
And ever their screws spun quicker
When baulked of their distant goal.
For the Ocean’s Own were roamers—
By power of sail and steam
They swung in the long Cape combers,
Or droned up the Hoogli’s stream.
The song that the surf is shouting
Is meant for their ears alone
Who went to their work undoubting,
And slaved at it blood and bone.
Oh ! softly the Ocean swings them
To sleep on her heaving breast,
And the wind from the sweet north sings them
The songs that their hearts loved best.
Soft eyes are sad in their waking
Eyes bright with the tears unshed—
And there’s many a brave heart breaking ;
But the Ocean’s Own are dead.
M. L.
WILL LAWSON.


By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to .
gfd
HIS MAJESTY
■ THE KING.*/
MOIR’S
KIPPERED
HERRINGS
IN I-lb FLAT OVAL TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., London, Aberdeen and Seville.
» Head Office t 9 St 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, H.C.
END’S
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING.
AND INVIGORATING.
ALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.* Without It you bare «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared onljbj J. 0. BNO. Ltd., • FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. C. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
AN OFFER TO
g
WE have always given proof of anything that we
claimed for our Electric Belt, because we know
that there are people who claim a great deal more for
their remedies than the truth would justify. If you
want a remedy which will cure you, it seems wise for you
to take the one that has cured others. We have published
thousands of testimonials from cured patients, and we will
pay in gold for evidence showing that we have ever used a
testimonial which was not true and honest.
Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
cures Rheumatism, Lumbago, Pains and Aches in any
part of the Body, Weakness in any part of the Body,
Tired Feelings, Sleeplessness, Premature Old Age, Weak
Stomach, Weak Kidneys, Los 3 of Vim and Ambition,
f We don’t ask any man to buy our appliance on a specula-
tion. We know that it will cure these troubles, and we
want our pay only when the cure is complete. If we fail
in our task it’s our loss, not yours. All you lose is your
time, and if our Belt fails to cure you, you will have the
satisfaction of knowing that the best, strongest and finest electric body appliance in the
world—one with 50,000 cures to its credit—has failed, and that there is no cure for you in
eleotricity. Remember our terms are
PAY WHEN CURED.
JSk. Free Book.-We have just completed our Beautiful Illustrated Book, descriptive
of our treatment. It is worth reading. W« will send it free upon request. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. EVB.
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.!
New Zealand Branch: 19 Princee Street, Dunedin.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
DO you DRINK LIME JUICE ?
fdg
PURE UME- FRUIT JUICB
fd
gfd
gfd
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agents —Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell &. Co., Sydney.
• D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
**-
v*
0
ju9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
S.
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ITTL
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prict.
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter's
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St., Sydney.
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE: —
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**B T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address
Z;X ;; a
*3VS?
»&w*\\v
v
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
HOLLOWAY S PILLS
•
THE . PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” or “ out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy aud aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
oy <§■ .<&
# S
I1IHTME
SRfIMZ JOSEF/
the best natural
Aperienf water.
li-
Ul
l/l
N
IS
the best natural
A peri en I- water.
RfIWZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperienh wate**-
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient- water.


Nervous Prostration
A Dreadful Period of Suffering 1 .
“Clements Tonic Saved Me."
The Case of W[rs. E. WEEDEN.
(BY a special reporter.)
Ap great interest was manifested in all
circles respecting the following subject, a
representative waited on Mrs. Elizabeth
YVeeden, of No. 67 Cleveland-street, Rtd-
fern, who is well known in the locality in
which she lives.
“ I am pleased that you have called,”
said Mrs. YVeeden, “as it gives me an op-
portunity to let the public know what was
my real position at the time you refer to,
and also to remove any misapprehensions
which might exist in the minds of some of
my neighbours. It appears that the
general assumpti n was that I had profited
in health by following a certain course of
treatment recommended by my doctor. No-
thing of the sort was the case, for after
cairying out his instructions for a long time
my prospects were no brighter, so I gave
him up and tried to get relief through the
aid of several medicines which I had seen
advert’sed in the papers. They were no
less effective, and as they all failed to reach
the base of my afflictions I thought I was
never going to have my health Lack again.”
“ What was the nature of your com-
plaint ? ” enquired the reporter.
‘ 'he doctor said it was nervous prostra-
tion U'uui which I was suffering, and I think
he was right, fori used to tremble as if an
electric battery was at work all through my
body, while the fearsome state of my mind
was most distressing, as I was always
fancying that some terrible trouble was
hanging over me. # If the children were not
home from school to time I worried myself
with the belief that something had happened
to them, and such anxiety seemed to make
me very irritable and short-tempered. I
was ahva s tired and extremely drowsy,
f eling at 9 o’clock in the morning as if I
could go to he 1 and slet, o all day, such a
til ng as a desire to get my work done sel-
dom entering my head. Careless and in-
d decent to everything around me, my life
was one continual misery. There was a
depressing pain in my head as if a band had
been dra u tielitly over my eyes, before
which 1 ttle dark specks frequently floated,
and somet mes I could scarcely see for a
haziness which appeared in front of me. I
used to imagine I had a touch of ear-ache,
owing to a peculiar sensation like the sound
of a bell ling ng in my ears, while the
shock ng headaches I had to endure I shall
never forget. You have no idea how
wretched I felt when I had eaten a few
mouthfuls of food. My stomach became
filled with wind, from which I suffered great
pain until sour belchings came on, when I
felt a 1 ttle easier ; but, in the meantime,
my chest was proving very troublesome,
with a feeling as if a load of some kind
was going to smother me. Then I com-
menced to feel sick, and before long my
food was retched up again. I had the most
awful pains in my side and shoulders; but
the manner in which my heart palpitated
caused me many a fright. If I walked a few
yards my heart fluttered dreadfully, so you
may depend I exerted myself as little as
possible, more especially as I felt faint and
giddy when I moved about. After the least
effort to do a little work I used to collapse,
my feebleness being so marked that if I
tried to sweep a room my strength failed so
completely that I felt powerless, eyen to
the tips of my fingers.”
“ You spoke about feeling so drowsy all
day. How did you pass your nights ? ”
“ YVell, I was in such a sluggish condition
that I could always sleep, but the strange
part about it was that I never felt rested or
refreshed. This was due, no doubt, to the
fact that I had horrible dreams and night-
mares, which made me scream out whilst
asleep.* The children have often come to
me in the middle of the night to wake me
up so that my screaming would cease, and
how terrified I was when awakened ! My
mouth was in a nasty state, too, as if I had
been tasting copper, my tongue also being
covered with fur. I thought my skin would
never get white again, it was that yellow,
and I was just about as thin as I could pos-
sibly be. Nobody but those who have had
a similar experience to mine can form the
slightest conception of what mental torture
is involved when pain is endured and all hope
is lost. There was no pleasure in being
alive, but still I clung to what little life was
left, and now you see a different woman al-
together. lam quite well again.”
“You are very fortunate. But what
made you so? ”
“ It was a medicine called Clements Tonic
which helped me out of my difficulties, and
but for that remedy I do not know what I
would have done. As the doctor’s and
other medicines could do me no good it is
only right to say that Clements Tonic saved
me, and I shall always deem it my duty to
make this fact clear to other people. v Yes,
it was when I had taken nearly a bottle of
Clements Tonic that I felt warmed and
strengthened, with a good healthy glow
running right through my body, and my
spirits brighter than they had bi en ever
since my illness began. Getting some more
Clements Tonic, that miserable drowsiness
commenced to leave me, and as I was al-
ready taking a little food I began to pick
up strength. I thought this was splendid
progress, and I was highly elated with
the great success which attended my use
of Clements Tonic—a fact that was borne
out by the abatement of my tortures. My
headaches became so insignificant that I
hardly noticed them ; then they died out
altogether, and I can-say the same about
the pains in my side and shoulders. I
was so thankful to be thus relieved, and
still more encouragement to pei severe with
Clements Tonic came when flatulence was
remedied and the heaviness was lifted
from my chest. The anxiety&which my
heart had caused by palpitating at every
turn was readily set aside by Clements
Tonic, which seemed to find its way to
every nook and corner of my internal
organs and root out every particle of
disease which had been left untouched by
previous medicines. The sleep which then
came was calm and refreshing, and when
I got up it was with a clean mouth and
a good appetite for my morning meal,
and also with a feeling of energy which
made it a pleasure to have some work
to do. All this time my nervousness was
becoming less apparent in every way. I
could soon tolerate any noise without
trembling, and my mind was free from all
fears. I recognised how different my life
was, and my grateful thoughts were all
centred on Clements Tonic, which I con-
tinued taking for another week or so, when
I found rmself as well as ever, with my
complexion clear and my weight regained.”
“ With your permission I’ll reproduce
this narrative.”
“ You can publish it in any way you like,
as I’ve only spoken the truth."
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Ei.izabktu Wbkden, of 67 Cleveland-street, Red-
fern, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely
d clare that I have carefully read the annexed docu-
ment, consisting of four folios, and consecutively
n' inhered from one to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic; and also contains my full vei-
tniBsion to publish in any way my statements—which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and 1 make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of th« Oaths Aot, ISOO.
Subscribed and declared at Redforn, this twenty-
Orth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
PATRICK STANLEY, T P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMFBXIXION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, OORDIAL3, Sea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Price, 6dL. -
Posted, Od.
v
ruletheWorld
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory. The memory-
must be trained if the brain is to do good
work. The memory can be successfully-
developed by proper training, just as an,
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
is a practical and successful system which
benefits all brain workers. It will make
a poor memory good, and a good
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on application to the
Secretary, PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
Box 403.
IHRLBUIJUItE.
And 4 Br.ooMsnunr St.,
LONDON, W.C.
TO nVEXiBOURNIS VISITORS
P~ OTICE
| M POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Ki! 'a Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
A' lmmodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
I . aiders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st,, South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
lar the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anil
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
THISCUIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, ITelbourne.
'iiirchU
& <d
7 m
TRY
&he
FOOD
ftc fuse a//'//n/fat/on&
Satisfying. Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
A6fA?rs FOft SYD/V£\f
sAYffts Aupoftr 6c potttp
RIDGES FOOD MILLS.LONDON.Enc,
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address-
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
84 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
5/- Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Sub-Agents I Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne.
° \ Faulding & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
g
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating 1 . No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Root. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
Til Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6cl.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Retail.
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.s .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un.
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withou
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre <fc Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


9
1
I
The Standard
of Purity
throughout
the World.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
ufi
t
m
AARON’S
Exchange ptel Qo.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary■
fdg
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has solved the problem of how to LIVE LIKE A LORD on a SMALL INCOME.
This is how it is done—
First Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE —Thus you
will only be charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER from Is. per meal.
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS. —The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Engage Roomsat ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
JVo Cigarette in the World deserves better of the Public than
u CAMEOS."
They never vary from year to year—a hairsbreadth in QUALITY, FLA VOUR or
PERFECT MANUFACTURE.
m
§2*
H.
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total oapacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Canz Induotlon Motor# SOLE AGENTS :
file flostra! Otis Engineering Jn., [td., South fQelb.
Take No Chances
- ' •
“If you set out to take Vienna,” said Napoleon, “take Vienna.”
If you set out to purchase a dampcourse, see that you get the
original and genuine
RUBEROID DAMPCOURSE
We don’t hope to know where all the shoals and rocks of dis=
appointment are in imitation dampcourses, but we know there are
none in RUBEROID DAMPCOURSE.
Sold by all leading storekeepers
throughout Australasia.
WHOLESALE AGENTS I
E. RICH & CO., LTD., SYDNEY and BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.-No. 1256.
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 1904*
Pbioe 6d.
THE PROPHET ELIJAH GIVES FATHER ABRAHAM THE TIP.
THE PROPHET (after denouncing Australians as criminals) : “These disturbances are a Masonic plot. They will do a lot of harm to Australia.
Supposing I go away and describe what has happened. It will injure Australia’s credit with the bondholders.” —Daily paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Australians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
EOT ICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge, in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tins Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JllaeTc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, SB flout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., SB Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
TTie^^xxlZdx/fii.
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 1904.
A Nice Bill of Fare—With No Money to
Pay For It.
The programme for the first session of the second
Australian Parliament as outlined by Premier
Deakin promises a liberal supply of reform—
Federal old age pensions; further assistance in
developing the agricultural resources of the Com-
monwealth ; encouragement to the iron industry;
an effort to stimulate immigration ; completion of
the Federal machinery by the appointment of a
High Commissionerand an Inter-state Commission;
and the taking over from the States of the control
of quarantine and coast lights. Also there ara to
lie further attempts to solve the State debts
problem. There is nothing at all to be
said in criticism of such a bill of fare for
what it includes; a session which accom-
plished all that would be a wonderful one. With
a fuller explanation of some measures, such as the
Arbitration Bill, the proposals of the Govern-
ment may prove to be out of sympathy with
the temper of Parliament. But a Governor’s
; >eech necessarily has to pass over details and
■ mfirie itself to broad principles. Taking it so,
vhere is only one criticism that can be directed
against the Deakin programme, but that is a
serious one. The menu is attractive enough, but
there is no suggestion as to how the viands are to
be paid for. All sorts of fine, expensive reforms,
such as old age pensions and Federal quarantine,
are promised, but there is not a hint as to the
means by which they are to be carried out. The
Commonwealth already comes close to the quarter
share of the customs and excise revenue to
which the Braddon clause of the Constitution
confines it, and soon it will not be able
to rely upon any more, from that source.
Under the circumstances it is useless for the Aus-
tralian Government to propose, for instance,
Federal old age pensions without directly indi-
cating the source from which it intends to get the
money : and so far it has failed to indicate any-
thing of the kind, which is a rather large matter
to leave out of its official programme.
* • • •
A Federal scheme of old age pensions calculated
on the N.S.W. basis would cost £1,568,000 a year.
An agricultural bureau, with bonuses for new
crops and assistance to open up new markets ; an
immigration bureau to advertise the resources of
the continent; a High Commissioner and an
Inter-state Commission ; Federal industrial arbi-
tration ; a bonus for establishing an iron in-
dustry ; the first steps towards founding the
Federal capital and building the transcon-
tinental railway; extension of Australian trade
and interests in Papua and Oceania generally;
Federal control of quarantine, lighthouses, beacons
and buoys—would, in the aggregate, cost
another large sum, perhaps another million. Of
the total £2,500,000, a proportion would be merely
transferred from the States to the Common-
wealth, a proportion would be new expenditure—
old age pensions for Tasmania, Westralia, Queens-
land, and South Australia, the iron and agricul-
tural bonuses, and the salaries of new officials
created. But whether new expenditure or trans-
ferred expenditure, the Australian Government
would be called upon to foot the bill, and since it
has at present no means to do so, it is a quite
useless and foolish business for Premier
Deakin to parade a great list of pro-
gressive measures without any accompany-
ing proposals for taxation to meet their cost.
Allowing that the States with old age pension
schemes now in existence could be in some way
induced to enter into an arrangement to give up
so much of their revenues as they now devote to
that object (a highly improbable contingency), the
Commonwealth would still require, roughly,
£750,000 to meet an old age pensions account, and
on the other accounts—again allowing for State
contributions to meet the charges of transferred
departments, such as quarantine and lighthouses
—£750,000. In effect, the new cost to the Com-
monwealth of bringing old age pensions in Victoria
to a decent standard and of providing old age pen-
sions for Tasmania, Westralia, South Australia,
and Queensland ; of adopting a progressive
policy in regard to immigration, iron and
agricultural bonuses, and the Pacific Islands
and other matters, would total about £1,500,000.
Perhaps Mr. Deakin expects that Elijah Dowie
will summon ravens to bring sovereigns from the
sky. Perhaps not.
* • * •
The speech put into the mouth of the Australian
Governor is indeed singularly reticent in regard
to the financial question. This single paragraph
refers to ways and means:—
The revenue derived from customs and excise ha* been
equal to anticipations. As the incidence of duties under
the tariff contemplates the substitution of Australian for
imported goods, no considerable expansion of such
receipts under normal conditions is to be expected. The
estimates of expenditure will be framed with economy,
having due regard to the magnitude and importance of
the interests under your control.
Which is tine enough, as far as it goes. The
administrati re economy of the Australian Govern-
ment has beei; admirable, and there is no reason
to expect any vciy great growth of the customs
revenue, since the tariff, poor as it is, is in some
directions discouraging imports—and ought to dis-
courage them much more than it does. The
excise returns should, however, soon show the
results of an increasing prosperity, and a revision
of the tariff to cover certain articles now on the
free list might bring in another £500,000 a year.
But, on the whole, taking a most favorable view,
the Common weal tli could not expect, by any
means, to have available for its own use anything
more than another £200,000 a year of customs and
excise revenue, and that is presuming a revision
of the tariff to tax tea and other articles now on
the free list. Not even that much is pro-
posed by Mr. Deakin, inadequate as it would
be to meet the bill for £1,500,000 of new
expenditure which his programme would entail.
But there is available a much more fruitful and
beneficent tax —a progressive unimproved land
values tax, passing over the holder of the small
farm and the home allotment, taxing equitably
the more prosperous landholders, and coming with
severity on the land monopolist—a tax designed
to bring in revenue and to force the land into use,
ranging from Id. in the £ to 3d. in the <£ on large
estates and with a 50 per cent, surtax in the case
of absentee holders. Such a tax, ranging over the
£350,000,000 or so of private land values in the
Commonwealth, would easily reap at least
£1,500,000 of revenue, and would at the same
time penalise the monopoly by a few holders of
the fertile tracts of the continent, giving to the
absentee landlord the option of selling his acres
to those who wish to use them here, or submit-
ting to a practically confiscatory exaction.
• ♦ * *
So many are the political benefits which would
follow an adequate taxation of the land values of
the Commonwealth that, if there were no revenue
needs making it desirable, such needs ought to
be created. The Australian Government pro-
poses bonuses to aid the agriculturist. There
could be no better bonus than access to the
fertile lands of the coast, now locked against the
plough by land monopoly. Land taxation—the
right kind of land taxation—would give that
access. The Federal Government wants to
encourage immigration. There is possible in the
State of N.S.W. alone a population of at least
30,000,000 if the land is made accessible, and if,
by Protection and the growth of manufactures,
a local market is assured. The destruction of
land monopoly offers, with scientific Protection,
the means to at once attract immigration, to make
the farmer prosperous, and to endow the Com-
monwealth with the revenues needed for a policy
of progressive Federalism.
* * * *
It may be objected that the States already levy
land taxation and that a Commonwealth tax
would thus be a double impost. The objection is
partly untrue, and so far as it is true is invalid.
Some, but not all, of the States have imposed
land taxes, but none of them are adequate, and
such as exist might be repealed, if so desired, on the
imposition of a Federal tax. The State finances
would not be thus prejudiced, for the money raised
by this means by the Federal Treasurer would be
devoted to transferred expenditure, or would
prevent new expenditure trenching further on the
customs and excise repayments to the States.
It is just as desirable that land taxation should
be uniform throughout the continent as that
customs taxation should be uniform. Land mo-
nopoly invites attack in every State, and every
State should be given the same advantage of
attracting settlement by the breaking up of the
big estates on the railway lines in its well-watered
districts. South Australia at present has the
best system of land taxation. That State charges
fd. in the £ on all land without exception, and
doubles the tax when the value of an estate is over
£5OOO. In the case of absentees, a surtax of 20
per cent, on the original tax is imposed. An
absentee with a landed estate worth £5OOO or over
thus pays 1 4-sd. N.S.W. levies an unchanging
rate of Id. in the £ on all land, allowing an
exemption of <£24o, and making no difference
in the case of absentees or large land monopo’i ,ts
or people who don’t put their land to pro 7 Lihie
use. Victoria can claim the champion ab.irdity
in the way of a land tax. Estates under £2500 in
value and under 640 acres in extent are absolutely
exempt. Thus the poor farmer of Collins-street,
Melbourne, struggling along with an income of
£20,000 a year from his tiny patch of real estate,
is saved from the extortion of the tax-gatherer.
If there is any person in the State owning a square
mile of city property, and thus liable to taxation
(which is very doubtful), even then the tax would
touch him lightly. He could assess his land as “not
maintaining a sheep to the acre,” which would be
true enough, and return its value at £1 per acre
(though it might maintain a hundred shops and
offices to the aero)! It is not at all wonderful
that this tax, expressly refusing to touch all
city properties, should yield to the Stateless than
£lOO,OOO a year. Tasmania has a tax on real
estate ranging from a half penny in the £ wheu
the assessed value is under £5OOO up to Id. in the
£ when the value is £BO,OOO and over. It is not
an unimproved land values tax, and a ridiculous
system of assessment destroys much of the value
it might have. The impost yields to the State
£35,337 a year. Neither Queensland nor Westralia
has any form of land tax for State
None of these existing State taxes fulfills,
or gets near to fulfilling, the needs of the
case. In no case would any very great harm
be done if they were levied in addition to a
Commonwealth land tax, and in all cases their
repeal on the imposition of such a tax could be
undertaken without unduly disturbing the State
finances.
* • • •
All that stands in the way of a Federal land
tax is some ridiculous presumption, to which Mr.
Barton and Mr. Reid agreed during the first
Federal elections, and which Mr. Deakin seems
inclined to blindly follow, that the power of direct
taxation, the only taxing power that the Com-
monwealth holds absolutely unfettered, should not
be exercised. Such a compact had its uses for
gentlemen who wished to keep the issue in Austra-
lian politics a mere matter of “ins”and “outs,’’and
to exclude from Federal platforms any really vital
question. It enabled Mr. Barton to plead on one
side that adequate Protection was impossible, and
Mr. Reid to allege that Freetrade was impossible,
and for both to argue that the financial exigencies
required a compromise revenue-producing tariff.
And it enabled them both to wearily dodge the
old age pensions question, and many other ques-
tions, on the excuse that money was not available.
But a more progressive spirit should rule the Austra-
lian Parliamentnow. The completion of the Federal
machinery, and the necessity for such reforms as
Federal old-age pensions, call for revenues which
the customs and excise cannot yield. At the
same time, the locked-up lands of the Common-
wealth, the stream of agriculturists departing
from Australia, the forcing of our settlers out to
the arid interior, demand a tax which will be of
economic, as well as fiscal, benefit. With a pro-
posal for such a tax, Premier Deakin’s programme
would be admirable. Without it, no serious
attention need be given to many of its proposals.
But the Federal political situation is just now so
uncertain that Mr. Deakin’s programme cannot
be taken as saying the final word as to the work
of the session. A more radical leader may shortly
come into power, and may be able to see the vital
importance of a Federal land tax, progressive as
regards large estates, suppressive as regards
absentees.
Back to the Coast.
The N.S.W. Farmers and Settlen’ Association
has drafted an election programme:—
(1) Land settlement to be paramount over revenue, to
include (a) abolition of auction sales of country lands,
(b) conversion of holdings, subject to continuous resi-
dence attaching to the land, (c) elective land boards;
(2) State land bank ; (3) closer settlement by compulsory
resumption of private estates of over £20,000 unimproved
capital value ; (4) water conservation; (5) a progressive
railway policy, to include (a) extension and construction
of paying lines, (b) railway revenue to be credited with
increase in land revenue due to new railway constrqp-
tion ; (6) local government.
This is mostly pottering about with the tailings
and letting the metal slide. Take the first plank.
It is not true that settlers have been lately squeezed
in order to provide revenue. Every land measure
for the past 10 years has had for its object the
reduction of rents, interest, and purchase-money
instalments, the extension of lease, or the creation
of new and easier terms and forms of holding.
Administration has proceeded mainly on the same
lines. The chief business of many land boards has
been to find excuses for the non-fulfilment of con-
ditions and the waiving of the forfeiture which
has been incurred. Practically for years past no
man who has proved himself a bona-fide settler
has been disturbed, no matter what breaches of
conditions he has been guilty of; and frequently,
in addition to paying no rent, he has been actually
subsidised and relieved by the Advances to
Settlers Department and from the Seed Wheat
Fund. It has been the game of the mostly well-to-
do coastal landholders, and of the Foreign-trade
crowd who have run in double harness with them, to
get the poor devil, struggling “inside” with debt
and drought and distance, to believe that he would
be allrightif the State did not bleed him so severely.
So often have they told him this that, in many
cases, he believes it; and instead of making a
stiff progressive land tax, with a speoial tax on
absentees like the Peel River Co. and the A. A.
Co., the first plank of his platform, he still keeps
his eye on tne desert, and potters about with
demands that closer settlement shall be made
“paramount over revenue,” and for elective land
boards. Certainly he asks for “closer settle-
ment by compulsory resumption of private estates
of over £20,000 unimproved capital value,” but he
isn’t game to couple a heavy graduated land tax
with it—apparently he is afraid that some day he
might have to pay 2|d. himself.
• * • •
If the graduated land tax were put on first,
along with the special absentee tax, the capital
value of the lands would be reduced; and so
he would get for £750 what, without the tax, he
would probably have to pay .£lOOO for. Also,
the big estates would cut themselves up without
any State resumption policy. But he doesn’t
think of that; he only thinks of the 2£d. The
only way he can see of getting “cheap” land is
by going out into the districts that are either a
desert every ordinary year or are liable to be a
desert any year ; and out there water conservation
is necessary to begin with. That is another thing
the coastal landlord and the amiable theorist have
“kidded” the selector with—“ With water con-
servation you’ll be all right.” Mostly by water
conservation irrigation is meant; yet Mr. Wade,
Principal Engineer for Water Supply in N.S.W.,
lately came back from America to say that there,
in a country much more suited for irrigation than
this, the system is not now applied anywhere to
agriculture, because it is found that it does not
pay. What hope, then, has Australia ? Some
day, perhaps, in the very remote future, settle-
ment will have to slop out over the dry inlands ;
but that time will only come when, the coast
being fairly thickly populated, there will be a
market here for all that the inlands can pro-
duce. Then, not having to pay freight on
their stuff to the other side of the world,
even the inlands may be profitably tilled.
For the present, however, there is room
for all Australia’s population on the coastal
lands, where costly and uncertain irriga-
tion isn’t an essential, and where settlement
doesn’t involve heavy debt for hundreds of miles
of railway construction. To borrow and spend
millions in an almost hopeless attempt to settle
the inlands, when there are millions of acres of
coastal lands which can be settled with far more
certainty of success, without borrowing anything,
but actually by raising money in taxes to pay off
existing debts, is an amazing piece of folly which
only a shockingly foolish and misguided
country would think of. On the one
hand ” we can borrow money and build
railways, and borrow more money to make up the
deficit on the working of those railways, and tax
ourselves to pay interest, and borrow more money
to carry out irrigation works, and then find our-
selves ruined by the first drought; on the other
hand, by a stiff graduated tax on land values, and
a special tax on absentee owners, we may not only
get revenue, but force coastal land into cultiva-
tion, and so escape for many years the building of
long railways and expensive irrigation works, and
the debt and the interest which those things
mean. By one process we pile up debt; by the
other we may wipe off the existing debt. And
still, instead of declaring for the only policy
which will give them a reasonable chance of
living in reasonable comfort, the Farmers’ and
Settlers’ Association can’t think of anything
better than the same old “progressive railway
policy,” the same old “water conservation,” and
elective land boards.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Stinking Fish Party.
Hugh Nelson, a relic of Queensland politics,
who now acts as President of the Legislative
Council and deputy-State-Governor, recently
returned in tears from a visit to Maoriland. The
old man was promptly interviewed as to the
cause of his grief, and after he had blotted
himself he explained the situation. This is the
daily paper report:
Australia as Sub is Seen.
Hr. Nelson stated that in Maoriland he met a number
of persons from the other parts of the Empire on holiday
like himself, and was extremely pained to discover their
ideas of Australia. “ I had to confess for the first time
in my life,” said Mr. Nelson, “ that I was ashamed of my
country. The ridicule with which they contemplated
our White Australia cry, particularly with reference to
the postal contract, although I naturally expected some,
is stronger than I could have believed. That this feeling
is doing Australia immense harm I think there can be no
doubt, as evidence the English press, and articles such
as have appeared in papers all over the globe.
The Bulletin has no doubt that these statements
are true —in fact, a member of The Bulletin
staff who recently overlanded through Maoriland
from Auckland to the Bluff, met the same kind of
globe-trotter and noticed the same feeling. And
he came back feeling ashamed, not of Australia,
but of a pitiable and crawling class of alleged
Australians—the class which is represented by
the Abgus, the Sydney Herald and Telegraph,
the Brisbane Telegraph and Courier, by Hugh
Nelson, and Bruce Smith, and other people and
rags and institutions of their class. He came
back disgusted at the Stinking Fish party in Aus-
tralia—a party which, because of the violent
manner in which it bangs its stale flounder against
the globe generally, is taken by people abroad to
be much larger and more influential that it is,
also much more truthful. English people have
learned, through the Australian papers circulated
in England, and through extracts from Australian
papers reprinted in the English journals
(1) That Australia has been ruined by Federation, and
that a desperate struggle must be made to abolish the
Commonwealth and cast off the yoke. (Only a few
papers and fools talk in this strain, but they are very loud
and clangy, and the people outside don’t realise the
utter insignificance of such folk as John Haynes and
Jack Want).
(2) That Australia has been ruined by Protection.
(3) That Australia has been ruined by the Labor party.
(4) That Australia “ excluded ” the Six Hatters, which
is a lie, but the outside person can’t be expected to
know it.
(6) That the Australian Government refused to allow a
crew of perishing mariners to be rescued because they
were colored men, which is also a shameful lie.
(I) That immigration has been stopped by the legisla-
tion of the Australian Parliament; which is a lie. Immigra-
tion, under the legislation of the Australian Parliament
is larger than it had been for years.
(7) That industry has been blighted by Labor legislation,
which is a lie; since Labor legislation seriously com-
menced (about 1897) the number of employees in Austra-
lian factories has increased nearly three times as fast as
it did before, when then was no Labor legislation. Also
almost every bank in Australia shows vastly' increased
profits since Labor legislation commenced.
(8) That we seek to dictate to British steamship owners
what labor they will employ, which is a lie. We only
propose to dictate to ourselves what steamers we will
subsidise.
(9) That Australia can’t live without an “influx of
foreign capital ” —the country', presumably, being quite
helpless “ on its own."
(10) That we are too ignorant to manufacture for our-
selves, and must depend on imports.
(11) That we are quite unable to work, and must lean
up against a fence and give orders while niggers work
for us.
The Stinking Fish party, to which almost all
Hugh Nelson’s political friends belong, has told
these slanderous lies so often that the outside
world has really commenced to believe them.
Then some prominent Fish goes abroad, and meets
people who believe the whole series of Stinking
Fish theories—they believe them because they
naturally don’t know what a contemptible gang
of traitors it is that circulates them —and Hugh
Nelson is quite surprised at meeting his friends’
lie, and professes that he doesn’t know where it
comes from. Also, he is just as shocked at the
low opinion held of Australia outside as if the
party to which he belongs hadn’t been toiling for
years, by a most amazing process of calumny, to
create that low opinion, and to hold Australia up
to the world’s scorn as a place that drowned
colored sailors, and threw hatters overboard, and
which was ruined by Arbitration Acts and such
like. The attitude suggests that of the spieler
who, with the “ mug ” in tow, is quite astonished
at meeting his confederate, and never saw him
before in his life. The outside world must
have a poor opinion of Australia, until it realises
that the bulk of Australian daily papers and the
bulk of Australian Tory politicians are just a vast
conspiracy of falsehood and slander—a Stinking
Fish conspiracy, in short.
•
Birth-rate Hysterics.
Sydney Telegraph, which is pretty hysterical
about the birth-rate at all times, broke out in this
fashion when the report of the N.S. W. Commission
came to light :
For the whole white race this question of the declining
birth-rate is now threatening to become one of the first
magnitude. England, America, and various parts of the
Continent of Europe—notably France—are beginning to
lose ground through it in the struggle _ for national
existence. And the worst feature of all is that where
civilisation has its highest modern development, the signs
of the trouble are usually most apparent. Amongst white
nations those less advanced in the social and intellectual
scale are, generally speaking, the more prolific. Ana
the colored races show to still greater advantage
in that respect. This is the really sinister feature in
the outlook for the Australian Commonwealth. . . •
Within a few days’ sail of us are the sv\ arming millions oi
colored people in South-eastern Asia, amongst whom the
rate of natural increase knows no diminution except that
caused by the natural limitations to the carrying capa-
city of the land on which they live. Our population is
stagnant, while that of countries like China and Japan,
by its unchecked growth, is overgrowing the boundaries
at present assigned to it, and being driven to seek living
room elsewhere. . . . If our own population is to remain
stationary while that of the already over peopled countries
of Asia goes on increasing at the tremendous pace whicfi
a normal birth-rate amongst so many hundreds of millions
implies, the maintenance of a W 1 te Australia must
sooner or later become impossible. 1 -ie sterility which is
blighting these States does not go unobserved amongst
the cramped-up hut still prolific myriads of Japanese ana
Chinese, who look to our enormous tracts of umnhabitea
country- for the room which :.o longer exists for them


home. It has already been commented upon in a manner
to which recent events lend an ominous significance.
The Asiatics, starting with such an immense majority
and increasing faster than the Caucasians, are giving
signs of being about to repeat those chapters of history in
which they are recorded as having stood upon the battle-
field to dispute man for man the superiority of the white
races.
The Telegraph really should not turn on excited
young men who know nothing of their subject to
shout in this fashion. There is no need for quite
so much frenzy. No one knows that the colored
races are increasing faster than the whites; in fact,
the scanty available evidence is all the other way.
There are no reliable statistics for Africa nor for
most of Asia, but we do know that in India the
percentage of increase between the census of 1891
and that of 1901 was only one-seventh that of
Australia, and that in the United States the
colored man formed a smaller proportion of the
population in 1900 than he did m 1870. Amid a
bog of conjecture these are two solid facts to go on
with. Japan and China, so far as can be estimated,
are only half as thiokly peopled as England,
and the Indian empire not one-third as thickly
peopled. Asia itself is estimated to be only half
as densely populated as Europe, and Africa is
almost empty by comparison with Europe.
During the last ten years thepopulation of every
white man’s country, bar France and Ireland,
increased at a greater rate than India —some
countries showed 18 times as great a percentage of
increase. Possibly they increased faster than
China also, but that mangy land supplies so little
information. The white man is fast colonising
Asia ; Siberia is accumulating fresh hundreds of
European immigrants every week, and Japhet is
occupying Tartary and may yet ocoupy Thibet.
Australia isn’t really stagnant; its population is
growing at the rate of nearly 60,000 yearly, and it
will grow faster when there is more local employ-
ment and less importing. The population of
Europe, so far as information goes, is now increa-
sing faster than it ever did before; it is over
400,000,000, and that is why Europe is slop-
ping oyer into thinly-populated Asia. Also,
the white man is making a very respectable
struggle for existence in Canada, the United
States, Mexico, and South America. We know
that our white brother is increasing fast, whereas
the theory of the tremendous increase of our black
brother really rests on very little evidence ; it is
the platitude of the cheap boy reporter and that
is about all. There are very few facts to go
upon, but these few may be summarised : (1) The
white race holds Europe and is spreading over
America and Australia, half of Asia, and a little
bit of Africa. (2) As regards the regions prin-
cipally occupied by the colored races, we know
that Shem is increasing very slowly in India; that
China is, and always has been, a mystery—possibly
a greatly over-rated mystery; that Japan is
making no sensational advance ; and that western
Asia, which once bossed most of the known
world, seems to have only a shred of its one-time
great population. Also, we know that the shriek
about Asia’s stupendous birth-rate is mere con-
jecture. Nobody knows much about Asia’s birth-
rate.
4
Premier Bent’s Land Wriggle.
Th?fi further development of that loud public roar,'
which Premier Bent, of Victoria, calls his policy,
leaves things' indefinite on every point; barring
the fact that the income-tax is to be reduced there
is nothing but a fog and a yell. Bent certainly
did talk for a while about the compulsory repur-
chase of large estates, but the Government caucus,
which was attended by all the most stupid and
reactionary of the ’Pootra brood, sniffed at the
idea ; and it was eventually decided that no estate
should be so dealt with save on a resolution of
both Houses. A resolution of both Houses in that
direction is just about as improbable as a double
revolution of the sun, or a square moon; and, by
agreeing to such an impossible arrangement, the
Government shed its one Liberal garment, and
now stands as the fine, old, crusted Tory that it
always really was.’ The Opposition, which
held its caucus the same day, didn’t do much
better. Its land plank provides for the immediate
acquisition of 250,000 acres of good land, to
be secured —if not otherwise obtainable—by
compulsory purchase. Victoria consists of
56,245,000 acres, so the Peacock party proposes
to promote settlement over less than une-two-
hundredth part of the area, and it is apologetic
about even that. There are in Victoria 348 big
estates (representing 4,583,061 acres) which are
valued for laud tax at only £1 per acre, and 856
b ‘u- ? states m all (representing 6,777,387 acres)
which come under the land-tax regulations,
taking them all round, they pay tax on a sum
equal to about 245. an acre. The frantio and
revolutionary Peacock threatens faintly to cut up
one-twenty-seventh of this area. And yet Pea-
*uCKdlS ni^es ahead of Bent. The situation of
the Bent Government in this matter is all the
more remarkable seeing that one of its members,
M Leod, goes round orating like this:
If farmers were settled in civilised districts, it would
create traffic on the railways and reduce the deficit,
there were large estates in Victoria with two railways
running through them which did not employ 20 trucks
auring the year. These estates had been instrumental
in creating the Government deficit. One of the first
features of closer settlement was that there should be
good land available near a market, with a good rainfall,
where there were some of the oomforts of civilised life.
That is the situation which the Bent Government
realises should be faced, but Bent’s waistcoat
totters before the storm, and he proposes to do
about . n °khing. Still, there is always hope
that the Australian Parliament will move. It
can t be run for ever on the Intensely Polite prin-
ciples of Premier Deakin. A Federal graduated
land-tax which would make it practically impos-
sible lor any man to hold more than 1000 acres of
first-class land would knock the small Bents and
-teacocks into such a heap that no one could tell
which of them the gorgeous tail and the apology
belonged to, and which of them owned the bad
temper and the yell.
—4
The Federal Arbitration Bill.
Once sweep away the rather clever newspaper lie
that a Federal Arbitration Act, which did nob
exclude public servants would “hand over the
control of the State’s servants to the Federal
Government,” and the position is so clear that it
is astonishing that there should be any honest
difference of opinion on the subject. Such an Act
would decree that all industrial disputes affecting
more than one State should be settled by the
honest arbitration of a Court of Justice
[not of the Federal Government—as well
*7 N.S. Wales Arbitration Act places
all businesses in the State under the control of
B. K. Wise and John See). It would make no
exception between State servants and private
servants, holding that if it is right for the disputes
, individuals and corporations with their em-
ployees to be settled by justice and not by force, it
is equally right that the disputes of Govern-
ments and public bodies with their employees
should be settled in that way. Where is the
ogical ground on which such a position can be
assailed . And if logio has to be assisted with
arguments as to expediency, it is reasonable to
urge that Arbitration, necessary as it is to
settle disputes between private employers
and their men, is to a far greater degree
necessary when one of the parties to a
threatened conflict is the State or the State’s
representatives at the head of such a great service
as the railways or the water supply, a stoppage of
which would be disastrous to the public; and to
point out that the N.S.W. Government in its
Arbitration Act did not.hesitate to include State
employees. The necessity of meeting such facts
is overcome by the Tory State-frights partisans
who bellow “it is handing over State servants to
the control of the Federal Government,” and end
the argument there. Unhappily, they have bewil-
dered Premier Deakin into taking their view—
the view which affirms that an industrial dispute
between a worker and private employer is to be
decided by justice, but between a worker and a
public body by violence—and his 1904 Arbitration
Bill again expressly excludes all employees of the
State or of any public body constituted by the
State (i.e., the Railway Commissions, the Harbor
Trusts, and the like, and, presumably, the muni-
cipal councils). The fact seems to seal the doom
of his Government. It may be a small point to
dismiss a Cabinet about, but a Cabinet which has
allowed its judgment to be so warped by the roar
of Bent and the icy whisper of Irvine, and the
shrieks of the Tory press, as to affirm such a
logical absurdity as that justice is to decide
industrial disputes except when a Government is
concerned, is hardly worth worrying about, how-
ever attractive may be its programme in other
matters.
The Chance for an Honest Freetrader.
The return of Norman Cameron, alleged Free-
trader, by an almost invisible majority, to fill the
seat vacated by the late Edward Braddon looks
like a repetition of a very old and sorry joke,
though it may prove otherwise. Edward Braddon
was Freetrade Premier of Tasmania for nearly six
years, and ran the country with a Protective tariff
of about 1200 items. He was a very scornful
Freetrader, too, and his scorn, as a man who
practised Protection because he believed it to
be injurious, for men who practised
Protection because they believed it to
be beneficial, was an emotion that almost
amounted to a shriek. His successor, Cameron,
is claimed as a Freetrader, and appears
to be built on the same lines. Should
that prove to be the case Australia must
still wait for the long-postponed advent of that
Freetrader who believes in his creed, who isn’t a
political worm and hypocrite, and who doesn’t
find his doctrine too dirty to be put into daily use.
All the eminent alleged Freetraders in, or lately
in, the Australian Parliament who have held
Ministerial office—the two Smiths of N.S.W.,
Joe Cook, Gould, Dry Dog Reid, M'Millan
and others—belong to one monotonous brand of
political shufflers, hypocrites and frauds. They
all existed when they were in public life by prac-
tising Protection, by denying that they practised
it, and by scoffing with a great, frothy scoff at
the policy they stole. There isn’t, apparently, one
Freetrader in the two Houses who dares to advo-
cate Freetrade—to say that he believes in balancing
every necessary customs duty with an equal
excise on the local product so that the local
industry may enjoy the blessings of free competi-
tion, and that he opposes the granting of any
subsidies, aids, grants or bonuses, in the shape of
differential railway rates or otherwise, to any
local industry, because such hot-house coddling is
injurious. Taking their individual records there
doesn t seem to be one honest or sincere individual
among all the gang of dodgy political shams who
make up the alleged Freetrade party in the two
Federal Houses. Still, if Norman Cameron is
really the Freetrader he is alleged to be, there is
time for him to be the one honest exception,
ouch an exception would be an oasis in a desert of
drive l , and a refreshing streak of truth in a blatant
land of lies. But if Norman Cameron is an honest
exception the shock may be too much for some of
his associates, and it will probably make G-. H.
Reid, and Bruce Smith, and Bruce’s political
brother Pumpkin, and Local Preacher Cook all fall
down dead together.
The Doctor and His Cash.
N.S.W. Branch of the British Medical Association
has now declared open war against the Balmain
(Sydney) Friendly Societies’Dispensary, and the
doctors’ trades-union goes on strike against the
sweating prices offered by that institution. The
dispute will not go to the Arbitration Court
because the doctors, whilst sensible enough to
form a union, are not sensible enough to register
it under the Act and seek the aid of the law to
enforce a fair thing between medical man and
patient. Instead, they rely upon the boycott.
Not only will trades-union doctors refuse to work
for the sweating Balmain dispensary, but they
will boycott, socially and professionally, the
doctor who does, and treat him or her as a person
of no account and as a “ blackleg.” The method
is crude —carpenters, coal-miners, sailors, wharf-
laborers and the like have, in N.S.W., won to a
more civilised and effective system than that; but,
crude as it is, The Bulletin cordially hopes that
it will be effective. There can be nothing more
dangerous, both to a profession which is worthy of
all possible consideration and to the general
public, than medical sweating. It inevitably
means a lower grade of doctor in a very
short while, and that means a higher death-rate.
There is some difference of opinion as to the
efficacy of good doctors to prevent people dying ;
there is none at all as to the power of bad doctors
to hurry people to their graves. And the cheap,
sweated doctor, the Chinese coolie sort of person
in the medical profession, who is willing to work
long hours for low wages, must necessarily become,
if he is not already, a bad doctor. The medical
union, in regard to the Balmain case, holds out for a
fee of 16s. per member per annum; the Dispensary
wishes to pay something less than half that. By
comparison with other places it can be seen that
the medical demand is quite reasonable. In
the Newcastle district the union coal-miners,
who like to get decent wages, for themselves and
are too sensible and too consistent to wish to pay
anything but a decent rate to their doctors, pay
for medical attendance 265. per annum per family.
That is accepted as a good rate by the doctors.
At Balmain they only ask 16s. and are offered
something like 6s. If the Balmain people succeed
in defeating the striking doctors, and secure men
at their own rate, they will be paying about a
quarter of what is reckoned a fair thing in the
Newcastle district; and inevitably, in the long
run, they will get just as much as they pay for—
that is to say, a quarter or so of the effort which
the Newcastle district lodge doctor puts forth to
save his patient. And they won’t deserve any
more.
♦
That Birth Hate.
N.S.W. Commission on the fall in the birth-rate
has issued a report which contains some good and
some rather foolish recommendations. It did not
take the Commission long to make up its mind
that the decrease in the birth-rate is mainly due
to artificial prevention ; and it is not at all hesi-
tant in absolutely condemning as “ immoral ” any
artificial check on the rate of population. In that
it does not represent the feeling of the community,
probably does not-represent even its own feeling.
To condemn “race suicide” is to stand in an un-
challengeable position. There is no question
about the evil to-the nation of married couples
deciding to have no children, or to limit their
progeny to one or two. Three children from
each married couple are required to keep
the population from actual decrease, and the
family should therefore average something beyond
that—a good deal beyond in a new country
like this. But that is a very different proposition
to a sweeping statement that those in wedlock
should devote themselves to the production of the
greatest number of children possible. Such a
programme will certainly not find public accept-
ance, however well it may plead theological
sanction or argue a moral basis. And, in matters
of State-craft, what isn’t possible need not be
discussed. Similarly the Commission suggests
the impossible when it proposes legislation to
stop the importation and sale of articles used for
checking conception. The very wide variety of
such articles makes any system of prohibition
hopeless—and the prohibition idea cannot be
considered likely of adoption in view of the fact
that nearly 90 per cent, of the population at
present more or less openly favor Neo-Mal-
thusianism. Outside of the impossible, the
Commission is only able to urge, in the way of
remedy for the small birth-rate, that the religious
bodies should unite in an effort to put
down the practice of Neo-Malthusianism. That
also is not a very promising expedient, since
one church —the second in the community in
point of numbers—has carried on a consistent
campaign in that direction for years, using means
not available to other religious bodies, and
has failed, as regards its Australian adherents, to
make any great impression. There is more hope
in an appeal to the national sentiment—in an
awakening of citizens to the danger to Australia
of carrying Malthusian ideas to excess ; that this
is, in some degree, a reasonable hope is shown by
the fact that since the recent public agitation on
the subject there is said to be some signs of an
improvement. On much surer ground is the Com-
mission when it treats of means to save a greater
proportion of the children who are born. There
is far too large a death-rate among women in
child-birth and of children at birth. That could
be remedied by better training of maternity
nurses (only 10 per cent, of midwives now prac-
tising in the State are properly qualified), and by
increasing the accommodation at lying-in hos-
pitals. Certain diseases prejudicially affect the
birth-rate by causing sterility ; increased hospital
accommodation would do something to remedy
that. Factory and shop and office managers often
damage the health of female employees by the
defective sanitary arrangements of the work pre-
mises ; hence troubles which tend to sterility.
The reforming spirit could do something there.
The “primary producer” is not so inclined to
check the birth-rate as the city worker, because
in the agricultural industries the child rapidly
becomes a source of profit. Therefore encourage
the people to go on the land. So far the Com-
mission’s recommendations go, and they are, on
the whole, good. They might have gone much
farther and been better. They might, for in-
stance, have proposed adequate foundling-hospital
accommodation to prevent a huge waste of child
life ; and they might have said something per-
tinent on the text of those advertisements in the
daily papers wherein the “primary producer”
advertises for a married couple to come and work
on the land “ without encumbrance,” and have
condemned the selfishness of the landlords of
tne state who not only lock up gigantic
areas against settlement, but insist on their
few employees being either unmarried or child-
r S 'm 0n whole, the commission was
of a Tory tone. It had a tinge of Liberalism in
such members as Dr. J. B. Nash and Mr. Hol-
man, M.P., but the weight of numbers was with
the Conservatives, and nothing was said offensive
to the upper classes—not even was there men-
tioned the very obvious fact that it is these
upper, classes ” who have set the fashion in
prevention, and are still its most resolute devotees.
■ — "*
Some more sorrowful news about the re'drganisa-
tion of the British army arrives by cable. In
addition to appointing the useless Duke of
Connaught to run the show, the army corps,
established during some previous “reforms,” are
to be done away with ; the country is to be divided
into administrative districts, each under a majah-
general; five generals are to command the different
districts; and the Accountant-General’s office is
to be abolished. It is all the same old kind of re-
organisation—a process of deciding that there
shall be four buttons instead of three, and that
the coat-tail which used to be green shall
now strike consternation into the enemy by
being brown. The worst dry-rot of British
militarism lies in the fact that no man can
j n officer in that great dandified club
called the British army unless he possesses
great wealth ; that the worst noodle with money
may stay in the charmed circle, while the greatest
military genius without money must stay out; and
that the army has to be largely officered by fools
because, among the small handful of eligibles, there
are not nearly enougli men who are not fools.
Everybody knows this, but to touch that aspect of
the case would be sacrilege. It would be throw-
ing dead rats at the.blessed Ark of the Covenant
and putting, the Urim and Thummim under the
pump. So in order that all may be well next war
the “reform ” commission has decided to abolish
the Accountant-General and amalgamate him
with the Paymaster—which will doubtless break
the enemy up. *
4-
A statement with some foundation in fact:—
One ex-member of Parliament, who represented a city
constituency, stated that he could not afford to go into
Parliament again unless he got £lOOO per annum—to
satisfy the begging propensities of his constituents.
But if the State or Commonwealth increases his
salary it must be distinctly understood that it
does not do so to enable him to further satisfy the
begging propensities of his constituents. The
begging constituent has undermined and almost
destroyed the democratic principle of payment of
members ; because of him the nominally paid
member is almost as unpaid as he used to be. In
fact, the electoral cadger has brought matters to
such a pass that a member is now, to all intents
and purposes, a legislator who gets nothing for
himself, but is allowed £3OO a year with which to
bribe supporters, and people who profess to be
supporters. Some day, to prevent the principle
of payment of members being killed dead, it will
be necessary to enact that for a member to give
anything to a constituent shall be bribery, and for
a constituent to ask for anything shall be black-
mail. In the good times coming begging con-
stituents will get three years in gaol.
. ♦
A number of inter-state employers have met in
Sydney and resolved that the Deakin Govern-
ment’s poor, harmless little Arbitration Bill is
“ an encroachment upon State rights and a breach
of faith with the founders of Australian Federa-
tion also, that it will “prove unworkable and
ultra vires under our Constitution.” Well, what
are the inter-state employers worrying about ? If
they mean to express no confidence in the Federal
High Court, and don’t believe that that Court is
capable of saying when a thing is ultra vires or
not, why don’t they say so straight out? If, on
the other hand, they have confidence in the Court,
and are so sure that Deakin’s measure is
ultra vires, then it won’t matter whether the
Parliament passes it or not—if it is ultra vires it
will be fired out. If it isn’t ultra vires, then the
inter-state employers are merely barking up the
wrong tree, and should not be taken any notice
of. Who “the founders of Australian Federa-
tion” are with whom the Bill is “a breach of
faith” the. conference omits to say. The Bulle-
tin’s own idea is that the Australian people were
the founders of Federation, and a Parliament
fresh from the same people is a good deal more
likely to know what that people’s wishes and
intentions were and are than a number of mostly
unknown gentlemen who represent nothing but
their own banking accounts, and who meet at a
pub. in Pitt-street.
,
C. De Thierry, in the United Service Maga-
zine :
To hear the Cobdenite talk one might imagine it was
positively wicked for a British colony to develop manu-
factures instead of buying goods from Great Britain.
When he waxes eloquent on the sacrifices entailed by
Protection he forgets that they are small compared with
the sacrifices entailed by Freetrade. Had it become
universal, as Cobden hoped, the world would have been
tributory to England, which would be fatal to both. For-
tunately the nations saw that cheap goods would be dear
at the price, and the colonies are walking in their steps.
Canada, as an agricultural country, was weak, poor and
disunited. Under Protection she has developed produc-
tive power, until she is now strong, prosperous and
united. Freetrade would make the colonies British
farms, which would be profitable to England at the ex-
pense of colonial strength. They could cherish no ideals
as a nation ; socially, politically and intellectually they
would always be backward ; they could never be wealthy.
To develop productive powers a people must be manu-
facturers as well as agriculturists, for on the harmony
which exists between these and commerce, national pros-
perity depends, and to infant industries a tariff is
essential.
The Dry Dog lie is that Protection puts
duties into the pockets of a few bloated manufac-
turers, while they sweat their miserable employees
horribly. What follows is the boot trade journal’s
statement of the average weekly wage paid to
N.S. W. operatives in the boot industryin 1902, with
the figures for 1900 for comparison; 1900 was the
year before the moderately-protective Common-
wealth tariff came into force, and 1902 was the
year after that had happened
1900. 1902.
Boot-upper makers .. £1 18 6 .. £2 10 1
Clickers 1 14 3 .. 2 310
~ foremen .. .. 217 3 .. 3 011
~ improvers.. .. 014 0 ~ 15 8
~ boys .. .-. 0 8 0 .. OHIO
Finishers 1 15 9 .. 1 17 5
~ improvers .. 0 9 9 .. 013 1
~ piece-work .. 1 17 6 .. 2 0 7
Foremen 2 15 0 .. 218 7
Heel-builders .. .. 183 .. 112 5
Lastera 118 0.. 218
„ piece-work .. 1 5 0 .. 112 9
Makers 1 16 6 .. 1 17 7
~ piece-work .. 19 3 .. 114 2
Machine operators .. 223.. 21 9
Pressmen 114 0 .. 1 17 8
Female machinists .. 016 3 .. 018 4
„ fitters .. .. 014 9 .. 018 1
Something seems to have gone wrong with the
Foreign-trader’s theory.
The Waking 1 of Asia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Meredith Townsend, in his new book, “Asia and
Europe,” makes these ominous statements :—“ There are
not ten thousand natives in India who, unpaid and un-
coerced, would die in defence of British sovereignty.-. .
Beneath the small film of white men who make up the
1 Indian Empire,’ boils or sleeps away a sea of dark men,
incurably hostile, who await with patience the day when
the ice shall break and the ocean regain its power of rest-
less movement under its own laws. . . The insurrection
will occur within a month of our sustaining any defeat
whatever, severe enough to be recognised as a defeat in the
Indian bazaars. India will fly in pieces.” The burden of the
book is that the dark millions in the Ancient Continent are
determined that Asia shall be for the Asiatics. Britain,
which has sat so long, like a fond and careful hen, on the
Japanese egg, will probably discover, one of these days,
that she has hatched a cockatrice. The victory of the
Japanese—if they are victorious—will be a blow to
the prestige of the White Race in Asia. The unnatural
alliance of England with Oeishaland has blinded the Aus-
tralian daily papers to this fact. Or, if they see it, they
ignore it. Whom the gods wish to destroy, etc.
Starting from his slumber deep,
On divan,
Shall old Shem to battle leap—
All old Shem that was asleep—
When the squadrons westward sweep
From Japan.
Do tl le steeds that graze in green
Khorasan
Scent the far-off fight ? I ween
There are riders fierce and lean
Who would emulate the keen
Parthian.
Comes the day when we may see
The Pathan
With the Ghoorka grim agree,
And the smooth-tongued Bengalee
Join the Sikh and Afridee
Fighting man.
Followers of Siva and
Hanuman,
With Mahommedans may stand,
Side by side, and sweep their land
Bare of British as your hand—
Thank Japan !
Hard of heart, and cool of brain,
Genghiz Khan
Over Shem once more may reign,
And the towers of Tamerlane
Built of heads arise amain—
This is what the West may gain
From Japan.
Better ’twould have been had we
Left Japan
Europe’s Paradise to be,
With her Yoshiwara free,
And her geishas, and her wee
Honorable pots of tea,
And her fan.
CREEVE ROE.


The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
SETTLEMENT BASED ON PRESENT EXPERIENCE.
The following policy has recently matured, and the result will be found worthy of the
consideration of persons seeking a safe investment combined with Insurance:
Policy NO. 568,531. 10 Year Endowment; 10 Year Distribution.
Age at Issue, 40. Single Premium, £443 11s. 6d. Amount, £5OO.
Issued in the Year 1893. Matured in the Year 1903.
SETTLEMENT.
Policy £5OO O O
Bonus I° 3 12 6 -v
Total Amount Paid
£60312 6
Cash gain to Policy-holder £l6O Is., being a return equal to over 3 per cent, compound
interest on Premium paid, and insurance for £6OO during 10 years, free of cost.
Accumulated Funds exceed .. £80,000,009
Surplus above Liabilities exceed £15,000,000
articulars of Policies to meet every requirement may be obtained at the Head Office for
Aus alia, or at any of its Branches.
COMPANY’S BUILDING - - - - Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s *' Sign of the Cross." n
Lyceum “Face at the Window.
Criterion “ Lady of Ostend.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Steyse Court, Manly... Shooting the Chutes, «c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “A Stranger in a Strange Land."
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl."
Theatre Royal “The Flood Tide.
Opera House Rickards’Variety Co.
East Melb. Cricket 1 Theatrical Carnival (March 16X
Ground )
*
The gloomy and snow-bound “Resur-
rection ” will eease from happening at Her
Majesty’s on Friday night. Seeing that relations
are already a trifle strained between Russia and
Britain, this resolve to cease casting reflections on
the gaol system of the Bear country is just? as
well. On Saturday night the “Sign of the Cross
will Vie revived for one occasion only, the published
reason being the management’s desire to let
Sydney have one glimpse of Maud Jeffries as the
white-robed girl who fled round the drawing-room
of Marcus Superbus carrying with her some
timber as a moral support, and who after-
wards had her bones publicly picked by
Nero’s lion. On Thursday, the popular Pete
Hughes is to have a matinee, benefit at
Her Majesty’s under promising circumstances.
Bits of “Florodora,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“Henry V.,” “Monsieur Beaucaire,” “Torea-
dor,” “Chinese Honeymoon.” &c., are promised,
and the proceedings would be complete if there
was added an extract, lasting one minute, from
the “Face at the Window.” All that is wanted
is the window, the face, and the appalling shriek.
With prompt stage management these essentials
of Anderson’s drama could be done inside 15
Seconds, the shriek being done as the curtain
went down.
* sfc * *
The cinematograph continues to trail a
dark shadow of suspicion across a virtuous d rawing-
room at Sydney .Criterion; and by this time
Gregan M’Mahon, who is supposed to own the
drawing-room, probably wishes l.e hadn’t changed
his mind and left the law. Really, though “the
Lady of Ostend” gives her name to Hawtrey’s
piece, there isn’t any visible reason why she should
turn up until the last minute or two; as a matter
of fact, she only turns up once before that, when
she appears in M’Mahon’s previously mentioned
drawing-room, though, as M‘Mali on isn’t there at
the time, it isn’t explained what she came for.
Probably Burnand wanted to teach the Great
Moral Lesson that, though your sin may find you
out once, she’ll be pretty certain to catch
you at home sooner or later. Whether
she was intended for a great moral force
or not, the Lady is doing very good business, and
will probably remain as W. F. Hawtrey’s attrac-
tion until the approaching pig, pug and pumpkin
exhibition brings a new lot of visitors to town.
* *- -*■ *
The Musical Comedy Co. closes a success-
ful season at Sydney Royal on Saturday, and goes
on to Maorilan'd. “San Toy” will fill the bill
until Saturday, when a special mixed programme
will be presented. Subsequently the Royal will
rest in silence until the close of the month. Then,
if report speaks truly. Bland Holt arrives with
much elaborate scenery and sensational melo-
drama—also with the forsred cheque, the unjustly
suspected hero, the baffled villain, the railway
accident, and the aged gentleman who was mur-
dered in the first act, just as he was about to-
restore his son to his old place in his will and
abandon bis foolish idea of leaving everything to-
the person with the scoff and the cigarette.
** # *
“The Best Must Win ” retires on Satur-
day night from Sydney Lyceum to make room for
“The Face at the Window,” which will keep up
the long established reputation of this house for
providing the latest curdle in horrors and the
newest thing in nerve shakes. The “Face” isn’t
new to Sydney ; that horrifying countenance had
a long run here a year or two ago. It was very
popular then, and it used to open itself just before
each crime and give a howl that is remembered
even now.
** * *
The Tivoli, last week, scored 213 not out
with a fair cinematograph film showing Warner
winning the toss from Noble and the start of the
Test Mitch; it was put on while the game was
alleged to be in progress, and temporarily
tilled the void left by Vulcana’s vanished
shoulders. Now that the cricket fever
is over, Clarke and Hamilton are bearing
the heat and burden of. the play, and with their
- remarkably slick “ business,” on top of Olarke s
brilliant piano-juggling, they are bearing it with
much success. The Dumonds are still there;
so is “Johnny” Johnston. Frances Leslie, the
soprano soloist, is back ; and Fanny Powers and
others too numerous to mention are doing the
things that are expected of them—most of them,
just now, being things with music in them.
*
About 3000 disappointed applicants for
a admission were turned away from Melbourne
Princess’s last Saturday. They had been drawn
; to the top of Bourke-st. by the plain and colored
announcements of a Laughing Piece —a Roaring
' Success—a Prolonged Shriek And although “A
v Stranger in a Strange Land ” is merely a broad,
• hollow farce, with no striking peculiarity about it,
nothing brilliant to say for itself, the
Melbourne rushed it on the first night is
a partial guarantee of prosperity for the brief
Willoughby-Geach season. When the multitude
in general feels tempted to go to a particular
place with a vague, uncertain Shriek in view, the
chances are that most of the multitude will get
there, and some of them will Roar joyfully. I lie
present scribe, when he got there, felt a terrible
inclination to Roar —and lash his tail and claw
the air. * *
* * *
“ A Stranger in a Strange Land ” appeals
only to easily-amused persons of both sexes. The
hero is a plump young Englishman who dissipates
his aunt’s money in New York whilst beguiling
his distant relative with tales of his cattle ranche
at Buffalo City, where the wild Indians are ever
hunting for his scalp. Being about to return
to England for some more of aunt’s capital,
this incredible liar is advised, by a benevolent
uncle, to bring an Indian with him for the sake of
appearances, but uncle’s suggestion doesn t reach
him in time. When the wanderer returns,
clothed as a circus cow-boy, he persuades his
sister’s young man to impersonate the harmless
necessary savage in a striped blanket. Also the
uncle, not knowing that a bogus savage is avail-
able, hires a real Indian from a Yankee quack
doctor, who employs the Cherokee chief as an
advt. for a kidney cure. The duplicate figures in
red ochre and blankets account for the usual med-
ley of misunderstandings, after which an idiot
detective from Scotland Yard disguises himself as
another Indian in a third blanket. Then uncle goes
mad and mixes a dose of rough on rats for his own
destruction, but the real Indian caps his career of
petty larceny by swallowing the poison. Here is
a humorous opportunity for the farce to conclude.
The surviving members of the Willoughby co.
might fall prostrate and silent on the Cherokee’s
corpse, instead of which the stomach pump is
applied, and all ends tamely.
* * * *
An extravagant fiction of this sort comes
hardest on the ladies of the co., who are not even
supposed to be trying to deceive anybody. One
of them has to embrace the wrong Indian in
mistake for her husband. The men are largely
•engaged in kicking the wrong Indian, and some-
times six people are required to chase one another
in the interests of public amusement. Willoughby,
Tom Cannam, Lester Hanray, and one “ Mer-
man” M'Keon (on the bill) boar the heat and
burden of the chase. Miss Barton is a handsome,
sceptical heiress from America; there are a few
chances for Miss Watts-Phillips as the financial
aunt, and a couple of confiding girl characters
help to carry out the author’s crime. No less
than two au'hors put their names to “A
Stranger,” and the work of their combined
intellects is staged in a most respectful manner at
the Princess’s.
#* * #
In the uncommonness of its structure,
“The Flood Tide,” by Cecil Raleigh, is even
more interesting than “The Price of Peace,”
which was also a drama of episodes where the
story changed its objects of sympathy and atten-
tion in a fitful manner. Bland Holt’s first pro-
duction of the “ melo-farce ” at Melbourne Royal
showed any number of openings for improve-
ment in the acting and _ stage pictures,
nevertheless it put the merits of the play
beyond question. In the course of thirteen
scenes distributed among four acts the leading
characters are set to work with the smallest pos-
sible expenditure of make-weight dialogue.
Their words and actions are for the most part
vital to the incidents in the story, and if this fact
is not noted at the moment, or subsequently
remarked, the fault is with the performers. In
short, “The Flood Tide” makes exceptional
demands upon the intelligence of _ a company
whose ordinary tasks don’t worry its brains at
all. The performance must continue to improve,
as a matter of course, long after the scenery and
supers have settled down into their grooves.
* * * *
Bland Holt has a difficult light-low-comedy
part to play in direct contrast to the light tragedy
parts of Miss Ross and Miss Ireland. Mrs. Holt,
as the amiable accomplice of Bland in a gorgeous
fraud, gets the most difficult, but the most
pleasing part in the drama, and promises to make
her best up to date when she has dropped the
habit of dropping her aitches, and discarded the
mannerisms that belong to her familiar cockney-
gal characters. This time she is the daughter of a
North of England man, and the sister of a mili-
tary captain. She has seen the world _as
stewardess on an ocean steamer, and in the time
of trouble she engineers a scheme for pulling her
family out of the mud. Walter Baker shines as a
self-made captain, persecuted by a mob of beastly
superior bwother officahs, but his fine manly style
doesn’t excuse his going off for his honeymoon
(with the Colonel’s daughter) in full regimentals.
Styan, the drunken Diamond King of the story,
cuts a quaint jim-jams figure with his boots
slung across his shoulders and his mind dominated
by yearnings for the refreshment bar. And there
are others who fill in forty or fifty minor charac-
ters incidental to the 13 scenes of Brunton. Some
remarks on the story of “ The Flood Tide ” are
reserved for next issue. In the ordinary sense of
the word it is not a story so much as a series of
connected dramatic situations and striking sug-
gestions.
* * *
At Her Majesty’s there will be one more
week of “ A Country Girl.” On Saturday night
the new baritone, Haigh Jackson, put in a first
appearance—a rather stiff and amateurish
stranger, who promises to be a satisfactory
sort of hero when he has gained con-
fidence and been grounded in the rudiments
of dancing. Harold Thorley at the outset
of his Australian engagement, was about as
amateurish as his successor. Haigh Jackson has
a confident warble, anyhow. His full-toned voice
was much more expressive than his face and legs
on Saturday night, and, although he sang dull
music at a rather funereal pace, he was effective.
*% * *
At the Opera House, the latest arrival is
Mrs. Sims Reeves, recently of Sydney. Other-
wise the programme remains much the same as
before, except that Whitburn has gone to the
trouble of learning a new song, or an unfamiliar
one, which seems to issue humorously from weary
William’s throat. On the rare occasions when he
adds a new item to his venerable repertoire, the
question re-arises—Why is Whitburn funny in
Melbourne ? Tradition states that the languid
local identity isn’t especially droll elsewhere.
** * *
A Williamsonian theatrical carnival, in-
cluding a ladies’ cricket match, is to happen at the
East Melbourne Ground on Wednesday, 16th,
under the baton of conductor George Lauri.
* 3? $ *
Adelaide—which, in spite of a certain
reputation for other-worldliness, yet reckons to
know a good thing when it sees one—has filled
the Tivoli to the roof during Yulcana’s season.
Atlas is much like other strong men, but the
lady’s muscles are something quite novel, and her
back is a poem. Rickards himself, arriving two
nights late, at once began to sing about the Anglo-
Saxon lingo with much vigor. Irving Sayles
has the “record” humorless comic song. It
tells of a negro who was asked to spell
“chicken”; and he spelt it, quite correctly,
and nothing else happened, and that’s all! From
the Royal the panto, has gone, with its moderate
splendor, and Isabel Webster’s voice, and the
funniments of a string of hard-working principals,
and its other assets. The Majeronis have come
along with quick-change dramas of horse-racing
and jealousy and other national vices. Manager
Pollock announces a long winter of attractions,
including all the new plays, and one or two which
Adelaide is to see before the Eastern cities get a
chance at them.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Enough of the financial year has now passed to
show what progress the usual State deficit is making. In
most cases it will be found to be a healthy youngster, upon
whom “the break-up of the drought” and “the return
of prosperity ” haven’t jiad any very obvious effect. Cer-
tainly, the first lot of figures look better
Revenue Returns for February.
Feb., 1903. Feb., 1904.
N.S. Wales ..£1,039,069 £1,161,426 Inc. £121,757
Victoria .. 516,966 742,013 Inc. 225,047
Queensland .. 194,867 L nc ' ?I’eoß
Westralia .. 321,528 310,922 Dec. 10,606
Tasmania .. 63,367 70,432 Inc. 7,065
S. Australia is missing from this list, as it makes up its
figures only once a quarter. Most of the improvement
which is shown results from larger Commonwealth re-
funds and railway revenue. From the former source
N.S. Wales got £298,109 (£61,966 more), Victoria
£219,641 (£53,078 more), and Queensland £71,104 (£17,788
more); while for the three Eastern States the railway
revenue was
Feb., 1903 Feb., 1904
NS Wales .. ..£329,802 £375,682 Inc. £45,880
Victoria .. 243 230 335,268 Inc. 92,038
Queensland !. !. 8M94 95,522 Inc. 9,028
The Commonwealth outgoings during the month were
unusually small; this accounts, for the most part, for
the larger amounts refunded. The actual gross collec-
tions for the entire Commonwealth for the month were
£815,900, as against £790,217 last year. All shared in the
small increase except Westralia and Tasmania; the
former’s shortage was no less than £l4,4lo—the result of
a recent removal of a part of the special local duties.
A single month’s returns are, however, never
a safe basis for a calculation ; those for the financial year
as far as it has gone are better. (The financial year for
all the States except Tasmania began on July Ist;
Tasmania’s began on Jan. Ist.) :
Revenue for Financial Year so far.
1902-3. 1903-4.
N S. Wales (8 months) £7,286,281 £7,368,518 Inc. £82,237
Victoria (8 months) 4 444,078 4,619,117 Inc. D 5,039
Queensland (8 months) 2,242,298 2,290,972 Inc. 48,674
S. Australia (6 months) 1,062,624 1,081,974 Inc. 19,350
Tasmania (2 months) 134,873 131,736 Dec. 3137
Westralia (8 months) 2,616,808 2,309,043 Dec. 30;,<65
The Westralian official figures are not yet available, and
those given above are subject to revision. What, how-
ever, can l>e said with certainty about the Westralian
situation is that, in spite of the starving of railway
maintenance, the surplus of £231,659 with which the year
started has been already reduced to £183,546. The
Victorian figures for 1902-3 are always under suspicion ;
shameful political dodges were worked in that
vear, and how far they went it is impossible to say.
If, instead of comparing the past eight months’ figures
with those for the like period of 1902-3, they are com-
pared with 1901-2, a shrinkage of £53,222, instead of an
increase of £175,039, is disclosed. Queensland also,
instead of being £48,674 better, would on the same
basis, show up £154,446 worse, South Australia £2665
worse, and Westralia £42,465 worse. N.S. Wales, on the
other hand, has had in the eight months £282,576 more
revenue than it had in the same part of 1901-2, and still is
in a hole, and busy scraping up odd pounds from anyone
who will lend. The N.S.W. Government talks about the
shockingly bad luck it has bad, and the frightful period
of depression through which it has battled. The revenue
returns for the first eight months of the past four years
throw scorn at that contention
Julv-Feb. 1900-1. £6,965,026 Increase £532,242
' 1901-2 . 7,085 903 ~ 120,877
” 1902-3.. 7,286,281 „ 200,378
” 1903-4.. 7,368,518 „ 82,237
Of course there has been extra expenditure ; but through
the transfer of the post office and the defence forces to
the Commonwealth the diminution of expenditure in one
line has practically counterbalanced any necessary
increase in other wavs. And a Government vvhich_has
seen its eight months revenue grow, inside four years,
from £6,432,784 to £7,368,518 oughtn’t to go round
whining about having been struck by specially bad
times.
• * * *
Ex venditure returns are, as usual, meagre
Year’s Expenditure So Far.
1902-3 1903-4
N. S. Wales .. £7,974,335 £7,942,101 Dec. £32,234
Queensland .. 2,219,210 2,168,474 Dec. 5 > ,36
S. Australia .. 1,216,109 1,253,359 Inc.
Westralia .. 2,336,234 2,35,.156 Inc. 20,.--
Again the Westralian figures are subject to revision ; they
are as near as they can be got at this distance. So far as
is known the result of the year’s transactions on i .venue
account for ail the States has been :
Deficits.
1901- 1902-3 1903-4
N. S. Wales .. £225,246 £688,093 £573,583
S. Australia .. 215,568 153,485 171,385
Surplus.
, A N Deficit.
Westralia .. 273,223 280,574 48,113
Available Towards Interest of 2nd Half Year.
Queensland .. 38,580 23,088 122,498
The Queensland interest bill now amounts to about
£129,000 per month, so that the present actual deficit is
£135,502, against £225,432 last year. This reduction is
the brightest spot in Australian finance for the year so
far; and even this spot isn’t dazzling.
All that is known about loan expenditure can
go in a very few lines (for eight months in each case): —
Loan Expenditure.
1902- 1903-4
N. S. Wales,
Works .. £2,276,248 £1,332,267 Dec. £943,981
N. S. Wales, Re-
sumptions .. 1,228,962 457,067 Dec. 771,895
Queensland .. 643,173 419,298 Dec. 223,875
N. S. Wales’ outlay, apart from resumptions, is still at the
rate of £1,998,400 a year, which is a pretty large razzle
for a country that has given up the drinking habit. It
means that there must be £BO,OOO a year more revenue to
pay interest alone.
* * * * *
Prime Minister Deakin is just now investiga-
ting the bona fides of a recently-registered London co.
called the Papuan Native Industries Ltd., which is under-
stood to have been more or less generated and formed by
the London Missionary Society for the purpose of “ edu-
cating the New Guinea natives to become producers, and
to make a profit by exporting their products to Austra-
lia.” The co. that is floated in a moral atmosphere, and
which poses as being more philanthropic than profit-
seeking, is always worth careful inspection.
The Australian Mutual Investment and
Building Co. (Sydney)
Loss on Loss on Accumulated
Dec., Business. Property. Deficit.
1894 .. - .. •• £99,562
1895 .. £5946 .. £93,176 .. 198,684
1896 .. 174 .. 94 .. 198,952
1897 .. 1161 .. 7740 .. 207,853
1898 .. 736 .. 2381 .. 210,970
1899 .. 467 .. 92 211,529
1900 .. 255 .. 211,784
1901 .. 266 .. 212,050
1902 .. 236 .. •• 212,286
1903 .. 342 161 .. 212,789
The co. " suspended ” in 1890, and since then has been
liquidating its affairs, with no very great amount of
success ; and as even less success may be expected from
prolonging the agony, it is proposed now to put the
remaining scraps of land up to auction, or to exchange
scraps for deposit receipts, and allow the corpse to be
buried. Since 1891 (the date of the first balance-sheet
after the suspension) liabilities have been wiped out as
follows: —
Overdraft (paid in cash) .. .. £36,850
Mortgages ~ ~ ~ •• 18,586
Deposits •• •• 2 6,972
Deposits (exchanged for land) .. 194,179
Total .. .. £276,587
There still remain £166,530 of deposits, against which
there is unsold land £8741, balances owing on land
purchases, etc., £l5lB, and other assets making a total of
£10,852, equal to about Is. 3d. in the £ of liabilities to
the public—assuming the unsold land to be worth the
amount stated. As, however, the land tax paid in 1903
amounted to only £lllos., it doesn’t look as though the
real value exceeded £3OOO. Still, whatever it is, there
certainly seems no reason for prolonging the agony, as
expenses are mopping up the few assets that are left.
The whole capital' (£57,058) is, of course, too much lost to
be worth mentioning.
* * * *
“Via”: The new regulations of the Federal
Government as to compulsory assurance of all Federal
civil servants raises some trouble. It is ukased that
each servant shall insure (up to the limits of lus classi-
fication) for a sum equal to his annual salary, payable at
the age of 60. (His retiring age is 65.) What happens to
the lively corpse that no respectable co. will touch Or
the one aged 50 that is loaded 10 years? will the
Australian Government throw out the live dead-men .
Writer can name a score who have been refused by every
reputable co. in Queensland, and yet they do their work
and earn their salaries. In M.L. the State takes the job
on, and, using a sliding scale, the plan seems to work
well, and the fund is quite solvent. Perhaps Deakin and
co. are feeling the way for a State Life Insurance
Department. , » *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.):—
Dividends and Surplus for
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
Dec., 1896 ..£4444 sp.c.= £4429 £l5 £9146
June, 1897 .. 4428 6„ „ 4429 - OU7
Dec., 1897 .. 4429 6„ „ 4429 - ««
June, 1898 . 4450 6 „ „ 4429 21 9126
Dec., 1898 .. 3129 8„ „ 2658 471 8655
June, 1899 .. 2668 8 „ „ 2658 10 8645
Dec., 1899 .. 2375 8,, „ 2658 - 8928
June, 1900 .. 3108 8„ „ 2658 450 8478
Dec., 1900 .. 2998 8„ „ 2658 . 340 8138
June, 1901 .. 3354 8„ „ 2658 696 7442
Dec., 1901 .. 4035 8 „ „ 2658 13/7 Re|^g
(£60,750 capital written off, out of which
£7500 was applied to wipe out goodwill,
leaving a credit balance of “35
June, 1902 .. 4981 6p.C.= 3402 1579 3014
Dec., 1902 .. 3788 6„ „ 3402 386 3400
June, 1903 .. 4786 6 „ „ 3402 1384 4784
Dec., 1903 .. 3408 6 „ „ 3402 6 4790
The progress (or otherwise) since 1900 is shown here-
under T T,..
WOO.’ ?902* ® SS&
O 'ove g rdra I f l t! r &c age .’£Bs,67o £101,982 £104,156 £lll.OOB
Owing on Deposits 16,087 14,687 14,687
Interest .. 2,354 2,458 2,958 2,969
Freeholds, &c. ..211,116 180,482 184,503 186,660
Stock and Plant .. 27,563 85,412 39,279 37,296
Rents .. .. 3,283 3,712 3,922 3,96 b
O SSU PK r “ 9.268 10,770 10.785 10,08!
Ff penseB aX ! B ’ E *" 6,360 7,226 5,880 6,505
The co. is trading on £lOB,OOO of its own capital and no
less than £124,085 of borrowed money, which « costing
over 4J per cent, per annum-and the liability is
increasing fast. If a bad time were to strike thesc ■(*
brewery co.’s seem to be right in the track of badprimes;,
this co.’s position might become very aukw.r . in
half-year’s profit was at the rate of £6 os. I ? <L J?5 n , t J
per annum on shareholders’ funds,. which 'vasnt a-
good as usual; but the shrinkage is debited to the
Speck’s smallpox outbreak in the early part of t
Thus a S.M. Herald correspondent, who writes
clamoring for more public service retrenchment, ,md«
signs himself “Advance N.S.W. . A a
soon as London sees that the Government!
its cloth according to its means, then and only then
will our credit be restored with the in °n® { j
only would we.be able to obtain more monej
terms, but the capitalist would be glad o he wor p inj_-
in Australia investments for his money. > country
of the loan disease. The advancement of the counir.
depends wholly on its standing in the Pa«n SP, e
ation. At all hazards we must keep
before our uncle. The only object o ret enchmeni
is to enable us to get further into debt later on.
* * *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Ltd. (Sydney): Added
Written to
Income. Claims. Expenses. o ff. Funds.
1893’ £32,161 £12,294 £8,939 £'«
1894 33,388 8,204 11,843 V? ii 281
1895 36,367 11.W6 9433 II’.STS
1896 38,826 14,615 0,000
1897 41,079 11,460 9 422 99b
1898 46,112 20,531 10,396 x 4.797
1899 50,291 22,890 11.020 J°Bl
1900 55,713 24,450 16,260 19JJ 24)33 .
1901 61,979 19,435 15,997 -- 15430
1902 63,552 31,850 14.71/
1903 03,732 34,877 14 ' 14 jL 7 i liG j 16,316
Assets written up Liv/i >


g
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE °^ ten Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
IF INTERESTED, write .... ..
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
a. e. leplastrier, Manager. 4-0 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903 :
“ When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
* “ * »
The Wilfley Concentrator has now reached a
very exalted position in the concentration industry. It
had long been recognised that older types of concentra-
tors were unsatisfactory in many respects, being small in
capacity, intricate in construction, costly in maintenance,
difficult of adjustment and required constant super-
vision ; but the “ Wilfley,” while retaining all advantages
that may have been possessed by its predecessors, was
superior to them in the following important respects.
It will handle several times more material than any belt
concentrator made, without exception. It will save a
higher percentage of the values than any other table, and
will catch anj' float gold, amalgam, or quick-silver which
may escape from the amalgamating plates. It will make
cleaner and more valuable concentrates, thus saving use-
less expense for transportation of valueless material, and
also reducing the smelter charges. It requires little or
no attention when once adjusted, and no expert is re-
quired, either to adjust or run the machine. It handles
the pulp with less power and less floor space per ton than
any other concentrator. It has no expensive belts to
crack and wear out and no complicated machinery to
keep in repair. The Sole Agents and Manufacturers for
Australia are The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne.*
* * •
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydnej'.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.SlW.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* « * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Loekingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to36inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
' Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
Whatever Mt. Morgan’s contemplated' smelting
works may do, it is hard to see where the profits are to
come from with the small 30-ton affair the co. has sbfllrd
with. There were two stoppages the first week ; and
nothing is being mentioned about costs. They must be
pretty high ; for one thing ironstone and limestone have
to be got for fluxing. This co.’s roasting costs are also
very high compared with those of Westralia, though labor
is better paid there than at Mt. Morgan.
CYANIDE
GUAIAKTEED
98/100%
, Zinc Shaving's, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIOM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald
174
William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eag-le-st.,
Brisbane J 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty King Edward VII.
Bottled at Celebrated
Malvern Springs,
England,
down the capital, because that would be “ like an act of
insolvency.” How much more solvent the co. will be by
issuing balance-sheets containing items which it knows
to be bogus they didn’t stop to explain. Boiled down, the
situation is that the co. knows that writing down is the
honest thing, but it can’t bring itself to be honest all of a
sudden—it is the co. that is going to be honest by twenty
half-yearly instalments.
* * * *
The Union Bank op Australia
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Aug., 1897..£37,436 5 p.c. =£37,500 £1,024,503
Feb., 1898.. 47,696 5 „ ~ 37,500 £lO,OOO 1,024,699
Aug., 1898.. 42,579 5,, „ 37,500 1,029,778
Feb., 1899.. 42,071 6„ ~ 45,000 1,026,849
Aug., 1899.. 48,514 6„ „ 45,000 1,030,363
Feb., 1900.. 92,002 7 „ „ 52,500 50,000 1,019,865
Aug., 1900.. 79,825 7 „ „ 52,500 25,000 1,022,190
Feb., 1901.. 86,628 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,023,818
Aug., 1901.. 95,681 8 „ „ 60,000 35,000 1,024,499
Feb., 1902.. 96,714 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,036,213
Aug., 1902.. 93,931 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,020,144
Feb., 1903.. 109,649 8 ~ „ 60,000 50,000 1,019,793
Aug., 1903.. 127,273 10 ~ „ 75,000 47,000 1,025,066
But a 10 per cent, bonus to the staff was payable out of
these profits, and when this amount is adjusted the
profits will have to be reduced by that much. On total
shareholders’ funds earnings have been recently :
Feb., 1902.. £7 12 6 p.c.
Aug., 1902 .. 7 8 0 „
Feb., 1903 .. £8 14 0 p.c.
Aug., 1903 .. 10 2 0 „
At the end of the half-year deposits amounted to
£15,525,725 (£264,431 more than 12 months previously),
notes £471,023 (£17,208 more), bills etc., £1,841,505
(£179,785 more), liquid assets £5,456,362 (£1,281,732 less),
drafts in transit, etc., £1,775,787 (£661,216 more), advances,
etc. £12,497,141 (£1,117,495 more). These figures, show-
ing a heavy reduction of liquid assets (especially in the
matter of specie on hand and cash balances) and a large
increase in advances, account for the improved profit.
Liquid assets, nevertheless, still equal 36 per cent, of
liabilities to the public.
• • * •
W.W. : The point was that the State doesn’t
get too much for its mining lands, seeing that the mining
co. not merely rents the land, but has the right to gut it
of all that makes it of value.
* • • *
Among the other prospects that lie ahead of
New South Wales is one regarding a very large and very
disastrous slump in an important branch of the revenue
that derived from conditional purchases. The slump,
in fact, showed itself last year, but that was only the
beginning, and much worse things are to come. Con-
ditional purchases still yield N.S.W. a revenue of over
£1,000,000 a year, and the fact that this income is
threatened with something not far short of extinction is
a serious matter. The position for ten years to 31st
December, 1902, was as follows :
Revenue from Amount still
Conditional due on Conditional
Purchases Purchases
during year. at end of year.
1893 .. £1,047,529 £14,609,500
1894 .. 1,052,198 13,608,038
1895 .. 1,082,692 13,187,636
1896 .. 1,075,331 12,381,760
1897 ... 1,102,014 11,624,855
1898 .. 1.152,356 11,169,757
1899 .. 1,125,470 10,738,045
1900 .. 1,214,628 10,305,902
1901 .. 1,219,384 9,922,411
1902 .. 1,066,500 9,298,367
This shows a very serious state of things. The new con-
ditional purchases taken up don’t by any means counter-
balance the old ones paid off, so since 1893 the amount
B tiH to be collected has diminished by considerably over
£5,000,000. Probably, as a multitude of conditional pur-
chases are nearly paid off, it will take a very short time
for the income to drop from the present £1,066,500 to
£500,000 a year. It will probably get down, before very
many years, to £200,000 a year. And there is no increase
in any other branch of land revenue to make up for this.
N.S.W. has collected over £26,000,000 from conditional
purchasers, and its total land revenue of one kind and
another has been over £50,000,000. This has all been spent
as revenue, and there is nothing to show for it. Even
now N.S.W. doesn’t have much success at making ends
meet; how it will get on in the near future when one of
its biggest props gives way under it, is hard to sav.
• • • •
. ® ee Government’s habit of borrowing
in all directions small and large sums repayable at short
dates is bearing fruit. Within the next four years
N.S.W must needs borrow £9,000,000 for renewal pur-
poses alone, and if it spends £2,000,000 a year of loan
mon ®J'> 11 will have to find £15,000,000—a trifle of
say £4,000,000 a year. And on present appearances the
man who can raise that amount at anything like reason-
able interest could raise the dead.
* * * *
An experimental lot of 1000 tons of mangrove
bark is being obtained in North Queensland. Unfortun-
ately, the Private Enterprise which is running the
business is of the hungry sort, and, whereas African bark
is saleable in Europe at £5 or £6 a ton, only £2 2s. 6d. is
being offered in N.Q. A sample parcel of 25 tons was
lately tested with good results at Hamburg ; it is under-
that >t was upon these tests that the syndicate
vi hich now has the business in hand floated into existence,
ihe stuff loused for tanning.
~ °f companies ever had a worse time
than those formed in N.S.W. and S. Queensland 10 or 12
ears ago to boil down the continent’s surplus stock,
lallow was then at a top price, the inside country had
nau a tewgood seasons, and the back country became
dotted with works for turning out tinned dog', extract of
tieef, chieken and ham (made of rabbit and pig mostly),
uflow, and etceteras. Some of them hadn’t had six
months run before the drought came back and used up
s »rplus stock, and left the stock that wasn’t
H ™*’ p u | so P° or that they were not worth boiling
EE-*r e .£. C 0” hun £ on wea rily to life for
hfJr re n , Wlth > n the last few months two—almost the
“ ° ome to their end : the Menindie a
while back, and the Narrabri a week or so ago
* * * •
Assets Purchase and Realisation Co.
of Australasia (Melbourne)
Gross Loss Loss on
In- Ex- on Busi- Pro- Total
Aho- IS Q7 Peuses. ness, pert.y. Loss. Deficit.
Ang’irqs” £17 o f 305 JEI26 £3 £129 £19,925
Fef’lffta” -.o 344 342 7295 7637 23,562
Aug ' isoq*" l- 240 230 2501 2731 26,293
Feb'’iqnn- £ 181 154 3 157 *6 460
. 94 152 58 1 59 26,509
An „ : forfeited and written off Deficit 13,170
Feb ’ 1901° ’' 303 47 “ 47 13,217
Aug iqm" It 246 232 2638 2870 16,087
1 243 236 - 238 16,323
eo., 1902.. 108 212 104 104 16,427
Aug., 1902.. 182 178 P, T 14 io 16,437
Feb., 1903.. 142 107 L ° 2 f _ 25 16>462
Aug., 1903.. 198 191 _ Pro ? fc - ...
£720 capital forfeited and written off Deficit 15,735
Feb., 1904.. 149 m L ™‘ _ 15 758
co . ncer n shows still another loss. The
» s revenue is only sufficient to pay 3 per cent, on the
What investment it is that has increased in value is not
stated ; and, since the writing- up of assets has been
brought into discredit by societies which don’t occupy
the standing of the City Mutual, it is just as well, when
reputable societies adopt the same plan, to give
the most ample particulars regarding it. Three years ago
this society began to pay higher bonuses than it had
been doing ; and, if this Were a less reputable society, it
might be suspected that this writing-up of assets was a
mere trick designed to cover a considerable shrinkage
in the sum available for adding to the funds, and to thus-
give some color of justification for the maintenance of
an excessive bonus. Certainly it came in a year when
the income showed the smallest increase for ten years,
and when, but for the writing up, the addition to the
funds would have been the smallest addition (bar that of
1900) since 1896. In any case, if there has actually been
an increase in the value of investments, it would be far
better to put the amount to a reserve fund to meet con-
tingencies, instead of making it available to swell
bonuses. Big bonuses are bait for new business ; but
there is such a thing as using too much bait to'
make the fishing profitable, and the tendency
in mutual life offices is nearly always that
way. That there is need for a reserve fund
the society’s own experience proves; for down to
1900 it had a securities reserve fund, and then apparently
found it necessary to write the amount off—anyway, it
disappeared. Of the City Mutual's total funds of
£254,713, all but £22,458 (Government securities) is repre-
sented by mortgages, properties, &c. ; and, as it is pretty
certain that land values have been hitherto inflated by
State borrowings which must one day stop, the prudent
assurance co. which is up to its neck in land investments
will prepare for a possible slump, and certainly won’t,
when it happens to benefit by a small rise in values, hurry
to use it all up for bait.
• • • • • •
The expense rate has been brought down a little
lower: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1893 .. £27 15 11 percent.
1894 .. 35 9 5 „ „
1895 .. 29 8 3 „ „
1896 .. 25 10 0 „ „
1897.. 22 18 9 „ „
1898 .. 22 10 11 „ „
1899 .. £2l 18 4 per cent.
1900 .. 29 311 „ „
1901 .. 25 16 2 „ „
1902 .. 23 3 2 „ „
1903 .. 22 3 9 „
This is still high—much too high. And then the bonus-
bait must be kept in mind. A society which aims at
paying high bonuses (the directors say that their object is'
“ to make the City Mutual the most prosperous and
largest bonus-paying institution ") ought not to have a.
high expense rate; the high bonuses should serve the
same purpose as the canvasser.
Interest earnings (.£13,436) are still excellent,
amounting to no less than £5 9s. per cent, on the average
funds. This is a full £1 above the Australian average
—and the Australian average is higher than that of
either the U.K. or the U.S. The difference between the
Oity Mutual rate and the average rate pays about 20 per
cent, of the whole expenses. As against that, there is
always the probability of high interest earnings and
doubtful security going together ; which makes it all the
more necessary to start that securities reserve fund
spoken of just now.
* * * *
Last week The Bulletin said that, as far as it
knew, the City Mutual did not have a single law-suit on
hand just now, Crowley v. Glissan having been settled.
And now it hears that fresh litigation has already broken
out over the same case.
• « • •
The Sydney Pebmanent Fkeehold Land and
Building Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Profit Loss Total a.ntM
on on Loss Total
Busi- Pro- for Deficit.
Dec., ness, perties. Year. intact.
1896.. £16,395 £86,360
1897.. £lB7 £1,522 £1,335 17,730 85,025
Loss on
Business.
1898.. 32 3,383 3,415 21,145 81,610,
1899.. 33 2,328 2,361 23,506 79,249
1900.. 340 34,372 34,712 58,218 44,539
1901.. 562 2,723 3,285 61,503 41,254
1902.. 361 2,006 2,367 63,870 38,887
1903.. 89 89 63,959 38,798
The year’s loss on business has been reduced by the
recovery of £313 previously written off as bad. The
£38,798 nominal capital intact is very nominal ; a loss is
shown in spite of the recovery just mentioned, and not-
withstanding that the £71,686 of deposits are carrying
no interest. The properties in possession and bor-
rowers’ and purchasers’ balances, which are down in the
balance sheet for £114,531, gave a return of only £7lB, or
about 12s. 6d. per cent. On a 4 per cent, basis their
capital value would be £17,950 ; and that would leave the
depositors with poor prospects and the shareholders with
none at all. Nevertheless, some progress is being made
in reducing liabilities ; the total has moved as follows :
Net Liabilities (Deposits, Mortgages and Overdraft,
less cash and credit balances).
1897 .. £119,381 ..
1898 .. 107,188 .. £12,193 reduction
1899 .. 99,422 .. 7766 ~
1900 .. 94,734 .. 4658 „
1901 .. 86,823 .. 7911 „
1902 .. 79,671 .. 7152 „
1903 .. 76,202 .. 3469 „
Of these liabilities, as before mentioned, £71,686 is
represented by non-interest-bearing deposits ; and the
concern which cannot make progress when it has to pay
no interest to its depositors is in about as bad a way as a
concern can be.
* * * «
The Rockhampton (Q.) Gas and Coke Co. finds
itself in the bog prepared for the co. which goes on paying
dividends in excess of earnings year after year, and then,
when all its reserves are gone, remembers that it has
forgotten to write off any thing substantial for deprecia-
tion. Not only has the eo. been running an electric light
department at a loss, but its preference shares are en-
titled to a 9 per cent, dividend, and it also carries deben-
tures ; and among these three handicaps, and the con-
tinued payment of a dividend on ordinary shares, the
co. drifted into such a state that at last the auditors
tacked on to their report a remark to the effect that the
balance sheet was, in their opinion, a fake, inasmuch as
“ the gas plant, meters, buildings, fittings, electric light
machinery, mains and services, &c., are not of the value
set forth.” As a matter of fact, the co. had been too
busy trying to earn 9 per cent, dividends to even write
off the expenses of the debenture issue, which still stand
among the assets. To get out of this bog in a straight-
forward way some of the directors proposed that the
capital should be written down—the honest thing to do in
view r of the auditors’ report that a good part of it
had been lost. The bulk of the shareholders, how-
ever, have other notions about such matters, and the
motion that capital be written down was fired out
decisively in favor of a suggestion that for the future
dividends shall be limited, and the loss be written
off gradually. Even if the process of depreciation doesn’t
continue it will take, so far as can be seen, about 10
years for the depreciation which has already occurred to
be wiped out; and meantime, presumably, the co. is going
to issue balance-sheets in which electric light mains, etc.,
that are worth nothing except for old copper, are included
as if they were still new electric-light mains. There is, of
course, another way ; everything may be written down
to present value, and the shortage put boldly among the
assets as “deficiency.” The shareholders would not write
nominally intact capital (£9622); hence it is not sur-
prising that even the very modest expenses nearly
always manage to get ahead of the income. Most of
what assets are left consist of interest under a will, of a
book value of £6028 ; and over that there has been long liti-
gation, the end of which theoo. doesn’t yetsee. The other
trifling assets are also mostly entered up at book value
or at cost, which is, of course, unsatisfactory. In fact,
there isn’t much that is satisfactory about the co. except
that, so far as can be seen, its position is frankly stated
in the published accounts.
• • * *
B.H. Block 14’s zinc plant, on the acid principle,
is capable of handling 600 tons of ore a week ; after
many difficulties, it is being got into steady running
order, and already 250 tons of zinc product has been
shipped. The B.H. Prop, is busy also building new zinc
plant; it has been announced that it will go in for
magnetic treatment as well as for Delprat’s acid process.
In connection with the latter, the Potter people who
opposed its patent, have been ordered by the Victorian
court to pay the costs of the long and unsuccessful pro-
ceedings before the Commissioner. Broken Hill North
directors are anxiously watching the lead market, which
has been a bit firmer lately, and, if it keeps so, they will
make a start again after nearly three years’ stop. On
past figures, however, there seems to be no profit for this
co. in lead at anything under £l2, notwithstanding the
recent improvements in other directions.
* * * *
The often-resurrected Pinnacles, outside Broken
Hill, is more alive now than it has been for years,
having been galvanised by the mostly English co. which
owns the smelting works at Aldershot (Q.). The mill has
been re-modelled, and is running steadily, though only
on a small scale, treating something under 500 tons a
week ; but a fair amount of ore is being hand-dressed up
to a high percentage. Hitherto the mine has been
handicapped by its distance from railway (six or seven
miles), and by difficulties of getting out a reasonably
tractable concentrate. The former handicap still exists,
but. it is said that the Queensland co.’s metallurgists have
got over the other trouble. There are good ore boelies in
this and smaller mines, though from a variety of causes
the district has hitherto proved one of the most disas-
trous for investors.
» * * *
Capt. Warren definitely takes charge of Cobar
Chesney, on which he lately reported. Presumably he
goes as a concentrating expert, though his mana in that
respect isn’t what it was by a long way. And, any way,
it isn’t primarily a milling problem which is sticking up
Chesney.
* * « *
January returns from the chief W.A. mines
were : —Fine gold : Horseshoe, 15,7520 z. ; Perseverance,
14,4700 z. ; Great Boulder, 11,5990 z. ; Great Fingall,
11,4770 z. ; Ivanhoe, 10,8370 z. ; Oroya-Brown Hill,
10,5770 z. ; Associated, 62630 z. ; Sons of Gwalia, 51820 z. ;
L. V. Consols, 41200 z. ; Associated Northern, 24380 z. ;
South Kalgurli, 20650 z. ; Golden Link, 11630 z. ; Bellevue,
11340 z.; Hannan’s Star, 7340 z. ; North Kalgurli, 6850 z. ;
Lancefield, 6310 z. : Vivien, 4550 z. ; Hannan’s Reward,
361 oz. Standard gold : Kalgurli, 42100 z. ; Hainault,
1040 oz. Bullion : Mount Morgans, 40910 z. ; W.F. Main
Reefs, 15950 z. ; Princess Royal, 13220 z. ; Golden Ridge,
9150 z. ; Champion Prop., 7540 z. ; Potosi, 7460 z.; Lady
Shenton, 681 oz. ; Fraser’s South Extended, 4820 z. ; Web-
ster’s Find, 3680 z. ; Burbank’s Birthday Gift, 3600 z.
Most of the large producers publish their returns in
fine gold, which makes a comparison of their relative
outputs much easier. Costs of most of the mines have
been much reduced, but, unfortunately, some give them
per long ton and some per short ton. ' As the short ton
(20001 b.) has been adopted in most of the leading gold-
fields of the world, there is a good deal to be said for
introducing it to W.A., so as to compare on an equal
footing with the Rand. It is a horrible example of the
slipshod nature of British weights and measures that
there should be two separate weights with the one name.
* * * •
Tom Doyle, of Kanowna (W.A.), has had a
parcel of 12 tons treated from his Red Hill lease, which
brings up the total gold won in less than two years-to
39470 z. from 236 tons.
* * * *
Great Fingall Consols, Day Dawn (W.A.), has
had exemption granted on eleven of its 12 leases, on the
ground that no payable gold has been got outside of one
24-acre block. Its big area is merely a blind to satisfy
the Great British Public. The niain block is 1450 ft.
long, and the combined length of the two chutes proved
at No. 5 level is about 1500 ft., including 200 ft. of a blank.
The.reef splits at both boundaries, and has never proved
payable in any outside property either north or south.
At No. 9 level the chute pinched out 580 ft. north of the
shaft, or practically the same distance as in the levels
above. No. 10 level is being driven north and south, and
so far is quite equal to expectations. This level should
be completed in another five months. The co. is at
present fourth on the list of producers, but will shortly
take the lead, though it will not hold it long. The
Horseshoe will again be top dog when its extra 50 stamps
make a start.
* * * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, has been very energeti-
cally worked since Gieisberg took charge, and is a very
different mine from what it was. The main shaft is on its
way down to 1600 ft., but progress is slow owing to the
hardness of the country. The 20-head mill to treat the
low-grade ores is nearly completed, and should be
running within a month. Two more Merton furnaces
have been ordered for the sulphide plant as a stand-by to
ensure a full supply of roasted ore. As most of the
capital expenditure of the company is now complete
steady divs. are assured. The only additions likely in the
near future are further stamps, as the reserves of low-
grade ore are increasing very fast. This ore runs about
Bdwt., but is expected to leave a good margin. It has
to be handled in any case, and sending to the mill will
add very little to the expense.
» * * *
W.A. mines are already declaring divs. for
March, the first being the Great Boulder, £65,625, closely
followed by the Princess Royal with £4OOO. The latter
mine has resumed payments after a lapse of three months.
Investors should not allow themselves to be led away by
these distributions, as they are practically being paid out
of capital; it is questionable, in fact, whether the
Princess will pay the 20s. per share at which the scrip is
quoted.
♦ * * *
To show how far Kalgoorlie has outstripped all
the other W.A. goldfields, it is interesting to note that
for January, Kalgoorlie’s output is given as 118,7210z.’
while the runner up, the Murchison, comes in a very bad
second with 22,3860 z. Kalgoorlie is still forging ahead,
but, almost without exception, the other fields are
dropping behind.
* * * *
A show called the Great Fingall Associated
Day Dawn (W.A.), is being hawked about on the strength
of being near the famous Great Fingall Consols. Of
course, as with the defunct Kinsella, and the much
puffed Rubicon, the Fingall reef trends through the
property ; but, as the gold chute itself exists in one
block only of the big Fingall property, the
where the lode goes is of very little moment. W.A. has
thousands of reefs and lodes, but probably not 1 per cent
of %hem carry payable gold, and even the 1 per cent"
carry it for a very short distance, very rarely exceeding a,
mile. ' ®
• » * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) new battery made
a start on Feb. 1, and the next clean-up should show an
output of 1000 tons. The mine is looking better, and the
co. should pay several divs. during the vear. Investors
must, however, keep in mind the shortness of the chutes
and the smallness of reserves, as, once the new level is
worked out, there will again be a period of uncertainty.
The bullion of this mine has always been very poor, and is
becoming poorer at depth, and it is not safe to value it
much above £2 an ounce, including cyanide gold. Possi-
bly the return may be published in fine gold, as orders to
that effect have been issued by Government, but small
mines appear to take no notice of the order
* * « *
A mining catechism. What is a mine reserve ?
It is a hoard of gold on a mine kept by the manager!
either with or without the knowledge of the directors
and is used to average .yields. Is there anything wrong
in a mine reserve ? No, given that the shareholders know
of its existence and the extent to which it is drawn upon
iiut, if they do not know, can it be used for fraudulent
purposes ? Most easily. It can be used to manipulate
make it appear that a good return is being
obtained when the output is really low. Shareholders
and the public are thus deceived and a false market is
created, during which those in the know can slip out of
their shareholdings. But if the reserve is kept secret
from the directors? Then the co. is in the hands of
the manager and the mine-hand who countersigns
£°ld-book. .On the other hand, if the secret
of the reserve is shared between these two, the
directors and the legal manager, it gives to
these the command of the market as well as the
control of the mine. Have many mine managers grown
rich under the system? Very few; because in the
instances where they alone knew of the reserve they were
not tempted. Is the system against the shareholder?
.Decidedly; because he does not know whether the
reported yields are true or not, and so either appraises
his shares at too high or too low a value. He conse-
quently must sell or buy under false conditions. Does
such a system tend to honesty? Not so long as Stock
Exchange temptations exist, and the market is looked to
In'fu . an kh e mine. Then what is the remedy? To
tell the truth and report every ounce won. Not to do so
is to lie
* * * *
In the deepest workings of the New Chum
Railway, Bendigo, the temperatures are almost unbear-
able. Where a free circulation of air can be managed the
heat can be borne, though it affects the miners' working:
capacity ; but in other places, where ventilation is for
the time being impossible, only strong men can work at
all, and even they for not long at a stretch. Lately a
rise has been started from a crosscut 400 ft. from the
shaft at 3865 ft., the object being to connect with a winze
dropped from 3200 ft., and in the top of this rise 98
degrees were registered—9Bdeg. in an atmosphere in
which breathing soon becomes difficult. This record
has, however, been reduced to 92deg. by the use of a
spray which discharges 11,200 gallons of water per shift.
Further in, where the spray cannot be used with effect,
98 is still recorded. Lately several experiments have
been tried with a view to making the working conditions
more tolerable, but nothing has done much good. Great
blocks of ice have been lowered, but the heat of the
surrounding rock thawed them so rapidly that no appre-
ciable change was made ; nevertheless, for want of any-
thing better, this experiment is being continued in the
faint hope that the rock may be cooled off a trifle. This
depth is just short of three-quarters of a mile.
(Continued on page 25.)


PAVID JONES ANP COMPANY,
The “D.J. Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
fdg
NARROW
OR
ROUND TOES.
Special 1
Value. ■ J
16/6
Carriage Free to any P.O, in the States#
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney.
Camerius delivering the fatal ball by which Stridlongfus was “stumped," thus proving the superiority of
“ Fielding ” Harrington’s Cameras and Photo Supplies in the “ Test Match ” against all comers in Australasia.
We are constantly sending our goods over the “ boundary ” of every State, and are “not out" jet. Our
“wicket’’ is at 66 King St., Sydney, and the “scoring" is: — “Orackshot” Camera, 7/6; “Meteor, 15,-,
“Windsor,” 21/-; “Victor,” 30/-; “Timor,” 42/- ; “Expert,” 84/-; “Champion," £6 10s. ; and others up
to £5O. Illustrated Catalogue Free.
Society
[?]
[?]
Whicky
There’s an effusive Bill Adams spirit in
the cable about Japanese sailors offering- in
letters writ with .their own blood to beard the
A PALPABLE HIT.
“ My husband is so jealous!”
“ How ridiculous I” “ Isn’t yours?"
“ Certainly not!" “ How humiliating!”
Bear in his fortressed den—a spirit which does
not augur too well for the cause of Japan. If a
man is so grateful that “he would shed his heart’s
blood for you ” beware of seeking to borrow six-
pence from him. By the way, Bill Adams has a
sort of interest in Japan. It was a Bill Adams,
British shipbuilder, who in the 17th century made
ships for the Jap nation, which traded to as far-
away places as Mexico.
Australia has produced a fair proportion
of horrors, but very few to equal that for which
the two Macdonalds, husband and wife, have jusb
been sentenced to death at Rockhampton (Q.).
Macdonald had married a second time, and for no
explainable reason—unless it might be that their
miserable victim had inherited a fragment of
property—he and his wife seem to have set them-
selves to kill off the 15-year-old daughter of the
first Mrs. Macdonald. She was sent for to their
home at Longreaeh, and in the course of seven or
eight months she was flogged, starved, and drudged
to death. The post-mortem showed that two ribs
were broken—one in two places—and had been in
that state for weeks ; an ankle and a wrist were
broken and the bones rotting away—the broken
bone of the wrist protruded through the skin; and
the body was covered with malodorous sores, ap-
parently through continued flogging, and horribly
emaciated. Apparently the pitiable wreck had
to hustle about her daily tasks almost to the
last. As an aggravation of the case the step-
mother had been trained as a nurse, and it is
reasonable to suppose, not only that she realised
the state of her victim, but that she could have-
relieved her if she had felt so inclined. Even the
widespread feeling against the execution of a
woman seems hardly likely to save hospital nurse, e
and stepmother Macdonald. Certainly she rs
likely to give a severe set-back to the hospita.
nurse craze in Rockhampton. The ministering
angel who smoothes the invalid’s pillow will
appear for a time in a new light.
* * * *
Peacock, High Cockalorum of the Craft in
Victoria, hit the right nail on the head when he
stated that ’Lijah Dowie, “for reasons of his
own,” was repeating his old American lie as to
a conspiracy of the Freemasons for the overthrow
of “Zion.” The Bearded Bounder, before he
raised his Freemason cry in Melbourne, must
have been alive to the fact that his meeting at the
Exhibition building was invaded by hundreds of
forged ticket-holders whose “ briefs ” issued from
a notorious railer at the apron Brotherhood.
Then what is ’Lijah's reason for attributing all his
blessed “persecutions” to the wiles of Masonry?
Apparently the worried old schemer is bidding
wildly for the negative sympathy of the R.C.
public. As though they could possibly see any
redeeming quality in John’Lijah D.’s incoherent
new sectarianism 1 The prophet has grown no
wiser during his years of opulence. He returns
to Australia the same narrow-minded, pugnacious,
indiscreet, ridiculous impostor of a Dowie who
left 20 years ago, and if in the meantime he has
acquired an American character for cuteness and
eloquence, the explanation lies in the dreary
dulnessof his old-fashioned followers. A certain
class of slow, piously-inclined Yanks is darned
slow and almost incredibly gullible.
# * * *
Victorian Inspector-General of Prisons, in
his annual report, urges the Government to adopt
a provision, recently introduced into the English
prison system, whereby a person sentenced to
imprisonment in default of payment of a fine may
pay part of the fine and “do time” proportionate
to the remainder. The idea certainly has points
about it. Its adoption would mean increased
revenue—in plenty of cases the convicted person,
although unable to pay the full fine, could pay
part of it, and would cheerfully do so, if allowed.
This would also mean a big saving in prisoners’
maintenance,
; Alcinous”:
The cable-
gram an-
nouncing
the death of
the chim-
panzee Con-
sul brings
food for re-
flection.
When God
was adding
the finishing
touches to
his Creation,
the earth
seemed in-
complete, so
he added
thereto pri-
mitive man
and hishairy
relative, the
ape. Theape
remained in
his original
condition,
but primi-
tive man
passed through the whole gamut of evolutionary
changes, developed and perfected himself, until he
reached his climax in such as Herbert Spencer.
The philosopher devoted his life to the explanation
of that evolution that had produced himself, and
lived contemporaneously with the most perfect
specimen of his one-time hairy relative, the chim-
panzee Consul. The philosopher worked under
the stress of providing his own sustenance ; the
ape had all found and a manager to attend to his
daily wants. Intellect was neglected, and caudal
appendage was courted, invited to banquets and
wrapped in luxury. The philosopher's ideal of
life was to make himself a good animal; the
animal’s ideal of life was to ape the genus to which
the philosopher belonged. Both died. The
philosopher had scraped together £16,000; the
ape was insured for £20,000.
RETRENCHMENT.—BRINGING IT HOME.
The sacked civil servant in N.S.W. has
practically only a Japanese sort of protest open
to him.
The site of the “old” Ship Inn, which
was not old, at Circular Quay has been granted to
the Sydney Corporation by the Railway Com-
missioners at one shilling per year rental, It will
be made “ ornamental’’ until the Railway
Commissioners.require it. This “Old Ship” was
built in 1867, and named the “Galatea,” in honor
of tbemsit of the Duke of Edinburgh’s ship to
Australia. The name was retained about a year,
when it was re-named “The Ship.” The “Old
Ship ” Inn proper still stands, though not
licensed, as a monument of ancient days, at the
corner of Essex and Gloucester streets, on the
Sydney “Rocks.” In old-hand vernacular,
Essex-st. was Gallows Hill, and from the path-
way at the Ship Inn could be seen the executions
of criminals in the gaol yard below. On such
fete days as the execution of the Jew Boy’s gang
(March 16, 1841) the windows of the “Ship”
were well patronised, and the bar did a roaring
trade, the rocks in the immediate vicinity being
a place of vantage. This Ship was erected
apparently over 90 years ago. It, or something
very like it, is pictured in old plates of Sydney,
issued in 1810. William Davis, transported for
making pikes in 1798, lived and had his smithy
not far away. St. Patrick’s church occupies the
site of Davis’s old premises.
In a case under the White Australian Act
in Melbourne the other day, one of the grounds of
appeal against the conviction of a Chinese was
that English was not a “European” language
within the meaning of the Act, and the point was
argued with all the sodden gravity of an under-
done damper or of a drunk delivering an oration
in a horse-trough. There is probably nothing on
earth that that strange animal called “learned
counsel ” won’t argue for a consideration.
• * * *
The most postponed young woman in
Australia appeared recently in North Melbourne
court to ask that an order should be made
against the father of her illegitimate child, born
ten years previously. North Melbourne is that
demented court which would grant an order
against the Wandering Jew for the maintenance
of his illegitimate infant born before the Deluge
if any kind of a woman asked for it, and it
banged down a verdict for 7s. 6d. a week right
there.
It seems, from the lately-
discovered remains of one of his
note-books, that Captain Sturt
constituted himself a commis-
sion to inquire into the Aus-
tralian birth-rate while he was
camped at Depot Glen, in the
heart of Australia, 60 years ago.
He found that—
The (aboriginal) mother retains
them (her children) at the breast
until they are full three years old—
a custom not confined to this part
of the country, hut one that may,
with other preventive causes, ac-
count for the limited population on
the Australian continent.
The Australian mother of 60
years later doesn’t adopt the
heroic measure mentioned by
Sturt; but she gets there just
the same.
The loan boom has burst, and the Owe’-
See can’t sorape up any more local money, so
advts. like these are getting into the S.M.
Herald
SHORTHAND Writer, Typist, 21 yrs., Remington,
iJ desires POSITION, salary 12s. 6d., office ex-
perience required. Address Abercorn, Woodlands-st.,
Marrickville.
•TTTILL kind Christian give young Man work, or
W him to obtain same. C.R.Y., Herald
Office.
But most of the kind Christians whom The
Bulletin knows are too busy finding work for the
cheap foreign white laborer and the cheaper
yellow man to oblige C.R.Y.
* * • •
Copy of a notice posted outside the Joss
house at Cairns (Q.) on the occasion of the Chinese
New Year, the festivities and crackers in connec-
tion with which are just over:
NOTICE.
On the Chinese New Year. The substance ol firework is
not comprising with any gentleman or lady of European
or other. Because,(our c.hinamen) we have to delight
our own and bear our- expenditures.
By order
Church of China
per See Lee Chau.
* * * *
The Light monument committee in Ade-
laide has just voted its own extinction after being
twelve years in collecting £475. This is to be
handed to the City Corporation, which has under-
taken to add £5OO, the Government finding £lOOO
more. Colonel Light was the man who surveyed
Adelaide’s site, and, in fact, caused the capital to
stand where it does, instead of at Port Lincoln or
Encounter Bay. He is buried in Light Square, in
one corner of the city, and the small monument over
his grave is crumbling away. Unfortunately the
Square has, in the course of time, become about the
most disreputable quarter of Adelaide, and this
makes trouble. To put the hard-cadged obelisk
over the old man’s grave is like putting a
pearl in the midst of swine, and yet to leave the
grave unmarked while a big tombstone glares at
the public elsewhere seems ridiculous.
• • * *
Peter Nicoll Russell, who endowed the
Sydney University Engineering School with
£50,000, promised another £50,000 provided the
Government supplied £25,000 for buildings and
equipment, which condition has been fulfilled.
Meanwhile the magnificent Mitchell bequest of
books to the State stands legally forfeited because
of the failure of the Government to fulfil the con-
dition of providing a suitable building. There
seems to be a great difference in finding money for
the University—benefits of which are practically
confined to the well-to-do —and for the public.
The Uni. can score every time, whilst the common
public oan’t kick a goal once in ten tries.
• • * *
Brisbane should kick against taking
Bishop Webber’s successor from England, the
position would be considered promotion by several
Australian bishops and the rank and file ot
Anglican clergy holds many eligibles. Ihe deter-
mination to send to England is said to have been
eome to by people who count on an imported man
having more influence with the English public in
pushing the hat. In fact, it is the great Austra-
lian Loan and Cadge Habit showing itself m a
religious form.
A JEREMIAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 have been a Sundaj -school teacher for nearly 60 years.
X find the ignorance of the children of the simplest facts
in Scripture history something really appalling.— Wail of
anguish in Melbourne Argus by “ J.S.”
Oh, what is to be the fate
Of this graceless, godless State,
If the children will not wait
In Sunday-school?
Never know what Samuel saith
Of the death of Ish-bosheth?
Never know or hear of Beth-
Saida’s pool?
Ah, their ignorance is dire ;
Take the story of Machire—
Or of Meshach in the fire—
Have they heard ?
Do they know about Zedad,
And the punishment of Gad,
Or the story of Bildad ?
Not a word 1
Did the woes of Azabart
Ever stir a little heart ?
Did a tear-drop ever start
For Zeboim ?
Have they heard of Meshulin—
Or of Iddo and Hoshin ?
Sir, they answer with a grin—
“ We don’ know ’im !"
If you ask of Melicu,
Or of Ezra and Ziklu,
They will simply stare at you—
Or at their hats ;
If you speak of Amariah,
Shecaniah, Jedadiah,
Nehemiah, or Isaiah—
They say “ Rats! ”
Sir, I shudder as I write 1
They can’t tell a Jebusite
From a wicked Beerothite
(See Samuel two).
They know nothing of the Acts—
They are weak in Scripture facts
So the outlook in these traots
Is pretty blue 1
vie.
O C. CABOT.
IN HEAVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Phyllis sings at eventide to me
Dark birds of care unfold their heavy wings,
And fly far out of sight—beyond the sea
When Phyllis sings.
The smile, the touch, the glisten of her rings,
The soft, sweet light, the sweeter melody—
And then my lot is happier than a king’s.
In town the lumbering day goes heavily,
But through its length I bless the hour that brings
My heart in Heaven where it fain would be
When Phyllis sings.
ILL.
W. FRANCIS CHAMBERS.
PROPRIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is Proprietee ?
Who is the beast, and why ?
I’ faith, a mighty boon ’twould be
If old, morose Propriety
Would go away and die !
Where is Proprietee?—
Where does the spectre live
That ever chases heartlessly
Across the Plains of Misery
Some hapless fugitive ?
How is Proprietee ?
Which is its dreaded lair ?
Where hides the lank, hyena She,
Who ever clutches cruelly,
Some poor girl by the hair ?
What is Proprietee ?
HTto is the beast, and why ?
I’ faith, a glorious boon ’twould be
If old, false-toothed Propriety
Would eat her gamp— and die !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


J . Medway Day, once of Adelaide Register
and then of Sydney Worker, is now editor of
Tasmanian Mail.
A t the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wed-
-11 esc!ays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays, T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-st.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTIE & SONS BRISBANE,
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
the
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality,
Some British officials have brought the
mean little art of insult to a fine point in the
Transvaal. Among other things, all Dutch
inscriptions on public buildings have been ordered
to be erased, and all over the country bumptious
public vandals have been reminding the Boers of
their downfall by hacking away the names of old
Boer soldiers and statesmen from foundation
stones and such-like. Britain selects its officials
mostly from the aristocratic caste, and a large
section of the British aristocracy has a gibbering
capacity for insult, and collects enemies just as
other people collect postage stamps and old
china.
JUVENILE CYNICS.
NIPPER NEDDIE: “ What oh! That's an orlright
bit o' skirt, eh?"
DICKIE : “ Ya-a-a-s, but the worst wid these yer
women, once yer give 'em a bit o' kid yer carn't
get rid o' 'em agin. Look at that there Ciss o
mine, I've tried everything ter git shut of'er.
lye insulted 'er; I've ridicooled 'er; I’ve
kicked 'er, an’ I've jumped on 'er, an’ still she
sticks ter me."
Melbourne Argus was vastly amused lately
at a poor attempt at a strike among a few inmates
of the local Benevolent Asylum. Some old dere-
licts in that ‘‘charitable ” institution work in the
kitchens and thereabouts, and when they bucked
at having to do seven hours a day for seven days a
week, the committee of Lords and Ladies Bounti-
ful pointed out how they were flying in the
face of a beneficent Providence, and ordered them
to get to work forthwith, or be kicked out. A
paper with any sort of a conscience might have
spoken kindly of these ancients who get bread
and scrape for their 49 hours’ weekly work but
1 ne Argus always indulges its choicest humor at
tli© expense of the poor and nged.
At a Kilkivan (Q.) race-meeting a few
days ago four young fellows (three of them
brothers) got into trouble with the police. Ono
was being arrested for language, and the others,
showing an inclination to rescue him, were “held
up” with a revolver, and marched off to the lock-
up. Next day they were arraigned before three
local JVsP. on eleven charges of language, “ tear-
ing me uniform,” resisting and hindering the
police, etc., and the Bench, swollen with conse-
quence over the case, fined them in various sums,
with the usual alternative on some of the
charges, and on others gave them gaol without
the option. The total was £l7 in fines and seven
months’ imprisonment for the lot. Friends
immediately took the matter to the Supreme
Court, and secured an order quashing all the con-
victions except one—language, fine £2. The
four were released from Brisbane gaol in
triumph, but rejoicing was cut off at the stalk by
the arrival of the lawyer’s bill of costs —£100 !
And now defendants and their friends are asking,
“ What price liberty?” and also “Is the Great
Unpaid an invention of the lawyers ?”
* • * «
The woman continues to get into places
where she has never been before. In South Aus-
tralia the Methodist conference has been stormed
by a “ lady delegate.” The president said he
knew of no rule by which she could be shut
out, and so he proposed to let her sit until
the general (Australasian) conference could
pronounce judgment next May. The old
Wesleyan body probably wouldn’t have wel-
comed the lady; Wesley himself hadn’t
too pleasant a matrimonial career. The
minor Methodist sects, however, have always
looked more kindly upon the female, and
at least one of them —the Bible Christians, the
group which in S. Aus. has Chief Justice Way at
its head—has always had women preachers. The
chances are that, all the Methodies being now re-
united, the influence of the minor bodies will win
for the Methodist woman this new claim. And
from that to the Rev. Mrs. Melchizedek isn’t far.
"** * *
The question of why Solomon poisoned
Rassmussen seems to present the Westralian
police with an insoluble problem, especially as
Solomon is dead now and can’t explain. Solo-
mon called late at night on Rassmussen, whom he
seems to have known very slightly, and brought
some beer and cake. After he had gone, the
neighbors were roused by the hollerings of Rass-
mussen and fled for a doctor. The case was diag-
nosed as strychnine, and Rassmussen was brought
back from the brink of the grave with a stomach-
pump. Then the police went after Solomon, but
Solomon promptly took poison, and all the
stomach pump on the Boulder failed to bring him
round. It couldn’t even keep him alive long
enough to state why he objected to Rassmussen.
Possibly, after all, he simply didn’t like the way
Rassmussen did his hair.
“M.”: Re record shouts.
That £25 shout mentioned in a
recent Bulletin was a miserable
affair compared to Major-General
Tulloch’s invitation to fill-’em-
up. At the annual encampment
at Langwarrin of the Victorian
forces (I think it was in ’94), our
gallant Commandant, being
mightily pleased, ordered beer
for the whole assemblage—
about 4000 or 5000 men. The
men filed into the canteen on
the one side, had their beer,
went out the other side and
dispersed. The weather was
hot, and one strategical genii a
conceived the idea of march-
ing round the tent and falling
in again at the rear of his
company. Immediately an
endless chain was formed, and
not until the chain began to
sag and heave violently was
the fraud discovered.
“ Marat ” : The medical profes-
sion is not the high and haughty game it used
to be. A lodge medico, who attended on a
relative, handed me a draft of a letter (not
in his handwriting) which he wished me to
copy and forward to the Grand Panjandrum
of the lodge. “ Unremitting care,” ‘ ‘ un-
tiring energy,” and “ extraordinary skill,”
were a few of the extracts. I plaited in
17 more compliments, and forwarded it.
A lodge doctor wants all the testimonials
he can get to balance the complaints
that are sent in from members who want
to own his soul because they pay a shilling
a week, and who call him up in the
barren waste of the night to show him a corn.
* * * *
“ J.R.’ ” on the situation up North, where
the Bear and Monkey are :
The j’arns that come through the cable are too absurd
for anything, and S.M. Herald, in what it calls “ Com-
ments on the Situation,” or observations on the job, or
remarks about the billet, makes the confusion ten times
worse. The other day the old, solid and unreliable
penn'orth had a rigmarole about 25,000 Russians at
Possiet Bay, some 50 or 60 miles from Vladivostock, and
soon after announced that the Japs had landed there
without the least trouble. Now the Herald is busy
speculating on the .movements of 50,000 Russians in
buckram, who are said to be wandering about the north
of Korea, while the Japs are half-way between them and
their bread-basket at Harbin. What these alleged
Russians in Korea get to eat is a mystery. They need at
least 50 tons of food per day to keep them in fighting
and marching condition, and they must by this time
have eaten up everything and be reduced to grass. Fact
is, both Russians and Japs seem to be pretty good at
keeping their own counsel, and though anyone who
knows the rules of the game can guess pretty well what
is likely to be going on, no one can be at all sure about
details. It is pretty certain, for instance, that there are
very few Russian soldiers, except those in Port Arthur,
south of Moukden. The railway (600 miles long' between
Harbin and Port Arthur would, at the S’Afr.can rate
need 60,000 men to watch it, and they can scarcely be
available. Port Arthur is only held because the men and
stores cannot be got away.
Itcomes
as a shock
to learn, on
the expert
authority
of a reli-
gious pa-
per, that it
is not un-
known for
one Minis-
ter of the
Gospel to
“deli ber-
ately un-
dermine”
another
who has a
fatter cure
of souls; to
secure by
devious
means his
dismissal,
and then to
accept “ a
call from
the Lord ”
to fill the
vacancy. It
is a poor
sort of
game for
the parson
to drag the
Lor d ’ s
name into.
“M.”: A fat woman in my street
died suddenly the other day. The doctor
said “ heartdisease.” The chemist told me
yesterday that she had bought enough
“anti-fat” mixtures at his shop to bring
the whole Victorian Legislative Coun-
cil down to featherweight. It is well for the
fat to know that anti-fat quackeries are mostly
either very dangerous or quite useless.
* ♦ * *
That coarse and violent old person, “ Eli-
jah ” Dowie of Zion, made a final disturbance in
Melbourne by blaring forth from the platform
that Methodists were liars, that the worst liar in
America was a Methodist parson, and that
Methodist parsons were liable to be thrown out of
his meetings on sight. A mild-mannered
Methodist preacher asked Dowie to withdraw his
remarks, whereupon the prophet went off with his
usual bang, leaped ungracefully in the air with
his thick body and brief legs, and shrieked with
wrath. He continued to leap and howl till
some of his “chuckers-out ” had thrown the
inoffensive Methodist into the street. Aus-
tralians are a long-suffering people, and the
arm of the law is very short hereabouts.
If it were otherwise, most of Dowie’s bullies
would now be in gaol for assault, and the Attorney-
General would be seriously considering whether
the old disgrace himself couldn’t be tried for
getting money by false pretences. If the pro-
fession that he is a reincarnated Elijah isn’t a
false pretence at law it ought to be one. Also,
there ought to be a law against an inflamed and
stumpy person, with a whirlwind of white beard,
leaping in the air on a public platform. Such a
proceeding is an outrage on art and a blot on the
landscape.
* • • •
Some of the extracts from “Elijah”
Dowie’s paper, Thieves and Stealing, suggest
that it is easy to build up a reputation as a healer
when the right kind of patient is found. One
believer tells his story in sudden yelps like this :
In June, 1899, my wife and I went to Chicago and
stayed for one week.
We attended the meetings in Central Zion Tabernacle..
One day my stomach troubled me very much, so we
came to your office, asking you to pray for me.
The Lord healed me, and I have never had it since.
I give God all the glory and thank you for your prayers. '
Probably there had been dozens of occasions when
the same poor wretch’s stomach, after a brief dis-
agreement with the meat pie, settled things with-
out prayer, but the sort of man that Dowie preys
upon never remembers such things. The faith-
healing wile mostly lives on temporary struggles
with the meat pie. By th® way, has anybody
heard anything further of the boy with the club
foot who met Dowie on his arrival in Sydney, and
was assured that he would get well if he had faith
enough ? Has he had faith enough ?
*. * » *
Dowie the Prophet got a letter last week
from a Melbourne solicitor demanding payment of
£75 alleged to be the balance due on a promissory
note given by Dowie to John Brown, formerly of
Carlton. The alleged Elijahbility was incurred
in December, ’B6, since when the Prophet has
risen far above the consideration of such small
details.
* * * *
Collier’s Weekly tells of a picturesque
incident in the Dowie campaign in New York.
A presswoman had got into one of his healing
meetings—supposed to be secret—and was only
discovered on leaving :
“Do you mean to write anything about this ? ” a
Dowie minion demanded. “If you do, you’ll regret it.”
“ I’ll write everything I’ve seen and heard.”
“ Well, then, listen. The Great Overseer is on to you.
He has looked up your record, and he knows more about
you than you think—more than you would like to have
him know. If you don’t promise right here to quit
writing about us, the Great Overseer will expose you to-
night in open meeting. The whole city will know what
we know about you.”
“And listen,” the young woman retorted—“ Tell the
Great Overseer from me that if he dare to utter a single
lie about me—if he make the slightest effort to attack
my character—there will be a dead prophet in this city
to-night.”
And Dowie “laid low and said nuffing.”
* * * •
Dowie gets less of the dead cat of scorn
from Adelaide than from any other Australian
city. _ No religious crankiness would be
sufficient to earn for him Adelaide’s hostility.
It feeds on that sort of thing. You can
strike little frilled sects there by the dozen.
HIS BURDEN.
S HE: “ Why didn’t Brown buy his wife that
motor car? ”
HE : “ Well, he came to the conclusion that one
unmanageable thing was enough for him.”
The Swedenborgians include a few of the best-
known city men. Christian Scientists, Theoso-
phists, Metaphysicians—all are more or less
influential. One of the holy city’s leading archi-
tects—the man who was responsible for the
design of the Stock Exchange— went to join
Dowie in Zion some months ago. Several of the
unfortunate village settlements were founded on
“ Christian Socialist ” principles. There is a
New Jerusalem Church. There is also a sect of
Christian Israelites, who won’t cut their hair
because they say Jesus Christ didn’t; yet, though
they are so solid on wearing their hair in the
alleged old Palestine fashion, their clothes are
such as were never seen “ down in Judee.”
* • * ♦
“Alba”: Dowie is an indifferent stage
manager. Talmage monkeyed his way into public
favor. Johnny Toole brought a message from the
Prince of Wales. Albani rushed us With greetings
from Queen Victoria. The Australian barracker
and general interrupter demands some kind of a
smooge from visiting celebrities. In private life
the barracker is usually a parrot-chested enthusiast
who yells from behind some strong man’s chair.
Have made his acquaintance on various occasions,
and he usually drives a tip-cart or wears a Panama
hat and slaves in a bank. He has an eagle eye
for counter lunches and free public meetings, and
his parrot-chest is a perfect volcano of coughs.
In the presence of a gaud mayor he is silent,
mirthless. The god of laughter touched him not
when the Yorklet appeared wearing a bearskin
busby. If Dowie had arrived with a bogus mes-
sage from the King, he might have flapped his
wings in peace. If a royal underling were to visit
us accompanied by a barber’s pole or a black rod,
Parrot Chest, the interrupter, would wrap him-
self in last year’s flag and form himself into a hol-
low square of beer. Just now the bottle-oh’s and
bank clerks are telling us that, in future, all
visiting charlatans will have a warm time. As a
matter of fact, they would put up with an under-
sized cabbage or a duke’s big toe if the occasion
warranted.
*t. * - *
In a complaint to the Victorian Chief
Commissioner of Police Mrs. “Elijah” Dowie
referred to the Jingo song, “ Sons of the Sea,” as
“very rude and extremely vulgar,” and declared
that she had never heard it before. “ Sons of the
Sea ” was sung by the crowd at the Exhibition
Building to break up Elijah’s meeting. Three
years ago if anybody in Melbourne had called
“Sons of the Sea” a very rude song, that dis-
reputable pro-Boer would have been struck by
lightning. If there was no lightning about the
share-brokers would have rolled tram cars over
the caitiff.
THE OLD MAN AND THE PARROT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Woman, in our hours of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please !
When pain and anguish wring the brow
The cause— alas / is chiefly thou I
Scott Up-to-date.
The old man sat and talked aloud,
Alone in his old arm-chair ;
And nobody heard
Not a word
But the bird,
For nobody else was there.
“ These women would be Jurors now 1
It makes a person vexed ;
And lawyers too 1
Can this be true?
flood gracious me ! What next'?”
The old grey bird
In tones absurd
Picked up the word :
“ What next?”
“ What next ? ” said the bird ; “ Ha, ha ! ho, ho !
That’s just what we all would like to know.
As the tadpole said when his tail dropped off :
What next 1 ”
“ It seems to me,” the old man said
A gleam in his cold grey eye ;
“It certainly seems
That she schemes
And she dreams
To rule in the world or die !
These twentieth century maidens make
A poor old man perplexed.
They’d change their rigs
For horse-hair wigs
And lawyers' gowns ! What next ?
The gage is hurled 1
These damsels curled
Would rule the world 1
What next ?”
What next?” said the bird, as a smile be hid,
" Don’t the old man know that they alien.,s did ?
What a silly old man to sit and cry :
‘What next?”’
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


f*'
wx
Sol© Agents:
GORDON’
SWIFT & COMPANY,
32 O’Connell St.,
Sydney.
"T Q
o
Miss Nellie Stewart writes: “ ‘ Valaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “ Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send Id. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
s
X)^
1 SEMPER IDEM. |
WHISKY.
fd
Dress R^briss
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
t* ADE markTHE varnished board
gfd
I
CO
THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS
oque-
a?
m
jeftoaee/
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 8, 1904.
My Dear Arini.—
The flat habit is growing on our “ leading society
women” and “prominent club men.” It is spread-
ing like—l was going to write Cape-weed or Scotch
thistle, but the noxious-plant simile hardly fits
such a case. Up-to-date flats are rare in Sydney,
and also horribly expensive. In Macleay-street a
house of flats is growing towards completion,
and will be inhabited by the Forbes-Sempills
(the aristocratic young man-o’-war shares his
hyphen with a golden daughter of the Hudson
Soap millionaire), the Alec Hays (she is a daughter
of Mrs. Burdekin), the widow of the late Justice
Manning and her daughter, and the Gollins.
Then there is a bird-of-Paradise pile of flats (Dai-
ley’s property) going up near the Burdekin house
in Macquarie-street. Said that every flat
in this is already secured, principally by
nil admirari young men who get their chif-
fon velvet pyjamas from London and have no
White Man’s Burden sitting up for them o’ nights
with a cat and a candle and reproaches. No
ohildren will be admitted as residents. The Birth-
rate problem will simply be shooed off the
premises. After this building has got its coping
stone there will, ’tis said, be an exodus to
it from “Cromer,” in Phillip-street, at present a
popular “flatter,” inhabited by a few exclusive
dukes in disguise, and Imperialistic Anglo-Indians
who superintend their own currying, as well as by
such moderns as Dr. Nash, M.L.C., Mr. Jack
Dailey and Mr. Owen Cox.
Once you’ve acquired the flat habit you never
again want to have the bother of a garret-to-
baseraent house ownership. You have shifted a
large layer of your responsibility (i.e., worry) on
to someone who has a genius for management (i.e.,
for overcoming worries).
Concerning worries ! The report of the Royal
Commission on the declining birth-rate, though
scareheaded by some of the dailies with “Start-
ling Revelations! ” provoked a mental retort from
the majority—“ Queen Anne’s dead.” It simmers
down to the fact that most women will no longer
willingly endure the worry of rearing large
families. A few weeks ago that clever woman’s
letter from London in S.M. Herald had a noble
sentiment, to the effect that “it is when she is
self-sacrificing, and lives and works for others,
that woman is nearest her crown.” I overheard
a woman reading the letter to another, who
presently interrupted with “she ought to specify
that the crown would be of thorns.” Whilst
allowing that a slight decrease in births is due
to the rise in the marriage age during the period
1889-1902, the Commissioners have concluded that
the main cause of the declining birth-rate is one
over which individuals themselves have control.
One may imagine the gloomy sigh of the collective
Birth-raters when they came to that con-
clusion, knowing as they do that one of the most
difficult things in the world to arouse is the collec-
tive conscience of a nation. For, despite the legis-
lation which the Birth-raters urge to help the
stork to tap at more windows, the cure of the evil
must come from aroused conscience. And in many,
many houses you might pound on the door till you
drove a mass of wrecked panels into the hall, and
rouse everything except a conscience.
‘ * British Empire League ” ! What a fine, large
sound it has—like Brotherhood of Man or Arch-
angels’ Co-operative Stores for Celestial Outfits.
It lifts one right above the fruit-vending Dago
end of George-street to the radius of the Ever-
lasting Daisy. When I got an invitation to a
“Conversazione of the Women’s Branch of the
British Empire League ” last week I threw over a
prior engagement to wash my Gordon setter dog
in order to conversaz. with the Imperial leaguers.
But they didn’t give anyone off the plat-
form a show. Bruce Smith —a pin curl over his
right eyebrow—talked for what seemed like two
months on the beauty of patriotism and the
encouragement of the growth of the Empire spirit
in Australia. Mr. Knibbs followed with a quan-
tity of oversoul. Then Dame Barton read a fare-
well address to Mrs. Hugh Dixson, the President
of the Branch- Mrs. Dixson, who with Mrs.
Robert Farrell received her guests —they would
have been her guests if his Smithjesty and his
Knibbs hadn’t talked so much—leaves for Europe
in the Mongolia presently. Her two daughters—
Mrs. Eaton and Miss Marion Dixson—accompany
her. Her other daughter, Mrs-. Ronald Keep,
is already in London.
The feminine medical profession in Sydney
always rolls up in force when someone speaks
from a platform on “ the magnificence of British
action in sending 250,000 men and spending
£250,000,000 to vindicate the rights of a few
British subjects in South Africa.” Dr. Grace
Boelke, in a pretty blue frock, and with a nice
contralto speaking voice, was on the platform ;
plump little Dr. Mary Booth and Dr. Harriet
Biffin —commonly called “Biff” —were there in
please-the-Pope bodices and hygienic skirts. Mrs.
B. R. Wise, just back from Melbourne, occupied
a strategic position near an exit, but failed t
make use of it till the last speaker had spoken.
Talking of women doctors, Dr. Mabel Graham,
who married the Rev. Gordon Baillie on the last
day of February, had a brilliant series of winnings
at Sydney Uni. When she emerged from her
Final, three years ago, she had but one man in
front of her fine red head.
Buds—clusters of buds, hundreds of buds —
from the various girls’ colleges crowded Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night to hear Yvonne
Leverrier give an account of herself, on the piano.
For seven years (five in Vienna, two in Paris)
she has been, we are told, working hard at her art.
And one can well believe it —first, because of the
mastery she has got over her chosen instrument;
second, because of her over-worked appearance
and piano-practice figure. Miss Leverrier has a
very pretty face, with big pathetic grey eyes and
a fuzzy-wuzzy head of dark hair. If she doesn’t
give the symphony-concerto a rest and take to
whole meal porridge and cream and open
air she may develop a grasshopper back. Appear-
ance is so much to a girl who has to plat-perform.
Half musicianl v y Sydney, amateur or professional,
was present and helped the buds to applaud some
of the best pianoing this city has heard. The
pianiste has great power and delicacy and her
music flows without a break—now rushing like a
river in flood time, now rippling, a thin
streak of sound. Miss Neville Vane, a mezzo-
soprano from Goulburn, who looks as writer
Ethel Turner does in her fluffy portraits, made
her re appearance. She has a promising voice and
was either very nervous or awfully self-assured.
She picked out her friends in the audience with
perky little smiles and returned for flowers and
encores as if she were coming to chase geese out of
a garden.
Miss Leverrier’s matinee concert is postponed
from Wednesday to Monday on account of the
mayor’s luncheon in the vestibule of Town Hall.
Thus do Victuals get in the way of Art.
JRHaruko (isn’t that a pretty name ? I expect to
see it on gate-posts soon, or used by some girl-
writer as a pen-name), Empress of Japan, is, I
learn—in the rush of Jap notices —the daughter
of a noble of the first rank, and is 54 years of age.
Her only child —a son—died at birth, but the
Mikado has assured the succession with the
children of the various Princesses who share his
affections. Haruko is small in stature even for a
Jap lady; her husband is taller than most of his
people.
Persons who want to get or keep up a reputa-
tion for being “in the know” have been telling
all they don't know and never heard about the
alleged engagement of Miss Maud Jeffries to a
member of a well-known N.S.W. squatting family.
On a night last week a huge basket of fine blooms
was passed up to Miss Jeffries. Mr. Knight
received it and made as if to pass it to
her, but she refused it with a haughty gesture,
putting her trophy-hand behind her and walked off
the stage. The omniscient ones immediately con-
nected the incident with “ the man she had re-
fused,” the man to whom she was “engaged for
one week, ” the man of whom “ her brother doesn’t
approve.” Meanwhile, Katusha keeps her own
counsel and declines to be drawn.
Mr. Theodor Boesen, Consul-General for
Denmark, who died last Sunday, was one of
the most assiduous concert-goers Sydney pos-
sessed. _He was as familiar a concert-mark as the
grand piano, and he and his wife were always to
the front in any charitable movement.
Some one sends me from Fogtown the pro-
gramme of a charity-concert at which Alice
Hollander sang “Night and Dawn,” Florence
Schmidt something from the “ Sicilian Vespers,”
and Eva Mylott “My Heart is Weary,” and to
which George Lambert contributed a pictorial
front page. Even in its blurred reproduction,
Lambert’s sketch looks very good.
How must it feel for an artist, used all her
days to sunshine, to sing before a matinee audi-
ence of which the front row only is visible to
her? Contralto Mylott, says the S.M. Heeald,
made her first appearance at Chappell’s ballad
concerts in a dense black fog, and it was like
singing to one hazy line of people, one line of
indistinct blots, and a vast, murky blanket. The
names of two of Eva’s songs, “The Hour of
Sleep” and a “Barque at Midnight,” seemed to
fit the nocturnal atmosphere.
A Juliet cap of pearls worn by a bride at her
wedding is a welcome change from the wreath of
orange blossoms. A very rich girl (daughter of a
millionaire knight named Pearson), who recently
married Lord Denman (first Lord Denman
defended Queen Caroline in the famous divorce
suit) had the originality to so cap her golden hair.
The marriage has a faint aroma of interest for
N.S.W. because_t he Denmans are nearly related
to the M'Mickings, a well-known Pure Merino
clan of this State.
We have in Australia quite a number of heirs,
or heirs a few times removed, to very 18-carat
titles that live in England. A certain young
Sydney solicitor who writes stories that are
reminiscent of water gruel, is heir to a marquisate,
and a young Primrose in Queensland has a third
chance of being Lord Rosebery. Lord R. has
two sons.
Mr. Reggie Broomfield, son of the late Captain
Broomfield, of Balmain, was married last week to a
Melbourne girl, Miss Mac Nab.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The very complete and thorough fashion in
which the new Gov.-General is doing things was
shown at the Parliament Opening, when at the
rear of his detachment of aides the private secre-
tary advanced in a black velvet court dress. No
previous Australian Governor’s secretary ever
sported such a garb. It is an additional effort to
give impressiveness to the little G.-G.’s ensemble.
If you haven’t got any importance of character, or
of intellect, or of appearance, you must eke out
the situation with clothes—on yourself and on
your flunkeys. Lord Northcote though, by the
way, has a melodious voice. That, with plenty of
clothes, should pull him and the Empire through.
There were a few notables scattered about the
audience. Lord Monkbretton, an intelligent-
looking person, sat with Lady Northcote and the
retroussA Lady Knowles. Up in the gallery Mr.
George Peel (of Extension Cable note) directed a
series of coal-black glances on the proceedings.
The cable authority has a marble-white face, inky
eyes, and an inky thatch. He is oppressed, to
all seeming, with the seriousness of life. Near to
him sat Miss Doyle—a Sydney blonde, sister-in-
law to barking Rep. Conroy. She ranked as
almost the only charmer in a gathering particu-
larly free from smartness. Wearing a forget-me-
not blue, her friends in the House seemed to wear
an answering forget-thee-not expression.
“ Lady Northcote’s opening -of - Parliament
toilette was less striking than her conversational
achievements. She can talk ! Most of her speech
fell to Senator Drake —always a suave, sympa-
thetic listener to feminine utterances. When he
was P.M.G. he was once interviewed by an Irish
lady, wrongfully accused of maltreating a depart-
mental scrubbing-brush. Smarting with injured
innocence, wounded honor and congested indigna-
tion, the widow entered the chief’s sanctum like a
lion and came out like a lamb. He listened to all
she had to say, she afterwards testified, and
‘treated her as if he had been her own father.’
Even in the first burst of excitement, when (as the
goaded Celt confessed later), she had called down
curses upon the Commonwealth with special
allusion to the Federal Post Office authorities,
* there wasn’t so much as a wry look on his face.’
“Every place of public amusement (and Parlia-
ment on Opening Day is a place of amusement)
has its own type of female devotee. Theatres are
favored by fine, large women with roomy anatomy
for diamonds and decolletage. Cycle girls are
young and pretty. In the Parliamentary galler-
ies, there are, of course, majestic political she-
personages. But in addition to these, there’s a
skittishly - clad, restlessly - mannered section.
Green veils are epidemic among them, red fringe-
nets, (which give the head a coppery tinge), and
cerise under-skirts.
“Lord Dicky Nevill, that long, lean and
careworn-looking person of uncertain age, still
strolls around Melbourne as though he were
an item appertaining to Guv’ment House, which
seemingly he isn’t. In a way of speaking, Lord
Richard is an actor open to engagement for a
walking-gentleman part at the Vice-Regal
Comedy Theatre. If the forthcoming Talbot
doesn’t require his services, perhaps Tom Bent
can appoint him Minister of Etiquette, or Fine
Arts, or something. The Bent Cabinet could do
with a Minister of Etiquette, anyhow.
“Ex-Premier Irvine’s departure was a frigid
concern. There were less than 20 people present
to see him off the premises, and they mostly stood
around and stared. As the steamer got moving,
Chief Railway Commissioner Tait called for three
cheers. The response was feeble, but some work-
men on the outside of the little crowd offered to
cheer if the departing statesman would promise
not to come back. Mrs. Irvine looked as cold as
her lord and berg. She goes away leaving three
young children behind her.
‘‘The G.-G. beats all previous efforts at
amiability in his published intention to face the
bone-mills, the abattoirs, and miscellaneous smells
of Footscray, to inspect the small-arms factory
there.
“Strange to say none of the Madden clan
turned out to see the Madden Cup contest at the
Polo Tournament the other Monday. Languid
indifference this—as if gold cups were thrown to
the mob by the Maddens every day. The North-
cotes were represented by all the aides and Lady
Knowles—to say nothing of several poodles
gently lowered from the drag by the green and
gold Jeames for a scamper over the course. All
Society stooped to stroke the poodles, in a way
which suggested that a blue bite from a vice-
regal dog would be a proud distinction. The
greab splash of the day was achieved by the
Pursey Chirnsides, who arrived on the scene in a
motor that looked as if it had escaped from a
circus—a gorgeous affair, with tarpaulin roof,
glass sides, scarlet decorations and a band-box
flunkey in immaculate white uniform.
“The most complete gymkhana yet accom-
plished in this State gave the polo junkets
a lift into favor last Friday. A special tent was
pegged in an above-the-salt manner for the vice-
regal party which attended. All the fair whips
of Melbourne who are in possession of pony-carts
supplied the critical item in the gymkhana, and
their turn-outs, their driving gear, their handling
of the ribbons, kept a great circle of gapers in-
tensely interested. Some of the whips had a girl
mate for company, Mrs. Fred Payne had a
brother-in-law, and Mrs. Kemp a Pomeranian
poodle wearing a fashionable emerald tie. Surgeon
Embling’s dame carried off the prize fairly, but
sports liked the trim jauntiness of Miss Whiting,
while Toorak nearly wept because ‘ dear Milli-
cent ’■ didn’t lick all the whip competitors.
“Some of the finest dresses at Friday’s polo
break-out were spoilc by the newly-painted cane-
chairs that offered comfortable rest with the tea
and ices under the refreshment tarpaulin. In
honor of the swagger occasion all the chairs had
been given black rims, and these proved to be
transferable.
“Mrs. Webster, who was the beautiful Miss
Raleigh before she wedded the rich Collins-street
medico, is airing some of the smart wardrobe
treasures she recently brought from Fogtown. At
polo, the other day, she wore the latest thing in
autumn gear—a dark bottle-green rough tweeci
made with the brief skirt and the tailed coat. It’s
not the thing to inspire excessive joy, but it has
the stamp of the latest London tailoring and so it
takes. At the same rally the Misses Landale
surpassed all previous early-Victoria efforts by
their light billowing frills, their stringed bonnets,
and fussy sunshades. They might have stepped
out of Vanity Faie.
“ An Englishman who captured an Australienne
on the high seas, and who was, from written
aocounts, the most desirable, and nobly-bred, and
sweetly-beautiful bridegroom ever captured, turns
out, on viva voce examination, to be a black-
whiskered person with a squeaky voice and
enough side to capsize an ocean liner. But
Toorak presses polite overtures upon the new
arrival, and gurgles delightedly over ‘ the lucky
bride.’ ‘ She married an Englishman, you know.’
That is sufficient. Yet the average gently-swear-
ing cookie from Gippsland or the sore-footed
prospector from Marble Bar is a finer fellow in
most respects than most of the weedy samples of
the well-born Britisher that the sweet Australi-
enne is proud to bestow her cash on.
“ Comic-opera baritone, Haigh Jackson, is not
the kind to fire the feminine imagination. He
just sings and has not a look, a sign, a gesture to
answer to the Melbourne girl’s notion of an ador-
able baritone. He’s even slipshod in the amorous
business, and kisses with little of the beautiful
care ordinarily exercised by the stage-lover. The
matinee girl may pardon the baritone who sings
out of tune so long as he kisses with distinction
and ogles with verve and obligato and other fix-
ings ; but the perfunctory lover on the stage may
lift the voice of an Orpheus in vain.
“Furnished houses to let are a sign of the times—
the original occupants dallying abroad in most
cases; in others the country crib calls. Two
moneyed land-owners will put their town proper-
ties under the hammer this autumn, and sail to
the Cold Country. Mr. Ernest Raleigh does the
same in a few days. Fashionable people here are
growing out of conceit with the place. The
example of other Victorians quartered in Fogtown
is pernicious. London seems, to an increasing
number, to be the best place to splash about the
lucre earned by the fertile areas and not too fer-
tile toilers of this Gibeonite land.
“On Australian Gup Day Premier Tom Bent
figured prominently. Thomas the Bulky was in-
vited up the carpeted stairs of the vice-regal box
by a sober-faced aide, and was seized by a ludicrous
ambition to approach the Presence in a dignified
manner. Short of steam, he stopped at the second
top step, whereupon Lady Northcote did the
gracious thing and met Thomas half-way. Tommy
wasn’t flustered ; he stuck his dipper of a hat
down on his ears, and, after a few words of cordial
intent, waddled .qff with his duplicate. Mr. ,E.
Morey, M.L.C-
-“ Probably Lady Northcote’s costume on Aus-
tralian Cup Day was the best of her sartorial
series up to date. It was in black and white and
gold—a silk under-slip of white having a top layer
of inky lace in the Spanish pattern. Over its rear
fell long sash ends (there’s something essentially
feminine in a flying sash end) of pale gold-flowored
silk. More of the gold shade appeared at the
corsage and feathered hat. The whole costume
gave an opulent air, of a Bank of England note
walking out with the gold reserve.
“ Toorak is sorry for Colonel Selwyn Campbell,
who was not given a proper show in guiding the
Waxellency’s craft during his temporary Gover-
norship. Soon after the Colonel established his
ink-pots at Stonington and got going on the Priv.
Sec. work, a bereavement fell on his chief’s
family, and it had to draw in its horns. Now,
just as these are showing again, the new Governor
is called to Stonington.
“Mr. E. M‘Caughan, when all the affairs of
the family estate have been fixed up, takes a
yacht party up as far as Torres Straits. They
dally awhile in the vicinity of the Papuan shores,
then the yacht-owner returns to pack up his kit
for a long sojourn abroad.
“ The much-delayed presence of Governor Le
Hunte’s wife was accorded to a Holy City sports
meeting the other day ; but scarcely had the
impression of her nice, middle-aged manners and
pleasant smile been registered than, with her
small daughter, she hied away to the V.R. cottage
in the hills.
“ A young official had to wait on the temporary
head of this State a few days ago. He presented
himself at the residence, and was told by the
porter to wait a little time as his Excellency was
‘ having his massage.’ Shortly after, he was
summoned to the functionary’s exalted presence,
and found the odor of steamed herbs, orris powder,
and rose water clinging to the atmosphere ; and
the bumps of the Excellency shone dazzlingly like
the brass plates of Collins-street.
“Melbourne Argus proprietors have always
had a weakness for ostentatious display of horse-
flesh. Archibald Michie, who hated the Argus
men, once stated publicly that he delighted to
“ rub it into” Wilson, who used to prance about
Melbourne on a fiery steed. Lachlan M’Kinnon,
a nephew of Wilson’s partner, now drives to the
races a drag-and-four with two tigers in blue at
the back, and himself in front with a white bell-
topper falling over his eyes.
“A bachelor known best among the seasoned
Nimrods is conducting a skilful campaign for the
heart and fortune of one of Melbourne’s wealthiest
young prizes. The smart set are fiercely betting
on the chances of the event coming off.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


RACKED BY RHEUMATISM.
“ I felt the first twinge of Rheumatism about a year
ago,” says Mr. J. H. Gam.es, 12 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
“It started in my shoulders and gradually spread all over
my body. It racked nre day and night. I got so bad that
I could hardly turn in bed—when I got up I could hardly
move. I could just crawl about. No one knows the
fierceness of Rheumatism unless they suffered as I did.
The pain told terribly on my nerves, for I was as shaky as a
leaf. I used all kinds of liniments and boasted cures, but
they did me no good. I was beginning to give up hope
when a friend made me take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. He
said there was nothing like them for rheumatism and
neuralgia. He explained that they actually made new
blood and drove away all the painful acid from the veins.
I have reason to be grateful f r this friendly advice, for
four boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured my rheumatism
completely. They filled my veins with new, pure, strong,
rich red blood, that swept out the rheumatic poison and
conquered all my pain. My health was improved in
fifty ways besides. I slept well, ate well, and was filled
with fresh energy and strength. Now I tell everyone that
there is no blood-building nerve tonic in the world that
can be put in the same class with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People.”
The best treatment for most common diseases is a tonic treatment, as every doctor knows—and, as
Mr. Eames says, there is no tonic like Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. They do only one thing,
but they do it well—they actually make new blood. Bad blood is the one cause of all common ailments,
like anaemia, indigestion, headaches, backaches, lumbago, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, nervousness and
general weakness. Bad blood is the one cause, and good blood is the only cure. There you have the secret
of the never-failing success of the great blood-building nerve tonic—Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Write for Free Medical Advice. P>r. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place. Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box. —Refuse all substitutes.
I
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The new Governor-General, Northcote, has
already found liis level. He is to open the dog,
pigeon, and turnip show at Moore Park, Sydney,
at Easter!
After 20 years of toil Joseph Symes has at
last been compelled to suspend publication of the
Liberator. He is circularising his friends for
funds with which to resuscitate the vigorous
atheist publication.
Japan’s representative, Angas Parsons, is
the shortest consul in Adelaide, but he wears the
longest coat and the tallest hat. Russia does not
possess any agent in the city, so local bloodshed
will probably be averted.
Another politician has died comparatively
poor. For probate purposes the estate of Edward
Braddon was sworn at £8720. Also the will of
Archibald Campbell, late M.L.A. for Wollongong
(N.S.W.) has been proved at £2103.
Old Sam uel Davenport, the oldest legis-
lator in Australia (he was a member of S.A.
Nominee Council in 1846), completed his 86th
year on March 5. Adye Douglas (Tas.) will be
89 on May 30, but he did not enter Parliament
until 1856.
Angas Johnson, a wealthy Adelaide (S.A.)
doctor, who has already studied largely in France
and Germany, leaves early in April with the
intention of spending several years in the search
for a cancer cure. He is a near relative of
millionaire Angas, and is an enthusiast in his
profession. To a doctor, nowadays, a cure for
oancer is what the North Pole is to an explorer,
or the blue twopenny Mauritius stamp of
eighteen-forty-something is to a stamp-lunatic.
THE CORPSE'S JOB WAS VACANT.
“I’ll be lavin' ye, Mrs. O'Brien."
“ Leavin' me is it, Mary?”
"It is, ma'am. Ye know I was out all night at the wake."
"Well, didn't I excuse ye for it?"
“ Fes, ma’am; but"
“But what, Mary?"
“ Well, ma’am, ye know I'm gain' to be married."
“Married is it, and to whom, pray?”
“ Oh, only the corpse's husband."
March 3, 1904, was the 50th anniversary of
the first Australian telegraphic message, which
passed from Melbourne to Williamstown. There
is one telegraphic official surviving from that day,
Mr. T. R. James, who was pensioned from the
Victorian P.O. in 1893.
Nerli, of Sydney, who is a relative of
Pius X., has gone to Rome, report says, to become
a sort of official painter to the Pope. Nerli, when
on a visit to Samoa in 1892, painted the portrait
of Robert Louis The painting, sold
for £4O, is now in Edinburgh Art Gallery.
Obit. : Charles Dean, explorer Gregory’s
old shellback, of the 1855 expedition in search of
Leichhardt. Dean had the reputation of being
the humorist of the camp ; and men who travelled
with Gregory badly needed to hear a cheerful
remark now and then. Dean ended his days at
Lismore, N.S. W.
George Dean, who made a big sensation in
Sydney a few years ago, will be liberated at the
end of this year. He is now assistant to
the electrical engineer in Goulburn Gaol. Dean
put in eight years at the tailoring trade, with a
longing always for the engine-room, which long-
ing the department at last gratified.
Elias Solomon, late M.H.R. for Fremantle
(W.A.), who was emptied out by boiler-maker Bill
Carpenter, now spends his time in attending
bazaars and semi-political meetings. Sol has con-
siderable property in Fremantle. He intends to
stand for the local Parliament, and, if the other
man goes to sleep or dies, Sol will win easily.
S. Australia has a “bloodless limb-
straightener ” living near Angaston. Told that
when a local millionaire hobbled to him, saying he
couldn’t bend his knee, the doctor promptly
placed him in a recumbent position on a couch,
and sat on the knee. The millionaire used ungodly
language at the time, but was able to pray on his
knees for forgiveness by night.
“A.G.”: Alas, all is vanity. There is
'nothing real in this world of shams. Even The
Bulletin believed in the truth of Dill Macky’s
beautiful shanks. So did I till I saw the saintly
shanks, one morning recently, on the beach at
Manly—naked and unashamed. My one remain-
ing religious illusion was shattered on the spot.
The “Tabernacle,” where Elijah Dowie
preached (in Johnston-st., Fitzroy, Melbourne)
a quarter of a century ago, is now a second-hand
furniture shop. In those days Dowie used to be
summoned once a month for obstructing the
public thoroughfare, but he and his chief hench-
man went to court joyfully, and compared them-
selves to Paul and Silas.
N.S. W. Senator Gould, the icy man who
calls himself a Freetrader because he belonged to
the old Parkes Ministry, which protected nearly
everything, was woefully misled by the Foreign-
trade papers when he tried to wrest the Presi-
dency of the Senate from Baker. It was almost
a three to one majority that banged Gould’s
frozen head against the wall.
Reginald Talbot, Victoria’s threatened
governor, is tall, but a buried brother was taller.
Captain Talbot, of Cheltenham (Eng.), aggregated
80 inches from his No. 12 boots to his No. 1\ hat.
He was at one time violently athletic, and once
backed himself at the Lamb Hotel, in the garden
town, to drink a bottle of whisky in three breaths.
There are men in Australia who could do it in
two.
Memory of old Paul Kruger is revived
by a cable that he is dying at Mentone (France),
and that his mind is giving way. Kruger was in
some respects narrow-minded, and he has often
been called stupid. But the march of events
adds every day to his reputation for prescience
and statesmanship. He saw from the first the
evils which the gold fever would bring to his
country, fought them as well as he might, and to
the last ditch withstood the efforts of the mining
magnates to run and ruin the Transvaal. He
failed, because the might of Britain helped the
arm of Cohen. But it was a failure with more of
glory than the success which has delivered
S’Africa over to Asiatic helotry.
“An Altar Boy” writes about the late
Bishop Torreggiani, of Armidale (N.S.W.): —
Bishop Torreggiani used to travel
by coach through his diocese attired
in his soutane and the Roman mis-
sionary hat—to wit a black, hard
one, with a wide verandah held
on to the roof by two black silk
bands like wire stays holding on a
ship’s funnel. The sitting area
of Torreggiani’s soutane always
showed signs of wear, through the
massive cleric falling heavily on it
every time the vehicle bumped.
The wear was so severe that the gar-
ment was once laid up in dock for
about a day undergoing necessary
repairs before his Lordship could go
to administer confirmation. At
that memorable time, Dean Doyle,
Bishop Torreggiani and John Sex-
ton, an old and good lay pillar of
the R.C. church at Lismore, under-
took a journey of 60 miles to the
Tweed River over the mountain
ranges. At that time Torreggiani
netted 22st.—weighed at Peter
Dawson’s store, Lismore. A con-
ference, lav and clerical, was held
re the means of transporting the
Bishop to the Tweed. In the end
John Sexton provided a heavy
draught horse, averaging about
knots per hour. The Bishop was
put on board, and the contingent
started. After the first day’s
journey the Bishop got fatigued,
and at the approach of night a
temporary camp consisting of a
large umbrella for a tent, and the
contents of a swag for a bed, was
fixed up on the Nightcap Ranges.
The billy was boiled, and then the
Bishop went to sleep for about 12
hours. The other members of the
contingent retired to a distance
of a kilometre, for the Bishop was
a heavy and regular nasal trom-
bone operator. It is alleged that
on one occasion, when Torreggiani
wanted to hire a vehicle for a
journey, the owner postponed a
definite answer till next day,
and in the interim took his
trap into a lone spot and loaded
it with boulders to test its stay-
ing power. Torreggiani replaced
O’Mahony, of Armidale, mostly
through the anti-Irish views of the
Vaughan party and its influence
with the Papal Brief Department
at Rome. Torreggiani always fed
well, slept well, and did his duty
well, but he was a failure re pay-
ing off church debts. Bishop
O’Connor, a zealous laborer, now
keeps the evil spirit in check in
and about Armidale. He was born
at a fish town called Dungarvan—
but that is another story.
“ Tot ” : Everybody has
heard of the “blessed word
Mesopotamia.” When the late
Rev. Chas. Clark first arrived
in Melbourne, a prominent
mercantile man said to me: “What a beautiful
word he used in his first sermon —‘etiolated.’
I wonder you didn’t notice it. That’s the preacher
for me. ”
Contrary to expectations late “Jock”
M‘lntyre left a good deal of property ; his will
shows a total of £6865. The impression that
MTntyre was stone-broke perhaps arose merely
from the fact that most old Parliamentarians are
that way nowadays.
It is pointed out by correspondents of the
Sydney daily papers that several officers of the
local defence force act as consuls for various
powers. “Powers” is particularly good in this
connection. Imagine Colonel Waddell, Consul
for Peru, advising the Peruvians how easy it
would be to capture Australia, or Major Freehill,
Consul for Spain, telling State-defence secrets to
the Spaniards.
“ Elijah ” Dowie’s brother Andrew, who
owns a row of little cottages in Adelaide, had
them painted in the highest style of art in honor
of the prophet’s visit, and then Elijah did not
take the trouble to go and see him. The Elijah
establishment in the hills near Adelaide, during
the stay of the Zion party, was replete with every
luxury, and the equipages in which Zion took the
air were various and aristocratic.
Little Fred Magona, late of the Age, is
lying seriously ill in a Perth hospital. Fred is
undoubtedly one of the most eloquent men on the
globe. Writer once heard him, at Parliament
House, Melbourne, give his opinion on the disap-
pearance of a lead pencil. He did it in one
sentence, consisting of something like 76 words.
The sentence would have been longer, only he
found the missing pencil behind his ear.
“Anthony Hordern.” Another Anthony !
The first Hordern (Sydney, 1820, or thereabouts)
was an Anthony. He had a son, making the second
Anthony. That Anthony had two sons—Anthony
tertius, and Samuel. The former had a son
Anthony, who died. Now Sam has a son Anthony,
the fifth, and this Anthony recently laid the
first brick of the new premises in George-street.
Apropos the mansion of Tobacco Dixson,
senior. The home of the old man while he was
building up his fortune was “Lulworth,” on the
road now known as Roslyn Gardens, running
from Bayswater Road to Elizabeth Bay, Sydney,
a house subsequently occupied by Justice Win-
deyer and Just-ice Gould. Old Hugh Dixson, in
the fifties, kept a tobacco shop at 301 George-
street, and resided on the premises.
When “Elijah” Dowie was preaching in
Collingwood years before he founded “Zion,”
there was a certain wicked hotelkeeper whose
threepenny beers wrought great havoc in that
suburb. Dowie arranged a great temperance
demonstration, to be held in front of the
offending pub. When Mr. Public-house heard of
this he issued handbills setting forth that liquor
would be dispensed gratis during his friend Mr.
Dowie’s address. There was no demonstration.
Dowie probably feared to trust his flock within
the free bar radius.
Francis Hope, brother and heir presump-
tive to the Dukedom of Newcastle, has married
Olive “daughter of the late George Thompson,
banker of Melbourne.” Can anyone say who
“George Thompson, banker,” was. Francis
Hope is the cheerful gentleman of 37, who was
husband to May Yohe with whom he visited
Australia. That marriage was dissolved. The
Duke of Newcastle is only 40 years of age, so
there isn’t so very much joy in being his heir pre-
sumptive. And it is not a wildly affluent duke-
dom. It is many years since a Newcastle last ate
a £5 note in a sandwich.
“M.” : Some years ago (say a dozen) I
met the late George Francis Train in Singapore.
He came in one hot afternoon and appropriated
my office. He celebrated his own exploits at
murderous length, and applauded himself with
vehemence. He was making a record “ round the
world.” His immediate demand was for a ship to
carry him on to Europe ahead of the mail. Some
of us managed to get him a passage in a steamer
then coaling at Tanjong Pagar, on a homeward
race with tea. His gratitude for this small kind-
ness was tumultuous. He gave the press boys a
dinner that night at the Hotel de l’Europe. It
was a goodish dinner, and afterwards, while we
drank his whisky, he made a two hours speech.
He was an amusing old cuss, but tiresome.
Thus T.P.’s Weekly on the late Herbert
Spencer:
On the day that Spencer died the principal item on the
broadsheets of the papers was a cricket match in Austra-
lia. The irony of the situation is irresistible. One
Italian journal appeared in mourning' borders, another
devoted seven columns to the exposition of Spencer’s
work and aims; and here, in the city;in which he lived
and labored nearly ail his life, people were asking each
other, “ who was he? ” and reading of the famous scores
at the Antipodes. The Italian Parliament interrupted it
sitting to condole with England op the loss of her greatest
son, and Mr. Balfour was probably playing golf some-
where in Scotland. The obsequies of this man of genius
. . . were attended by a few personal friends, without a
single official representative of the nation which he has
done so much to glorify.
Ex-Acfcing-Chief-.Justice Stephen had some
stiff notions about his duty. He was away on
circuit in the West when his father died ; got the
message while on the bench, read it, and went on
with the case, mentioning it to nobody. Later in
the day the news reached the lawyers through the
newspaper offices, the matter was mentioned, and
an adjournment suggested. The Judge said he
had been through a hard morning, that his first
impulse had been to rise, but that he had looked
at the dock (it was a committal matter) and con-
cluded it wouldn’t be fair to the accused to hang
the case up on account of his own personal loss.
LEWIS COHEN, M.P., MAYOR OF
ADELAIDE.
Senate-President Chaffey Baker was led
up to the chair by Gregor M‘Gregor and J. T.
Walker. That was getting between Labor and
Capital, anyway. Walker, if he hasn’t wealth
himself, represents plenty of it—has for years
helped to direct the affairs of one of Australia’s
biggest private estates, and of its biggest insur-
ance co., and its oldest bank. M‘Gregor, on the
other side, never got further than “general
laborer”—was a pick-and-shovel man by day and
a student by night—till he was sent to the South
Australian State Parliament. M‘Gregor has also
the distinction of owning perhaps the largest
collection of stories in the House, while Walke
has never been suspected of a single one.
Some men never know when to stop-
especially the man whose front name is Donald and
whose back name is Fraser. One, answering to
that description, after running for eight years a
sort of branch of Dr. Charles Strong’s Australian
Church at Newcastle, has quitted it to take up
the medicine course at Sydney University.
Already he has graduated as Master of Arts, and
has also passed through courses in Divinity and
Philosophy. Arts, Divinity, Philosophy, and
Medicine—and the man is still young, so there’s
yet a chance for Music and the Sanitary Plumb-
ing course at the Technical College.
Francis Fitzgerald, who has been made
Recorder of Newbury, England, is a grandson of
John O’Shannassy, the Victorian old-time
Premier. Fitzgerald is a son of old Nick, the
beer-founder, of Castlemaine, who married “Big
John’s” daughter. Frank Fitz., after he was
“called,” tried to get work at the Victorian Bar,
as junior to Bryan O’Loghlen, but didn’t succeed,
and then cleared out, went to London, and
married into the nobility. When Big John kept
that little draper’s shop in Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, and sat on the counter and talked politics
with Father Geoghegan, he didn’t dream of a
grandson being one day “ His Honor.”
“ War E.” : Looking at that portrait of
Gregan M‘Mahon as Cavendish Howley, I cannot
realise that it is the gentle-featured youth who
used to worry Greek aorists and dithyrambs with
me in ’9O. It was at a R.C. institution which
always made it a rule to fire a polyglot programme
at Dan O’Connor, Ned O’Farrell, and other great
Romans on “Speech Day.” Gregan and I were
elected to bombard the unfortunate audience
with about a yard and a half of Greek dialogue,
and went into hard training for it during a course
of five weeks. But I took my holiday a day
earlier than the advertised date, and left poor
Gregan to apologise to Danyell Pericles Demos-
thenes for being unable to dig up the ancient
“Grakes” for his benefit, owing to the “sudden
Sndisposition ” of the other performer !


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY — r
ADAMS’ HOTEL
PITT STREET.
fIEET HE AT THE HARBLE BAR.
m
Mardy
GEM MERCHANTS, JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS.
COLORED STONES are now being very generally employed in
all articles of Jewellery, and Hardy Brothers are showing a very
choice assortment, mounted according to latest London fashions.
A HANDSOME OVAL
WAIST BUCKLE, set with
Diamonds, Sapphires,
Tourmaline, Peridots
and Jargoons,
forms a very attractive
ornament,
Price
£63
Pearl & Diamond Brooch,
£2l, £25, £42.
Selections of New Goods
will be sent on approval
to any State in the Com-
monwealth without trouble
to Customers.
Write for Hardy Brothers’
1904 C ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE, Post Free.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY, &AT BRISBANE & LONDON.
Aboriginalities.
“ Blackbutfc ” : Be par. (8., 25/2/’O4) on
the early extinction of the lyre-bird. Agree that
the beautiful lyre is becoming extinct in many
parts of Grippsland, but your paragraphist could
not have spent much time amongst the fern glades
of Gippsland, or he would know that the cock
lyre bird roosts as high as any of the feathered
flock. I have been paling-splitting far back in
the haunts of the lyre, and have always noticed
(about dusk or a little after) the cock bird light
out for its lofty perch. It starts on the lowest tree
and works its way to the highest, often beginning
its climb a quarter of a mile from its final roost.
It is never known to come down the way it goes
up, always descending in another direction at
about the same angle. It is in the daytime that
the greatest destruction of lyres occurs, more so
with the hen bird than with the cock. The hen
always warns the cock bird when it sees any
danger, and will stay making a great noise long
after the husband has gathered up its tail and fled
into the next parish.
“ Wilmot W.”; Until recent years, per-
sons desirous of securing land on the
foot hills of Kosciusko had to
travel to Albury and other
distant towns, 100 miles
or so. and sometimes,
in the long ago, the trip
cost the selector almost
as much as the land is
worth to-day. Twenty-
seven years ago an old
friend of mine decided
to sling gold digging
and become a cocky.
He rode into Albury
and hitched himself on
to a 40-acre block of land
in the Tumbarumba district,
Eaid £lO for the privilege of
ecoming a land-owner, and
another £lO for beer, food,
and other ex.’s on the trip.
He has since made the block
freehold, and grubbed three-
parts of it; most of it cost
£8 per acre for fencing,
clearing, etc.; and the land,
which cost ss. an acre 27
years ago, is for sale to-day,
and ss. an acre is the best
offer for it. Another block of
land in same locality, which
must have cost the first owner
nearly 30s. per acre, was sold
t’other day. One shilling per
acre was reserve price. It brought
ss. ; old hands say it was dear at
that. Two hours ride on a slow
horse—almost a dead horse—
from Tumbarumba, nearly in a
line with Mt. K., a man can
strike the finest land in Austra-
lia. Have heard men who’ve
travelled Australia from end to
end say one station on Upper
Murray is the pick of the Southern
Hemisphere. And this was sold in the
first place at the same price as the messmate
and stringy bark hills. There was mighty little
discrimination or classification about those old
Governments of N.S.W.
“ War E.” : Since the break-up of the
drought have noticed several varieties of weeds
which are new to this (Junee) district. In my
“cabbage-patch” I have three fresh weeds
flourishing. One has a pretty magenta flower
of the poppy type; another is a creeper with a
yellow blossom, and the third is a succulent-
leaved plant with a root as tenacious as Dowie.
The local theory is that the seed has been carried
from “somewhere” on the dust-storms of the
drought, and germinated when the rain fell.
Another pest which is making rapid headway
here is the “Californian thistle”—a thick-
growing, spiky variety, which, if properly trained
as a hedge, will knock out the barb-wire fences in
one act.
• * • •
“ A.L.M.H.” : The coolness of the summer
seems to have completely deceived the swallows
about Sydney. Though a large number of these
birds habitually remain during the winter, the
majority migrate. The city swallows usually
assemble towards the end of March, collecting in
hundreds about George-street, Haymarket, near
Mick Simmons’, and leave early in April. This
season, however, they gathered together in large
numbers at the end of December—the telegraph
wires being literally crusted with them. They
were much excited, and were apparently holding
indignation meetings every evening. Probably
they were discussing the formation of a union
against the tyranny of the weather. Finally they
must have decided that the evil was irremediable,
for f-bey have nearly all disappeared, presumably
northward.
To say nothing of Commissioner M'Kic in h[?]
pursuit of King Billy!
THE SPREAD OF
THE BIG DRUM
CREED.
“ The spice of novel-
ty, which is a feature
of Salvation Army
operations, isstill being
further developed, the
officials in this State
having decided to send
to England their ‘own
biograph company.’
It is proposed to ex-
hibit a series of films
and slides representing
Australian life, and
many of these, so far
as the old country is
concerned, will possess
the charm of novelty,
besides being educa-
tional. The assort-
ment of films will take
in historical, geograph-
ical, and natural his-
tory subjects. One of
the best of these, ex-
perts admit, is that
depicting aboriginals
climbing a tree after
possums.”
CONCLUSIVE LOGIC.
“ Eels / I wouldn't eat 'em—too much like snakes. ’
“ Don’t he a fool. How are eels like snakes
“ Oh , ivell, they wriggle.”
“ You’re a hidyut! Wriggle! Wriggle! Why >
George Reid wriggles , and yer can’t say he's
anything like a snake."
“Tommy Ton gala lays on the table a
more or less reliable assertion :
The two swiftest Australian birds are the blue-winged
widgeon and the small blue hawk, sometimes called I li
pigeon-hawk.
* * * #
“ Ed.” on fires in crops and other
matters:
A fire started in the middle of a paddock of standing
wheat. This was the first crop from the paddock, the
rung timber having been burned off in autumn. After
the fire the roots from a burnt out stump were found to
be still burning 20ft. from the stump’s old position. The
roots had
smouldered
while the crop
was growing,
and when the
wheat was ripe
and dry it took
fire. Wheat in
the same dis-
trict (North-
eastern Vic.)
was being con-
tinually stolen
from the
stacks of grain
in the pad-
docks. One
cocky hid by
his wheat
stack. About
midnight a
dray pulled
up, hacked
into the fence,
and two men
came out.
They lifted a
bag of wheat
and were tak-
ing it to the
dray. The
cocky chal-
lenged them.
They told him
if he inter-
fered they
would burn
him out. As
he still had 200
acres of stand-
ing crop he let
them go. In
the township
near by one
man had an
acre and a
half under
wheat, and he sold, ostensibly from that area, a total
of 132 bushels. While living in this township I was
told of the wheat-burner’s tactics. The neck is cut off a
bottle, inside is placed a lighted candle, fine light stiaw
is placed in the cut bottle touching the candle at the
base. This is placed inside the ripe crop. When the
candle burns down the straw is lighted, the blaze spread-
ing to the surrounding crop. This gives the burner time
to be dead-drunk in a far-away pub.
“Roma”: I asked an old sundowner
where a mutual friend was, and he replied : “ He
r , xpped his hobbles this year.” The first time I
had heard this definition of Death.
* • * *
“.D’Harum ” : I credit the iguana with
having sound common-sense. I gained
this impression the first time I came in
contact with one. It was when I was
doing a long coach journey in Nor-
thern S. A. I was fresh from the
city then. The other fellows were
a jovial lot, and they played on
me what is, I believe, a com-
mon joke in the Never-Never.
One part of the journey we dis-
embarked, and walked through
the scrub. Two of the fe lows
set the dogs to work worrying
iguanas. Presently they got a
big one moving. It turned
round, faced the dogs a moment,
and then rushed towards me.
There was no stick handy, so 1
ran, closely followed by the iguana,
and behind him the dogs. Oh,
horror ! Suddenly, I felt it clutch
at my trousers, and then run up
on to my shoulder. The other fellows
stood off and howled with mirth.
I shouted, “Come here, you fools,
and take this thing off. ’ They only
laughed some more, so I fled back to the
coach with the iguana writning, and
spitting at the dogs from my shoulder. At
length the dogs left the lizard and me alone,
and then it allowed me to take it from my
shoulder, and place it on the ground. If an
iguana is being worried by a dog it will in-
variably rush to a human being for protection if
one happens to be in the neighborhood. It
isn’t particular either, but would climb on
an alderman or a monarch us readily as
on a Labor member.
i “WarE. Have heard it stated that tlie
smell of a slush-lamp burning in a room will
banish mosquitos. Tried it and it was a success ;
but I prefer the “ skeeters ” ! Did you ever smell
a slush-lamp ?
* * * »
“Sox”: Am afflicted with a desire to
prove things, and—having read “Prooshan’s”
par. (B. 25/2/’O4) re the inability of bulldog ants
to sting if the breath is held—l sought “bully
in his native lair and began experimenting. Got a
particularly warlike bull on to a stick, and thence
on to my finger. Held my breath for all 1 was
worth, and awaited developments. Didn’t have
to wait long either. The next few minutes I
occupied in slaying “bully,” cursing “ Prooshan,”
and sucking my finger. Afterwards it struck me
that “Prooshan” must have meant the experi-
menter to hold the bulldor/s breath, in which case
he may be right in his assertion, otherwise I point
the stung finger of scorn at him, and aver that he
is talking through his eye. [The Bulletin
opines that this bulldog-breath business may be
something like faith-healing. If you aren t
healed you haven’t enough faith ; if you are stung
you didn’t hold your breath hard enough. N"
man knows that he is really holding his breath for
all he is worth unless he bursts.— Ed. B.]
* * * *
“J.P.S.”: Re cats taking to water
(“8.M.,” 18/2/’O4) : During a skull-cramming
term on the shores of Twofold Pay I chanced to
AN INEFFECTIVE DOCUMENT.
HALLIGAN : “Ye’d best not resist, Feeney; I have me search warrant here.”
FEENEY (the gold-stealer, casually): “I ain’t resistin’ . Search away.”
see a large tortoiseshell Tom wading in a small
lagoon adjoining the Bay. Close inspection found
Tom in Gin. of water stalking shoals of small fish.
Occasionally he took headers that would have
thrown Peart in the shade. Only saw him bag
one fish, but judging by the rotundity of his
mouse depot, he generally had good luck.
CARROTTY SAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Carrotty Sal was a servant gal, who worked round the
Horseshoe Bend,
And Betsy Jane (who was fast and vain) in a pub. at the
western end.
Now, Carrotty Sal loved Nuggetty Ilal, and Nuggetty
Hal loved Sal ;
And you wouldn’t have found, in the country round, a
happier boy and gal.
Betsy Jane (who was fast and vain) of lovers had quite a
score,
But her heart was wide, with room inside, to easily stow
some more ;
While Carrotty Sal, the servant gal, had only her Nuggety
Hal,
So I think you’ll say, when you’ve read this lay, that she
was an ill-used gal.
For Betsy Jane (who was fast and vain) and a hussy both
bad and bold,
Would leer and fleer as she jerked the beer and collared
the shining gold.
Nuggety Hal, along with a pal, to the pub. went in one
night,
And drank and drank till he filled his tank, and got, well,
blooming tight.
'then Betsy Jane (who was fast and vain), she wunk with
her bold bad ey'e,
And Nuggetty Hal forgot Carrotty Sal, and his pal who
was standing by.
And he said : “ Sweet Jane, though you’re fast and vain,
you’re the girl that was meant for me.”
And he clasped her tight on that self-same night, and
dandled her on his knee.
On many a night when the stars shone bright, and the
Moon on the earth did smile,
Nuggetty Hal and the barmaid gal would together the
hours beguile;
They billed and coo’d, and kissed and woo’d, and Hal
drank beer and gin,
And hugged and quaffed, and laughed and chaffed, and
revelled in wine and sin,
While Carrotty Sal, the servant gal, around in the Horse-
shoe Bend,
Sat all alone on the cold hearthstone and prayed that
her Hal might wend
His steps once more, as he did of yore, to the hole in the
garden wall,
And clasp her charms in his brawny arms as into them
plump she’d fall.
But Hal, alack ! Such a sliding back there never was
seen before—
Having once gone wrong he sung him a song, and longed
to go wrong some more ;
If one girl was good, as he understood, two must be
better still.
“I’ve been false to Sal,” said Nuggetty Hal, “and the
maid of the whisky mill *
“She reckons she’s spry, but I guess I’m ‘ fly,’ so I ’ll go
back to my Sal;
With two strings to my bow, I’ll be right—ho !ho ! and
never without a gal.”
So Nuggetty Hal went back to his Sal and she fed him
on giblet pie,
And drew from his lips love’s fond, sweet sips, the while
she would long and sigh.
And Betsy Jane (who was fast and vain) drew him many
a foaming beer ;
Hal wasn’t a flat, so he waxed quite fat, as he should on
such varied cheer.
But the Cherub aloft, that we’ve heard of so oft, must
have suddenly gone to sleep ;
And Hal and his schemes, and his blissful dreams, were
knocked in a blistered heap,
For an envious pal told Carrotty Sal of the doings of
Nuggetty Hal ;
And Sal swore a swear that she’d tear the hair off the
head of that barmaid gal.
So late one night, when the gas burned bright, she
waltzed into the whisky show ;
And Hal in his fear, he spilled his beer, as he turned
through the door to go.
But Sal was game as her carrotty name, so she dotted the
bold bad eye
Of the barmaid wench, who fell on a bench, and “ Mur-
der ! ” began to cry.
Sal spoiled her face, ’ere she left the place, then went
home to her domicile,
And Betsy Jane came to again, and yelled for Sal volatile.
Now' Nuggetty Hal, has lost each gal, as well as the beer
and pie ;
A bloke forlorn, from night till morn, he’ll fume and he’ll
fret and sigh.
And the moral is plain, if a Betsy Jane should happen to
cross your track —
Be you Bill or Hal, fly back to your Sal, or your head and
your heart may crack.
BRISBANE.
AUSTIN DODD.


Dr. Thomas, 57 and 59 Swanston St., Mel-
bourne. Modern American Dentistry. Newest and best
methods. Painless extraction by new anaesthetic. New
patent suction plate not known to any other dentist in
Australia. Highest skill, least pain, lowest charge.*
TABLE SALT
While common Salt is only a Seasoning:,
CEREBOS SALT is a Splendid Food. Used
in the kitchen and at table, it gives
greater strength to the diet and builds up
the Constitution.
From Grocers and Stoies.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
THE EAR, NOSE AND THROAT.
The close relation of catarrh of the nose and
throat to defective hearing is described in the
“Review of Ear, Nose and Throat Diseases.”
Anyone interested in the subject can now obtain
a free copy of this Medical Journal, for though
published in London, England, copies can be
obtained by sending name and address to: —
“Review” c/o Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney. With
the “ Review ” there is also a patient’s report
form by means of which anyone can obtain free
advice "by post.*
5 Choice Whole Pearls
or Opals, 42/-
“Fx. &R.”
5-Stone Diamond
Half-hoop Ring.
A marvel of value.
£5.
Choice Diamonds
and centre Pearl,
£lO.
With Opal centre,
£B.
WHY DO
BUYERS
COME TO US FOR RINGS?
Ist. Because we are the actual makers.
2nd. Because we are art ring designers.
3rd. Because our rings are in exquisite taste.
4th. Because our prices are the lowest.
sth. Because we buy large quantities of Diamonds in
the rough, and cut them.
6th. Because we bin Sapphires in the rough, and cut
them in Sydney.
7th. Because we buy Opal in the rough, and cub it.
Bth. Because we have Pearls direct from the
Fisheries.
9th. Because we pay Spot Cash for all the above.
10th. We Sell for Cash. No intermediate profits
anywhere.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Manufacturing: Jewellers, 23 HuiltCf St*
The aggregation of plumbers’ waste and
scrap-iron that serves Victoria for a railway
system keeps on distinguishing itself in its own
peculiar way. It made a special effort to break
its record a while ago, and succeeded as well as
if Bent and Irvine did the firing and driving
respectively, what time Raven Shiels struggled
with a dilapidated brake in the guard’s van—
though heaven knows Victorian trains need no
braking; they stop of their own accord. A
western-district grazier hired an alleged “special”
to shift a couple of thousand ewes, the same being
on the verge of a general lambing ; and, after
much frantic telegraphing, &c., got the disguised
rubbish-heap of a locomotive to the station he
wanted to load at. When the sheep had been
trucked, the concern refused to budge with its
freight for two hours, what time the local black-
smith and a sewing-machine repairer, and several
other artisans, lent a hand to urge the exhausted
apparition along. Finally it got going, to break
down again and stick for seven solid hours on a
plain 40 miles from anywhere in particular. The
sheep, crowded into an insufficient number of
trucks, were lambing and dying by dozens. By
the time another engine arrived to haul the outfit
along fully a third of the ewes were defunct, and
DARGAN'S GREY.
The notorious huckjumper and outlaw with Martinis Rough Riders and Buckjumper Show, now
touring North Queensland.
Photographer, Cameron, West Maitland, N.S.W., 1902.
a lot of the others died immediately after being
taken out of the trucks. At about the same time
poor “Anarchist” J. A. Andrews was dying
in Melbourne; just when Victoria needed
the immediate services of every able-bodied
Anarchist it had got.
* * * *
Lately there was seen on a droughty,
dusty West Queensland track a family trudging
along—father, mother, and eight kiddies, some of
the youngsters shod and some shoeless. Dad
carried the big swag. Mother humped the baby
and part of the furniture. The rest of the kiddies
each carried a share of household belongings, down
to the three-year-old who battled along with a
billy in his fist. What rendered the sight more
remarkable was the fact that in Queensland a
woman is hardly ever seen on the track, though
she isn’t uncommon as a “swaggie” in parts of
N.S.W.
* * * *
The lovely water-hyacinth is taking un-
broken possession of a great many South Queens-
land lagoons and water-courses. A few weeks
ago one local body paid £9, just to have the afore-
said weed cleared away sufficiently to make a
drinking place for cattle.
“ Flabby Paul ” writes concerning the
huge crocodile (locally “alligator”) pictured in
this issue:
The way we make dum-dum bullets up here in N.Q. is
by filing the point of an ordinary bullet till the lead
shows through the nickel and then filing a cross on the
point. The bullet will spread, on striking, to size of a
half-crown and is mostly used for shooting 'gators. I
enclose photo of one killed at Geraldton (Johnstone
River, Q.) with one of these bullets by a man who had
never used a rifle before and who all but missed, the
bullet travelling just low enough to sever the spine. The
reptile was 18ft. 6in. long and weighed just over a ton.
He met his fate at a spot where the local youngsters
bathe, a circumstance which probably accounted for his
presence there. One Geraldton man has, during the past
11 years, slain over 100 ’gators, ranging from one to 16
feet in length.
» * * *
“A. Zel wood ” rises to contradict :
“ Ed.” (Bulletin 25/2/’O4) gets in a good many wides in
his over.
1. The Haunted Hill between Moe and Morwell is not
a stringy-bark ridge, but messmate and peppermint—an
important distinction to persons using the respective
barks for roofing.
2. “No animals or birds are ever found in its vicinity."
All local native fauna and not a few domestic cats gone
wild are to be found there, poverty of the soil preventing
the close settlement which elsewhere leads to their
extinction.
3. “ Cattle camped in the vicinity invariably break
away. ” This may have been true of former days, but
the explanation is most likely found, not in the “ rum-
bling ghost,” but in the promptings of hunger. Bayonet
grass, ferns, heath, etc., don’t urge cattle to stay.
Nobody now camps there with stock. Drovers always
camp either at Moe on the one side or at Godridge (Mor-
well River) on the other. Paddock accommodation
available at both places. (This is not an ad.)
4. “ There is always a dull rumbling on calm nights.”
This is most audible when the train to Sale is puffing
along. “Ed.” could have heard a good deal of grum-
bling, as well as rumbling, since Bent’s trains have to
make two or three attempts to get over. Last Xmas Eve
the passenger train had to be taken from Moe and Mor-
well in two sections. Bent’s train is the only thing that
rumbles thereabouts
* * * *
Slackness of trade and extra-keen com-
petition is having a demoralising effect on the
liquor dispensed in Kalgoorlie nowadays, and
strange brands of snake visionaries haunt the
streets. The youthful Clerk of Courts has re-
cently experienced some hair-raising interviews
with self-confessed homicides and weird terrors of
the West. One individual displayed an assort-
ment of keys, pebbles, brass wheels, and other
samples of ostrich food which he asserted were
rubies. He accused a villainous butcher of steal-
ing one of the most valuable. He also expressed
his intention of presenting one to a lady of his
acquaintance, and if she refused to marry him he
promised to slay her, and bring the remains before
the court. “I have murdered nine persons in two
days,” he declared, while the opportune policeman
was dragging him off the premises. Same day
the clerk was interviewed by another wild-eyed
man who wanted a summons against the devil,
because his house was besieged by a horde
of demons who were trying to break in and
murder his wife and family. A steady stream
of characters like this passes through or wanders
round Kalgoorlie. The lonesome far-back fields
are beginning to ripen their crop of lunatics by
now, and when the loony speck-hunter comes into
town the deteriorated liquor finishes him.
♦ * * *
“F.C.” : Might I inquire what is
“H.S.R.’s” castor-oil remedy (8., 18/2/’O4) for
the flies on horses ? Do you physic the animal
the same as youngsters are dosed, or do you catch
the flies and physic them ? Or do you spread the
oil on the horse?
* * * *
A white crow with green eyes was shot
recently in Geelong district (Victoria).
CROCODILE, 18½ feet long, and over one ton weight, recently hilled on the Johnstone
River, Queensland.
IMPORTED BLESSINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was once an imported fox
Who said “ ’Tis as plain as a box
That the country’s resources
Are immense, and the courses
Of those who neglect them are rocks.
There was an old sparrow whose cry
Was “The importer man’s business shan’t die,
’Twould be a shameful decree,
Since he imported me,
Which was excellent business, say I.”
There was a great grasshopper green
Who said it could plainly be seen
That Providence meant
Him to pass over Lent.
Such crops! and an appetite keen.
There was a young rabbit, who said,
“ This land lies all empty and dead,
But for cattle and sheep
And people ; I’ll keep
My end up and fill it instead.”
There once was a Maoriland Moa
Who believed in a free, open door.
“ Let ’em all come,” he said.
Just now he is dead,
And you still find his bones by the score.
M.L.
KATI-KATI.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insuflciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Focus: The intentions are good, but the verse,
unfortunately, isn’t Rei Panes : Missed the mark—for
the first time, we believe Boree : Will print “Bal-
lade ” with great j0y.... Bush Girl: Fully agree with sen-
timent, but can only stand verse at advertising rates....
Olive M.: Better, but still not up... .D. J.R.: Interest
rather feeble.... Mrs. E. T.: On the dull side as yet....
Fran Agher: Neither has much merit Dulce et D. •
Bad prose, chopped up into bad verse Pooh Bah : The
“Pooh” well expresses our opinion of it. Likewise the
“8ah.”....8.W.C.: Form good enough, but you lack
literary life-blood Lily Dale : Too weak in one sense
and too strong in another.. ..T.N.: Mildly pretty, like a
curate by a river’s brim Giraldus C.: Out of our line...
Frank Moore : Neither is quite up to mark Moonyah :
Not enough meat on its bones Cyclone : Not you !--
you’re merely a zephyr P.G.N. : You are not equal to
the subject. Try something nearer your literary weight...
B.: Quite wrong. A sentence “ for the term of his
natural life ” was once a very common one... .The Gnat :
Too tamely told J.A.R.: Clumsily shovelled together.
Marah : Will duly consider anything you send, but
the faulty syntax of your letter promises ill for more
extended compositions B.R. : What you call your
“ poem ” has neither rhyme nor reason in it.. ..Wahine :
Broken-winded kind of verse The Chirper : As a
chirp or a twitter or a tootle or anything small like that,
it’s all right, but not as a poem W.J.W. : Will print
“ Old Machine.” R. 8.: Bulletin was taken in by some-
one who sent it along as a new joke. Were you the
sender? F.E.P.W. : Don’t write on both sides of the
paper. If you put a good item on each side, one is
bound to be rejected Old Cove: You only say over
again what The Bulletin says more strongly every week.
It doesn’t matter much which tax goes into the general
revenue and which into a Public Works Fund, so long as
the Public Works Fund is adequately provided f0r....
Fuji : (1) You say all peoples are “ descended from one
common ancestor.” You don’t know anything of the
kind, nor does anybody know. (2) Why all this stereo-
typed drivel about Russian designs on Britain? When
did Russia attack Britain, or when did it threaten
Britain—except in yellow fiction ? Certainly Britain has
attacked Russia, but that isn’t quite the same thing.
(3) You say unless Russia wins a big land victory at once
its prestige is gone for ever. Much smaller fools than
you said the same of Prussia after Jena, and of France
after Waterloo, and probably of Britain when De Ruyter
blockaded London—certainly of Britain after the loss of
the American colonies. They said it of the U.S., too,
after Chancellorsville and Fredericksburg. Don’t pro-
phesy too wildly Rita S. : Your naturalist who
“ walked alone across the Alps from Omeo to Bright”
Isn’t so very amazing. Present writer has done it from
Wangaratta to Omeo and Bairnsdale, Bright to Grant and
Sale, Cooma to Orbost, and Wood’s Point to Euroa....
S. K. Kibbler : The same idea was lately worked up by
Thomas Spencer in much better verse.... Mitty : Rather
unsteady. Some verses rhyme, some are blank, some are
null and void... .Melita : Regret not quite a success....
Otto J. : The humor of both is overdone, and there are
numerous weak spots.. ..Birrilee : Fairly well-written,
but too much spun-out Pdre J. : Rather crude, but
not devoid of promise Argo : Begins well, but the
interest peters out rapidly M.M.W. : In striving to
avoid the commonplace you land in rank nonsense
Bobs : Shapeless and sloppy... .D.B. (Vic.): Letter cost
2d. for deficient postage. Can’t use “Field of Carnage ” ;
most of the lines rhyme with “East,” and seeing that
the war is in the North, the whole thing would require
re-writing.. ..Harrie N. : Please give a more precise ad-
dress than simply Brisbane Adla : What was the title
of the sketch ?.. ..S.H.B. : Too slovenly for print
Gedact: Flimsy Ben Kay: Crude and clumsy....
Argo: Yarn too trifling Margaret M.: Verses badly
metred. Prose sketch unsuitable H.A.Z : Harem
verse out of our line It. : A general querulous
grumble about everything in particular ; and there’s
no attitude more annoying than the querulous,...
“ E.M.S.” : “ Betrayed ” is, alas, too worn a theme. The
tree has whispered to the fair maiden “ beware ” in about
a million poems, and she never does seem to beware....
J.F. Peter : Does not seem a real circumstance by any
means. Why should such a scoundrel be so candid in
confessing his misdeeds—in a court of justice, too ?....
R.B. : It would be cruel to “ rub it in ” to the retrenched
civil servant Gub. : You are right; Bulletin won’t
waste space on your letter. When you have the
Argus, and the Courier, and other Tory rags to gibber
in, why should you gibber in our backyard? Merry
Creak: Poem creaks, but it is not merry... .Demos :
Whilst we put up with imported Governors they might just
as well be the old-age pensioners of the British service
Napper Tandy : Parodies are out of our line as a rule; and
on the whole your verse is not snappy enough Oliver :
Your amatory poetry is original enough—a long sight too
original for publication D.M.R. : “ Harbor Lights” is
a familiar idea; “Dowie” not quite up Unsuitable :
A.F.W.. J.F., D.M.R., X.Y.Z., Straightwire.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
E.C. : If you could draw and invent jokes you would be
a very good comic artist H.W.C. : Drawing stiff ;
heads good, but legs of figures like nothing on this earth
.... Adrina : What made you think this paper required a
design for a new coal-scuttle?.. ..R.M. : “Here comes
two things just like father ” is a joke stolen from
an old Bulletin. It had a good picture attached to
it; you attach a miserably bad one D.E.M. : Sugges-
tions plain but honest—very plain A.D.F. (Sydney):
Sketches submitted are certainly not nearly up to the
mark Broad Arrow : Some ingenuity about the draw-
ing, but where on earth is the point? O. : Three
pictures of Dowie declined L.B.T. : Picture of Dowie
getting away with large quantity of money from Mel-
bourne declined. Gags mostly very poor Sigma:
Some humor in drawings, but style very crude and gags
not brilliant.
The long, weary hunt of the bogus Machine
Shearers’ Union by the Australian Workers’
Union was rewarded with a little success last
week. Various M.S.U. officials and friends were
fined for refusing to give evidence before a Royal
Commission to inquire into the M.S.U. and its
doings ; some were fined £2O with the option of
seven days; others, 20s. with the option of two
days. This may be the beginning of the end.
But the M.S.U. is a cute sort of rat and requires a
deal of ferreting out from the legal nooks in which
it takes refuge.
“Boro-Belle”: Re the much-talked-of
luck of the drunk :
A number of dogs used to assemble outside my palace
at midnight and render musical selections in opposition
to the concert of cats in the yard. Such concerts were
repeated nightly, and finding that I could never lay my
hands on any suitable projectiles, I collected some good
sized stones one afternoon in readiness for the evening’s
performance. I waited until 1.30 and was just on the
point of going to bed when I heard one of the musicians
tuning up. I rushed out the front gate and seeing a dark
object in the gutter opposite I threw four stones in
quick succession and noted with grim satisfaction the
hollow thuds when they struck the target. I got an
awful shock when the dark object sat up and hiccuped.
He told me that Bung had just kicked him ten times and
he further said that I was his witness. After promising
to meet him at the Court house at 10 o’clock I went home
to bed and stayed there for a week.
LEILA DOUBLEDAY, the 10-year-old pianist
and violinist who icon a scholarship at the
Marshall Hall Conservatorium (Melb.).
Photo, by Melba, Melbourne.
Little Leila Doubleday, winner of the
pianoforte scholarship at Marshall-Hall’s Mel-
bourne Conservatorium the other day, and also a
runner-up for the violin scholarship, is the
daughter of Mrs. “Columbus” Doubleday, the
plucky teacher of singing, who discovered Amy
Castles and put up the money necessary for intro-
ducing the Bendigo voice to Melbourne notice.
Miss Leila was eight years old when she began to
capture gold medals at the A.N.A. competitions.
Since then her improvement has been remarkable.
She carried off the Conservatorium prize from a
number of older competitors, and promises to be
a “ phenomenon ” before she arrives at her teens.


1 LiWl Pok)lf }jas uM/tpectedty floOnyfon^arcly
AmeUc |§
w
-3otfif-" &>k
k .
Ctc Cr'i&keKrs
Cfaim mat%ir metif defef'
tfaj paused toy insivffickat
rolUm. Surely they dicMt
wnlti k {uftenek out (viui
more.
Jitth'mmqo'moiit.
- °O f ?ucS »5~ k[*2% d-e vy ° f
, l/P isnt if . , H „
John Seb~ N*Mo> m too m uch, of Shop fteituw tySstrtei .
slsniss^L£
/\\\tke (roubU migKf bbridhy
lnfrodncitUj 'Tady" employe on t>ur tmmway?.
Wooten-, fts«. rule donT ShM>fcve or drmH.
islim en dufy ,and, omer&% Sbeakitt-g. cUnt
ohfecl'ti being 'Watched" tfhrtt oj:p .
fousl)emUtumUs
iohz rwVtd mclctr
\aa e/faetf -bwfea'%
;O0tfl? p&dgj old
sjaafs in _
The Pnmfcvut fortj§
and asmi}h mp’qokitwfuf
v'et ij hutch - ~j*jT • "■
TINCTURE OF HOP.


ij*sr
of
m
gf
'% p .
faj'irst'
irjoVe
(irjtjuifc lfis°^
fC.H.Reid AJfWV'K j
poimcAl J 6 r,ber / As?)
/M r peid Prinj«
1 Miniver /ejftrdw for
fotolyter lift qUmmerff Policy
pV* f 1
d.. i/.b< _ isV
VW« ! <•> (", 4
VftW W lure - «e-R"l‘ K
PoKfts - fot t "r r(
]k oblige .'
. n*
(Mr. Rom) was like the young lady who
did not feel inclined to give an answer to
an interesting proposal until i t was d* ij i
•nitelv *nade- (.Laughter.)
f|i slbiy would
rebtsT
rtylf
" Gforoie de\r' will you
?
The sA r, l£ °ld GeorOiC '
'/es ’ no ." ”
I§§glls^
wKSXm
&enf -
violtfer
Word
jjull ifie 51™?^,
-
Ttjeins fo'j !|
fjiow jjivtt «$-bt referew-^
L aumd -WBenKsMs be u S f<* AS
an eledTon cry. or he II drop "
& it 15 announced %
will be opened <*l hiopHtv
Committee (to <Ay>).
If 1 0u c V'l £
\jo\A on f or 2,n0-rtien
0n Hje fronf
h'> own ([ouniry
IN VICTORIA AND ELSEWHERE.


A. SAUNDERS,
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS,
JEWELLERY, SILVERPLATE. LEATHER, AND
WATCHES. CLOCKS,
OPTICAL GOODS.
<•>
A. SAUN EES.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE.
I’uie Silver-]dated on hard Nickel Silver,
Beautifully Chased and
Ornamented, 355. £2, £2 10s.
Similar line, 25s and 30s.
A. SAUNDEBB.
Pure Silver-plated FLOWER STAND,
8s 6d a Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Specially Made by James Dixson and Sons, I'amous English
Silver-plated 4 o’clock TEA SETS, £2 15s, £3. £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
Please Send
FOR OUR
Illustrated
Book of
Novel’ies.
POST
FREE.
A
mW’ I
FLORAL STAND, Ruby Liass, 12s 6d
Pair.
N
i sss
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Chit Bedruom CLOCK,
8m 6d ; similar styles, 10s 6d. 12s 6d, 10s,
17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Pure Silver-plated HDTTEK DISH,
Grilt inside. Glass Dr iner, 255.
Other similar styles, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut-fflasfi Solid Silver-mounted
KNIFE RESTS. 12s 6rl.
Size l:u ger. 15s fid, 20s.
lltl llill »'* 11
A. SAUNDERS.
Wliite Chiaa Silver-mounted
SHAVING CUP, 10s ;
other styles, 15s fid, 17s fid, 20s, 25s
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silvei-plated, 21s ; other styles, 255, 30s, £2.
(Jent.’s Companion TOBACCO BOX. Ash Tray and
Matchbox to hold 3 Pipes, Nickel-mounted, Beautifully
Finished, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d. 10s 6d ; American
Gold. 12s (id. 15s ; Solid Gold. 255. 30s, 355. £2 ;
Scientifically Adjusted to suit you.
mm
W/i
m
- .. _j -
A. SAUNDRKS.
Pure Electro plated on Hard White
Metal Lunch or Dinner CRUET, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Six Pure Silver plated Nickel Silver SERVIETTE
RINGS, in Silk-lined Case, 17s tid.
Pare Silver-plated on Hard White Metal 4 o’clock
TEASPOONS, 6 in Silk-lined Ouse with Tongs, 12s 6d.
Embossed Handles, 15s, 20s.
Four O'clock CAKE FORKS,
Pure Silver-] litted on Hard White Metal, 20s,
255, and 30s ; similar styles, 12s fid.
A. SA.UNDERS.
Solid I'nx'lisli (Jak-mounted Silver-
platedon Hard Metal
DINNER GONO, £2 ss.
w:
l
%
A. SOUNDERS.
Baby’s Pure Silver RATTI.E,
v r ery useful. 4s 6d ; extra heavy, 5s 6d.
wKsM& *m
m
mmm
s?**
oun
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Handsome Silver- plated Rainbow
Glass JAM DISH, 20s ; other styles, 12s 6d, 15s.
A SAUNDEBS.
CANDLESTICK, Silver-plated,
nicely fluted, 12e 6d ; leaf design, 8s 6d.
1
3?iSi
Solid Silver CHRISTENTNG CUP, 30s
Extra Heavy, 355, £2 2s.
Silver-plated, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
INKSTAND, £2 os.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value Silver-plated on Nickel Silver
ENTREE DISH, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s BRUSH, with Silver Name,
Very Soft, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water KETTLE,
Beautifully Chased and Engraved,
Pure Silver Electro-plated,
England’s Best Make, £2.
Embossed, &'i 10s, £3 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP DiSH,
in Silk-lined Case, £2 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Gent’s SHAVING BRUSH, 5s 6d
Extra Mounts, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated .Nickel SiU'ei
BUTTEH DISH, 12s 6 . '
Second Quality, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Crown Derby China BISCUIT
RARREL, Silver-Mated Mounts, 255.
i’f
▼5
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTER DISH, 20s ; size larger, 255.
dg
FIELD and OPERA OLA SSES, First-class
Lenses, good effect, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. 255. 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3, and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
iiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
A. SAUNDERS. , 3 Tr
Pure Silver-mounted CARVING KNIFE, FORK, and STEED ; they are made of the Very
Best Steel, securely riveted, hand-forged and fiuished, m a Silk-lined Case, Ids.
.
55*
A. SAUNDERS.
p, ir e Silver-plated Shell-shaped
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, 12s 6d.
Larger, Al Quality, 21s.
~/ K Ss3.
Four-Cup EGG FRAME, -with well for
4 Extra aod Spoons, Pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, 355.
.
A^fgjuunde^
I.OHOOK&STONST . . ffli
iku to wi»- 4 '%
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER
KNIFE in Silk-lined Case, 8s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivorvette
SERVIETTE RINSS,
Pure Silver Initials,
Is Each.
5s 6d Half-dozen.
Gent.’s Leather BOLL, containing 2l?&llow-gTOund
Razors, Corn Knife, Nail Scissors, Tweezers, 20s, 2os,
similar with 1 Razor only, los*
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
809,811,813,815
GEORGE-ST.. SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.)


Permanently Overcomes Habitual Constipation.
Dispels Feverish Headaches.
&
'*h
-NATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE”
m
w
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
P ,/Tl
m
Speedily Cures Biliousness,
Indigestion and Flatulency,
and all Disorders
arising from Sluggishness
of Liver, Bowels and
Kidneys.
Everything about California
Syrup of Figs is pleasant-taste,
appearance, action and results.
It does not gripe, irritate or in-
commode in anyway, but just
simply and effectually assists
the organs to perform their
functions with healthful and
natural regularity, and its use
may be discontinued as soon
as the system is properly relieved and cleansed.
Ask for California Syrup of Figs. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
I
Electrical Goods
fdg
''OfT'E have secured the Agency of one of the
* " Largest Manufacturers of
Electrica? Goods in the World
and are in a position to quote for
Electric
Bells,
Wires,
ill
MB it
iBSS
Mil
Indicators, Pushes,
Telephones,
Telephonettes
and ail Electrical Goods at Remarkably Low Prices.
m
The Quality of the Goods we stock is
Unsurpassed, and the Prices will con:e
as a Revelation of Cheapness.
We have a
Catalogue
fully illustrated, which
will be sent on receipt of
a 2d. Stamp,
Jm
PHOTOGRAPHIC GOODS
, :d.'
AVINGr decided to devote
all our energy and atten-
tion to our OPTICAL and
ELECTRICAL DE-
PARTMENTS, we are
Giving up our
Photographic Branch
and, as a consequence, we are pre-
pared to
Sacrifice our Stock of
Cameras, IVlounts, PBates,
fd
Chemicals,
and ....
Accessories of
all Kinds,
I?!
Now is the time for Genuine bargains.
gfd
3XTO OlcJ. Stock
Everything
Gocd and
Fresh, and
sold at Cost
or Under.
We have Mo Catalogue or Price List
for the sale is to be sharp and sudden, but if you
are interested, send us a list of the Goods you can
do with (AT BARGAIN RATES) and we are bound to
secure your orders.
w
OSBORN and JERDAN,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
- -A.ZSTZD ....
99 QUEEN
Opticians, Electricians and Phonograph Experts
The Inky Way.
Probably without knowing: that he did it, the police
magistrate at way-out White Cliffs (far west N.S. W.), gave
a decision the other day which, if it could be followed out
to the end, would change the whole complexion and tone
of journalism. Somebody had written to the local paper
that the trustees of the village common had permitted
ditchers to run mobs of sheep on the land without regis-
teiing-, while miners and others were compelled to pay
tor a single horse oi" goat. The truste es said that they
nad, through this libel, suffered in their reputations, and
that their usual peace of mind had been damaged, and
that when they went up for re-election to the progress
committee lately they had all been cast out upon a dry,
dusty world ; also they wanted £lO a-piece. The P.M.
cut it down to £1 and made an order for that and costs.
How much he would order the S.M. Herald to pay each
Federal Minister if it accused the Ministry, as a body, of
gross inhumanity towards a shipwrecked crew, amounting
to something like attempted murder, The Bulletin does
not know, but presumably it would be something con-
siderable. He might also be expected to order something
handsome to workmen who had been comprehensively
and untruthfully referred to as loafers and thieves and
drunkards. And, in the main, the P.M. would be right.
As far out in the wilderness as White Oliffs you can’t
always find the Statutes for dust; but you can get the
cardinal principles of justice under almost any mulga.
* * ♦ *
“ Alba ” : The newspaper owner out back is oftimes a
shark and a quicksand when the occasion offers. Self
and partner got stranded at Broken Hill some years ago,
but managed to save 15,000 envelopes from our miscel-
laneous stock. Sold our waggon-horse and pinched
to a place which it might be libellous to mention. It was
the Last Tank, the western hob of Sheol. If you don’t
do business the first day you cultivate a limp and keep
the sun on your left shoulder till you reach Hungerford,
or Bourke, or the Vale of Jehosaphat. We tackled-the
wily people with a co-operative advertising scheme —
offered to print their business cards on the backs of 15,000
envelopes. Each of the 15 investors was to receive a thou-
sand. Every time an envelope was sent out it advertised
the sender, and the others—and the others—we stressed
this point—“ are continually advertising you." The
idea hit the Last Tank between the nose and eyes.
We crowded in £2O worth of ads. in two days.
Then we rushed round to interview the only printing-
machine and newspaper in the place. The boss was
behind the counter, and we asked his price for printing
15,000 envelopes. Country printers usually asked ss. per
1000. The boss looked at us for two minutes, while his
nose seemed to grow large. “I’m getting tired of you
people stealing my ads.,” he said ; “ I’ve got to hit back
now and then to prove I’m not a corpse. I’ll do your
printing for £1 a thousand. If you don’t like the terms,
there’s another printing machine at Bourke and one in
Sheol. My pard drew a breath as long as the road to
Dublin, and pleaded for his life and mine. I saw by the
look in the newsman’s eye that similar death-scenes had
been enacted in his office. Nobody could withstand my
pard’s pathos. The boss softened. “ Oh, well, I’m sorry
you’re hard-up ; I’ll do the job for £l4 10s. Where are
the envelopes?” My pard called him a “Blotched
porker” and a “Septic tank.” The boss stood at the
door and jeered us. “Mind the crows, boys!” he
shouted ; “ You’ll meet them up river singing ‘ Broke !
Broke 1 Broke !’ ” Went back to our pub. and explained
matters to landlord. He bade us be of good cheer, and
pointed out an old shed in the far distance,
where Jimmy the Eye-opener kept guard over an old
printing press. The shed was a mile from the
pub., but we ran it in six minutes, and found
Jimmy mending a fishing line. In a corner of the shed
was a mammoth hand-press with a lever that hung out
like amainyard. We found some type in an old tar-bucket,
and some ink. My pard, who was an ex comp., got to
work on the scrap-iron forme and jammed it into shape
with bars and bolts and bits of tin. Next day we pulled
off a proof. I placed an envelope on the slab, while my
pard rushed the lever round. “Crash! Thud!” Pard
wiped the sweat from his brow. “One!” he shouted.
Then he raced round the shed, the boom-like lever
pressed to his ribs, the dust from the floor lifting arid
choking him as he ran. “Whirr! Smash!” I said
“ Two,” dispassionately. The heat of the shed seemed to
settle on our ears and spine. My pard looked at tne
steadily. “Fourteen thousand nine hundrtd and ninety-
eight to print,” he said. “I’d sooner starve. ” I begged hiin
to consider the circumstances. Jimmy the Eye-opener
appeared suddenly, accompanied by a villainous-looking
Chow. The Chow looked at the printing press and
smiled. “Me welly good plinter. You tl.v me.” We
gave him the job, and watched him as he shot
round the shed while the printed envelopes fell in showers
from the press. Pard and I went to dinner. We looked in
occasionally, and found Ah Sing mangling our envelopes
with lightning energy. Sweat scoured his face as he
chased the huge lever round the shed. My pard mixed a
few hundred blank envelopes with the printed ones care-
lessly. “ Save time,” he said. But the Chow objected.
“ Him no welly honest. You takee people down”; and
he picked out the blanks and printed them honestly and
conscientiously. Next day the Chow had the envelopes
parcelled neatly, and we delivered them without a hitch.
On the coach my pard said, “ Did you notice how the
Chow stacked the printed envelopes? He did the
* verandah ’ trick. Printed about 700 out of the 15,000.
Yet whichever way you opened the packet you took out
a printed one. Sharpers do it with a pack of cards.
Thought it better not to mention it till we’d collected
the cash.” We had paid that Chow £4los. for his labor,
* * * *
The Echo (Melb.), a Seventh Day Adventist concern, is
winding up business and selling off all its old stock
and plant, blocks, etc., cheap. The reason given
is that the management believes that the end of the
world is coming next year. At that rate what good will
the money do to the co. ? And is it a fair thing to sell to
the unsuspecting sinner metal goods which will melt
within 12 months ?
* * * *
When the present unsatisfactory method of conducting
Sunday-school work was being discussed at the Maoriland
Congregational Union conference, a reporter at a side
table dropped his little bit of pencil and harangued the
clerics largely and loosely on the question. He told them
their plain duty in the matter, and pointed out just what
they ought to do. The amazed sin-shifters heard him to
the bitter end, and then adjourned in a state of partial
insensibility.
* * * ★
From a Kawhia (M.L.) paper: “Our composing staff
caught the mumps at the school picnic last Saturday,
and has been off duty' ever since. This issue has been set
up and printed, with but little assistance, by Piki Poiirna,
a Maori lad, a student of St. Stephen’s Colli ge, who has
been in a printing office for a fortnight only.”
* * * *
The sweeping win of the S. Australian Laborites in the
Federal elections has done the local Advertiser a world
of good. Bonython’s paper did not give them an ounce
of help; it didn’t even help Protectionist Batchelor
against Freetrader Solomon. If it had given them ever
so little aid it could have sat down and smiled at the
result, and remarked that so great is its power that even
a little of it is sufficient to turn elections. But the win
of the Laborites without its help, and in the teeth of the
strong opposition of the Register, set people wondering
whether, after all, the Advertiser is the local force
that it has had the credit of being; and Bonython
began to see that his paper’s policy of neutrality would
not pay dividends for long. The elections showed him
on which side there were most pennies; perhaps the
whipping-up of funds for the new Labor daily helped
him to see things better. Anyhow, the paper has been
streaking back again to a fairly robust Liberalism ; and
if it will keep going, nothing better will have happened
in S.A. for a long while.
* * * *
British Government publishes several papers—the
London Gazette, the Dublin Gazette and the Edinburgh
Gazette —all vehicles for the publication of news of
state—the Labor Gazette and Board of Trade Jour-
nal. To the number will soon be added The Army
Journal, issued by the War Office. It is more or less
truly stated that The Army Journal will strive for army
reform, and will publish articles to show how one can be
an English army officer with a private income of no more
than £lOOO a year.
* * * •
Journalistic amenities way back at Taihape (M.L.)are
particularly torrid. One editor lately stated that t’other
chap was a blackguardly writer and a loathsome canker
who should be working in the hard-labor gang, branded
with the broad arrow, and shunned by every decent man
in the community. The reply to this occupi d a column
and a quarter, and almost laid over the original insult.
Criminal libel actions were at once commenced on both
sides, but something very sudden happened ; the cases
were settled, and the members of the little communily
resumed their road-mending in a disappointed frame of
mind.
CAGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little hut upon a hill between the night and morning
Was all my home, but I lived there content and unafraid ;
Tire Dawn she came to waken me with music for her
warning—
“ The Sun is marching up the East,” her silver trumpets
played.
Below me in the Harbor lay, like huge sea-monsters
dreaming,
The great deep-bowelled steamers, and the ships from
many a shore ;
Beyond them was the City with her spires and turrets
gleaming—
To me they were a picture fair, but they were nothing'
more.
But word came to the Rulers, in the City Hall assembled,
That there was one who dwelt within their bounds, yet
had no care,
No steady daily worry—and who never paled or trembled
When Aldermen were troubled and when Councils tore
their hair.
The Rulers of the City straightway sent an expedition
To take rne at whatever cost, but cheaply as they could ;
I rolled some rocks upon them, but they captured my
position,
And before the City Rulers chained and manacled I stood.
Then spake the eldest Ruler: “ He who lives’neath us
must labor,
And push and strive, and rush and drive, and fight with
tooth and claw,
And sweat and fret, and somehow get the better of his
neighbor.
He need not ask the reason why—it is the City’s Law.
“ I know your case is sad,” said he, “ but nothing comes
from wishing,
And work you must, or surely die, there is no choice
between.
If we could have our wishes we would all of us go
fishing,
And let the world go as it would, and dance upon the
green.
“ rt is not that we wish upon your liberty to trample ;
We simply act in self-defence—which surely is our right.
For if we did not stop you, more would follow your
example—
And things would not go well with men too fat to run or
fight.”
They keep me in a sort of cage with pen and ink before
me,
And when at times I rise in rage and rave against the
stars,
They seem to think communion with my fellows may
restore me,
And let me slip a rhyme like this between my prison-bars
N.s. w.
V.J.D.


I
Mm
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Ca'iinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
.Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERf, 390 Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
SPECTACLES
—FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT,
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George=St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
m
fd
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THO 3. COOK & SON,
269 Coll ins-st., Melbourne.
4 Kunter-st., Sydney.
gfd
g
fdgfd
C 3-0 TO XiHUT.J -
iio|,,\Nll for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real erood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists graiil.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR GASH.
WALTER BRADLEY Ax\d CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Japan reckons she has some jugged bear
cooking at Poit Arthur. But there’s many a slip
’twixt pot and lip.
It’s all very well for John Norton to shut-
down on the German band nuisance, but has he
considered the probable'effect of his action on the
British money-lender?
On 3rd March the Australian Star dug
up a remains that a wiser paper would have left in
the tomb. It was 19 years that day since the
despatch of the Soudan contingent, and the Star
hadn’t sense enough to pass the dead calamity in
silence.
S.M. Herald gave 63 lines to Mauger’s
speech on the Add ress-in-Reply. In these lines
G. H. Reid made seven distinct interruptions, all
of which are given. Mauger’s speech appears to
have been reported just where the interjections
came in, so as to give point to Reid’s clowning.
There is talk of running four Jews—Mayor
Cohen, Chamber of Commerce Jacobs, Councillor
Isaacs, and ex-Premier Sudden Solomon —for the
four Adelaide district seats in the S.A. Assembly
next general election. At present, half the repre-
sentation (Mayor Cohen and Theo Scherk) belong
to the badly-chosen people.
Says Sydney Telegraph :
Mr. Higgs, if he should be elected, may be as good
a chairman as anybody else would be. He may be even
a better, but that is not the question.
Then what is the question, stickler for public
good above all things ? Is it the essence of the
Parliamentary contract that the chairman must
be a Government or Opposition hack ?
So far as Victoria is
concerned, the Common-
wealth tariff reduced
the protective duty
on boots. Previously,
as the result of very
careful and scien-
tific grading of
duties, the State
made practically
the whole of the
boots i t wore.
In 1898 only
34,422 pairs,
valued at
£27,737, were
imported. In
1902, how-
ever, after
the Common-
wealth tariff
had removed
part of the
Protection,
78,100 pairs,
valued at
£69,585, were
imported. The
increase was
thus over 100 per
cent. Thus the N.S
Wales Freetraders’ “ triumph ”
in knocking off a few pence from the duty resulted
in Australian workmen being deprived of the
manufacture of about 44,000 pairs of boots in the
year, the money for the labor and for the leather
and other materials going to Germany, France, or
America. Yet, when he had cut down that duty
by a ha’penny or so, the N.S. W. Dry Dog was a
very proud dog indeed.
Daring a very tedious wait for the
Governor in the Senate on opening day, when
all was solemn and silent, Senator Dawson
irreverently invited the President to “ tell us
a yarn just to pass the time away.” The visitors
present laughed loudly, and President Baker
rebuked the Queensland humorist with the
dignity of an ancient apostle casting out devils.
The Yic. municipal councils summed up
the Bent Administration pretty quickly. Bent
hadn’t got all his Ministers sworn in before the
Cranbourne council came along with a request
that the State should make one of its main roads
—from Koo-wee-rup station to the Swamp. And
this is the cheeky council that is now trying to
form a farmers’, producers’, and property-owners’
defence league to resist Socialistic legislation.
The Federal election figures give another
knock to the notion that the further north a man
goes in Queensland the more tired he gets. For
the whole State 64'2 per cent, of the men on the
rolls voted ; and in every case the far-up and far-
out electorate gave a higher percentage than that.
Maranoa (where you mostly have to ride fora day
or two before you get to a polling place) abso-
lutely topped the list, and Kennedy and Herbert,
the farthest north districts, had the next places.
The tiredest people were in Brisbane and Oxley.
The Teralba (N.S. W.) miners having re-
turned to work, the charges laid against them by
N.S.W. Government have been withdrawn. It
was partly the fear of punishment for breaking
the Arbitration Act, partly the pressure of
their fellow-workers’ hostile opinion, that forced
the men back to work. There could be really no
more complete vindication of the Act; it has
proved its efficacy in that most difficult of all
cases—when workmen are called upon to submit
to a reduction in wages which they do not con-
sider fair.
The United States has begun to fool in
real earnest with problems of “empire.” It has
now notified Russia that the ‘ integrity of
China must be respected.” Some day in the
future, when the Panama Canal has led to com-
plications, the U.S. may be served by Russia and
Germany with a notice that the integrity of
Mexico or Venezuela must be respected. Large
imperial policies generally work out like that.
According to that tin-pot organiser,
G. W. S. Dean, of Melbourne, who caught the
’Pootra when the bird was moulting and stuck
stolen feathers on him to make him look like an
eagle on the warpath, the “essentials of success-
ful organisation are a policy, a leader, followers,
constructive workers, loyalty, discipline, calmness,
stability and cash.” Given these, says Dean in
effect, any fool can organise a party—-and Dean
speaks from personal knowledge.
The Employers’Conference, which recently
met in Sydney, decided, among other things, that
“ the progress of the Commonwealth could not be
maintained ” if the carriage of mails to England
was paid for by weight instead of by subsidy as
before. The conference was so childishly anxious
to grumble at the Deakin Government that it
was quite capable of resolving that the Common-
wealth would be blighted if Postmaster-General
Fysh wiped his brow with a red hanky instead of
a white one.
When Representative Edwards’ Select
Committee reported, a year or two ago, in favor
of the adoption of the metric system for Aus-
tralian coinage and weights and measures, the
Barton Government weakly shelved the matter
on the ground that Australia should, do nothing
till England moved. Now that England has
moved so far as to pass the second reading of a
Bill to adopt the system for weights and measures,
perhaps the Australian Government will find
courage enough to move also.
A pressman, who has attended many
sittings of N.S.W. Public Works Committee,
states that he has frequently noticed not more
than three or four present. “With four in
attendance, I have seen one asleep, one assidu-
ously conducting his correspondence, and another
reading a newspaper, leaving the chairman and
the shorthand writer the only ones engaged
seriously. It has frequently occurred, too, that
members look in at 2.80 p.m., get their names
recorded so that the fee will be claimable, and
then disappear.”
“TAKING ORDERS
Mr. Taverner is to be plain General Agent. He goes
to further Victorian trade. He will not be above taking
orders if opportunity offers. —Premier Bent.
THE BULLETIN guesses not.
Both Sydney morning papers printed a
long screed the other day commencing “Senator
Pulsford writes :—lf Pulsford had written a
letter in the ordinary way and signed it “Emma
Pulsford,” or whatever his name is, people would
have wondered who Pulsford was—just as no one
would know who Smith was if he didn’t sign himself
Thomas Smith, J.P. YetN.S. W. elected Puls-
ford. At least that part of N.S.W.. did which
lectures the Labor party about “machine voting,”
and tells it that it isn’t a man because it does
what the caucus decides.
N.S.W. Public Works Committee still
goes on, oblivious to all comments, drawing fees
for inquiring into the advisability of constructing
huge public works, while O’Sullivan is sacking the
Public Works staff, because even he can’t raise
the wind to construct another culvert. O’Sullivan
stands by the Committee and points out that it has
already saved the State £12,000,000 by vetoing
useless undertakings engineered through Parlia-
ment. The Bulletin’s reason for disbelieving
this tale is that N.S.W. couldn’t have borrowed
that other £12,000,000 in any case.
London papers seem to choose as their
Australian correspondents Tories who are not only
prejudiced and stupid but actually untruthful.
This, from the London Daily Chronicle, dated
Melbourne, Dec. 8, is in proof:—
It cannot be disguised that the tactics pursued by the
Labor sympathisers during the elections have been ex-
asperating to the last degree. Meetings have been
broken up in a most cowardly manner, and the lowest
motives have been imputed to men of ability and com-
mercial standing who have braved the odium of a fierce
electoral combat in the interests of moderate progress
and efficiency. However, the Federal elections are but
the scene of the first battle in the anti-Socialism struggle.
That struggle must now go on until the Labor parties are
driven to accept the direct responsibility of their policies
and programmes by accepting office or becoming the
official Opposition in the different Legislatures. There is
a long, wearying, and bitter period of internecine strife
before Australia at the present time.
THE CONTENTS.
" The Federal Parliament was opened yesterday.
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing.
The Anglican Synod (Brisbane) is in a
pretty pickle about landing its new bishop, who
will come, of course, under contract. Brisbane
Telegraph wants to know if the provisions of
the Immigrants’ Restriction Aot will apply in this
case and if the prelate will be asked to writo a
paragraph in modern Greek. The Bulletin
hopes he will. It is time Australian Anglicans took
to raising their own bishops. A prohibitive duty
on British bishops and clergy would encourage
the native sky-pilot industry, which is badly in
need of encouragement.
That Iceberg Irvine is to be put on the
Viotorian Supreme Court bench when he returns
from spending the £2OOO cheque given him by the
fatmen for whom he did so mueli as Premier, is
getting to be a conviction in Melbourne legal
tracks. If that is so, then the spoils of office are
being well distributed. Bent gets the Premier-
ship—whatever it may be worth to him ; Taverner
gets a three years’ engagement as general agent
for Victoria in London at £lOOO a year; and
Irvine gets a Judgeship. Also M‘Kenzie got fired
out, and Robert Reid’s firm got convicted of
defrauding the customs.
Sydney D.T. drivelling over the probable
results of a Federal Arbitration Act:
It would be necessary to have possibly a dozen Courts.
Obviously one per State would not do. In New South
Wales two or three at least would be required.
Which, seeing that the Federal Act could only
apply to disputes extending over more than one
State, is so obviously a lie that it is difficult to
understand why the D.T. should insult the in-
telligence of its readers by printing it. Patrons
of the daily press need not expect the truth, but
they have a right to expect, surely, fiction of a
higher order than this idiot asylum brand.
The Sydney press was very silent on the
announcement by G. H. Reid in his first speech
of the session, that he proposed to sink the fiscal
issue. Before the elections the papers classified
all candidates on their fiscal or supposed fiscal
leanings, and after the declaration of the polls they
prepared elaborate division lists on the “ state of
parties.” But on the assembling of the House,
Reid speedily found that the scattered minorities
against the Government were not at all worried
over a Freetrade “ revival,” and Yes-No hastened
to drop the Dry Dog. Neither the Herald nor
the Telegraph has so much as a requiem for that
jaded animal.
H. W. Lucy in S.M. Herald :
The appearance in the lists of a Labor candidate at the
by-election at Norwich is of significance far beyond its
personal bearing. It affords fresh proof of the resolve of
the labor classes to push their claim to direct represen-
tation in the House of Commons irrespective of the in-
terests of their old friend the Liberal party. Students of
the times, knowing how Labor representation works in
Australia, and, in less degree, in the United States, re-
cognise that at the forthcoming general election, when-
ever it takes place, and upon whatever issue, Labor can-
didates will have direct influence upon the balance of
power. They would be a still more potent influence in
Parliamentary life if they could only bring themselves to
work in a condition of discipline under an acknowledged
leader.
The Victorian “ Reform ” crowd’s hatred
of old age pensioners reached the climax of con-
temptible meanness when the weekly dole of eight
decrepit unfortunates of the Bairnsdale district
was reduced from Bs. to 7s. each per week. One
of tbe victims is bedridden, and another is 97
years of age, while nearly all are unable to look
after themselves. Five of them were cared for
by a hardworking woman, who must now either
turn them adrift or keep them at a loss. All this
to save a tax on tbe rich landowners of Melbourne
and to enable Premier Bent to reduce the income-
tax. In 1903 the Victorian income-tax amounted to
only one-fifth as large a levy per inhabitant as did
the income-tax in Great Britain, and it is to
reduce this that the heartless and cowardly
political bosses of Victoria are confiscating a por-
tion of the small dole of the State’s 90-year-old
pensioners.
Sydney Daily Telegraph articles on
Federal Industrial Arbitration Bill seem to be a
sad case of the ignorant misdirecting the unin-
formed. In its latest display of ignorance, the
’Graph is much concerned about the troubles of
the employer who will be dragged before both
the State and the Commonwealth Courts on the
same dispute, and will have to work under two
awards that are totally different, the State Court
saying that Bill shall have a cwt. of dirt-money
and the Federal Court saying Bill must have no
dirt-money at all, and that to force dirt-money on
him will be a hanging matter. The Telegraph is
apparently ignorant of the fact that the Constitu-
tion distinctly provides that where the Common-
wealth and the State laws come into conflict the
Commonwealth law shall prevail, which settles
the whole matter. The late John Farrell used to
say it was easy to write about a subject one was
totally ignorant of; but that seems to be a lost
art in the Telegraph office nowadays.
The Philp ex-Minisfcry is commencing
to tell the truth about its component parts.
At Roma, lately, ex-Attorney-General Rut-
ledge complained bitterly that the ineptitude
of Philp and Dalrymple caused even the
Courier to turn dog on the Government and
hastened its downfall. The irritation of the
ex- Wesleyan parson is, no doubt, increased
by the fact that a few days after he handed
over his toga a Supreme Court judgeship fell
vacant, owing to Griffith’s translation. It
was a great chance missed by a hair, and a very
thin hair, too,
“ Bell Binks ” : I’ve got the name for
the Federal capital city: Kangaremu. Com-
bines the chief bird and the chief beast, and is
sufficiently misleading to the eye to make
foreigners mispronounce it.
“Saibai” writes from Thursday’s verdant
isle:
The Bulletin (21/l/’O4) on the growth of the white
labor vote on Thursday Island misses the point that said
growth is more apparent than real. One reason is the
extension of the Federal franchise to the military
garrison here. The soldiers, to their credit, voted
solidly for a “White Australia.” Also many of the
merchants and traders, with their following, resent the
leasing by the ex-Philp Government of the only useful
jetty here to the firm of Burns, Philp and Co., which
makes these merchants and traders dependent for the
landing of their goods on that firm. Consequently they
voted in opposition to the ex-Philp Government candi-
dates, and incidentally for a White Australia. Their
sympathy for a White Australia is a temporary emotion
at best.
“Bon”: Parish politics would seem to
signify debasement every time. Have been
talking to several constituents of Bent, of
Brighton, and the general consensus of opinion
briefly put is : “ Oh, well, we’ve been told he’s a
bounder, and we’ve read all about him, but what’s
the odds? When we want anything locally we
always get it from Bent. Had we stuck to
Hfgiribotham or Moule we would have had to
take pot luck, but Tommy—well, look at our rail-
way stations, ’ etc. And this sort of thing eman-
ates as often as not from educated citizens, who,
apart from this one subject, possess broad and
comprehensive ideas concerning decency, and the
public weal.
This remarkable cablegram is another re-
sult of the policy of the Stinking Fish party in
Australia :
Some remarkable statements are made* in a letter which
the Times publishes from Sir Frank Swettenham, formerly
Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Straits Settle-
ments, and in which a defence is made of the Chinese.
In the course of his letter, Sir Frank Swettenham de-
clares that the Australians, having got rid of the abo-
rigines, now decline to allow shipwrecked Malays to land
on their inhospitable shores.
F. Swettenham here makes three remarkable
departures from the truth. Australia hasp t got
rid of its aborigines—not wholly. The natives, it
must be allowed, were mercilessly butchered in
the early days, when there were no Australians
worth mentioning—butchered by brutal Britishers
from Swettenham’s country ; but, in later years,
since people born in England have ceased to form
the great bulk of the Australian population, the
natives have been, on the whole, much better
cared for. And Australia didn’t refuse to allow
shipwrecked Malays to land on its inhospitable
shore ; F. Swettenham has merely got hold of the
lie with which the Tory papers so industriously
besmirched the name of their country, and with
which they tried so hard to rouse the world in
general against their own land and their own
people.
A PRECARIOUS! SITUATION FOR BOTH
PARTIES.
Hugh Mahon (from Westralia) sprang a
surprise on the House of Reps, as soon as Par-
liament was opened. On the motion for the
election of Holder as Speaker, Mahon contended
that the skeleton preacher was not eligible for the
position, and that he had also forfeited his seat.
His point was that, inasmuch as Holder had drawn
his salary as Speaker between the dissolution or
the last Parliament and his re-election m De-
cember, he had broken section 45 of the Constitu-
tion Act, which provides that if any Senator or
Representative takes any fee or honorarium tor
services rendered to the Commonwealth his seat
shall become vacant. Mahon argues that as there
was no House of Reps, during the period men-
tioned the services rendered for the money re-
ceived by Holder could not have been to the
House, and must have been to the Common-
wealth. As Holder was neither a Senator nor a
Representative at the time, and as it is dimcujt
to see that he was rendering any services, Mahon s
argument seems to have a considerable rent in
it. The point is to be considered later on.


PALING'S BEST TRIO
LI PP
G^Vv^ s
VICTOR
STEINWAY
WE GIVE BEST VALUE for LEAST MONEY.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST
338 George Sr Sydney.
heraelf : StWy ° f * W ° man eccentric > as told by
church™?,,*? nrt married - was all ready and waiting at
mnesT’in whil 0 ,F° 0 “ She had a bad
in rae-s (donefl G ° d tp d j 6r to R0 seven -V ears dressed
and seven via years dressed in hag's (now doing),
travels the ennn? aS “respectable lady (to come). She
if ever thev me ? y W , lU \ a kn,fe for fch e defaulting groom
she is not he' and a 3ank de P° 8it hook to show that
sne is not, in the eyes of the law, a vagrant.
Catarrh of the Stomach
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Ten Years Intense Suffering
Call and See Mrs. Cummins.
n 16 Vine-street, Redfern, N.S.W.
p . ear , * r ’ or ten (I®) years I have suffered from
L-atarrh of the Stomach, suffering- intense pain during the
hoie time. Several times my life was despaired of, and
at last the doctor said he could do no more for me. At
.' S JIl 6 * read your advertisement, and determined to
Rive VITADATIO a trial. The result has exceeded my
greatest anticpations. I am now fully recovered, and
am in better health than I have been for the past
i ~V e • yeals ‘ 1 eain estly recommend the medicine to
vou likeof^- rS ‘ I° U are at Hberty t 0 make what use
anv n K thlS ’ and 1 Shal! feel a P leasure in answering
any questions re my complaint.
Yours truly,
(Signed) ISABELLA CUMMINS.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
Sole Agents N.S.W. y ’
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss—
gfd
Elastic
Truss -
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is th e a cm e of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY t r , ’
And atC'or. Swans to njvnd LonadaFfsts^M^^,
STOMACH and LIVER
chestsTW • 1 1 V d,sp ® rKSabIe t 0 medicine
stimulate the liver' & keep"’the° how i h ® appetite !
The Plunket who goes to Maoriland to
ucceed Ranfurly as Governor doesn’t belong to
whom T f r' y f S the tW ° ° r three Pl «nkettf of
whom Australia knows a trifle. The latter Pl un -
ketts carry two “t’s”; the new Maoriland man
has to get along with one. The two-“t” Pint,
w andered round Australian mining fields for some
thThgs N g ew e c h o 1S " ame -° °I 1 ? of Westraiia’s big
“ S-A^Sop-'o
o f Bth°drealin° d r eaIin tPe diplomatic service himself
tutTe° f
had to go into the business seriously. neVer
A SIMILE AND A MORAL “Wi, *•
Hunyadi Janoses taTth™? ’V', I ''? 1 - W 0 liv «- that
human spirit.” Thus of the
medical writer.* "rites a well-known
ABOUT THE CALLAGHAN
Special Boot
FOR MEN.
Full Description follows :
SOLES—SoIid oak-tanned stout walking soles,
stitched on a Goodyear machine, with best
Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UIPERS Uppers and vamp are cut from plump
skins, and are not skimped in any way.
LINING A good grade of leather.
The inner sole is milled perfectly
smooth on the surface and free
from nails, creases or thread
HEELS—Square trimmed.
Size 1 inch, properly
nailed.
PRICE 16/6
POST PAID ... 17/6
TAN LEATHER 17/6
POST PAID ... 18/6
V
In Black, 17/6
In Tan, 18/6
POST and DUTY FREE
to any address in the Commonwealth,
except W. A.
The CAItLAGHAMr to many thousandaof wearei
This SPECIAL BOOT is a real hard-times Boot for Durability and Cheapness.
CALLACrHAIT & SOIT, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
~ M A a ”f er ’ MP ’ ln moving the adoption of
the Address-in-Reply in the Reps., said “it was a
remarkable fact that two conferences of inter-
state Postmasters-General had, prior to Federa-
tion, advocated the payment of subsidies only to
steamers which carried white labor.” G. H. Reid
of the Dry Dog, stared at the speaker like a man
-WhT - Z*™* Mr* right"
What! he gasped, “are we to be bound bv
such conferences ? ” Greorce’s own *■
(renpr«iWf'W»M /T r ° e . own Jrostmaster-
on 11 behalf °of Z" p n hlte labor resolutions
Monished Wriggler“ d the
man if- A wantea to know if any sane
re.Uy S wto.gS" 16 ” 1 ™ hM,<!S ‘ “ d
TO OUR POOR PARSONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
citv Wfnoh - b ? lk 0f Dome 8 del,lded followers in Zion
has ai ,l f misery and discomfort, Dowie himself
stvle « ' , aPI oulted ln extravagantly luxurious
stables J,r,* ne ' ser , v ? nts - six high-bred horses in the
item ’ Carria S es a king- might envy, &c., &c.”~New.i
O, shun the humble way the Saviour trod
Such simple lowliness is out of date ;
Be a loud and snortful minister of God'
And chuck round curses as you pass the plate.
Dare to be . Dowie, Booth, or Brigham Young,
Be a delnious bounder— make a splash,
Ra £ e f ° rth lnd stir the fools up with your tongue,
They’ll chase you round the earth with bags of cash
And Folly will acclaim you great and wise
If you but bellow like a wild bass drum
That something was revealed you from the skies,
And that you hold the keys of Kingdom Come.
So be a Dowie, Booth, or Brigham Young,
A Joseph Smith or some such saint as that,
And if you dodge the gaol and don’t get hun«-
I ou 11 die respected, full of years and Fat. "
N.S.W.
ALONE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Calling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street. „ , „ .
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenf ell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
The trustees, executors
and
agency company limited,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) . £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. ~ 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,330,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. >• 2,000,000 0 0
Total 6,330,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar. M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
Auditors:
Frßßerick W. Uthbr, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.-ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circulai
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circulai
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
EVERY WOMAN
la interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Clenses Instantly.
-
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, hut write us for
Illustrated book, sent free —
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MARVEL <3©.,
289 George St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS,SOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention th'.» paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
RX CORO’s
I eSSE-* \.\f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; iV.S. & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
gfd
T7IREE BY POST.—a reliable
-E recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereagh=st., Sydney.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
REYNOLDS'S
NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Vigorous Articles.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
3
Shipping.
ISJ. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports^
•Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 13th APRIL.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
NataU Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•NINEVEH
a*MARATHOSf
•ABERDEEN
A. Robb
N. Allan ..
T. F. Gambell
Noon, Mar. 18
Noon, Mar. 30
Noon, April 8
* Calling at Hobart. a Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
QOEA.3STIO STEAMSHIP COMPAKTY.
A. AND A. LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3NT-S."W.
jllont deplete 0/(|. Co, Ltd-
74
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
M otual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
fion. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts
0.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Milt.kr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,880.
Policies issued 91,305 assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The Rank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direitors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbg,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltdi). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
g
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “Wg
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CAMADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED" ROUTE.
STEAMEES SAIL—
March 21, April 18, May 16.
The Route to St. Louis or to England
via St. Louis.
Excursion Rates to St. Louis and
to all American Points.
Full Particulars Furnished & Itineraries Prepared.
Illustrated, Pamphlets Sent Free on Application,
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 175.997
| RESERVE FUND (In vested in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,46?
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Enwn. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHffiA, *O.. beara «“
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o*
Sept. 28 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine t should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlouodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to tha
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Konoowarra, Friday,
Mar. 11, at 5 p.m. (Tran-
shipping at Meloourrie).
S.S. Grantala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, Mar. 12,
at 10 a.m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
AndPortsNorth to Oatrns
5.5. Warrego, Saturday,
March 12, at Noon.
*S.S. Konoowarra, March 19,
at Noon.
5.5.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARI3.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government,, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including cable wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give then) every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through che Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. AND n.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
ft V Jti.lv I Kjyjri Y V V/I* XX iivviiviiu ,
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe oa Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
&
Ei
a
iJ
&
as
m
mm
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfeofc timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s* impost free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
BUNTER’S
CURED INSTANTLY BY
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NEB VINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
•■As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. 1 h » T «
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson. M.l>.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S
WORSDILL’S
PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion. Biliousness, Headache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, He.
Of all Spores.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
estabushkd 1.349. For p/f e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
nphpnt'uf d |„ C Q \ P ' h®!!"! Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
£^, r ( n !!f V fv, lo^^ aS s D ? e< * contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of anv fine.
T"omasL , tt™°un, Esq Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
? J ' ' 2' lker : Jambs Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A.. FF A FS S
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. F - S -\ O BERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
f A V
Digestive Tonic.
Digestion converts food into
blood, brain, muscle ; gives vigour,
vitality, health. Indigestion makes
good food poison, breeds dolts, lag-
gards, hobbling rheumatics, liverish
tempers, nerve-racking pains. Seigel’s
Syrup ensures digestion, dispels
disease, produces health.
Syrup
“Six months back,” says Mr. John
Lennon, of 26, Comber Street, Padding-
ton, Sydney, “ I was caused great suf-
fering by acute dyspepsia. A friend
induced me to take Seigel’s Syrup
and the effect was magical. After
a few doses every ache and pain
vanished and I have had no re-
turn of the complaint since.”
For
Old and Young.
ALL WHO
LEAD ACTIVE
LIVES
UNDERSTAND
THE
VALUE OF
HEALTH.
A REFRESHING, HEALTH-GIVING,
BLOOD-PURIFYING REMEDY.
AN EMINENT PHYSICIAN,
Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of
Children and Hygiene, Marion-Siins
College of Medicine, and College of
Physicians and Surgeons, writing on
April 3rd, said :
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D , himself a sufferer from a gouty
diathesis, was not only one of the world’s
greatest surgeons, but an able physician and
a skilful therapeutist. Por years he found
Kutnow’s Powder of great value to him
personally and in his practice, and this
remedy is one of the few he conspicuously
endorsed over his own signature. He
realised, as all careful, observing practition-
ers do, that it is necessary to cleanse the
system frequently, to remove the debris left
by undigested food, and to hasten the
elimination of uric acid to properly guard
against serious disease.
“ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activi-
ties of the bowels and kidneys. A dessert-
spoonful in a tumblerful of water, taken
immediately on rising in the morning,
cleans out the bowels, dilutes the urine,
and flushes out the kidneys in a most satis-
factory way. Thorough elimination is
salvation, and there is no better eliminator
than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOYE, M.D.”
STRIKING TESTIMONY.
A COLONEL IN THE ARMY writes :
“Pegu Club, Rangoon, India.
“I have made the acquaintance of your excellent Kutnow’s
Powder, through Mr. Guthrie, of the Medical Hall here, and I con-
sider it most efficacious.—Yours faithfully,
“E. LAWFORD,
“Colonel Commanding, Rangoon. 1 "
A CAPTAIN IN THE NAVY writes :
“Boddington House, Beverley-road, Hull.
“ My people have tried Kutnow’s Powder sent us with excellent
results. Please therefore send by return another bottle and oblige.
Your Powder does what is professed for it. — Yours very sincerely,
“Captain REGINALD T. SHUTTE.”
A NAVAL CHAPLAIN writes :
I beg to state that I have been much pleased with Kutnow’s
Powder, and have ordered another bottle from the local chemist,
which I hope will benefit me, suffering as I do from Uric Acid in the
blood. “S. A. SHONE, Chaplain R.N.,
“Forton Barracks, Gosport.”
SIR JOHN MONCKTON wrote:
“Guildhall, London, E.C.
“Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in stating that for the
last two years I have regularly used Kutnow’s Powder, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks of Lumbago, with other
gouty symptoms that had troubled me for years, seem to have
entirely disappeared.—Yours truly,
“JOHN B. MONCKTON,
“Late Town Clerk of London.”
ERADICATES STUBBORN
DISEASES.
The extraordinary complicated diseases
resulting from neglect of precautionary
measures pass the wit of man. It is not
the business of Kutnow’s Powder to claim
that it can cure all the ills of mankind, from
Housemaid’s Knee to Impecuniosity. One
solid, incontestable fact, however, remains
in the world-wide testimony of sufferers
from painful and distressing derangements,
viz., that Kutnow’s Powder not only pre-
vents disease by its marvellous cleansing
properties, but absolutely eradicates
diseases that have become stubborn through
neglect. If in robust health take Kutnow’s
Powder on rising, and you need never be
ill; if ill, depressed, irritable, languid, or
sleepless, take Kutnow, and the trouble
quickly vanishes ; the blood is purified, the
heart beats more vigorously, the liver
quickens into action, and the kidneys are
regulated into increased efficiency. Thus
does the man become himself again, lives,
breathes, and enjoys his being, eats well,
sleeps well, and works well.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London
, E.C.
SICK-HEADACHE eradicated
by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
PROPRI TORS IN U S A.: r.UTNOW BROS.
553, BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
SUFFERERS
FROM
Violent
HEADACHES
VALUE
KUTNOW’S
POWDER.
It is pretty certain that sooner or later Broken
Hill will be worked on a sliding wage-scale, rates moving
up and down with the prices of metals. Ooal-miners
have long recognised this as the fairest method ; and as
lead wobbles more even than coal, a sliding scale is even
more justified in that industry. If prices slump nowa-
days, when the wage-rate is fixed, the poorer mines
simply shut up. Certainly they have to keep the
labor conditions in force ; but that is a trifle. The North,
Junction North, Block 14, and Junction have not, on the
average, employed during the past two years one-eighth
of the men they had a fewyears previously. What the seven-
eighths have done is a mystery. A few have been absorbed
byother mines; others have wandered off, sacrificing their
homes. Broken Hill is two or three hundred miles from
everywhere else; and when a man there can’t get mining
to do he can’t get anything. This irregularity of employ-
ment has been the curse of the place. Nobody feels
settled ; and everything, almost, is thus of a temporary-
character. For its size, Broken Hill has consequently fewer
advantages of civilisation than probably any other place
in Australia, and good miners, therefore, don’t, as a
rule, stay longer than they can help, which isn’t good
for the industry.
* * * *
A remarkable 60-year-old prediction of the
Rev. W. B. Clarke, the discoverer of gold in Australia,
and the continent’s first geologist of note, has lately
been unearthed ; it is part of a report for which, with
others, the N.S.W. Government subsequently paid him
£6OOO, and refers to the ranges that include Broken Hill
and Oobar: “As respects the low ranges of the far
interior, I will venture to anticipate that in those culmi-
nating points of what are western parallels of our
cordillera, and in the ocean of alluvia around, when the
white man can traverse the desert by the aid of iron, gold
will be discovered. A search should be made in the
Barrier Ranges, visited by Oapt. Sturt in his exploration
of Central Australia. Between those ranges and the sys-
tem of the Macquarie are many localities which are highly
promising. The absence of water will always limit the
washing of gold ; but we do not know yet whether veins
may not exist which are auriferous, and which may be
wrought by fire.” The advice is the more remarkable
because at that time the country was not even occupied
for squatting purposes.
» * * *
“Cobarite”: Left Cobar for Lyell. Latter
supposed to be the best copper field in Australia. Now
satisfied it is the worst from a miner’s standpoint,
hiving is very dear; conditions all round bad. Since
amalgamation men’s wages have been reduced. Men are
black-balled for taking any interest in unionism. Result:
Local A.M.A., last year, 700 strong ; now 200. President
Mahoney, one of the selected Federal Laborites for
the Senate last November, can’t get work. Three
miners nominated for office in local A.M.A. last
month had to leave the field. Such are the
conditions of Lyell to-day, thanks to monopoly.
lie the ability of Robert Sticht *. a good general manager
in his office and no more ; outside that he is lost. I have
noticed The Bulletin has given him the credit for the
divs. paid by his co., but said praise and credit belong to
Beardsley, the metallurgist, now in America. Apropos,
Wm. Knox told meeting in October last there would be a
div. in January (last month); it has not come yet, neither
is it likely to. Writer will bet there will be no div. this
year. This is chiefly owing to the local management
all round, but particularly to the absence of Beardsley.
To-day’s quotations : sellers, 15s, ; no buyers.
* * * •
South Australia has some figures available now
which should help it to size up its remarkable stroke of
luck last year. It only had a moderate harvest in 1902-3,
and the area under crop was less than usual; and it had
lass wheat available for export than in any year since
1898. Nevertheless, such were the prices it could com-
mand through the drought in other parts that its cheque
was the biggest for 10 years, and one of the biggest it
ever had. It only had 120,530 tons to ship, yet that
quantity was worth £1,237,000, whereas in 1894 156,717
tons were worth only £595,000. Its hay crop, which
was also light, nevertheless sold for more than ever was
got hitherto. This season, ip place of having 120,530 tons
of wheat and flour, it will have 262,500 tons ; yet, judging
from present prices, it will not net more, but probably'
about £50,000 less, than last y'ear, while the farmers’
expenses have been approximately 35 per cent, higher.
Reckoning in the hay-harvest, the State will be thousands
worse off this year than it was last. And the amazing
part of the business is that, notwithstanding the State’s
extraordinary luck last year, its incompetent Govern-
ment absolutely failed to make ends meet, and only
avoided showing a heavy shortage by the trick of keeping
the Northern Territory: accounts (which always show a
deficit) separate, and by starving the railways.
* > * *
An alleged American syndicate has got an
option over the Balhannah mine, one of the many
situated in the mountain range which skirts the Adelaide
plain. They all promised great things in a mining way
30 years ago. Pretty well any mineral could be dug out
of some-of these properties—gold, silver, lead, copper,
bismuth, cobalt, antimony, and others. When a co. had
settled down to work for copper, it found that
copper was “ off ” and bismuth usually the only
thing available. In its time this Balhannah mine
was worked for copper, gold, cobalt, and bismuth,
but never gave much of anything. The ore bodies
were small and irregular, like most of those in the
Adelaide hills ; and if the mines ever had a chance it was
spoiled by the pig-rooting which passed for mining. In
most cases water has also proved a trouble. Dozens of
attempts have been made at various times to re-work
these old properties ; but none of them have been more
than a fleeting success, and none seem likely to be.
Adelaide always talks in a majestic way of “ Our Inherit-
ance in the Hills ”: but it puts its money somewhere
else.
* * * •
A correspondent writes from the White Range,
Northern Territory This is a h of a hole. That
there is good gold here goes without saying, but it is so
widely scattered, and in such poor quantities when got,
that it requires that which is not on the field—capital.
Most of the white men are poor—very poor ; and some
have been here from 14 to 20 years. The old hands are
known as ‘ Gin Tailers ’or ‘ Comboes.’ They live like the
blacks, in humpies inferior to a Kaffir’s kraal, and each
has at least two gins. They don’t dig in the ordinary
sense—the farthest they ever go down is 30ft., grubbing
like wombats. The gins are wonderfully clever with the
hammer and drill. There are no lodes or fissures ; the
gold is carried mostly in the quartz, and sometimes in
the quartzite, and runs up to 4oz. to the ton, yet in
getting (say) one ton, you will have to shift 50, and after
paying all expenses you find you have not made tucker. We
are 72 miles from Alice Springs, which is 400 miles north of
Oodnadatta, and the latter is 688 miles from Adelaide.
It is a country of magnificent distances, and although
teeming with minerals, you cannot make a living. When
anyone can make enough to get out he gets."
• • • •
A new industry may shortly be started in W. A.
A survey is now being made by Government for a tram-
line from Yellowdine, near Southern Cross, to Mt.
Oandan, Parker’s Range. The mountain is called after a
Frenchman, who pegged out the property some years
ago, and tried to float a co. in Adelaide, but, as railway
facilities did not exist at the time, the proposition was
not entertained. The property consists of an iron hill
containing rich hematite and manganese. English capital-
ists have now taken it in hand. The control of the con-
cern is in the hands of “ Dynamite ” Thomson, who first
brought Nobel’s explosives to Australia 30 years ago.
• * * *
A dredging record for M.L., and, as far as the
figures are known, for the world, has lately been put
up by the Electric Co., whose No. 2 dredge has brought
up 1265f0z. gold in one week. The next best in M.L.
was done by the same co between three and four years
ago—l2Bloz. The wonderfully consistent Hartley and
Riley has twice got into four figures inside four years.
“ Itan ” writes :
The outward and inward appearance of the Royal
Agricultural Grounds at Sydney is evidence that the con-
cern is more of a huge advertising bureau than anything
else. Fifteen months ago I wrote to the secretary sug-
gesting that, in order to encourage the growth of cotton
in the State, an attempt should be made to offer a good
prize for a bulk sample. The reply has not yet come to
hand. Probably a request for a square yard of ad. space
on a fence would have been promptly answered.
A sefc-back was given to the Crankbourne
Farmers, Producers and Property-Owners’ Associa-
tion at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) t’other day. A
meeting was held to form a branch of the wonder-
ful concern. It was explained by the chairman
that the Association was formed to protect ti e
farmers against the inroads of socialism. Tin n
there uprose a party of the name of Mark Kyle,
who pointed out that the farmers had had a very
fair share of socialism in the way of cheap money
under the Credit Foncier system, cheap railway
freights, grants for roads and other things. The
farmers were so staggered at finding they were
socialists themselves that the branch didn't
form.
“Bon”: Truth is still stranger than
fiction, despite the efforts of fiscal reformers.
Was on holiday down Wilson’s Promontory, and
at camp one night had spread myself considerably
over the marvels of Melbourne. Was considered
as veracious as most men till I mentioned
that opossums thrived in their wild state
just off the top of Collins-street. How
they laughed! And yet that tale was as
true as the marvels were mendacious. Walking
through the Fitzroy and Treasury Gardens on
moonlit early mornings I see the ’possums regu-
larly, racing across the paths and up the elms.
Further, just across the Parade, and right in the
heart of the railway yards, where some thousands
of pipes were stacked, was to be found a regular
rabbit warren. The rabbits were never molested,
and used to breed like—well, themselves. And if
any country cousin wants to blood his dog on
wild-cats, Queen-street is creeping with them.
“Jim Pan.” : The Broken Hill miner can
stand being called a liar; but woe betide the reck-
less folk who call him “scab.” The miner
guards his loyalty to unionism as a good mother
protects her babe. Unionism is love, liberty, life
and £s. d.; want of it is death—moral, social,
financial, and physical. “He who steals my purse
steals trash ; but he who robs me of my good
name,’’etc. Better a dead unionist than a live
blackleg.
How the dairy farmer loves his dirt !
The President of the Warrnambool Shire Council
lately requested the directors of the Warrnambool
Butter and Cheese Factory Co. to call a meeting
of the district butter factory companies and
farmers to organise a strong opposition to the
passage of the proposed Dairy Inspection Bill.
This splendid representative of the dirty farmer
declares that the present system of inspection by
the municipal councils is all that is required,
although the Agricultural Department has ascer-
tained that in about four shires only in the State
is anything like a thorough inspection being made
at the present time.


The Excuse
Made by many a man for taking a drink at the
bar is that he needs a bracer. He feels weak,
his stomach is “out of sorts” and liquor makes
him “ feel good.” The tired man who sits on a
fdg
pin leaps up with new
energy, but no one would
say that this energy was
evidence of the strength-
giving power of a pin. So
with the energy induced
by liquors. They only spur
the body on, but do not
strengthen it. Strength is
made from food properly
digested and assimilated.
When the stomach is dis-
eased there is a failure to
extract the nutrition front
food, and the body grows
weak. The weak body
needs strengthening, not
stimulating. Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills cure
diseases of the stomach
and the other organs of
digestion, and nutrition,
so that the nutrition of the
food is perfectly extracted and assimilated, and
the body nourished into health and strength.
These pills are a perfect blood purifier, driving
out uric acid and all biliary poisons from the
blood. They cleanse the stomach, put life m the
liver, a move to the bowels and thereby are a
positive and permanent cure for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, piles, pimples, boils,
skin diseases and all disorders arising from
imperfect digestion, and impure blood, racked
in amber bottles, and sold throughout Austral-
asia. *
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder o
wealth and fame, social and political prefermen .
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL.
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
15 St. Dunstan’s Hill,.
London, E.C., England.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE
AND
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLINGr ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Of Test matches, England has now won 38 and
Australia only 27. The fact that Warner’s team was not
good enough to be representative of England, and was
treated with a sort of good-natured, half-contemptuous
toleration by the sporting scribes of both Britain and
Australia, sort of rubs in the reflection that Australian
cricket is deteriorating, or that there is something wrong
with the mode of selection, or something. England led
before, but the result of this rubber gives the Cold Coun-
try a considerable start. Australia is no longer pre-
eminent in sport. Some swimming records still remain
to us, and we have the world’s sculling champion, but at
football the Maorilanders kick chips off us, the Yankee
bruisers knock us out somewhere about the tenth round,
the ’Murkan cyclists (black and white) “jump” away
with any prizes worth having, and the cricket situation
is gloomy. Still, at borrowing in proportion to popula-
tion, we keep our end of the stick up pretty well, and, to
many people, any sort of record is better than no record
at all.
• * * *
The fourth test-match was a series of shocks
and surprises. The Englishmen were, at the close of
their first innings, declared by public opinion as heard in
the street and the tram-car, to have thrown away the
match by failing to make a big score in case wet weather
came on. Fortunately for Australia they didn’t—our
licking was bad enough in all conscience. The wicket,
as a matter of fact, was on that occasion somewhat heavy
and not nearly as good as was generally supposed. The
A WET WICKET.
“Shocking accident in the cricket field. A popular
batsman drowned at the crease.”
(The above are headings from a daily paper of
that future date when the wicked spectators have
had their way, and cricketers are denied the
privilege of coming in out of the wet.)
Australians commenced on practically the same wicket,
and tailed to do anything sensational, but, although the
rain did not really interfere with the play, the wretched
light did. It was not the rain but the misleading light
which was responsible for the long delay that memorable
Saturday afternoon, and there would have been no
further play had not the umpires yielded against their
own judgment to the demonstration of the crowd.
Crockett and Argali looked at the matter from the stand-
point of cricketers. The crowd looked at it from the
standpoint of people who had paid to see a show, and
who didn’t care nearly so much who lost or won as they
did that they should get their money’s worth. Until
Sydney Cricket Ground can find some means of returning
the crowd its cash in the event of bad weather, the
cricketers seem to be morally bound to play whether it
suits them or not.
* • •
The superiority of the English became very
evident at the close of the Australian first innings on
Tuesday evening. Our men were all out for 131 ; six
wickets had gone for 34, and the two last men made
ducks. Then the Englishmen went in on the same
wicket, and, in a worse light than ever, Hayward and
Foster knocked up 50. Next day they played from four
to six p.m., and the result w'as an addition of 105 to the
overnight score of 50. When Thursday brought fine
weather and a much improved pitch, Warner and Rhodes
lashed out and put up 55 for the last wicket. Everybody
expected the Australians to make a splendid score, as all
the conditions were favorable, but the first wicket fell
for a miserable seven. The local men were crushed with
responsibility'; gloom fell upon them like a shower of
tombstones ; the bowling got them down, and the keen
fielding bottled them up. Bosanquet was a veritable
nightmare ; he fell upon Australia like the angel of the
Lord on the Old Dragon, and Hill, Gregory, Hopkins.
M‘Leod, Trumble, and Kelly all faded from before him
for 51 runs. It was awful. Noble and Cotter made a
slight stand, and the last wicket cost 57 runs. So the
conclusion is that with both bat and ball the present
English team was superior to that representing Aus-
tralia. Whether the Australian team was truly represen-
tative of Australian cricket is another question.
* * * *
Jones is still going strong as a bowler. Playing
for Claremont against North Perth (W.A.), t’other day,
he captured four wickets for 19 runs, and crowded the
“ hat trick ” into the performance as a sort of frill.
* » * *
If, as they say, the “gate” has nothing to do
with the case, and they only play test matches in order
to find out which is really and truly the better lot of
cricketers, what’s wrong with fixing future matches
to be played at Oodnadatta, or Thargomindah, or
Tibooburra, where it rains enough to damage a wicket
only once in about seven years?
The fifth test match commenced in Melbourne
on Saturday, and although the rubber had gone to Eng-
land, was watched by an interested and enthusiastic
crowd. Weather was dull and threatening, and though
there were some rain sprinklings, play went on. Noble,
winning the toss, decided to bat at once. The bright
features of the innings were Trumper’s display and Hop-
kins’ magnificent slogging. Duff and Hill had vanished for
9 and 10 respectively, but Trumper slogged on for lhr.
50min. and knocked up 88, half of which were tourers. He
was caught by Braund off his own ball. Noble’s play was
decidedly respectable, but had no devil in it. Hopkins
provided the spicy part of the show by banging
one from Braund right into the crowd for five.
Tremendous applause. Next stroke he lifted the terrible
Bosanquet for the same number, and that doughty boy ot
bulldog breed gaped—he wasn’t accustomed to that sort
of treatment and shortly afterwards retired. The bowling
of both Hirst and Braund troubled Hopkins sorely,
and he was caught by Knight in the outfield off one by the
latter bowler. It was a great innings. After that things
were dull. M'Leod made 8 and Trumble, Kelly and hotter
6 each, and the innings ended for 247. The honors of the
bowling rested with Braund, who got eight wickets
for 81 runs. The Englishmen commenced their innings
at 5.40 p.m., and had a bad time. Hayward and Arnold
were both disposed of for ducks off Noble’s bowling, and,
when the stumps were drawn, Rhodes had 3 and Warner 1.
On Sunday night the fountains of the great deep broke
up and the pitch was chaos, so that it was nearly 4 p.m.
before play started on Monday. The only Englishmen to
reach double numbers were Tyldeslev, Foster and Bosan-
quet, and the numbers of their runs were 10, 18, and lb
respectively. Hirst and Knight went out for a pretty pair
of teal. Noble got 4 wickets for 19 runs, and Cotter b
wickets for 40. The wicket was slush, and the Aus-
tralians looked at it ruefully as they went to the
stumps. By 6 o’clock M'Leod and Cotter had gone tor
nought, M'Alister for 9, and Kelly was not out with four
opposite his name. With the bowling of Cotter play ended.
More rain fell through the night, but on Tuesday play
started at 12.15, and on the wretched wicket was dispirit-
ing. By lunch time six wickets had fallen for 92, and as Tiib
BumjEtin went to press the Australians were all out for
133 and seven English wickets were down for 61. So
the Englishmen wanted 259 to win and had only three
wickets to fall. The practice of being at an interesting
stage just as this valuable paper goes to press is a dis-
reputable one common to Test Matches.
It is a sad but solemn fact that at present
cricket is the only federalised sport. An English team
always plays Australian
teams in test-matches, the
fixtures against the various
States counting as small
potatoes ; but in every other
branch of sport the States
run on their own. At pre-
sent there doesn’t seem to be
the slightest chance of Aus-
tralia as a Commonwealth
being represented at the
Olympian games at the St.
Louis Exposition, U.S.A.—
which is a pity. There are
apparently no representative
athletes in a position to go
to St. Louis on their own
pockets, and no one seems to
care a hang whether Aus-
tralia wins any parsley
crowns or not. If any men
go they will be the repre-
sentatives of their States.
Victoria proposes to send
ped. Hunter to speak for
Bent’s State, but not for
Australia. Wanted, some
patriotic men of means to
put up the money and send
a few Australians across to
try and bring back some of
the money Yankee cyclists
and bruisers have taken out
of this country the last few
years.
“Old Cove”: “Big”
cricket has become alto-
gether too serious and
scientific a game for a turf
wicket to satisfy its re-
quirements. When it was
simply a village pastime
grass answered admirably ;
but now, when it is an
international matter, and
spectators travel hundreds
and players thousands of miles to participate, we re-
quire something more stable and reliable. Matting
does not meet the case at all, and isaorude, though cheap
and portable, expedient. The solution will probably be
found in a heavy fabric of considerable thickness, com-
posed of indiarubber and fibre, with perhaps a cheap
outer cover easily renewed. This would place all bats-
men and bowlers on comparatively equal terms, whilst
the fielding, variations of light, condition of the outfield,
&c would still leave enough of the “glorious uncer-
tainty.” The present condition of things is intolerable.
For a game which is at once a matter of international
importance and a huge money-making concern to be left
entirely at the mercy of the weather is like a millionaire
habitually leaving his scrip out on the grass on wet
nights and keeping his cheque-book on top of the rain-
barrel. _ „
• * • •
Although Marmont had only a weak field to
chase him in the Australian Oup, his runaway victory
under a light weight stamped him as a first-class horse.
Given the same intelligent boy on his back, the old son
of Wellington could probably have carried another two
stone with the same apparent ease. Marmont is a free
galloper of the most tractable kind, and he runs “ a
waiting race in front” just as though he, and not the
rider, were regulating the distance of his lead. For two
miles’ of the Australian Oup race he was never more than
a length and a half ahead of his field. For a moment
they appeared to be wearing him down. Then he put on
some more pace and practically broke up the opposition.
A quarter of a mile from home it was only a question of
how many lengths the jockey would let Marmont win by.
» * * *
Handicapper Menzies appears to have been very
nettled by Marmont’s contemptuous treatment of the
Australian Oup field. From the duffer weight of 6.12 in
the Cup the old gelding was raised, at one pop, to 9.12
for the Autumn Handicap, which was 121 b. in front of
Annotate, who won the race last year. Seems that Mar-
mont would not have got off so lightly in the Oup but for
his having cut a poor figure on the flat at Flemington
last August, when he was asked to give considerable
weight to Rhapsody, Martyr and others. Marmont then
started a hot favorite, and showed a plentiful lack of
dash. Accustomed to hurdle-racing, he was looking for
jumps and wondering why they didn’t happen. Under
the circs, it was not surprising that Menzies rated the
horse as a commoner at the legitimate game and let him
fnto the Australian Oup on “ dead bird ” terms.
* * * *
To punters who have not lost all faith in the
“ Racing Chronicle ” as a guide to “ form ” Mario looked
a somewhat good thing for the Autumn Handicap at
Flemington, and they had no trouble in getting on to it
at 15’s, 12’s, and 10’s. At one time or other Mr. M‘Arthur’s
well-bred horse had performed very respectably over a
mile and a half and upwards. He was prominent at the
turn for home in last Melbourne Cup. The “ talent,”
however, bracketted Mario with stable companion, Billali,
as a non-stayer, and would have none of him for this 13
furlong race. Judiciously ridden in front of the field
Mario did the Marmont trick, nothing troubling him at
the finish except his stable companion, Falkirk, who was
a quite despised outsider. M'Arthur’s colors—sapphire
blue, and pink sash—deserve to be popular with the pub-
lic, if only for the fact that they always give a hope to
their backers. Billali, Mario, and Marmont have been a
trio of pretty consistent pace-makers. They have gone
away with the lead in a score, or more, of races during
the past year, and, although the two little ones rarely
win, Marmont is as rarely „
Mairn (8.6.) won the Newmarket Handicap in
which Martinique (Bst.) finished eleventh. n ln J.' f
Handicap the Newmarket winner (who won the Hour
last year, carrying Sst.) was rather kindly weighted at 9.3.
on his recent form. Yet he started at 15 to> 1, an
finished fifteenth, whilst Martinique (7.9.) won by three
lengths. Martinique’s “ form, on a rough calculation,
was about 2st. better, and Mairp’s was 2st. worse than it
had been three davs earlier.
* * * *
Emir’s three wins at V.R.C. Autumn meeting
have gone far to justify all that was said about the son ot
Wallace and Emmie before he met with his mishap in the
Sprint. He was then declared to be one of the best colts
ever bred in Australia, but not one of the best tempered.
Being eased in his work because of the mishap, the colt
threatened to develop into a vicious loafer, and now it
is a question whether his ignominious Derby failure was
due to want of condition or his straight-out roguery, ms
failure to put up a good fight against Playaway and
Pendant over seven furlongs, at Caulfield, was not quite
inconsistent with his subsequent “ form over longer
courses, anyhow Emir has the galloping action of a
great horse, and, if he is made of good Btuff--i.e., if tie
takes kindly to hard work-the handsome fellow will put
his recent performances into the shade.
* * * * .
Before the three colts had gone a mile in the
Champion Stakes it looked “ a guinea to a gooseberry
on Emir beating Scottish King and Lord Cardigan, the
Melbourne Cup winner (who made the running at a slow
pace) is also a fine mover, but he lacks the size and hasn t
the strong lines of the colt who was travelling easily in
the rear. Scottish King held the middle position. Com-
pared with the other’two the King is an ungainly worker,
an overgrown novice. He may be expected to improve
in his action if he keeps going, but meanwhile his massive
body is more impressive than his short, heavy legs, and
he looks likely to break down under the hard labor of his
gallops ere he has matured. The massive Great Scot was
a longer and better-balanced animal than Scottish King
when he ran second to Wakeful in the Champion last
year. Mr. M‘Donald’s colt finished last of the three on
Saturday, without having challenged the leader at any
point of the race. Lord Cardigan improved greatly on
his weak, sweating display in the Loch Plate, but when
he was tackled by Emir he appeared to be outclassed.
He could only struggle on under the whip whilst Bobby
Lewis shook the Ballarat colt up and won comfortably.
* » * *
Considering that Lord Cardigan’s jockey was
pacing under protest, and that Lewis on Emir chose to
stay in the rear for two miles, making no attempt to
hurry things up, it was a fair thing for the V.R.C. to
save £5OO on the race. The Champion Stakes is subject
to a time-limit condition. Unless the track is very
sticky, the club reduces the added money from £lOOO to
£5OO in the event of thb winner failing to get home within
5.45. Emir’s time was 5.45 J, and that odd Jsec., which
the winner might easily have clipped when coming down
the straight, cost the 'three owners a bit of money all
round. Second and third prizes were reduced by 150 sovs.
and 75 sovs. respectively, and the balance of the £5OO
reduction was “up against” the winning owner. The
time-limit will doubtless not be exceeded next year. In
the old days, before it was introduced, there were some
absurdly unsatisfactory races for the classic event. The
great Carbine took 6.32| for the job of winning a Cham-
pion from a weak field.
C * * * *
The two-year-old running this season has proved
as confusing as usual. Up to Saturday last the excel-
lence of Sylvanite was considered beyond question, but,
in the Select Stakes, the slashing Ballarat colt, starting
at 5 to 4, never got near to the leaders, who ran in pretty
much the same order from start to finish, the light-
weighted Ballark winning all the way. Here was a case
of the gate giving them a most unfair start. The leaders
got away in two pairs, lengths ahead of the remaining
four horses, and the left ones were the laggards all the
time.
• • * *
“B.”: Told now that Pendant’s stable chum, Sea
Kale, was so heavily backed for Newmarket Handicap,
while former was comparatively neglected except by her
owner, because Sea Kale proved better than Pendant at
the weight—running 6 furlongs in 1.16 with shoes on.
All things considered (her 9.12 load up and the holding
nature of the ground) Pendant’s performance probably
tops anything ever done in a Newmarket. Discovered
since the race that winner Mairp was more extensively
backed than was at first thought; one Sydney punter
took £lOOO to £4O on the course—£soo of it from one
book. Altogether, Mairp, in his half-score of years of
life, has started 84 times, and won 20 races. He is the
only aged nag that has succeeded in winning a New-
market.
• * • *
Finish of Newmarket Handicap was interesting
in that the two nags (Mairp and Pendant) battling it out
carried exponents of the old and the new methods.
Cooper (on Mairp) is a hard-and-fast believer of the “ sit-
up ” style, while Hood (on Pendant) is an alleged out-
and-out “Tod Sloaner”; but nearing the end it was
plainly demonstrated that the last-named isn’t such a
thorough believer in the ’Murkan way, for he sat up, too
—this after crouching between the speedy mare’s ears
during the greater part of the trip.
Said that Randwick trainer Kelso’s recent
property, Antique (winner of some good races over the
flat and the leps, but always the worst of unreliables),
figures between the shafts of a Sydney hansom now, or is
being put through his facings for that big come-down.
M.L. 16-year-old feather jockey Cotton, who
scales under 7st., looks like running the country’s crack
rider L. Hewitt very close. Like Hewitt, Cotton affects
the “ Sloan ” crouch and in a couple of close finishes at
Christchurch recently accounted for Hewitt, who was up
on a better fancied nag each time.
* * * *
It has been definitely decided by Mr. J. B.
Reid, owner of the flying M.L. mare, Gladsome, to pit her
against Australia's best in the w.f.a. events at the forth-
coming A.J.C. meeting at Randwick.
* « * »
“ Gun ” : Most remarkable improvement pre-
sent writer has seen for a long time in a nag’s per-
formances was that shown by winner (Loch Lqphie) of
principal event (Moorefield Handicap ljm.) at Moorefield
Saturday last. A week previously at Warwick Farm (in
Warwick Handicap) with same weight (6.7) up he finished
a bad fourth in a field of five, but at Moorefield he was in
front at the distance and scored comfortably ; and yet it
isn’t publicly known that the A.J.C. stewards have
asked a question concerning the occurrence.
* * * *
Major Taylor has promised to box a few rounds
with his Melbourne mentor at the Queen’s Hall, under
the Queensberry Club management. The darkie has
done a lot of sparring practice of late, and evidently
fancies himself with the gloves.
* * * *
The bulky amateur cyclist, Arthur Smyth, who
breaks records before breakfast, got off the chain again
last Saturdav, and, as usual before breakfast, broke the
Australian five miles amateur record which he created
himself, before breakfast, last year. The distance was
done in 7min. 12sec. This takes a lot- of beating, but is
still below that of H. D. Elkes, of America, who, on June
13, 1902, did it in 7min. 7 1-5 sec. Somehow, the world
doesn’t take Arthur Smyth’s records quite as seriously
as it ought—probably because they are always done
before breakfast, when the world is mostly fast asleep.
* * * *
It is a sad reflection on the quality of Australian
cycling that all the scratch men in the Sydney Thousand
are Yankees. Then there is Hardy Downing (U.S.A.)
10yds., O. L. Stevens (U.S.A.) 15yds., and the first Aus-
tralian on the list is Don Walker, way down on the 20yds.
mark. Alas ! our country.
* * * *
Sydney Thousand Meeting, which commenced
at Sydney Cricket Ground last (Wednesday) night, is now
the most richly gilded cycling event on earth. About
the healthiest lot of scramblers Australia has ever
assembled on one track are gathered together to try and
rake it in, and some of the most exciting racing seen
in Australia can be confidently looked forward to. The
event is a one mile handicap, unpaced, and the penalty
for teaming is sudden disqualification. All the same,
this writer is willing to wager what shreds of reputation
he has left that the riders will team for all they are worth,
and it will take a painful amount of watching to detect it
Appeal board of Victorian League of Wheelmen
has reduced the disqualification of Ivor Lawson from 12
to three months. This is a very unsatisfactory result.
Lawson will now miss the Sydney Thousand, but will be
eligible for a look in at the English, Continental, and
American coming seasons. As the appeal board was not
satisfied that Lawson smashed Taylor deliberately or by
design, but that the thing was really an accident through
Lawson trying to get the inside running before getting a
clear length ahead, the sentence seems excessive,
especially in the face of the fast that Taylor handles his
own wheel in a manner highly conducive to accidents.
* » * *
This year’s Fort-street School swimming carnival,
at Farmer’s baths, Sydney Domain, was the most successful
ever held. The day was perfect, and so were the arrange-
ments. The winning of the 100yds. championship of
N.S.W. by Cavill was expected, and was another illus-
tration of the fact that brains count for a lot in athletics.
The rapidity with which Dick turns is marvellous, and
neither Healy nor Wickham could compete against him
in suddenness. Wickham got in front at the start, but
Cavill made it up in the turn. In the last turn Healy and
Cavill touched simultaneously, but again the champion's
lightning reversal of position sent him ahead ; he seemed
to turn suddenly right over Healy and flash away as if
driven by machinery. He won by and Cecil Healy
beat Wickham by 4ft. Cavill’s time, 58 l-ssec., was 1-5
better than his own official record, but 1-5 slower than
his own time made a few weeks back which has not yet
been officially recognised. Healy’s effort was a very
courageous one ; he should have prospects before him.
L. Murray’s lmin. 3 4-ssec. for the 100 is the
fastest ever accomplished in a strictly school race, and is
a world’s record in its class. A few weeks ago he did the
same distance in lmin. 4 l-ssec. The improvement in
such a brief period indicates that Murray is coming on,
and may do something startling ere long.
This Saturday Farmer’s Rushcutter Bay
Baths (Sydney) will see the first carnival in connection
with the Australasian Championships Meeting. Maori-
land, Victoria, N.S.W. and Queensland will all be
represented, and the assortment of “ beautiful brown
legs ” on view will be splendid and varied.
• • • •
Final for Sydney bowling pennant, ’tween City
and previous holders (Petersham), at Victoria Park
Saturday, had exceptional green and weather conditions.
City led easily throughout and was only beaten (by 2) in
one rink. Every individual in a couple of the City’s fours
proved too much for his opponent while the other two
quartettes had a close thing each head. Winners were
never, at any stage, so much to the good as at the finish
when they showed a surplus of 43—118 to 75.
# * * »
Broken Hill police worked up a sensation on
Saturday by raiding an alleged betting club, and 63
prisoners—a mixed lot of business men, miners, and
nondescripts—were paraded through the streets while a
big crowd looked on. The spoil consisted of £l6O in cash
and a parcel of books, etc. Sunday saw the raiders busy
again—on a boarding-house where 12 arrests were made.
All admitted that they had been playing poker for money,
and paid ligs. (fine and costs) into the revenue, while the
boss of the show suffered to the tune of £2O. Broken
Hill people are doing some hard thinking in an endeavor
to account for this sudden uprising of the force, for it is
three or four years since the last raid was made.
• • • *
Fight between 50-year old Starlight (colored)
and the youthful Jack Willis, in Melbourne last week,
was a wretched display of gross partisanship on the part
of the crowd, and unpardonable ignorance by the
referee. At present when opposed to a black man a
white can do no wrong—unless he bites him, and then it
is considered a joke. Neither Starlight or Willis had any
punishing power, but they jostled and pushed. As
usual, Starlight was blamed by the crowd, although the
white man was the greater offender. The black man was
the more skilful, and the other hung on to avoid punish-
ment. In the IBth round, when Starlight had the
better of it, Willis again leaned all his weight on the
colored man, who, with the left, pushed his man upwards
and then back. Willis fell—a well-managed stage fall—
and claimed a foul, and referee Basto gave the verdict
against Starlight. It was no foul. Starlight had to
act as he did to get rid of his leech-like opponent, who
always did prefer cuddling to fighting.


Franz Josef Lager
THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. . . .
V .
Send for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
No. I—lsct.1 —15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, set with
Purest Pearls, £4 10s.
No. 2—Lovely Gold Spray Brooch, set with finest
Siberian Amethysts and Purest Pearls, £2 ss.
No. 3—Fine Gold and Lovely Pearls,
Lily-of-the-Valley Brooch, 32/6
No. 4—Solid Gold, set with Finest Pearls
and Turquoise, £1 7s. 6d.
km
Cl
No. s—lsct. Newest Rococco Bow Brooch ’
set with finest quality Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 75/-
No. 6- 15ot. Maiden Hair Fern, Pearl
or Pearl and Opal Spray Brooch, 7 5/-
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Limited,
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
V
o*
4
J
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Cuttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
yO
H
MAKERS OF
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Gordon Bennett Cup, 1903)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT ———K.
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
branches .NALL states. 374. Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & GO.
34 Queen St.,
Melbourne
y^
VJ-
10C0 Agents »n
Australasia.
About an ancient pioneer :
Mr. David Reid, who has just celebrated his diamond
wedding at Albury (N.S.W.), has had a notable Australian
experience. He came to Sydney with his parents in 1825,
being then two years old. At 16 years of age he went to
his father’s station on Monaro. Here he heard good
accounts of Port Phillip, and with 500 head of cattle
crossed the Murray at Albury and formed stations on the
Ovens River, which he held until 1844, when he married
and started on his own account, at Yackandandah. He
started the first flour mill, and commanded the trade of
a large area. Beechworth was on his run, and the out-
break of gold ruined him in a day. Subsequently he held
Barnawartha run when the Chiltern and Indigo diggings
broke out, and he was again ruined. In 1865 he moved
back to N.S. Wales and selected under old Jack Robertson’s
Band Act, formed a vineyard, and lived on the place
since. Mr. Reid, who is now 81 years of age, was the first
magistrate in the Border district.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Win Prizes on the Track.
Win Praises in the Bush.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 357 George St, Sydney
SS
sag
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- ONE COEPEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
SHARPSHOOTINg
fd
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK /
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/« rut, '
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ever Publlehed,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
Sl7 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
WILLIAMS’
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
■}
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR.
gdf
£2TEvery Bar
weighs 17
Honest English
Ounces, divided
into Six Oakes.
NOT SOLD IN
SLICES. 232
Clarence St.,
Sydney. Elliott
Bros. Ltd, Bris-
bane,soleag’nts
for Queensland.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
u
E
E
N
S
T
gd
IE
~wca<zia
WHY PONT
YOU WRITE
TO-DAY for Patterns of NEW AUTUMN SUITINGS, and compare my
Cash Price* with what you’ve been paying?
A credit store charges.you for the goods you get and for things your
neighbor gets .and fails to pay for.
My prices for really first-class —
HAND-FINISHED
Suits to Measure
60s to 85s
“ ECONOMIC”
Suits to Measure
35s to 50s
Posted Carriage Free anywhere, with “ Satisfaction Guaranteed or
Your Money Refunded.”
Names and Addresses of Prize Winners will be advertised
next w eek.
IA
Died at Ipswich (Q.) last week P.
O’Sullivan, aged about 90; last survivor, bar
absentee Herbert, of the original Q. State Parlia-
ment. Paddy arrived in Queensland from the
island where snakes don’t flourish in 1847, and
lived at Ipswich for 55 years. He leaves behind
him a big family, including seven sons—mostly
solicitors.
YOU FEEL DULL.
If your liver is sluggish and out of tone, and
you feel dull, bilious, constipated, take a dose of
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets to-night
before retiring, and you will feel all right in the
morning.*
The cheekiest thing the Freetrade Reps,
from N.S.W. have done for a long while was
to complain, the very first day of the new session,
about the advent of the sectarian issue in N.S.W.
politics. The spectacle of Wilks, the man whose
electoral campaign was one long scream about a
bogus R..C. “conspiracy” and a continued yowl
about the siege of some town in Ireland over two
centuries ago, complaining of the dragging-in of
the sectarian issue makes the old vision of Satan
reproving sin look like a back number.
Last Saturday The Bulletin received
four elaborately printed documents on four
separate sheets, all having reference to the N.S.W.
State Upper House. One set forth that the
petitions received during last session were nil;
another that the “ register of addresses for orders
and papers” was nil, and that the “register of
separate and joint addresses (not being for
papers) ” was also nil; a third announced that
the “ alphabetical list ” of new members was nil:
and the fourth intimated that the number of
meetings of certain Council committees was nil.
A few shillings might be saved by ceasing to print
all this blank uninteresting nil. Who on earth
reads the information that tne alphabetical list of
new members was bowled for a duck-egg, or that
the “ register of addresses for orders and papers ”
was out first ball ?
The Commission appointed in N.S.W. to
inquire into the troubles between the shearers’
unions comes to two conclusions—first, that the
M.S.TJ. is a bogus union; second, that its
existence hasn’t prejudiced and doesn’t prejudice
the fair hearing of any case which the A. W.U. —
the only legitimate union—may bring before the
Arbitration Court. As to the latter, it is probably
true enough, provided that the Court presumed
that the M.S. U. is bogus. But how it could pre-
sume that a union was bogus which it had itself
registered, and whose agreements it had adopted
as part of its own awards, isn’t easy to grasp. It
oould only presume that by also presuming that
the law under which it is working is a particularly
cross-eyed kind of ass.
If the man on the land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street as his Agent. No
results —no payments.*
Mrs. ALVIN BIXBY, Garden City, Minn.,
writes:
“ My two nieces were taken with WHOOPING-COUGH.
One was placed under care of our best doctor, but she
died. To the other we administered Jayne’s Expecto-
rant. She got well. She was by far the worst of the
two."*
If Victorian Premier Bent adheres to his
promise to take a Referendum re the proposed
introduction of Scripture lessons in Victorian
State schools there is just a chance that the result
will be a bad shock to the biblical crowd._ That
party has lately been taking a vote on its own
account in isolated places, and with itself as the
candidate, the returning officer, the scrutineer
and the three cheers that are given when the vic-
tory is won, it has, by its own account, been
gaining overwhelming successes. In fact, they
ave been so overwhelming that the public has
been struggling hard not to laugh in church over
the results. The whole thing lias suggested that
famous alleged war despatch by an alleged general
to his Government: “ The enemy lost 4750 killed.
On our side there was one birth.”
" \c-
/
m
S?f s\. s t:
mm
>\
r.y.\
DUM.OP
RUBBER HEEL 3
Prevent iarrinft.t, make
walking a pleasure. .
Obtainable all Boot Bhops
all sizee>.
THEOIMIOP PNEUMATIC TPREffOPAUSIID
MELB. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE.BRISBANE.
PERTH. CHRISTCHURCH N.Z.
Sydney
House:
ISO Clarence Si.


The achievements of Havelock, in India, have brought undying
fame to his credit. The defence of Cawnpore and the relief of
Lucknow are both stirring events in the history of that awful
Mutiny. The name of HAVELOCK will be remembered as the
greatest name in the long list of heroes that helped to save India to
the British nation.
And in the realms of commerce, no less than of war, the
name of •
HHVELOSK
will be remembered as the title and distinguishing mark of a great
achievement. . .
Not many years ago ** HAVELOCK” Tobacco was
unknown; to-day it is spoken of and smoked throughout the
Commonwealth.
The determination of the proprietors to succeed, the efforts
towards perfect manufacture, the almost heroic attempts to secure,
amidst the greatest competition, the finest selected leaf, the
incessant study of the taste of the Australian smoker, and, finally,
the constant daily eticrt to procure for “ HAVELOCK ” Tobacco
everything that was of the best —from the leaf in Virginia to the
most skilled workmen and the best machinery—has built up for
“ HAVELOCK” Tobacco an enduring reputation that few will be
found to question. It is no exaggeration to say, that ♦ •
“HAVELOSK”
is the best pipe-smoking tobacco in the world —best made, best
material, and best in all those qualities that the intelligent smoker
looks for.
“ Havelock” is sold in plugs or tins—Aromatic or Dark.
Patents for Inventions.—Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
The interesting remains of an ancient note-
book were rummaged out of a box in South Aus-
tralia recently. After Captain Sturt had finished
his travels he settled down at the Grange, just
outside of JBefore leaving for England
he told his gardener to clear out a lot of old papers
and burn them. The gardener’s wife turned up
while the clearing-up process was on, picked this
book out of the heap, and carried it off; but, as it
began and ended nowhere, it was thrown into
another box. Later on the gardener’s son, think-
ing that it might have some value, put it aside ;
and now he turns it out. It is apparently part of
the rough original notes of Sturt’s diary during
his best known expedition—that of 1844-s—and
contains entries running from April to November,
1845 r It contains an account of Depot Glen,
where the party camped during about the worst
summer that any exploring party ever struck, and
of the illness of Poole, the surveyor of the party,
who died there, and was buried at what is now
called Mt. Poole —the grave was pictured in The
Bulletin three or four years ago. Pages have
been torn out of the book in several places
(probable Sturt used them in making up his two-
volume story of the expedition), but what is left of
it will, it is understood, be handed over to the
Adelaide Public Library.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
. < R. -- .
w
A
B
A
S
H
S
Y
S
T
E
M
S
Send for Catalogue To-day.
SYSTEM and METHOD in the Office
Save TIME, LABOR and MONEY
JOHN SANDS, ? 0 °r L Lst^ a T
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch —
W. Wolley & Son, Agents,
Equitable Bldg. Melbourne.
Queensland Branch—
H. J. Diddamb & Co. Agents,
Brisbane.
“BUSHMA
HARRY MORANT: His ’Ventures and Verses
CANEER
55
PRICE Is. Id. (Post Free),
SOME
SOLD
SIR ROBERT!
fg
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BKBBAOm
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Be. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new' 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE QOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BA RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, East Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 6d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. SOP Established 30 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is-
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappiio, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is.; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology. 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions,. Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Lse It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic. 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age ok Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney


S. Australia lias had a craze during the last few
years for transporting the dried-out farmers of
the north to the south-east. It has for years
talked vaguely about this south-east as “The
Garden of the State,” though when northern
farmers, who had probably often talked like that
themselves, have gone down to inspect the garden
they have had some difficulty in finding it. The
fact is that, around a few centres of old volcanic
activity, the black soil is phenomenally rich, and
the landlords reap great harvests by letting it out
to potato-growers at a dizzy rental for a few
months. But by far the most of the country is
dog-poor; in itself it is poorer than most
of the north, and the only advantage
it has is a slightly better rainfall. This
season, in the Mount Gambier district,
which is about the pick of the lot, the wheat
crops have not averaged 10 bushels to the acre
and the sample is not to be compared to most
northern wheats. Any scheme for transporting
large numbers of northern farmers will therefore
fizzle out for a certainty. In fact, it is difficult
to conceive of any scheme for turning S. Australia
into a great or even middle-sized agricultural
country that isn’t a wild cat on the face of it.
Arthur Griffith to The Bulletin
If anyone wishes to see the perfection of the Jack-
W ant - Chamber - of - Commerce - Oon tractors’ - Association
ideal “ Private Enterprise ” in good working he should
study Sydney Brooks’ article in the Dec. Fortnightly,
“ Tammany Again.” Some of the New York papers ex-
pressed amazement that the wealthy and reputable
classes should have supported Tammany at the recent
municipal elections, on which Mr. Brooks comments :
“The reason why they did so is surely obvious enough.
There are in New York about 2500 corporations (com-
panies and syndicates controlling public services) that
are subject to regulation by the law. Their fortunes are,
therefore, nolessdependentthanthoseof the saloon-keeper
or the owner of a gambling den upon the goodwill and pro-
tection of the city government. At this very moment
the municipality of New York is prosecuting claims that
amount to nearly £5,000,000 against various water, gas
and electric-lighting companies. The Reformers have
been moving heaven and earth to bring these cases into
court and press for judgment; Tammany, for a con-
sideration, will abandon them. If you were a director or
a stockholder in one of these companies, very much in-
tent on money-making, very little concerned in politics,
for whom would you vote ?—for Tammany, of course I
One is constantly told in New York that Tammany is
good to the poor. It is certainly good to the rich, and
the rich appreciate and reciprocate its kindness.” The
great public services must be conducted by someone.
The Labor party’s ideal is that they should be worked by
the State for the benefit of the whole community. The
“ Deform ” crowd want them run by “ private enter-
prise” for the benefit of a wealthy clique, which means
Tammany
Sydney D.T. complains :—
How is it that it is almost always men of such wide
experience and such power that alone can attain to the
highest political offices in America? In spite of the
abuses that have crept into American machine politics,
high federal posts are still the rewards of genuine ser-
vice. They do not fall to untried men who can “ tickle
the ears of the groundlings.” Americans do not jump
from comparative insignificance to seats in the Senate.
A man who wishes to have a public career must prove the
stuff of which he is made in more ways than mere talking.
Which is sheer impudence coming from the paper
which was, more than any other, responsible for
booming Mr. Reed into the N.S.W. Premiership
though he had no other qualification than his
capacity for “tickling the ears of the groundlings,”
and which helped to put such nonentities as Gray,
Neild, Walker, Millen, Pulsford and—well,
really one can’t recollect names which are mere
names—into the Senate. If the D.T. really wants
know why N.S.W. has such a poor crowd of
politicians compared with America, it can find
much of the reason in its own indecent campaigns
against any man of national merit, and its own
frenzied appeals on behalf of little sectarian
insects.
+
A cry from the land of the sunset and the jarrah :
Bitter complaints are being made'by would-be selectors
of Crown lands in AVestralia as to the treatment they
receive from the Groper Lands Department. In response
the invitation to visit Groperland and to take up
land of superior quality, close to railways and full of
flowing creeks,” for next to nothing, scores of farmers
have gone across from the Eas ern States. Several large
estates, mostly consisting of rough, thickly-timbered
country, alternated with big patches of the everlasting
sand, have been bought back by the Department and in
some cases thrown open for selection. Applicants call at
the Lands O.fice in Perth, and find that it has no apparent
knowledge of anything. It shunts them into the
wilderness to find a ranger and he shown round,
>ut as to w'hat they will be shown it seems
to he blankly ignorant. Then the fanner and the
ranger swarm up precipitous jarrah-clad ranges, over
rocks and sand patches and desolation, for the Westralian
hush is hungrier and more forbidding than any other
msh on earth. Should, by a piece of rare luck, some
f url.v good land be discovered, ten chances to one that it
is on an area not available for selection. In any case, the
would-be selector only returns to Perth to bump up
against the blank ignorance of the Lands Office, which
seldom can identify the piece of land that is wanted, and
can rarely be convinced that there is any' such place on
earth. Then the farmer writes to the papers and
denounces Lands Minister Hopkins. After that he
probably goes home again.
London Times, commenting on the dear old
War Office: 8
f * ; * la *' an ' ncom petent person who is doing his
stupid best should be superseded, even in moments of
national crisis, by a competent person, is foreign to the
whole scheme of military thought.
N.S. Wales is just realising on the biggest har-
vest on record, yet we come across things like
this: —
Gronq Grong. —A public meeting was held here last
week to consider the question of repayment to the
Government for seed-wheat and chaff advanced during
the drought. A large number of farmers from surround-
ing districts attended. It was pointed out that the
position of the farmers still demanded the utmost help
from the Government. The farmer had bi r no means got
to the top of the hill yet, in fact he had only just begun
the climb. The Government stated during the time of
the trouble that they were anxious to help the farmer,
and restore heart to the man on the land. Now was their
time to show their honest intentions and determination
to do so. What many of the farmers wanted was exten-
sion of time to pay the Government for the seed and chaff
advanced.
It may be all true, but when the farmer, in one of
the best-watered parts of N.S.W., with the best
harvest on record, still ‘[demands the utmost help
from the Government,” it is plainly time to give
up regarding agriculture as the backbone of this
sterile oountry. A baokbone that doesn’t require
so much assistance and outside support is needed.
Dr. Allan McLaughlin, in the Popular Science
Monthly :
The real danger to the public health from immigration
lies in that class of immigrants whose physique is much
below American standards, whose employment is in the
sweat-shop, and whose residence is the east side tene-
ments in New York city. It is necessary for us to
restrict, and debar if possible, all undesirable immigra-
tion. A jealous regard for the public weal may demand
measures and standards which seem to the humanitarian
and philanthropist selfish and inhuman; but charity
begins at home, and it is the right of Americans to ex-
clude the undesirable, and to employ whatever measures,
and set whatever standards may seem necessary, to shut
out any class which menaces the social and physical
welfare of the country. There should be one standard of
physique for the immigrant, no matter whether his
destination be the Pennsylvanian mines or the New York
sweat-shops. The skilled laborer should be expected to
possess the same rugged physique as is now expected of
the unskilled laborer. The standard should be fixed by
law by comparison with other well-recognised standards
of physique, and should be sufficiently high to exclude
all who could not, beyond doubt, make a living at hard
manual labor. The wording of the law should be definite
enough to make the medical certificate of poor physique
equivalent to exportation.
♦
“Pacha ” about a visit to England :
The Australian has only a faint idea of the poverty of
the submerged half (not tenth) in England. I know of a
large insurance company in London that employs able-
bodied men as clerks on thirty shillings a week. If
a man asks for a rise he gets the sack. I never could
understand how people of this class make both ends
meet. Many of them are married too. But the clerks
are bloated aristocrats compared with the unskilled,
horny-handed workers. The pay of all kinds of laborers,
except in foundries and the like, is bad, and work is at
best irregular. To show the British notion of a fair
wage: A few years ago the Rt. Hon. A. J. Mundella,
President of the Board of Trade, told the House of
Commons how he had befriended an inventor. “I gave
him a job at our works, and paid him thirty shillings a
week until he perfected his machine.” Mundella was
a kindly man according to his lights, but such a speech
would be received by an Australian audience with cries
of “sweater.” And yet the poverty-stricken half of the
population talk about the Empire, and walk about in a
state of dread lest England should become “ a third-rate
power." Met a pious gentleman recently who delivered,
for my benefit, an excellent homily on religion and
patriotism. When we fell to talking about S’Africa, he
said, incidentally, that if the Boers again rebelled against
their lawful sovereign, he would put every man of them
to the sword. He was an Englishman.
E YOU
* BAD LEG
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps «ur-
roiunhd with inflammation and swollen that when you
pie * vonr finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion v If go, untier the skin you have poison that defies ah
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
niay be discoloured, or there may be wouuds ; the disease
if allowed to continue w ill deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
Bl, k ,n it to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
I don’t say perhaps ; but l WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured,
bend ut once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
liuuseiuaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
lianas, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
nuiiioni, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
ai rrl I, 1 ?,?* Great Britain, l/ljd. per b *x. Prepared bv
AIBKRI 73, Farringdon-strcet, London, England.
Agents •. (M.I.IOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi th*registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
gieeu label on each bux. (Kegd. copyrigU*!.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
58. t P. 0.0., or stamps.
S. RECKNAqeI NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffaoh, Germany.
dfg
df
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
'lnvigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Visitors to the Old Country
BAILEYS
tfOVAL
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUT/Z RENS/NG TON,
LONDON. S.IY.
HOTEL
THE NEW LOUNGE : ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
self-coi\.teuived suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
THE PIANOLA
Can be seen and
heard at the Show-
rooms :
323 George 8t. f
SYDNEY,
AND
185 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Informal Recitals
Daily.
Call and inspect
this wonderful in-
strument, or write
for our Illustrated
Booklet, mailed free
on application. Ask
for Catalog B, ex-
plaining what can
be done with the
Pianola.
\W,>
THE PIANOLA is invaluable to the hostess in the city or the
country home. With its aid you can play on the piano any
kind of music, sacred, classical, dance, operatic, songs, accom-
paniments, etc., and play them well. All records supplied from
our immense circulating Libraries. JSTearly ten thousand
(10,000) different records of piano music in stock.
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.
Sole Agents for
.. Australasia. ..
If YOU WANT IT
M ‘ CET IT WITH A
KODAK
OuT.
r
MM
Bsm
4
t* v *
' JIS».'
W rx
l"i,"■'.(■■% -gf-Vl,. 7, ' .. ■%/ ' •' •
.<*•:»s 4'" •"
■' i ■•?- * SfSD FOP
SEND FOR
) *» r *y f ; CATALOGUE ,
OFALL DEALERS OR ,
« KODAK
AWNTIgN^-HISPAPt^
THE VERT HATE ST
FUNNY BOOKS
Hot Shots, 112 pages, full of
Quaint Pictures and Funny Yarns
Drummer’s Yarns, Piping
Hot, 112 pages, fully illustrated.
Side Splitters, 112 pages with
94 Comic Pictures.
Just for Fun, 128 pages, with
125 Racy Illustrations.
The Boss Joke Book, 112
pages, with 116 Funny Pictures.
A Barrel of Jokes, 128 pages
of Sparkling Wit and Comic
Sketches.
A Bushel of Laughs, 112
pages, full of Good Things and
Funny Pictures.
Price, Ninepence each posted to any
address, or any Three Books for 2/-,
or the Entire Series (Seven Books) for
4/. post free.
Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins St., Melbourne.
"Swan” Peas are investments
others—speculations.
Fitting*
Pena
To Writers’
IS
Hon
Is our specialty. 1
No matter what
sort of a pen you are
accustomed to using, we can match It ex-
actly. This most famous gold pen fitted to
Tn?Sv#vK
fouKTAiK
gives yon the best writing instrument mad&
ounds large, doesn’t it? None too large. We
are always ready to back up these statements
with, “ Jbur money back if not satisfied"
MABIE, TODD V BARD.
London and Manchester, England.
Sold by Stationers! Jewellers, and Importers.
Hi
Acetylene
Gas
Itable lamps.
OUR ADVANCE is
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
ACETYLENE GAB
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Bosiness Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Large Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on Hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO
161 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
yMUSHED VIGOR.
Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain' exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vinegar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s., eng.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.


CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS, which are perfectly harmless, gently
stimulate liver and bowels to expel poisonous
matter, cleanse the system and absolutely cure
constipation and sick headache. *
Isay
T
fIOLDH
U FRUTEX
BILIOUSNESS.
CONSTIPATION,
** INOICESTION.
If 6 BOX.
CHOICE TIPS.
From the famous
farms of South Africa
Black, White, or
Cream.
5/-
The Bunch.
Post Free.
Worth 15/-
m
We make this special offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips
Write Now. Send Postal Note
or ss. Money Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Theatrical business is evidently overdone in the Land
of the Timber Ham. During last November and December
it is reckoned that 185 touring companies broke up for
lack of support, and that 8500 dismasted actors started to
walk home, with a view of going into the peanut business
or some other solvent calling.
Amusements.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY
OF NS W.
grand Commonwealth Show.
30th March to 7th APRIL, 1904.
PRIZE SCHEDULES
MAY be had on application.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 1 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
Theatre
Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS & FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
of Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S
MUSICAL COMEDY
COMPANY in
SAN TOY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. gy PRICES AS USUAL,
| |ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCE of MR. TREE’S
FAMOUS COMPANY in a
MAGNIFICENT REVIVAL of the World’s Record Drama
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES .. as
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT .. as
Box Plan at Paling’s, 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
MERCIA.
MARCUS.
| YCE U M THEATRE, SYDNEY.
La Lessee Mr. George Miisgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANRI:RSDN.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of WILLIAM ANDERSON S
New and Original Melodramatic Romance, by Messrs.
Myles Wallerton and Francis Gilbert,
THE BEST MUST WIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 12, THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM F. HAWTREY AND COMPANY in the
World’s Great Laughing Success,
The Lady of Ostend.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co^
YVONNE LEYERRIER,
THE GREAT PIANISTE.
MATINEE CONCERT in the
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
NEXT MONDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 14.
11. N. SOUTHWELL, Manager.
THE
MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
„„d OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Neiv Heels.
(@o'“ Admission FREE.
y | VOLI T HE'AT RE, S YDNEf.
| VOLI THfcA I nc, T. V
- Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Reception of America’s Operatic Soprano,
Miss FRANCES LESLIE.
Emphatic Success of MR. JOHNNY JOHNSTON.
A Huge Success, CLARKE and HAMILTON.
LAST LIGHTS of THE THREE DUMONDS.
Mr LAL LOGIE, Miss NITA LEETE.
Mr. ERNEST FITTS, Mr. HARVEY, Miss
FLORRIE RANGER, THE CLARENCE SISTERS
Latest Biograph Importation, Canadian Salmon Fisng
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
O Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
First Appearance of Mrs. SIMS REEVES.
Great Success of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his Performing
DOCS and CATS.
FRED. RUSSELL. Ventriloquial Humorist
THE COLLIERS, MALVENA MOORE, LESWARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN
To be Presented Shortly, Mr. Rickard’s New Coon Sketch,
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD LAMM ■
THEATRE, MELBOURNE
“ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
ELEVENTH WEEK and LAST NIGHTS ° f v
flr WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
\ COUNTRY GIRL.
Nero Songs, Neiv Dances, New Selections.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock^
rHEATR 15 ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* Lessee " lr 'J
i,... Bland Holt.
Business Manager •' O. Simonsens.
Final Production in Melbourne of
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in the
Great Drury Lane Dramatic Novelty,
.HE FLOOD Tir,E ’
by Cecil Raleigh.
„„„ 3 S> 2s 6d, 2s, is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allans.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, for a Short Season Only,
WILLOUGHBY AND CEACH
present
A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND
jar'
It will just suit you, if you
LIKE THE BRIGHTEST AND BEST. _
PRICES— Ss., 3s„ and
STEYNE COURT,
MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 P-m. daily-
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES - TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION,
New Attractions—BlJOU THEATRE, " BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO.
South New Moon, Bendigo, was Victoria’s
biggest gold producer last year but its is not quite
so high just now. The disturbing element utotett
in the reef met with at 1140 ft. which the sto.ie to
pinch. That level was the bonanza of the mine, a
helped to sweeten up the rest of the quartz sent to the
battery The break affected the quality of the stone ,
hence y late reduced yields. Still these do not
mean that dividends are going to cease, nor
is it altogether certain that South New Moon will
be actually deposed from, its premier position as
plenty of stone is exposed in the mine to ensure good
returns for many a year. The outlook at Present,
however, is that yields will not be so hl K h hitherto.
There is, of course, the hope that the new make of stone
cut in the Clarence may avert a reduction in yields,
but this stone has yet to be proved by the South.
* * *
Peter Finlayson, chairman of the Bong
Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.) has done a foolish
thing. He has attempted to prove that there is four
years’ stone in sight in the mine. It is a matter of easy
computation. No. 7 level and above is an unknown
quantity and it is admitted that the stone being broken
there is not as good as the quartz at depth and that the
margin between gold contents and expenses is very
slight. However, put the quantity in sight at No. 7at
5000 tons, that at the No. 20 level (which is nearly worked
out) at 2000 tons, and then take the blocks in the 21 and
22 levels. Average the reef here at 4 ft. fch ™ l 'K ho dt,take
the average lengths of the two levels as oOOft. and the
average of stone unstoped as 70ft. in each, and it
will be seen that with the battery crushing 1200 tons per
month there cannot be anything like four y e ® rs sfc °"® in
sight. It is a pity that Finlayson decided to argue,
because the reef in the Long Tunnel, No. 21, 22 and 23
crosscuts, north-west shaft, went down practically veiti
cal, that the same thing would happen in the Extended.
The two points are hundreds of feet apart, and it has to
be remembered that on the boundary of the two Proper-
ties, so far as the reef was developed m the Long Tunnel
mine, the underlie was about normal-viz., 15ft. in 100 ft.
What makes the reference more unfortunate is that the
reef in the bottom levels of the Tunnel left the dyke.
This, no doubt, accounted for the poorer grade of the
stone. If the Extended has to look for a similar experi-
ence, then with costs as high as they are the co. runs the
risk of having to look somewhere else for dividends.
** * •
What a miserable affair is the burst of water at
the Spring Hill Leads mine, Oreswick, but how well-
deserved ! The board was changed by some of the
shareholders, who found fault with Browne, the mine
manager, for wanting to push on to the diamond du
bore that indicated settled country to the north. JLhen
when he went east, against his better judgment, he
seems to have been led to go farther than he ought
to have driven. Result, the flooding of the ltufie.
All that can be done is to pump and pump and pump, it
may be that the flooding will enable the water to be got
away sooner than otherwise would have been the case, for
pumps and tanks are both in use. Anyway, the Berry
United, next door, must profit, and so all the antagonism
of some of the shareholders to that claim goes for naught.
* * * *
Keats, of Melbourne' Stock Exchange, may
shortly visit London to test the weight of Bull’s purse.
This is not his first venture in that direction, for he had
a hand in inducing the British financier to embark in the
Ohillagoe scheme. It was not Keats eloquence
that convinced, for there is nothing of the Horatio
Bottomley about him. He is quiet in his ways and
halting in his address, yet he has the knack of ™a kln g
friends. Stewart, of Broken Hill, was the Aladdin of
Ohillagoe in the old days, and it is understood that
Hoover (of Bewick and Moreing) is to rub the magic
lamp this time. The idea is to extend the Ohillagoe
railway to the Etheridge, and John Bull is to be asked to
find fiinds. Where the money will be made by the pro-
moters will be in floating off Etheridge options that have
been picked up cheap. Understood that Bull is being
offered Etheridge properties apart from Keats lot.
* * * * -
Reported that -T. Bull is being tried with a
litter of Etheridge (N.Q.) wild-cats, several of which have
already been pretty well hawked round this side, while
even the Maoriland market has been tried without success.
There are some good enough claims on the Etheridge, but
they are not in the sack that has been taken to Europe.
Some big crushings have come lately from the old
Gilbert district ; the Joseph Morris (owned by Win.
Morris) sent out 3700 z. from 9 tons. Kitchener, Roberts,
and Majuba Hill, in that vicinity, have very rich
leaders. Georgetown and Cumberland districts have
also had some good crushings^-the. Leichhardt,
Hawkins’ Hill, No. 1 S.Durham, Harts Content,
No 1 Wexford (4oz. crushing lately), Better Luck
(lately 30z.), and Caledonia (20z., with even better
to follow) are looking like good shows. Most of them
are held by syndicates of miners. The International is
another that promises all right. Though the announced
results from these are genuine, Etheridge figures can t
always be relied upon. One game is to hold back the
cyanide gold, and use it for salting purposes.; that was
how one 4oz. crushing was formerly got from lldwt-
stone. „ „ '
* * * *
The Bulletin has just received a copy of the
share list of a new South African co. (capital £2,000,000)
founded for some mining enterprise or other. Apart
from eight companies, mostly French, German, or Swiss,
which own shares, there are 78 shareholders, of whom
the names of 74 are as follows :
Beit (2), Bischoffsheim, Breitmeyer, D’Erlanger,
Dunkelsbuhler, Eckstein, Freidlander (2), Goldschmidt,
Imroth, Lowinsky, Maro, Memertzhagen, Meyer,
Michaelis, Neumann, RieS, Rdthscbild (3), Rube, Schu-
macher Seear, Speyer, Wagner, Wernher, Ausbacher,
Benard! Blumenthal, D’Anvers (2), Deutsch (2), Dreyfus,
Epbrussi, Fleurquin, Gunzburg, Haendler, Janslowsky,
Kahn, Kann, Kulp, Leon, Mangras, Oppenheim, Forges
(2), Roubot, Schulz, Stein, Thery, Andreae, Daniel,
Ohrambach, Traube, Gutman, Hausemann, Scboeller,
Marks, Rutnelin, Mueller, Nathan, Rich, Posenberger,
Stein, Schiff, Wertheimer (2), Wetzlar, Sinzheimar,
Bischoffsheim, Kamil, Cassel.
There are four other names which might be Englis’ t
though two of them are doubtful. The above arc,
apparently, 74 of the oppressed Britons for whom we
fought against old Oom Paul. *
A dozen S’African mine divs. for last year
Ferreira 1871 per cent. = £168,750
Crown Reef .. 15-1 .. •> 1 86 > 00C
' Bonanza .. .. 100 „ „ „ 200,000
Henry Nourse .. •• W 0 „ .. » 125,000
Wemmer.. • •••W0 =O,OOO
Durban Roodepoort .. 75 „ „ „ 93, oO
Geldenhuis .. • • 60 „ „ „ 120,000
Angelo 50 » » » l 3 '- 500
Crown Deep .. •• 50 „ „ „ 150,000
Geldenhuis Deep .. 45 „ „ „ 135,000
:: :: 8 ;; ;; ;; ToS
The Robinson paid 11 percent, on the huge capitalisation
nf f-> 750 000 Even the Simmer and Jack, though it v\ as
unloaded onto a co. with the boom capital of £3,000,000,
nevertheless paid 5 per cent. .The years total divs. for
the Rand had reached £3,450,000 when the last available
figures were issued, and it was expected that before the
year ended close upon another half-nnllion would be
forthcoming—more than was ever paid before, except in
one boom year. And yet, in spite of these enormous
dividends, the bosses of S’Africa, mostly foreign Jews,
have induced millions to believe their transparent lie
that cheaper yellow labor is indispensable to the working
of the mines. * » *
The world’s gold production last year, as nearly
as it can yet be stated, was worth £68,135,000, of which
Australasia contributed about £18,370,000 or 27 per cent
Taking Australasia in this way as one single producer, it
more than any other country in the world—some-
thin" like £2 600,000 more than the United States and
£5 620,000 more than the Transvaal No other country
nrinvoaches these figures ; Russia, which is fourth on the
has considerably less than a third of Australasia’s
out-turn. The totals and proportions may be set down as
follow :
Australasia .. •• £18,370,000 27 per cent.
United States . .. 15,770,000 23 „ „
Transvaal 12,750,000 19 „ „
Russia .. •• 5,000,000 7 „ „
Canada •• 4,100,000 6 „ ~
Mexico . - • • 2,600,000 , 4 „
All others 9,545,000 14 ~ ~
The increase in output during the past few years is
amarine. Even in " the fifties,” when on top of the
Californian came the Australian discoveries, the annual
average was only £28,250,000, while between 1881 and
1890 the average fell just short of £19,000,000— but little
more than the present production of Australasia alone.
It is interesting to recall in this connection that in the
fifties there was such a scare regarding, the increasing
production of gold that in many leases it was provided
that payment might be required to be made in silver.
The present big gold production has, however, done
silver a bad turn in this way : it has kdled stone-dead
the agitation for bimetallism, which was based chieflj on
the shortage of the gold supply.
At Poverty Point.
After a serious illness which has lasted five or ®Jxyears,
Miss Flora Graupner is now restored tc
She has returned to her father s house in Melbourne, and
some who have heard her sing reckon thathervoiceis
richer than when she was a star in Williamson and
Musgrove’s Comic Opera Company. There is some talk
about her return to the stage.
Elsie Moore leaves for London by the Mongolia on
29th March, to fulfil an engagement at Daly 8 Theatre, in
one of Edwardes’ musical comedy companies.
In a dramatic sense Britain is still as far from having
a free press as ever it was. The official crasorhMju
prohibited the production of a drama called The vvnite
Slaves of London,” because “ the dialogue tends to make
workmen dissatisfied with their lot and to excite cla
feeling.”
The departure of a stage novice who left for other lands,
a few days ago, makes one the less in Melbourne claiming
a well-known Australian actress for her mother, lhere
are quite half-a-dozen with this cry, but this novice was
the most persistent.
Cracked mirrors in the dressing-rooms of a Melbourne
theatre bear witness to the broils and throwing of hard
objects that made up the doings and spare time ol a
swagger dramatic company not long departed to Jturope.
Thomasllorton, alleged to have shot his wife at Adelaide
on Feb. 27, is a pretty expert juggler, and he tried to run a
season at the Tivoli in that city some months ago. The
people did not come along, and the modest week which
he aimed at filling was a cruel frost. He got money from
his mother and went to England to try his hand as a
juggler there, but once more struck an unappreciative
world.
Oirnoc, the man in the Rickards show who laughs at
locks and escapes from handcuffs, has been striking some
trouble in the West. This side the police couldn tbe in-
veigled into trying their skill upon him ; over in Perth
they were not so stand-offish, and handed out a handcuff
which Oirnoc barred, on the ground that it wasn t of
“ regulation pattern.” The local Com. of Police answered
effectively enough by stating that the bracelet was
a well-advertised production of an American firm and was
in considerable use among Westralian officers. All things
considered, Oirnoc seems to have had a good deal of luck
not to have struck Westralia first.
Somebody has been commenting on the wondrous
botany of Japan, as it appears in English comic opera.
The first act of “ The Geisha,” for instance, is supposed
to happen in the middle of the cherry-blossom season,
and the second act (timed 24 hours later) brings chrysan-
themums into full bloom. But why didn’t the critic
confine his scorn to the ordinary scenic vagaries of
drama, in which daffodils and other early vegetables
usually grow at harvest time? Nothing can be more
impossible than a basketful of artificial flowers fresh
gathered from the garden by an innocent young dramatic
heroine. She sticks huge dahlias into the vases on the
parlor table, and then she makes up a buttonhole of
primroses for Jack’s .coat, and selects two blue roses and
a poppy for dear old dad.
Apropos Tanner, the freak who has been fasting 21
days in Maoriland. Ten years ago this alleged fasting
foolishness was a brief craze, and two or three of the
stupid “ shows ran almost simultaneously. Some of them
may have been genuine enough ; one or two weren’t—one
certainly; for it was found out that the ‘‘faster had
hired a wet-nurse beforehand, Who visited him when no-
body else was about, and he got enough in that way to
keep himself going.
When Bland Holt stages “The Great Millionaire” in
Sydney he will do well to rationalise the scene where
Kin"- Edward and Queen Alexandra come along to the
Guildhall. These silent characters were ludicrously mis-
represented in all respects when the drama got its trial
production at Melbourne Royal. For the first week or
two Edward was rather too short and much too lean for
the billet, and later on he was replaced by a tall, burly
fellow with a dark bushy beard. The Queen was the
same cheerful young woman all the time. Moreover,
they were dolled up in crowns and “ coronation robes ”
of the penny pictorial kind, so that the arrival of the
royal pair and their attendant courtiers reminded one of
the comic House of Peers coming to mash Phyllis in
“ lolanthe.” This is in open defiance of the fact that Holt s
imported poster-pictures of the scene showed King Ned
in military togs with a cocked hat on his august head.
Australian notions of regal mummery are not so unso-
phisticated that a showman can afford to present an up-
to-date monarch as a person who wears his crown and
robes when visiting the Lord Mayor.
Beerbohm Tree didn’t make a financial success of
“ Resurrection ” last year at His Majesty’s, Haymarket,
Fogtown. Ghastly Siberian-convict posters were scat-
tered lavishly from Hampstead to Blackheath, but the
promised horrors didn’t make your head swim round or
clutch you by the throat when the show was going on.
You just missed them every time. Lena Ashwell cussed
and swore and looked blear-eyed and dishevelled enough
as Katusha in the prison scene with the other drunken
hags, but when she lurched up to tidy Dmitry you only
thought “How very unpleasant for the gentleman!
The gentleman himself was gloomy, unperturbed—an
unconvincing blurred stage-figure. Londoners prefei
musical comedy to tragedy' that fails to trag, and Resur-
rection” had to put on its grave-clothes. Beerbohm
Tree, after his unfruitful “Resurrection,” essayed “The
Gord’ian Knot,” which didn’t catch on. Ran one ot
perhaps two nights. Yells, hoots and hisses greeted the
performers, first night, through all its dreary dulness. At
the end of the performance Tree tried to make a speech,
and in an interval between the howls he managed to get
out “ The author is not in the house.” Then he fled. If
Tree had been found with a pair of wings on trying to be
an Elijah the crowd could hardly have been more dis-
respectful. By way of added bitterness, the remark
“the author is not in the house ” became a catchword.
A manageress who had been doing “ Hamlet,” or some-
thing of the sort, came before the curtain shortly after
to assure the audience that Shakespeare wasn’t on the
premises.
The convict hulk Success, formerly a penal ash-barrel off
Williamstown (Vic.), is being exhibited at various impor-
tant coastal cities of Great Britain, and will shortly go to
advertise our birthstain in the United States. Unless
the old dug-out sinks, pretty nearly all the world will
hear of our birthstain. Still, the U.S. can’t say much.
It was in the same line of business at one time.
Santley, after testing Linda O’Hara’s mighty chest
notes: “She has the appearance of 13 and the organ of
30. After a few years of study she will outshine Clara
Butt in oratorio.” Which is enthusiastic, coming from a
man like Santley. If the prophecy be fulfilled, the critics
of the Svdney dailies who let fall a heavy weight of faint
praise on Miss O’Hara when she last sang in Sydney, will
realise that it is sometimes a mistake to keep opinion on
the chain until they hear what Europe thinks.
Backwash from the Chicago horror. Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Melbourne, prints on the programme a plan of
the exits “ in case of fire.”
In comparison with the pedal-propel led machine,
the tyres of a motor-cycle have to stand very severe and
sudden strains and a greatly-added weight. Necessarily
for this reason a satisfactory tyre for motor work should
be made particularly strong and stout, and be a thorough
shield against punctures. In the Dunlop motor tyre the
very highest skill and precision enters into its construc-
tion ; it is, in fact, the embodiment of all that a motor-
bicycle tyre should be- -speedy, durable, and strong.
In this issue, on page 17, appears a portrait
of that famous, or notorious, buckjumper, Dargan’s
Gray, now the property of the Martini Brothers.
Messrs. Martini have suffered much annoyance
owing to ill-informed papers having spread areporir
that the original Dargan’s Grayis deadandthat the
present animal is a substitute rung in by an
enterprising showman. The genuine outlaw was
so well known that the portrait will doubtless
settle all question as to his identity.
The Federal Immigration Act gets m
where it was intended it should. In the' "WR
land (Victoria) coal miners lock-out many of
shift bosses left with the men. The companies
immediately rushed off to Grat Britain for shi
bosses to take over the work. As a result m
arrived. The miners’ representatives appealed
to the Federal authorities on the g rou^ d tb^
these men were coming in under contract, but
both the new arrivals and their employers demo
the existence of any contract nothing could be
done, and the new arrivals went on to the mines.
They were totally ignorant of the state of anairs
there, but when informed by the strikers five of
them refused to go to work. The compames a
helpless ; they can’t prosecute for breach ot con-
tract after denying the existence of any contracc.
It is worth remembering just here that when tne
Immigration Act was before Parliament, the tat
men rose like a forest of stumps to declare that no
employer would ever attempt to obtain .
from outside when a lock-out was in progress.
The British House of Lords has got some
little distance in a sensible career—it has agreed to
the second reading of the Bill providing for a com-
pulsory system of metric weights and measures, to
come into force two years after the passing of the
Act. Apropos, a codicil to the will of the late
Herbert Spencer, who was a strong opponent ot
the metric system, and wanted to retain the
ancient confusion, provides that in the event ot a
Bill for the compulsory adoption of metric weights
and measures being introduced into Parliament
within 10 years after his death, his work,
“ Against the Metric System,” should be reprinted
from the stereotyped plates and distributed gratis
at the cost of his estate among Members of Parlia-
ment. Also that it should be sold to the public at
a nominal price.
Dowie Elijah’s early history in brief
Born Edinburgh ’47. Barents brought him in ’6O to
Adelaide, where he drove a quill in a storekeepers office
for seven years or so. In ’67 he returned to> Edinbui g
and studied for the ministry. Returned to Adelaide 72,
and was ordained pastor at Alma (S.A.). Went to Sydney
in Sept. ’73, and had a church at Manly. Accepted a
“ call” to the Newtown Congregational Church, where he
prayed from 75 to 78. Then he renounced Oongre-
gationalism and started the Free Christian Church.
In' ’B2 went to the Sackville-street (Collmgwood)
tabernacle—a wooden building behind Wrens tote
Ousted from that by the previous occupant of the
pulpit, Dowie started again on his own in Fitzroy, where
he had lively arguments—even scrimmages—with several
publicans, outside whose premises he was wont to
assemble on Sunday and urge them to give up the
accursed traffic'and come out and be saved. One came
out once with a hose .attached to the water-main, ana
Dowie’s feathers were wet. At Fitzroy he first started the
“faith-healing” industry. In-November, 87, he resigned
from his Fitzroy church and ran a nine days mission ot
“ preaching and healing ”in Sydney. Thence he went to
Maoriland where his mission success was great illumi-
nated addresses and purses being thrust on him. in
Christchurch he met a printer named Abbott, aprayertui
man of solemn habit of thought. Him he persuaded to
take- up the Fitzroy Bethel. The ex-printer still preaches
in Oollingwood, and between whiles celebrates marriages
at an agency and does a little phrenological diagnosing.
Christchu-rch. seems to be specially favored of
parsons of the Dowie genus—thence came also
Worthington. From M.L. Dowie went on to
America and fame.
Nearly 40 years ago, when the site of the
old George-street cemetery was given to the
Sydney City Council for the building of a town
hall, the contract for removing the bones, &c., fell
to a Sydney undertaker, Mr. Stewart, of Bathurst-
street. From recent evidences the work was very
imperfectly performed. When the foundations
for'' the Centennial Hall were being' excavated
many skeletons were unearthed, the same hap-
pened when the foundations for the deanery were
being'dug out; again, others were‘found when The
porch was being built, and last week bones, coffins
and leg-irons were dug up while the men were en-
gaged in digging a trench for the electric-light
cable.


the ROAD to HEALTH
I
I
o
o
:
\
■
m
m
WHAT FAMOUS MEDICAL EXPERTS SAY.
0 N Srlw Sv frien<i friend,
HOW ARE YOU? The Specialist m Disease is every
vnn ? e T pu - s the uestion in another form. ARE
tv U P ls , a serious question, but it involves
much. Disease is a Departure from Health, and heralds break-up
of the System, wreck of the Constitution, and possible Death If
not speedy death, perhaps long years of physical torture.
" y° u t ?f e llJ > and are not what you should be at your age • if
your Vital Power has departed, and Life and its Pleasures are a thing
of the past, call on or consult by letter the famous Medical Experts of
A Freeman $ Wallace |l)edical Institute
Specialists m the Treatment and Cure of grave Functional and
Chronic Diseases of Nerve, Blood, or Stomach origin. They may be
consulted either personally or by letter FREE OF CHARGE.
READ THESE TESTIMONIES.
Every man who values his
health should read these
great testimonies from these great men. They are each well-known to the
HAVE R a FF P N nnßFn rta M u | ey suffe i ed ’ certain jt is «1«> thlt they
CURED. Mr. Newbury and Mr. O’Connor wore for a FFW
WEEKS the wonderful Nerve-Restoring* Electric “ INVIGORATOT? ” mnnnf*w
tured by the Specialists at their Electric Belt Factory in S?d®tJ, and or“h
they have Anstrahan patent rights. These Belts are sold for ONE POUND
ONLY, and not £5, £lO, or £2O. Remember this when purchasing an Electric
Belt. These testimonies are taken from thousands of others received from
cured and grateful men who have tried the electro-medicil mpHinHo o
Specialists after all other means had failed, and had Wme c U “d‘
Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY.
Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
Eminent English Tenor, suffered
from Uric Acid in the Blood.
Wearing an Electric “ INVIGOR-
ATOR,” he says : *
“I have worn one of your
famous nerve-restoring- Electric
‘ Invigorators.’ For years I suf-
fered from Uric Acid in the
Blood. Thanks to its efficacy I
am completely cured.”
Hon. DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Mr. O’CONNOR, M.P., in the
Parliament of New South Wales,
and ex-Minister of the Crown,
writes in the following strain of
the wonderful efficacy of our “IN-
VIGORATOR ” Belt:
“I have worn one of your
famous Belts ; it has benefited
me much. I was troubled with
severe pains in the kidneys,
which have now left me.”
TW P artl , c . ulars of these wonderful Electric Invigorating
Belts. They are highly certificated. They are unequalled in
restoring strength to weak and debilitated men. q
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Sydney and
Melbourne.
Do Not Buy
an
Electric Belt
until you
have seen
The Freeman
and Wallace
“ Invigorator ”
Belt
sold for
One Pound
Only.
It will save
you many
Pounds.
WEAK, FEEBLE MEN.
Men who have lost Strength, Energy,
Ambition, who are Nervous and Irrit-
able, who suffer from RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO; who are crippled with Aching Joints; who suffer from
various Skin Diseases, resulting from Impure Blood or Inactive Livers ; who suffer
from Restlessness or Insomnia, Aching Back, Flatulency, Asthma, Palpitation of
the Heart, Varicocele, etc., or who wake with a nasty taste in the mouth, more
tired than when they went to bed; to all such sufferers, we say, visit the
Specialists associated with the Medical Staff of
The Freeman & Wallace. Medical Institute
Ihey remove speedily, by their own scientific methods, the above ailments ;
they strengthen every weak person; they cause every vital of the
body to work in a correct condition, and for Varicocele, and Aching and
Weak Backs, instant relief is obtained. You can regain your Vitality,
and find pleasure in other things. They will Cure you Permanently. ’
Thousands have been cured by them. Their fame and name is house-
hold talk throughout Australia.
Every man receives hourly an object-lesson in Life. He is
brought Face to Face with the great fact that Life is uncertain,
and Death and Disease sure enemies. He is alive to-day, but TO-
MORROW HE MAY BE DEAD. To-day, he may have
passed the last milestone on the road of Existence. It is well for
all men to think seriously over this great fact, MEN ! WE
SAY UNTO YOU do not trifle with danger. Treat Disease
as you would treat the fuse leading to a deadly bomb. Stamp it
out, and do it while you have time. Disease is your enemy. It is a sure Dreoursor of nairi trihnla*;™ _
If you are ill, suffering from an alleged “incurable” disease, consult the^S r Slsts of P ’ tnbulatlon > and tears -
gdf
gdf
g
The Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute,
Sydney and Melbourne,
and you will find them the greatest of Medical Experts in diagnosing and treaties? pravp n
system. I hey have cured more men of their troubles than any similar association of medical men in Australasia!
ihe Physicians=in=Chief to both the Sydney and Melbourne Institutes are
Registered by Australian, English, and American Medical Boards. Thev are
Hedical Experts of great International ability, and are recognised as such bv
many scientific centres of experiment and instruction.
If you require
a Splendid
Medical Work
for
One Shilling
send for
“ Clinical
Experiences,’ *
150 Medical
Plates,
570 Pages.
It is a Book
essentially
for Men and
worth a
Pound a Page.
IMPORTANT TO MEN!
Any man may, if he so desires,
through private reasons of his own,
consult th 3 Specialists, by addressing privately “ THE SECRETARY ” 227
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, or Cor. Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne,
opp. c P.O. In some instances, a man may not be able to call personally,
and may prefer to write upon matters seriously concerning himself. All
suoh letters are promptly replied to by the Physioian-in-Chief to the
Institute, who is Qualified and Registered by the Medical Boards of Aus-
tralia, England and America. He is essentially a Medical Expert in the
irrv,! M r’ B DiSOrderB ’ of international reputation, and unques-
t.on ble skill. Any man suffering would do well to consult him upon all
matters concerning his health. H
FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Melbourne Branch—Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts., Opp. g.p.o.
Uncle Sam’s Daughters in Chicago.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
American women are nothing if not ingenious.
When they are suddenly forced out into the arena
of life they seem to find no lack of paths open
before them. Besides the profession of foot-pad
which they are exploiting at present (three men
having been successfully “held-up” by a single,
armed woman a few weeks ago) they have entered
various other grooves.
Though domestic help in the ordinary sense of
the word is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain,
you can easily secure a variety of assistants. A
“ professional duster” will visit your home at
stated hours, the clock winder will follow her, and
later in the day the plant waterer will make her
appearance on her accustomed round.
As for less mundane matters, you can hire a
charming American to visit the nursery and tell
fairy stories to the children for the modest sum of
two shillings an hour —one wonders how the
delioate myths fare when brought into the dollar
scale.
For fivepence you can have your boots shined
by a feminine bootblack, and for a coin just as
modest in proportion you can have your hair cut,
or even a shave, if you are willing to risk it. A
trust is being formed in this as in all other busi-
nesses, and a strenuous effort is being made to
congregate all the “female stars of the tonsorial
profession” beneath one roof, as the frequent
advertisements say. A short time ago, a jealous
barber-husband, having an hour to spare, walked
in to see how his fascinating wife was progressing
with her numerous customers. The result was
that the ready revolver was drawn and shots flew.
It was a busy hour in the day, the chairs were
full of recumbent forms, yet every occupant
sprang up, towels, lather and all, and dashed
frantically out into State-street.
One charming lady of a literary turn has
realised that life is too short to admit of time
being spared from calls, shopping, and the proper
conduct of the toilette, to enable Chicagoans to
read, study, and inwardly digest the fiotions
of the great masters. Wishing to supply
this crying need, she has started wnat is literally
a “Society of Condensers,” though she describes
herself as a “re-creator of the Great Masters,”
and guarantees to give you the essence of such
works as. “The Tale of Two Cities” or Hugo’s
“Les Miserables” in the space of two hours.
The last-mentioned book cost her years of labor
before she .could present it to her satisfaction in
the given time. “ But—Victor is so verbose ! ”
Who but one of Uncle Sam’s daughters would
think of claiming no less a sum than £lOOO because
some other woman had alienated the affections of
her pug dog ? Could any but an American
woman claim and obtain a divorce on the ground
that her husband came home with a single blonde
hair on his sleeve, or because he wore a wig and it
affected her nerves ? Yet these were the only
crimes necessary on the husband’s part to enable
the wives to obtain instant freedom, one in the
record time of six minutes.
I only know of one case in the States when a
idea for divorce failed, and in this instance it was
the husband who desired it. His young wife
would persist in feeding him on “ unholy and dis-
tasteful concoctions.” The judge, however, held
that she had a perfect right to feed him on what
she chose, especially when she tearfully owned
they were “love potions.” He had not kissed her
as warmly of late as he had done during the first
few weeks of their matrimonial venture.
Another case, still hangs in the balance just
now. A certain dame in Ohio is suing for a
divorce from her husband on the ground that he
is jealous of the family cat!
MAORILANDA.
Cardinal Herrera y Espinosa, Archbishop
of Valencia, who died the other day, left £2OOO
“to the first Spanish general landing in the
United States territory with an army sufficiently
strong to avenge the defeat of Cuba and the
Philippines.’’ The money will remain in the
Bank of Spain till the general makes his appear-
ance to claim it, and if it remains long enough at
compound interest a few centuries hence the
game may be worth the candle.


“Burglar Bill”: In gaol the day the
Queen died. All the grey-coats were elated,
thinking remission of sentences would be granted
by the new King. When no remission arrived,
the long-sentence prisoners started to pray for
Edward Vll.’s death, thinking they might have
better luck with his successor. Only met three
loyal prisoners—-they were all Wussleans.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“Demos”: Re Christianising effects, of
civilisation on indented colored labor. Missionary
Baker reports a mine superintendent’s remark
regarding Kaffirs in compounds : “They come to
us savages, and they leave us fiends.”
the high-class washing material
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BEGAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ lias
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
TJUSHMAN and
BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
(1871)
1872
1873
vm
s
1877
1878
187<)
1888
1881
Q
1883
i§B?
1885
18%
1887
THIRTY-FOUR YEARS SELLING RELIABLE WATCHES.
L *
,
:vfr^
: i
$
j&jfi
ss
i
m
»>> «
This shows a really dainty little watch, popularly
known as the “Princess.” Although we sell many of
these every year, we seldom have a complaint reach
us, and this should be a good guarantee that it is a
reliable article. We make with silver or gold engraved
cases in open face and full hunting. The movement
is keyless and properly jewelled. 18ct. Gold Hunter,
£5 10/-. 18ct. Gold Open Face, £5 10/-. Silver
| Hunter, £2 10/-. Silver Open Face, £2.
\ -®
r
W
02
This is a modern Lever Watch, with finely finished
gilt movement, exposed polished steel winding wheels,
strong keyless mechanism, jewelled in 14 actions, and
guaranteed to be a correct timekeeper. We supply
this watch in four styles—Crystal Front, Polished
Steel Case, 25/- ; Hunting Polished Steel Cases, 30/-;
Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Ca.se, 35/- ; Hunting Solid
Silver Cases, 40/-.
Our Watch Booklet,
48 Pages, entitled
“Honest Watches,”
will he sent Free
on request*
READ :THIS
LITTLE BIT OF
OUR'HISTORY.
IN the year eighteen-seventy-one we occu-
pied a small store in Park Road, Liver-
pool, England, where we sold a watch
now and again, but not nearly so often as
we would have liked nor as often as we con-
sidered such reliable watches should be sold.
We were confident that our watches were as l
good as could be got—the trouble was how i
to get the public to know. We pondered ,
over this subject day and night and finally
concluded that we would try what the news-
-1 papers could do for us. Such a thing as
1 selling watches through advertisements had
i never been done in England before, still we
were convinced that once the general public
knew that our watches were what we said
they were—Reliable—we must succeed.
You know how it is with a man who has a
dependable watch—he is proud of it and
1 loves to speak of its accuracy, and naturally
i the firm who supplied the watch comes in for
, a full share of the credit. Well—we put
i our everything into the venture. How we
succeeded our eight splendid Australasian
* stores give testimony. Orders flowed in
> from all over the World, particularly from
> Australia and New Zealand. In fact, so
I numerous were the orders that we decided
to open in Sydney. Our success was
. phenomenal, and in Melbourne, Auckland,
[ and Dunedin we had to open shops, followed
* later by Perth, Wellington, Christchurch,
f and Brisbane, each being a success. What
[better proof of the satisfactory performance
of our watches do you want 1
fdg
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Cased Watch,
suitable for young ladies. It has a reliable jewelled
movement—exquisitively engraved solid 14et. gold
cases—strong keyless work, and altogether is a sound
and serviceable watch. It is possible to sell a gold
watch at a lower price, but as the time-keeping and
construction is not such as would give lasting satis-
faction to our customers, we do not stock them.
Price, £4 10s.
/
S'
m
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths, is
rightly named the “ Triumph,” inasmuch as, although
sold by us at such a low price, it is a gigantic
“Triumph” in quality over any other low-priced watch
already in the market. It has a very fine-finished,
full-jewelled keyless short-winding movement, and
the case is made of a very hard nickel, beautifully
polished, fitted with unbreakable crystal glass. Price
18/6. With Silver Case, 30 /-.
We sell all Kinds
of Watches in Gold,
Silver and Metal
Cases—except the
Unreliable Kind*
miL
f amo7it
r
If they had not been Reliable we could not have existed.
r
1888)
1889 f
1890]
1891 ’
1892
1893
1894
1895
1896
1897
1903
1904
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
I
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The
says
ltS 63.VW..W..
reputation of its own.
Bender’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
British Medical Journal
“ Benger’s Food has by
roiipnee established a
Cairns.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australians generally have a vague idea that
Cairns is rather Asiatic in appearance, produces
cocoanuts and bananas, is the centre of a large
sugar and mining district, counts amongst its
population representatives of many colored races
—and the rest is hazy and unknown.
it is a gloriously beautiful spot, and in the
winter is a Paradise. Its seas are the calmest in
the world. One can stand within fifteen yards of
the water and there i 3 not a murmur—only an in-
finite mirror stretching away to the horizon, and
all the beauties of land and sky reflected on its
surface. There are hills everywhere. Far behind
the town they tower away to cloudland—to the
right they rise sheer out of the sea to a height of
3000 ft. There is range after range of sun-flecked
hills, well-wooded and green and beautiful, and
far away is the beginning of the Bellenden Ker
Range, with its high peaks cutting the clouds.
The highest point in this.range is about 7000 ft.
high, and is the second loftiest peak in Australia.
The trip up after one leaves Mackay forms a
series of beauty-pictures in itself, and the lovely
scenery one meets with coming through Whit-
sunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel is
hardly to be surpassed. The sea is always like a
mirror here, and one passes through hundreds of
islands. In Whitsunday Passage they are covered
with Norfolk pines, and well-wooded all oyer.
Some of the islands are mere dots of gardens just
showing above the waves ; others are larger and
more hilly. Hinchinbrook Channel is almost
lovelier, and the Palm Islands are very fair —
carpeted in green to the edge of the sea. There
are tiny islets of granite showing here and there,
with green mosses trailing over. A strange feature
of the islands of this channel and Whitsunday is
their leonine shape. In the latter passage one
large island looks exactly like a lion couchant,
and is generally known as Lion Island, and there
is this same peculiar feature noticeable in all of
them.
On reaching Cairns the boat anchors in an inlet
of Trinity Bay. The bay itself is very beautiful,
and is capable of accommodating “ all the navies
of the world.”
The main street of Cairns has not a busy ap-
pearance, arid its buildings of wood and galvanised
iron are hardly imposing, but there are trees
everywhere, green, and wide-spreading, and cool,
with leaves of a glossy green, and great twisted
trunks. There is a greenness wherever one turns,
and the air is sweetly scented with the frangi-
panni. Some distance from the main street is
Chinatown, where there are rows and rows of
Chinese and Japanese shops and houses, and
where one hardly meets a white face.
Twenty-two miles by rail, and eight as the crow
flies, are the Barron Falls, which are connected
with the town by the most costly railway in Aus-
tralia. All the way up the scenery is magnificent,
more rugged and grand than that of the Blue
Mountains of N.S.W., with greater suggestions
of vastness in the lines of the hills and the sudden
blackness of the gorges. The falls are beautiful
at all times, but they are magnificent in flood.
About eight miles from Kuranda, the train passes
the Stony Creek Falls so closely that after rain,
when there is a heavy fall of water, the carriages
are soaked with spray. These falls, though not
very high, are classed with the most beautiful in
Australia. The first cascade is 400 ft. high, the
second 900 ft., and on all sides the most delicate
ferns grow, their fronds sparkling with silver
spray.
At Mareeba, which is beyond the Falls, the
temperature is 10° below that of Cairns, it being
some 2000 ft. above sea level. The whole district
around Barron Falls is starred with many spots of
loveliness, which some day will be haunted by
tourists, as the Blue Mountains are to-day.
Queenslanders do not advertise their State suffi-
ciently ; its beauties are comparatively unknown.
Cairns is a star set with stars. It is all beauti-
ful. From a balcony one has a variety of scenery
—a glimpse of the inlet of the bay, where the
great cedar logs lie afloat; the dark, tree-covered
mountains; the ocean ; and a green sward of
velvet reaching to the edge of the salt water. At
full tide one walks along the strand over short,
crisp grasses, with the sea lapping softly not a,
foot away. Back from the strand are dear little
homes with the wildest of little gardens, and m
every garden frangipanni, and strange little bells
of scarlet, and palms —palms everywhere, and
vines trailing up the verandah -posts.
In the hot weather business men cease work
early, and go to the baths (there is no open-sea
bathing, on account of sharks), or walk along the
strand, under the shady trees. The town looks
like some great garden, with its trees everywhere.
Under each one is a comfortable seat. Towards
evening the black boys go down to the beach and
hold converse with the aboriginal girls. In the
evening, too, the Kanakas stray, one behind the
other, along the shore, silent and morose, and
occasionally one meets a dozen or so Hindus, tall
and thin, with sad faces and melancholy eyes, and
gaily-colored turbans of filth around their heads.
At sunset, when the sea is like some great
masterpiece, with its painted hills and rose-colored
clouds, when the nearer hills are all gray or
purple, or faintly sun-flecked, and the blue, far
mountains have faded into a violet sky, the
sailing boats drop down the bay and steer for the
inlet, the shadows of the sails flitting across the
sea like white ocean-ghosts. _
And in this sweet land the white man takes ott
his hat to the Chinaman !
ELFIE J. KELLEHER.


)
Trade
J ihj Luv
Mark
c
HC above Cpabe Mark is a guarantee of socipboess of Material
apb Quality of bye of all . . .
C } ,
MERINO COATINGS ®> SERGES
ot) wbicb it is staropeb.
BEWARE
. OF .
IMITATIONS
Shese Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the heading bailors and drapers
THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
* *' * * f 1 f
FOX BROS. (EL Co., Ltd,, Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND.
As tbe result of mapy years experiepce FOX’S PURC
INDIGO DYC is pecogpiseb as tbe best ip tbe
mapket.
All FOX’S Series apb
yarbs op tbe back
PURE INDIGO
apb without tbis stamp ape pot gepuipe.
Coatipgs are stampeb every two
FOX
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “ Gounod” M. PLANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—‘'Cavelleria Rusticana ... MADAME CALVE
To Anthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) . SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... MADAME VIALTZEVA
Andante “ Favourita ”... ... ... M. RENA.UD
Lullaby from “ Harold ” ... ... MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
lt is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home; naturally, you ask how 1 The answer is ready
once means Of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
* ir sfc agent> W^ere y° u ma y liear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
lOPHOjSTE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
' I——
No. 3
New Type
£4.
fd
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia —
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & 00., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland
HEINHOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
— ivi HUKiraiasia;
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government havingimposeda tax
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersalls on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra tor ea
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
HOW OPEH
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 50,000 at 5/L
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 4, 50,000 at 5/1.
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 11, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PAROEIi
DELIVERY CO. or EIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works : DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA <«s Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
■Hie WMP 111 ■■■ >4ll M NM p I g !+| Igi 0T -F+.— ■■■ v '4N
TTip-hest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay*
For all information regarding Fates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
too ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my oase. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ OASEI
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonoe,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TRKM ELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
•mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
an for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Tows, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Lien welly n,
“ Katunga, Vic.
"Mr. Hearne.—
"Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years eld, also
oured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
" 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not trj- it. Ori the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
"Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send ms on#
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED,
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of hronohltie
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
▲ SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Chanevllle,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great manj - different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne $
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: “I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
■wANoqOffice: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3582.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally%


SSMUyg
y
■m
OB
C/fa
A
m
'<J
0
■55^3)
TlSfßSm*
*«r
<ss
fe ll IJh
-Diity woodwork or any part of the house that requires
cleaning can best be cleaned by using
Sunlight Soup
It will remove every particle of dirt and make the whole house
bright and cheeiy. Absolutely pure, and every bar possesses re-
markable cleansing power.
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white and won't injure the hands.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY. , a
OYEZ!
YOU CAN BE CURED.
You may have been suffering even for years from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Q ravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
to perform the work allotted to them in Nature's Scheme. Nature will tolerate no irregularity.
of mvt ar ®, wo^j c ! n ? perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from any
of the worlTper for med by^th ose vitaLorgans* is^gh ven * *“* *" the f ° llowin e deScri e tio “
mianSnfi a " eyS fil r r a ? d ® xt f ct from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
f fk u are dlsP p lved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid
anill l .al and mmera l matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce’
lostl B^< J fcU^) ° 11 *** not must
e r‘*t i y er, ~- r P tbe bver various substances are actually made from the blood
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver Takes sugar from h« hf i
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again suSv it to the l ’
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric add wh?ch is T
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpusdeswh ch have K\hc .
and Li«r“!™ r reSd JT tZ°d ij™''of'.footed specially to diaea,™ ot the Kidnev
»»»«'■ Sof. Cure. if,™ rXli ' L ™ rld "
organ, being «, ia.edin".“>»” «» j™. thei
after many disappointments, the me Heine which possessed th* * body s waste material, and,
degree was at length discovered. W.,r it rß ?. ul , r ? d actlon the fullest
Debilitv. Warned Sate Cure cSs“lf thS ItoU1 toUe ’ Eladdei ' Troubles - and General
This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe cTre ° f the ' < ?“ ordw -
hope of recovery wm bit* sent°post^ree'Yy'lf^H^W 011 ™ 8 eff j e \ en whprv
Australasian Branch, Melbourne. 1 ’ by H * Hl Warner aild Co - Limim. r
The Ghosts’ Play-Time.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When all the world is sleeping
(The world that lives by day)
And stars are vigils keeping,
The Ghosts come out to play.
There is a city quiet,
With houses green and low;
Black Care rides swiftly by it—
For in he may not go.
The white doors of its houses
Full well their secrets keep;
No postman’s knock arouses
The inmates from their sleep.
Each silent tenement there
Securicy denotes—
No landlord comes for rent there,
No canvasser for votes.
No car or cab approaches
Its gates with dust and din,
But black glass-sided coaches
Move slowly out and in.
So quiet is that city,
So free from vulgar care,
No politicians witty
Make rousing speeches there.
But when the world is sleeping—
The world that lives by day—
Its citizens come creeping,
Or leaping, out to play.
Is that a ground-flame glancing
From grave to grave ? Ah, no !
It is two lovers dancing,
Who died long years ago.
At rest from all their labors,
At end of all their woes,
Behold where two tomb-neighbors
Are playing dominoes !
The game is no wise vapid—
See how on his white door,
With phosphor pencil rapid,
Each spectre marks his score !
And Aged Ghosts converse there
With ardor ever fresh,
And curious tales rehearse there
Of tilings done in the flesh.
They say that Sydney City
May lie improved, but she
Is not—and more’s the pity—
The Town she used to be.
What wreaths of mist are swirling
Across the moonlit sky.
It is the Shroud Dance whirling—
The gay young Ghosts flit by.
Fear not! They will not harm you—
I know them ; they know me—
They simply wish to charm you
To join their company.
When all the world is sleeping
(The world that lives by day),
And stars are vigils keeping,
The Ghosts come out to play.
N.S.W.
V.J.D.
Bonchetti's Boarders,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
kstraTjTa in the moonlight. Stunted gum,
sand, rock, mulga, and empty “dog’’-tins. The
iglits and noises of the Slung Star Mine show in
the distance ; ditto those of March and Erek-
mann’s.
Bonchetti sat on a bag of ore—one out of a
uge pyramid of them, piled up, waiting to be
milled—-with his violin-handle tucked under his
cnin ; Morrison smoked.
Queer place for “ Masaniello,” “II Barbiere,”
and such things. Queer place for anything, for
that matter.
Bonchetti put his ’lin down presently, and
smoked, too ; a broad, short stack of muscle, half-
Australian, half-Italian.
hen his pipe was emptied, he yawned and
picked up the instrument of music. “ How
about bed, Jack?” he queried, flicking the
strings. Morrison uncoiled the yards of himself,
and ambled off to bunk like a child.
Bonchetti followed, and stowed the violin away
under his stretcher. Then he lay down likewise,
without blowing the candle out, chiefly because
there wasn’t any.
Morrison’s snore and the distant r-r-r-r-r of the
blung Star battery made a kind of harmony
together, and Bonchetti absently beat time to it
on the empty dynamite case alongside his bunk.
Presently Morrison gave over, and the battery
was left to it alone.
n/r*Jr^ ■^ anus > Dinny, Dinny, Dinny
M Manus, the wakeful one tapped, following
the stamper beat: “Damn it; why can’t I goto
About one, his eyes closed at last, and he slept,
with the bare, muscle-roped arm and hand still
moving uneasily .on the packing case. Between
that time and 2.30 he woke thrice, and kicked
and cursed things. At three he sat up with a
jerk.
“Somebody’s calling me,” he muttered. “Or
did I dream it ? It sounded like my wife’s voice-
but she s away east.”
Of a sudden there was the slightest noise out-
side-just a rustle, and Bonehetti’s hand slid
under his bag pillow. It came out with a heavy
Uolt m it. J
Outside it was lighter than before, but the huge
pile of bagged ore cast a dark shadow around the
camp. Bonchetti stepped softly through the sand
m his bare feet, and glanced around a promontory
formed by the ramifications of the ore-pile A
man was leaning lazily on the brace; one hand on
the handle, and gazing away over towards the
flickering lights of the Slung Star.
“Good little girl,” the little man whispered to
himself; “ good little girl. She did call me.”
Then the rope dangling down the shaft moved
from side to side. Bonchetti slipped round the
corner and jammed the revolver-barrel to the lazy
man’s ear.
“What game’s this?” he asked, in an angry
whisper. The man at the brace yelled, and
nearly fell down the open shaft.
Bonchetti’s face hardened. “ You ruffian ! ore-
stealing, hey? How many of you below?” The
other’s teeth chattered, “ T-two !”
“That all? Up with that bucket then, and
into it, you thief ! ”
The other grasped the windlass-handle with the
Colt-end still at his ear, and hoisted the bucket.
Bonchetti cursed. “ Into her, or I’ll blow your
brains from here to Kookynie. Into her, quick 1
Try a day or two’s starvation, you thieves ! ”
The other got in, with knees clattering together
like young stampers. Bonchetti lowered him, by
letting go when the rope was about half out, en-
tailing a further drop of 10 or 15ft. There was a
sudden buzz of voices from below, and the brace-
man wound the bucket up empty. Then he laid
three or four rough-chopped planks across the
shaft, piled a dozen heavy bags of ore on top of
them, and went back to his bunk and slept the
sleep of the indignantly just.
He woke at seven. Morrison was grinning at
him with a coil of fuse in his hand. “ Takin’ full
measure, Bon. ? ”
The Italian thought hard, then spoke: “Yes,
chuck that fuse down. We’ll take a breeze to-day
and go over and see March and Erckmann about
crushing our stuff. Time we got it through ;
there’s nineteen hundred bags of it.” Morrison
dropped the fuse obediently.
About 10 o’clock Bonchetti put his coat on and
they ambled off towards the battery. Morrison
squinted at the pile over the shaft as they went,
but said nothing. Bonchetti noticed the glance
and grinned. “ That’s through your snoring last
night. You kicked up such a darn row I thought
you’d scare the shaft away, so I piled a few bag-
fullson her to keep her down.” Morrison smiled
a 12-in. smile, and said nothing again.
About 11 they hove-to at the office-door of
March and Erokinann’s. The accountant-cum-
clerk turned round in his chair.
Bonchetti nodded, “March about?” The
accountant looked puzzled. “No, he’s not; both
he and Erckmann are away. Anything I can
do?”
Bonchetti smiled. “Oh no, I just wanted to
arrange with them to crush our stuff. Will look
in to-morrow. So-long.”
“So-long,” the accountant echoed; he was
thinking furiously, and might have said “Goto
blazes ” for all he knew.
Morrison was still standing gazing at March
and Co.’s muck-heap when Bonchetti came out of
the office. “ Let’s go over to the Slung Star and
have a yarn with Charlie, anyhow,” he said.
“We’ll make some sort of a holiday out of it.
* * * *
Whisky and other magnetic influences kept
them at “Charlie’s” all day and all night, and
the boss of the Star parted with them regretfully
about 9 a.m. next day.
He stood on his dusty office doorstep—six-feet-
six of him—and waved a fraternal good-bye.
“ Hooroo, boys, look over next week. I’ll have
another stock of whisky in by then. Sorry it ran
out.”
Bonchetti and his mate nodded, and made
tracks for their own show. Passing March’s, Bon-
chetti said, “Let’s look in and see if either of
them’s back.”
They looked in. The accountant was sitting on
his table, his feet in the chair. “ Either of them
back yet? Bonchetti queried. The accountant
shook his head “No; damned if I know where
they are; funny business to slope away without
saying a word. It’s our pay-day to-morrow,
too.”
“Is it?” Bonchetti looked grave. “PVaps
they ve gone into town on the bust—the show can
stand it, I suppose.”
Damned if it can,” the accountant snapped;
then he continued, with unusual confidence, “ It
can t stand a single cheap shypoo drunk. I’m
sick of the show, and the pair of sharps that run
it. Want an accountant over at your place?”
Bonchetti laughed. “Not yet—some day,
p rhaps ; our stuff’s as thick as mud.”
* l f s it?” the accountant remarked, wearily;
we re getting about an ounce to the cubic mile.
Going? So-long.”
* * * .
Bonchetti yawned after dinner, and stood up.
Damn work ! I suppose we’d better get to it,
though. Morrison smiled, and doubled round
the ore promontory to the shaft; Bonchecti fol-
lowed.
When the last bag and the planks had been
taken off, he looked at Morrison. “Lower her
empty, Jack,” he said, “and hang on to the
handle when she comes to the surface again.
We re taking boarders in for a change.” He
smiled here grimly, and Morrison saw, with sur-
pnse he was the kind of quiet man that doesn’t
understand trepidation—that Bonchetti had his
big revolver in his hand.
, What sU P ' 'he slid. Bonchetti leant over
the shaft and dropped a couple of small rocks
down with his left hand. “ Ore shakers, old man,
that sail; had’em cooling below since the night
before last. S pose they heard that we kept the
extra rich stuff below, and went down there rather
than shake a few bags from the top here. Down
with her now, and let’s see who they are. The
cuss I found at the brace and sent below for
company was a stranger to me.”
Morrison lowered her, and then stood by; his
quiet dog-eyes full of determination and desire to
stoush. Bonchetti dropped another small boulder
down the shaft.
“Below there, you dogs!” he called. “Get in
one of you ; and remember there’s a small Norden-
teldt ready to go off as soon as you get to the
surface if you try any tricks.
J’iiere was an oscillation of the rope from side
to side, and presently a blanched, gray and yellow
mud-spattered face appeared above the surface!
Bonchetti lifted his Colt, and then let it drop
Wl xr an ? azemen t- “God Almighty— March /”
March made a weak, ghastly-faced movement to
get out; Bonchetti picked up his artillery quickly
and rested the barrel on March’s vest. “Go
slow, you robber 1 What have you been doing
down our shaft ? ” 6
March smiled painfully. “ Prospecting a bit ;
wanted to know which way your lode trended.
Ours is about run out.”
Bonchetti smiied, but pressed the Colt firmly
against March’s breastbone, “Oh; got that
nodded 11111 ’ al ° llg with you ’ 1 su PP ose • ”
“ And the other visitor—the gentleman I sent
®, ep you from getting melancholy
he S a neW hand ' He bought it was just
one of our supernumerary shafts.” J
a slight movement; his mate
waved his free hand. “Be quiet, Jack; I’m
go ng to make a profitable bargain with this
gentleman on our joint behalf. See that heap of
bagged ore, March?” March’s head wagged
downwards, and Bonchetti continued :
“Well, there’s 1900 bags there. You’ll cart it
to your battery at your own expense and crush it
free ”
“ Be damned if I do,” March began.
“Don’t interrupt—or go with me into the
booby-hatch in Kookynie, on acl arge of gold-
stealing or mine-burgling which’ll suit you
best ? ”
March scowled. “ Oh, damn you, I’ll crush it
and cart it! I’m going to sink a shaft as near as
I can get to your western boundary, though ! ”
Bonchetti smiled. “Tnat’s all right; we’re
not unneighborly. Haul up the other , boarders,
•Tack, and get out some tinned-dog. ; They’re
hungry, 1 expect.” i.
March’s throat waggled. “ Hungry? We’ve
only had a packet of candles to eat —put away
that A r;nstrong-gun, please—since—since ”
Bonchetti smiled. “Since you came to board
at our place, eh ? ”
GRANT HERVEY.


FOUR YEARS OF
INDIGESTION
COULD GAIN NO RELIEF.
THE following case of Mr. Elliott
Watkins, of Lady Robinson’s
Beach, Rockdale, Sydney, is a
fitting illustration of the wonder-
ful efficacy of Bile Beans in curing the
most severe cases of Indigestion. This
gentleman says : —“ For a period of over
four years I was a sufferer with indiges-
tion, the symptoms which troubled me
most being a dizziness in the head,
accompanied bv a languid feeling, and a
most perpetual and intolerable head-
:;che. My stomach was distended after
eating, and violent gnawing pains at-
tacked me in the chest, breathing being
at times most distressing. I was also
greatly troubled by fits of vomiting,
when I would be utterly prostrated, and
temporarily deprived of sight for a period
extending over hours. .1 consulted several
doctors, who prescribed for me, without giving more than temporary relief. At the
solicitation of a friend I tried Bile Beans, though I did not anticipate any good resulting.
To my surprise, the first box gave relief, and after a month or so Bile Beans did for a few
shillings what doctors failed to do for many pounds during many months of trial.”
g
BILE BEANS wffl be found a PROMPT and PERMANENT CURE for BILIOUS-
NESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY,
FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH,
ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM, and, in fact, all
ailments that owe their origin to defective liver action. AT THIS TRYING SEASON
NO HOME SHOULD BE WITHOUT A BOX. BILE BEANS are obtainable from
all Chemists and Stores, price 1/IA, or 2/9 large box. THE LARGE SIZE IS MORE
ECONOMICAL, AND IS THEREFORE SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED FOR
GENERAL FAMILY USE.
THE MEDICINE FOR THE MILLION.
The genuine BILE BEANS are never
sold loose, by the dozen or hundred, but
in sealed boxes bearing the signature
of the proprietors, “THE BILE
BEAN MANUFACTURING C 0.,”
printed in red ink on outside wrappers.
ONE
BEAN
ONE
DOSE.
A. <& F.
9
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Limited.
Ltd.
Along the Barrier,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night, along the Barrier,
With silken voice, the Tide
Hath called the Moon to marry her,
White sweetness, long denied,
To clinging Seas that carry her,
Deep-imaged, as they glide.
The yearnings of a wooer.
That no long years appease,
Are whispered faintly to her
Upon the nor’east breeze —
For vainly call unto her
These ever-pulsing Seas.
A breath of camphor laurel
Is wafted thro' the Night;
A song of breakers choral,
In tremulous delight,
Is heard across the coral
And by the beaches white.
One lone sea-light is gleaming;
And on the headland high
One shoreward light a-beaming
Beneath the moonlit sky,
Where, by their camp-fire dreaming,
The dugong fishers lie.
Now, quenched the last lamp glaring
Beneath the station roofs ;
And out of distance wearing
Falls sound of faithful hoofs—
My star-eyed love is daring
Her kinsfolk’s cold reproofs.
’Neath clumped pandanus hiding,
Two figures in the grass,
Witli stolen Joy abiding,
Heed not how hoars may pass,
Though all the world were chiding
A lover and a lass.
There may be ladies fairer,
Beloved, in the South ;
But none whose charms are larer—
Like rain-time after drouth —
But none so free a sharer
The honey of her mouth.
Yea, hearts in lands much older
Beat not so fast I swear;
For Southern maidens colder
Let prudent lovers fare;
The glowing North is bolder
On such sweet quest to dar >.
’Neath warmer skies Australian
Our blood hath warmer grown ;
Here shall no homage alien
Be paid to maids of stone,
But each inspired Pygmalion
Shall clasp and hold his own.
What woes the Fates are holding
In store I do not know,
What griefs the gods are moulding
For mortals here below —
This present bliss enfolding—
My arms around you—so.
Now were yon cutter truly
A painted ship, and mine ;
To-night in island Thule
We’d drink the red, red wine—
Like Love’s own blood pressed newly
From its enchanted vine.
And thou, my Northern maiden—
At music’s soft command—
Some starlit path in Aidenn,
Far winding from the strand,
Would tread, with white hand laid in
A sailor’s sun-browned hand.
There neither Grief nor Sorrow,
Nor either Death or Pain,
Nor grey, unsought To-morrow
Creep ever in again,—
There no dull soul may borrow
False glamor from false gain.
To-night those dull souls languish
In riches and in strife,
To-night the cities languish
With Hate and Horror rife,
And God looks down in anguish
Upon their Death-in-Life.
To-night along the Barrier,
A thousand stars above—
In tropic skies grown starrier —
With ordered cadence move ;
To-night, along the Barrier,
Reign only Youth and Love.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
The Sin of Two.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I suppose there is no happier man in all N.S. W.
than I am now. Yet I am still an invalid for
life, and there is a look in my poor wife’s eyes
that tells me she will never quite forget the
troubles she has gone through for me.
We married five years ago, in the happy-go-
lucky manner of young Australia, whose only
provision for the future is an occasional contri-
bution to Tattersall’s sweep. My illness came
eighteen months later, when our little Archie was
three months old. It wasn’t an accident, worse
luck, so I couldn’t get anything for it—just a
plain, straight-forward, life-long, spinal com-
plaint. So I had to give up my billet on a small
weekly paper. For a few months people were
very good in influencing tome the limited amount
of pen-work that can be done by a journalist who
never goes anywhere, never sees anything, and
experiences no emotion except as against a back-
ground of incessant pain. After three months —
well, they didn’t.
Charitable persons, somehow or other, never
care about helping the same people long. They
seem to think it counts more to be rather good to
Brown, Smith and Jones than to be very kind to
Thompson—a longer list of names to hand up to
the Throne, I suppose. So the stream of charity
was diverted to a man who had got mangled in a
novel, up-to-date fashion, an a consequence of
which Ernestine and I discovered that two meals
a day were more wholesome than three, and that
there was something rather piquant in removing
to a neighborhood where the aristocracy consisted
of the few who get Government help, and whose
characters were enviously taken away on door-
steps by the many.
The background of pain stood out visibly In
these days. Summer dragged itself away, with
fierce, recurrent bursts of heat, and at last cool,
wet breezes stole into our one crowded room—a
room that no amount of toil could keep free from
feverish closeness before. So then I wrote again,
principally pathetic descriptions of persons who
got miraculously cured of some complaint by
drinking somebody’s Marvellous Mixture. I,
under different names, was always the person, and
it was always my complaint.
When that failed, Ernestine declared that it
was now her turn to work. I almost laughed.
What could she do—so little, so delicate; the old-
fashioned, lovable woman meant for the hearth-
stone only ! Certainly she had been a State-school
teacher before marriage, and would have taken it
up again but for the prejudice against married
women in that department—but, what more help-
less than a school-teacher out of school ?
Ernestine’s attempts at breadwinning lasted a
month. She tried teaching dancing at threepence
a lesson, till Santley’s Lane found a preceptress
who would include lending a hand at the wash-
tub for the same price. She tried fortune-telling,
and the sixpences of frowsy servants kept us
going till an adjacent grocery lady started "clair-
voyant seances in opposition, training her little
girl (in a pinafore hieroglyphic’d in treacle) to see
spooks for threepence extra. A little money came
in when this ventute had failed and Ernestine
had started a registry-office for servants—the
office was a Chinaman’s disused store in the next
street. But there was a cabal against her in
Santley’s Lane, and she was publicly accused of
taking the bread out of the mouths of various
widows whose garments looked as if they wanted
burial.
From my window I could see and hear the con-
clave of indignant ladies set upon Ernestine as
she came home from the registry after a day of
failure. It seemed all of them had husbands who
never allowed them to soil their hands when they
—the husbands—were alive. This class of hus-
band seems generally dead. It appeared, also, on
the authority of the clairvoyant widow who wore a
violent feather over her nose, that the Government
was going to put down registry offices that weren’t
kept by widows with orphans to feed. The
dancing-washing lady, who had black, hard-
looking ankles beneath a red cotton underskirt,
thanked God that work was going to be given to
the widows and not such as had lazy, loafing
husbands to do for them if they’d a mind to.
“Is the world only for widows?” I heard
Ernestine say these words indignantly, bitterly,
before her slight form disappeared into her own
doorway.
It came suddenly, that temptation. I should
have expected it to dawn gradually upon me; but
it came like a flash. Only it was a flash that
stayed. It was as if the idea had been growing in
the dark places of my mind, unknown even to
myself, and now burst, fully grown, on my mental
sight. Ernestine’s innocent words had uncon-
sciously revealed my path to me. Poor Ernestine
—she must never know it.
More and more clearly throughout the evening
I saw that my duty led to death. I had leisure
enough for thought. Ernestine, curiously enough,
was silent, too.
Baby lying against her shoulder, his face
cuddled over on his hands, woke every now and
then to convulsive coughing. “ Give him some-
thing,” I whispered. My own pain was great.
“ It’s no use. He needs different air, better
food.”
A remembrance of the healthful, country town-
ship where I had met her as school-teacher
flashed over me. They might take her back—a
widow. Ernestine, clasping her baby close, gazed
at the small, new-lit fire. There seemed a strange
aloofness, even coldness, in her manner. I saw it,
but I knew that it was not in her heart at all. It
was my own dark determination that made every
look and word seem constrained —that kept her
away from me, as soon she would be for ever.
During three days I thought it over. I had the
laudanum under my pillow, and, though she
might suspect, she could never know for certain
that the overdose was intentional. I was not
kind to her these three days. I anticipated the
time when this life of illness and poverty com-
bined would have sapped my man’s courage and
made callous and dull my purest affections. She
must realise when I was gone that my very soul
had received an all-but mortal wound, and now
needed to be invalided Home.
So the night came when she gave me my glass
of medicine. How her hand trembled as I took
it. Unknown to her, as she stooped to smooth
my pillow, I kissed the dark locks that shaded
the pallid, tender face. Then I drank, and as she
turned away I put my hand under the pillow
where my own bottle of laudanum was hidden.
As I touohed it, I saw Ernestine standing by the
fire, hugging her baby to her, while the fire flames
beat fiercely in her eyes. How dared they, I
thought dully—those tender eyes!
* * * •
To the confines of the Unknown, I travelled
rapidly ; then back, back ! I think they guessed,
both doctor and wife, that the overdose was
intentional. But Ernestine did not reproach me.
Well, the worst is over now. Help came;
friends came; the registry has begun to pay, and
we have been able to send baby up the country for
change of air.
Ernestine was not half so cut-up at parting with
him as. I expected. “ He’s as well there as here,”
she said shortly, when I condoled with her, and
crept closer to me. Yet once I had fancied her
more the mother than the wife.
There is only one thing that troubles me. I
mentioned it to Ernestine, the other day. “You
don’t notice my memory failing, dear ? Because,
it is strange, I can never remember taking that
dose of laudanum. I recollect reaching for it—
but no more. Except for the doctor’s word, I
would not have believed I took it.”
But Ernestine soothed me. “It is the only
thing you have ever forgotten. You were not
yourself that night—nor I! ” she added, in a lower
and more tremulous voice.
C.


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, General Weakness,—All Due
to a Sluggish Liver and Impure Blood.
%
§
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Praliran, Vic-
toria, sends us his photograph and says:
“I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffered terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have in a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, ‘ a stitch in time saves
nine.’”
“The World’s Greatest Family Wledicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be active, and a feeling
of general good health may be yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood.
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
AYER ’S Sarsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYEE. * CO„ Lowell, Mass., tr. S. A,
FURNITURE
The Greatest Furniture Warehouse
in the Commonwealth.
TonA h ™7rromL d ,2 lbUhB LARGEST and Most UP-
TO-DATE FURNITURE WAREHOUSE in Australasia.
OUR TERMS are the LOWEST IN SYDNEY. At the
Imrem® 6 W I & u a ra “tee all our Goods Perfectly NEW,
oOUND, and of the LATEST DESIGNS.
Every Household Requisite Kept.
All Goode Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
V.TERMS.
£ s.
To 7 10
12 10
17 10
22 10
30 0
40
50
60
70
80
90
180
Deposit.
. 7/6
10/-
. ~ 12/6
. 15-
£1
. £2
. £5
. £6
£7
£8
£9
- £lO .. &uj—
PIANOS, £2 DEPOSIT, and 5/- PER WEEK.
ta^n th k? b 0! t e Te , ri ?® not suit you> Special Arrange .
sots can be made at the Warehouse.
Weekly
Instalments.
2/6
4/-
5/-
6/6
8
10/-
12/6
15/-
17/6
20/-
22/6
25/-
Ltd.
Marcus Clark & Co.
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTORS,
Newtown.
Branches: North Sydney, Waverley & Newcastle
a
CO-OPERATIVE COUPONS
GIVEN FREELY
On all CASH Purchases.
TO DARKEN GREY' HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, qui
safest, best restores the natural color,
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer.
Dottles Is. everywliere.
Are You Constipated ?
It causes more than half the sickness in the
world, especially of women. It can be pre=
vented if Beecham’s Pills are taken whenever
Nature calls for assistance. Comfort and
happiness follow the use of
BEECHAM’S PILLS
WORTH A CUINCA A BOX.
Are You Bilious ?
It interferes with work, pleasure and happiness
—everybody is so at times; in many cases it
makes life a burden—the fault is with the
stomach, liver and kidneys. An occasional dose
of pills will remove the evil, if you take
BEECHAM'S PILLS
I THE REMEPY FOR TN€ P€OPL€, |
In Boxes, Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions.
Containing 56 and 168 Pills respectively.
dfg
NEW No. 6 RIFLE
1903 PIOPEL.
Improved throughout, and equipped with a peep sight, accurately
rifled, and elegantly finished.
THE BEST VALUE ©PEERED IN RIFLES.
22 calibre, 3J pounds; length of barrel, 20 inches.
Specify XJ. M. C. AMMUNITION.
II
Consults by Letter, £1.
41 COLONS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Comjnonwealth and to the Eas
THE BROWNSEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
Dr.MARTIN,
A. CAHD.
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P.,E* L.E.0.5..E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases ot Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising jjn Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases S 9 common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIIfENT
Pa'tients at “ Elmley House;” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for « Press Extracts,” posted .Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded F'ree from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a'thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing
Burnand’s autobiography is impudent and amusing-.
In one of his miserable attempts as a barrister, in the
London Criminal Court, his lady client snatched off her
shoe, and flung it at him, in the spirit with which stage
aspirants are treated to vegetables. Almost his first
dramatic piece was the extravaganza of “ Dido,” for Chas-
oung, comedian of the London St. James’s Theatre.
Burnand says that manager E. T. Smith, father of L. L.
Smith, had been a policeman, and that Wizard Anderson
began as a street conjurer. They had a row once. Said
Smith: ‘ What are you? A street mountebank.” And
Anderson: “What the devil are you? A policeman.”
Whereupon Smith put in : “By thunder, I wish I had
caught you with your fakements, on your bit of carpet 1”
V sends some more Lola Montes (though why this
lady has taken to turning up so persistently at this late
hour The Bulletin knoweth not): Lola, so fascinating*
was an indifferent dancer, and no actress. J. F. Hogan,
in some late researches about her, has been misled by the
high hterary quality of her published lectures, they being
~f or. her , b - v a parson. She spelt her fictitious
name Alontez When she came out there was a great
Spanish bull-fighter named Montes. When she first
appeared at the London Her Majesty’s, as a Spanish
dancer, she failed. Madame Perea Nena’s Spanish
dancing troupe of that era was popular, but Lola did not
apoear with it. She played a lone hand. On the night of
„ e I rst appearance a swell called out from a stage box
t that Betty James!” Lola wrote to the
iimes denying that her name was James, and declaring
that she was Lola Montez, a Spanish native. In Australia
•J a fv ac - co,n^ anied Yj i' Poll and, a comedian. He
r e t b - V;|, L mpinfr overboard at sea. His cheek was
!!ii v i b . ear the , raark of her dagger. It is alleged that
,rk-i 1 r i " shivered a plank of the stage, at Bendigo,
wnne Lola was acting in “ Asmodeus,- or the Little Devil,”
whereupon she complimented the stage manager. She
horsewhipped Editor Seekamp, at Ballarat. Also she
hoi avi ,5 s ' Crosby, an actress. Coppin burlesqued
thl ft J ?. anc ®- once brought some boys up at
perfo 6 Po lce Court > for shying pennies at him in this
“ T.D. ” : The exorbitant prima donna and her accom-
plice, the high-priced tenor, seem to have reached the
end of their tether. They have gradually brought up
their fees to such a pitch that it is absolutely impossible
for managers to fix up a well-balanced opera caste—public
taste nowadays having been educated beyond a demand
for one great singer supported by a lot of absolute
rotters. Tlse Sunday American recently published the
following list of “ some of the high>priced stars not
working this year”—Emma Eames, Nellie Melba, Lillian
Nordica, Madame Sehumann-lleink, M. Van Dyck, M.
Alvarez, Jean de Reszke, Suzanne Adams, and Madame
Scheff. The same paper gave a list of “ less expensh e
but satisfactory new stars.” This list, by the way, is
headed by Madame Aino Ackte, who was a fellow-pupil
with Amy Castles under Bouhy, the Parisian teacher,
and about whom Amy used to rave as the possessor of
the “ finest voice in the world.”
“Vulcan”: In selecting his new comedy co., which is
to play “Marriage of Kitty,” “Cousin Kate,” etc.,
Manager Williamson filled every position from “ outside,”
except that of leading lady. After seeing Marie Tempest
in London, and most of her substitutes in the provinces,
he decided that a better lady for the part couldn’t be
found than the local Rose Musgrove.
Lydia Thompson, the ancient elder sister of Mrs.
Bracy, is going to make tier re-appearance on the London
stage. It is exactly 30 years since Lydia made a re-
appearance in London after a long absence in America,
and people at that time remarked how different she was
from the young original Lydia they had known aforetime.
“J. A.C.”: In Bulletin (25/2/’O4) is published a portrait
of Clarence Weber, “ the young Victorian strong man,
who forms a bridge across two chairs with an anvil rest-
ing on his chest, whilst a blacksmith breaks a piece of
cold iron on the anvil.” Apart from ,the supporting of
the anvil, there is nothing remarkable in this. The force
of the blows is distributed throughout the anvil, and
never reaches the person bearing it. Should anyone have
a doubt on the subject, let him hold (say) a 561 b. weight
in his hands while another man strikes it violently with
a hammer. But for the senses of sight and hearing the
former would be unaware that anything was happening.
It is an old “fake.” When I was a boy in Glasgow there
was performing at the music halls a little man named
Samson Boleno, not much bigger than a good-sized
Shanghai rooster, who used to form a bridge, resting his
hands and feet on the floor, while a block of building
■tone, weighing two or three cwt., was placed on his
chest, and someone from the audience broke it in two
with a sledge-hammer.
Eskell, the sleight-of-finger person at Melbourne Opera
House, who does a nice little turn in a pleasing manner,
has one peculiarity—a word-formula which runs, “ Back
again once more.” “ Here we have the egg—back again
once more,” or “ We find it in the hat—back again once
more." The fourteenth repetition makes the public
tired.
“ Holdar M." : T’other day was nearly knocked over by
an infuriated mob crowded out of a city church where a
theatrical wedding was on. It was a wealthy, fashion-
able mob, too. As a live “ draw ” I beg to suggest the
stage as the scene of a real “pro.” wedding if it
could happen as a curtain-raiser. The banns" of Mr.
Leading Actor and Miss Principal Charmer could be
called in the usual ad. column of the daily press. The
cast of best man, bridesmaids and other auxiliaries by
“ our talented co.” A parson of theatrical leanings would
appear for one night only. “ Box plan and reserved seats
at enhanced prices for this special performance,” &c.
Before a large and animated audience the limelight would
be turned on to “ the numerous and costly presents ” (to
be returned to the warehouse next day). As the orchestra
asserted “ The Voice that Breathed ” the tremulous bride
would step from the wings supported on the arm of the
man who gave her away in one sense and not in another.
Real orange blossoms and other trimmings complete ;
confetti and pea-nuts to be showered o’er the happy
scene by the huge and delighted audience as the rag
temporarily descends. The honeymoon starts in the first
act, and continues, with intermissions, during the even-
ing. Next day’s press would describe at length the loud
and gorgeous ceremony, and business would boom. I
wonder some astute manager hasn’t dreamt of this before.
Douglas Sladen tells us in his new book
on Japan of. how once a year paupers who have
not enough to eat will walk a couple of hundred
miles to see the irises of Harokini in bloom. It is
not a religious, simply an aesthetic, pilgrimage. It
is their equivalent to a test match. But that’s
part of the life of “old Japan ’’—the Japan which
has been smothered of late by European civilisa-
tion and industrialism and militarism. The
modem Jap considers himself a gentleman if he
oan own a battered belltopper hat; there is a
huge gulf between that ambition and the pil-
grimage to the irises.


THE
BEST
OILSKINS
—OEEraC.7a ‘.^araa-
EVER
MADE!
They keep off the
rain better and
lon £er===they ’re
lignter===give more
wear and test a
heap longer than
any other Oilskins
yet turned out of
a factory.
The “ DFGOXG ‘ Brand,
light weia-ht . . . 20s.
The •' RA ! N’BOW Brand,
heavy weight . , . 15s.
ILLUSTRATE) >
/ BOOKLET POSTER FREE.
PERDRiAU &
Rubber
Merchants,
ON7.Y ONE ADDRESS-
Street, Sydney-
LADIES'
<
DRESSERS
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/.- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Conn-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE Is. it. Post Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTH INGTOM
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
MT SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co.
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
fd
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
®@§9©
■you
•criaiaanHS "mMonj aaai.ixviv r
W />» »
! 3Hes
WOLF
At th« Showrooms— -
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also *t—
“ rroecjss bl o ob:,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
V -
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools. Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rods and Crushers.
gfd
i
The “UTOPIA” Vise
e Fitters’ Vise.
holds work of any shape, at any angle. It has every advantage that could he gained Lom
in*' —y
i
a dozen Yises in as many different positions. It swings
round and over at the will of the operator, and the
work swings with it. There are two forms of the
“ Utopia” ; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for
Fitters. All the leading shops are being: equipped
with “ Utopia.” Yises. One shop alone is tising 20
of the Joiners’ Yises. Both can be seen in operation at
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
THE ADDRESS OE
'
YV'
%
4
m
LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines
and Boilers, Engineers’ Tools
and Supplies, etc*, etc.
£
T. ML GOODALL & CO.,
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE — Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
ff
...
t isttfi:-
-.*. w m _
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys,
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty.
New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
P&.
m
• ■■ •, ,
kll
Size, SJ" x 3{" x 5".
are
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Bailers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,'
Collars,-etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
S. L. SCBCTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLiVREKTCB STREET, SYDNEY. V _________
1
m
FILTERS
Scientific Principles
Passed all
Bacteriological Tests
Or. NELLY, L.R.C.P. &s., Edin. ;
Mens A. de BAVAY, Melb.;
Mr. CILR'JTK, Govt. Bacteriologist,
N.Z.; aid others.
A FILTER WITHOUT SUCH A
CERTIFICATE IS NOT A
REAL FILTER.
IS ' " I ' 1 n ' ■■ ■ ■'
;S
L _ )-- 1,',, ' J
j“ ABBOTT-"
Pressure,
Non=Pressure,
Water Bag,
Tank,
Large Service
FILTERS
All Authorities condemn old style
so-called filters. •
IPF“ THEY ARE DANGEROUS.
m
GERM
PROOF
The Cheapest and
Host Satisfactory
Filter in the Market.
Consult the “Abbott”
Filter CO. on all matters
of Filtration on a large
or small scale.
ADVICE GRATIS.
wm
v ■
The “Abbott” Filter Go.,°-^ e 438 Collins St., Melbourne; or N. Cuthridge, Ltd., 71 Clarence St., Sydney
. S .. ■ mm iiiii I I
