

ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT
Mining
107 Kent street,
—FOB—
Engineers’ and
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY
•9
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAHEN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
X.
%
■S3*
Cs>
<RAc
cK>
A
58?
o
HERVEY’S
RACKAROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR. THE LADIES.
00,
W. G. EILDmDG-E &
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET. SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° as
Pitt Street,
_ . _ . f ia h MoLAREN Leeds, England, Makers of Bteam Ploughing Taokle, Traotlon Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
TESLk'L 'hT.?»“ Traction Ensin.,, RUBTON'S R,r« W . RctiraC, ant, ..rtloa. S««m Enßin..,
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’B Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
WHISKY
CHUBB’S SAFES
HOBART.
“ - •[*>■>' —-
Radley s Orient [jotsl.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
B
USHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
(£kd iSCrllaA/
to
ALCOCIDE
UtEQISXKitiCO.y
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK .
HO HXRENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
A. G. LUMSDEN,
74 VIOTOfi
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size —causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character —very superior for parlorenter-
iainments), the Wonderful Finger Through the Hat Trick,
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L HUTCHINSON, Box S, P. 0., Hay market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
tttferincee' thrtug,hout Great Britain and CelenUt.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
i Nothing remains which can
l produce an attack. Yon can
eat, slsep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay enred, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We hare
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patiente. Es-
tablished I*B3. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address; Da. P. HaroIJJ Hayes’ASTHKATICINSTITUTS,
Buffalo, H. Y„ O. 8. A.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
_
sL- j s v ' 1 '
PLUM
fdh
THE
m ENTLEMEN —This razor is superior to anv other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rinjrs
Gr * like a'beri, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind o
edge hatls renuired to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in us. for a number of year., can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7«. 60.
“ RAZOtEQ" LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, «€». cake.
( Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 108. 6cf. ; Pair, in heautiful Morocco Leather Case, 41s.
Palos [gi n gi* Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. J Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 Gebrge-st., Sydney.
T m
•VA\v\
\
• »v
A Gold or Silver Watch Free!
SEND NO MONEY,
WE hereby undertake to
give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct readme' of the following: PUZZLE :
The oulv condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of ®ur SOLID STERLING SIL\ ER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch. ,
Simplv forward your answer, and enclose stamped
D**T M**S T**S C****E
and addressed envelope, so lhat
we may inform you if you have
won the Watch. We are making
this offer solely with the object of introducing: and advertising; our
goods. Forward your letter to our address : [or Box S6"> G.P.O.]
GOLDSMITHS COLONIAL CO-, PITT STREET, bYDNEY.
1 s
ranee
Ltd.
.
HEM) OFFICE: Citizens' Buildings.
funds
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy 'Farms, Agricultural arid Grazing- Lands
(Freehold or C. I*, and C.L.) or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Hates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by Instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine.
D2NTWAH
F2RTHIS
fdh
a
a
Hair
Tonic
is a medicinal—
ing scalp treatment, and possesses
all the elements that go to produce
a good head of hair. Its powerful
stimulating qualities go straight
to the hair roots, giving them a
life and vigor they never knew
before —and life and vigor to the
hair roots mean more hair—
stronger hair —better hair. Re-
member, there is no “ fragrant
aroma ” in Capilla: Perfumes
don’t make the hair grow—they
don’t even help.
Capilla Hair Tonic
will do for you what a perfumed
preparation will not do, it will
GIVE YOU BACK YOUR HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores—
-2/S a Bottle j full course,
posted direct, 17/3.
W. 0. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
164 Pitt Street, Sydney. A
POLICY for trE' COMMONWEALT
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
MEMO.
FOR 1904; » AUT HELIDON AUT NULLUS.”
The Bulletin
Vo\. 25.—N0. 1265.]
[Thursday, May 12, 1904.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


JUST TO HAND. SELLING RAPIDLY.
WEE MACGREEGOR AGAIN !
By J. J. BELL. PICTURE WRAPPER, Is. 3d. ; Post Free, Is. sd.
Also by same Author, and uniform in size and price—“ WEE MACGREEGOR ” (now in its 210th thousand!
“ETHEL” and “MISTRESS McLEERIE.”
GEO. RO3ERTSOH & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagh-st., Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London.
STEELE RUPP’S &6MZIN a monthly periodical.
For Australia, By Australians. 6s. 6d. PER ANNUM, Post Pree.
STEELE RUDD & CO., 39 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
m
m
i
■I
1
m
gfjISsPIIPIIII
■
m
■
mmm
warn
JM£
0 f Great Service in Affections
u*2ette says
of the Voice * Throat*.
Sold by Chemists, tins, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, O. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia, posi. iree 011 receipt of
Stamps. Sydney Dep6t :5&7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States&N.Z.,aadat32o Regent-st., W. London
THE RED PAGE.
Writers and Alcohol.
IN March Contemporary Review T. P. Whit-
taker diaws from sixty-years records of the
United Kingdom Temperance Institution a
clear conclusion that, other things equal,
abstinence from aloohol promotes longevity. His
basis of 31,776 lives in the non-abstaining and
29,094 in the abstaining class is sufficiently
ample ; and his figures show, inter alia, that for
ages 25 to 60 years the abstainers’ mortality is 40
per cent, lower than non-abstainers’ after the first
five years of assurance. Seeing that there is a
preliminary medical acceptance of both classes as
“ average lives,” his conclusion may be accepted
as warranted statistically. The use of alcohol
tends to reduce the length of ordinary life.
4*
Whittaker wisely refrains from specific deduc-
tions. There is, in fact, no deduction of indivi-
dual application—unless it be this : that every
individual using alcohol should recognise that he
is dealing with an agent which, other things
equal, has a clear tendency to shorten life.
Whether it tends to shorten his own life remains
a problem that the individual must solve.for him-
self. Many men use alcohol and live long. Some
men use alcohol freely and live very long. If
many lives are lost by the use of alcohol, some
lives are saved. The statistical rule is not neces-
sarily a rule of individual conduct.
The question whether alcohol is rather a bless-
ing or a curse to the race cannot-be answered by
statistics. It is still less possible to draw from
statistics a profit or loss account for the individual.
We have no data for affirming that the tenacity
of life implied in longevity is ethically or actually
to be preferred to intensity of life. The trend of
personal opinion seems to be towards preference
of a short, fat life to a long, thin one. Probably
no dogma is more generally commended than the
dogma that
, One crowded hour or glorious life
Is worth an age without a name.
Women represent statistically a class more tena-
cious of life than men ; and do we not hear them
continually wishing to sacrifice their prospect of
longevity for the briefer, intenser life of men ?
4*
The familiar crusade against alcohol, almost
always illogical, almost always asks us to pay too
dear for our whistle. And, critically examined,
the whistle turns out to be the crusaders’ whistle,
not ours.' What may fairly bb inferred from
available facts is that the misuse of alcohol should
be discouraged by governing authorities in modern
communities. But the whole history of the
human race rises in protest against prohibition
of the use unless in individual cases,
after clear proof of individual injury. The
universal use of alcohol implies a universal need ;
and, for the short; period covered by observation,
it cannot be shown that individual abstinence is
racially profitable. Do we not often see Nature,
temporarily dominated, re-establishing her rhythm
of life, and compensating the abstentions of one
generation by the excesses of another?
Physiology gives us surer ground for individual
reasoning. It may be asserted at once, with the re-
ference here befitting, that the whole class of brain-
workers —and especially the tribe of writers, irri-
tabile genus —should use alcohol as little as con-
venient, or as little as possible. Manual workers,
with healthier bodies and stronger hearts, can use
it with advantage—nay, often they need it. The
food-value of alcohol is admirably shown in
its power of assisting the restoration of ex-
hausted muscles. I have seen navvies from
a railway-line where alcohol was banned come
tramping twenty and thirty miles to a town-
ship. From too-hard fare and too-hard labour
they came gaunt, gloomy, and physically miser-
able. Their power of endurance had been strained
too far, they were sick of labour and themselves.
And for a week they would lie around the town
wallowing in beer, never sober. Then, one
morning—their money finished, or their time
expired, or their craving satisfied—they would
come out of their intoxication and return to
work —not shaken, not palsied, but men happy,
men re-made, with added tissue, clear eyes, and
the rosy skin of a baby. They had been redeemed,
regenerated, and disenthralled by the glorious
genius of universal Alcohol.
4*
Mark the things given when you mark the
results. Sound bodies, the hardest physical
labour, and enforced physical sobriety for a
month. These men were drunken almost by
necessity: they were re-establishing a natural
rhythm, satisfying what the widest human
experience urges to 'be a natural need. But
sedentary brain-workers, with daily “nips”!—
they perish be‘fore due time : theirs is a craving
of disease, not of health. Their path is a path of
self-destruction, if on no better ground than this :
that alcohol clouds the brain, weakens the tools
they work with. Brain-cells are more delicately
made than muscle-cells ; brain-processes are finer
and more complicated than muscle-processes.
Pouring alcohol on nerve-plasm is like pour-
ing kerosene on a fire : you get quicker
combustion, and come more speedily to ashes.
The blood replaces the burnt oxygen ; but other
cell-constituents, too often stimulated abnormally,
lose their power of reaction, and the brain begins
to die before term.
4*
There are a hundred reservations, to be sure.
For one: at a worker’s crisis, it may pay to sacri-
fice an ordinary month for a day of exaltation.
For another : the body iscomplex, and weak heart-
muscles may imperatively demand the alcohol-
stimulus that damages the brain. For a third:
Nature, that “ abhors a vacuum, ” seems to abhor
equally an arbitrary rule of life that does not
admit periodical exceptions. • Man is a measure
of the universe who can measure accurately neither
the universe nor himself. We do not yet guess
half the relations between our bodies and the
universal environment. Solvitur ambulando:
what pays, pays. There is increasing ground
for believing that every living organism has an
idiosyncratic rhythm of life, and that you can no
more destr'oy this rhythm than you can destroy
the energy-content of the body that holds it. If
you can change it at one point, it will change you
at another. Wherefore: find vour rhythm and
live by it. Ascertain vour natural appetites, and
satisfy them. If a healthy body desires alcohol,
then alcohol will do that body good : otherwise,
otherwise. Some men are born to abstinence,
others to self-indulgence : suumcuique. But woe
equally to the abstinent-born who habitually
indulges and to the indulgent-born who habitu-
ally abstains.
Jt
One word more. Reference was made to the
alcohol-stimulus, and alcohol is a temporary
stimulant.. Essentially and finally it is a
sedative, in an unhealthy body a depressant.
This of its aspects should be kept in mind.
Men of genius, many men of talent, men
who live. at a higher pitch than others and
display a fiercer energy, realise this instinctively.
I hey take alcohol, not because it stimulates, but
because in the end it soothes. Hence the common
observation that “good workmen are drunkards.”
lhe quicker rhythm, the stronger force, that
enable a man to become known especially as a
good workman : these are the reasons why he flies
toalcohol in self-preservation. Often without its aid
his physical organism could not stand the strain of
accumulated energy : “he makes too much steam
for his boiler with him it is drink or madness,
not madness through drink. Hence the public
need of “good liquor,” truly sedative. Hence
the phenomenon of the greater drunkenness of
the more energetic races. And hence the virtue
of a rare excess.
The Passing Scribe.
The handsome and interesting Phil May Folio
reproduces chiefly pictures from the long series of
Phil May's Annual, and is issued by the Annual’s
publishers. The lengthy preface quotes a good
deal of Bulletin commentary. The writer repeats
the nonsense that “ the first money May earned in
Australia was for a winning mount at a hush race-
meeting ’ —also May’s yarn (with his tongue in
his cheek) to an eager interviewer, that “at
Sydney, through the recommendation of Had-
don Chambers, I obtained an appointment
on The Bulletin ,” etc. Longstaff contributes an
illuminating note on May’s stay in Paris after his
return from Australia—“He was always sketch-
ing, and was certainly one of the most consistent
workers I have ever known.” L. relates also how
May, full of enthusiasm and charcoal, took one
only lesson at an art class in order to become a
painter. “But never again did he attend the
class, nor did I ever hear him make any reference
to the matter.” “ I believe Phil May could have
become a good painter; but he fortunately recog-
nised where his great strength lay.” The writer
of the preface adds—
In his general characteristics Phil May was an extra-
ordinary instance of granite and sand. ‘ The heavy firm
jaw, which gave him a pronounced resemblance in profile
to the late Pope Leo XIII, and of which resemblance he
was ve.ry proud, showed stubborn vitality which his iron
digestion in no way discounted...
It is strange to learn that many years hack he had an
idea of entering a monastery... actually went to the
extent of consulting a priest on Che matter. This would
tend to show that his conversion to Roman Catholicism
shortly before his death was a step he had long and fully
considered...,
4*
The book is one of the best collections of May’s
work yet made, but it was a mistake to print
May’s pen-work on soft, absorbent paper. The
pencil sketches possibly gain; and some of the
pen-drawings lose hardness and benefit pictorially.
But in most instances May’s pen-quality—his
peculiar brilliancy, the idiosyncrasy of his “line”—
is degraded or missed. Many of the illustrations
look as if printed from old “ blocks ” that
have already done service in the Annual, and often
the Annual reproductions are the better. Any-
one who compares the Winter Annual, 1897, p. 43,
with the Folio, page 243, or the Winter Number
frontispiece, 1903-4, with the Folio, page 101—to
take the first instances noted—will at once see
the difference. Either in the paper or in the
blocks the delicacy of May’s work is spoiled—his
finer lines being either thickened out of recog-
tion or lost altogether. The Folio has been
cleverly composed and carefully printed, and the
colour effect is generally admirable, but the
individual quality of the work has too often been
diminished by the coarsening of line and texture.
The Commonwealth Customs Dept, has taken
the hint here given a year ago, and,. last
week news-agents and others were protesting
vigorously. One new regulation classes for duty
at 3d. per lb. the inset advertising matter with
which foreign magazines are thickly strewn ; and
another gives four months notice that maga-
zines with more than 15 per cent, of their weight
in advts. will be charged 3d. per lb. on the excess.
This will achieve three results, or maybe four.
It will prevent some of the baser sort of magas.
from being imported at all. It will go a good
way towards compelling the foreign magazine-
owner to print his goods in Australia, and employ
local labour. It will help to encourage the local
publisher and printer, and all the allied trades, to
provide more Australian employment. And if it
changes the protesting news-agents from a class of
middlemen into a class of local printers and pub-
lishers, so much the better for them and the
country they live in. The next thing wanted is
a proper Copyright Act, and a duty on books not
printed locally—as in Canada.
A prose MS. of Poe’s (the unremarkable “ Sys-
tem of Dr. Tarr,”- etc.) brought $505 at a recent
N. York sale. It is pointed-out that the MS. of
“The Bells ” was sold for $2lOO last year. “Poe’s
method of preparing his MSS. was peculiar. He
generally wrote on small-sized sheets ofvpaper and
then pasted them together so as to make a con-
tinuous roll.” By the way, one would be curious
to have Lord Camden’s opinion of the sale of the
Paradise Lost MS. (Milton’s amanuensis) for 5000?.
In the famous copyright case of Donaldson v.
Beckett, decided by the House of Lords in 1774,
Lord Camden, moving the House to give judg-
ment for the appellant (a piratical publisher)
declared “ I t was not for gain that Bacon, Newton,
Milton, and Locke instructed the world ;. it would
be unworthy such men to traffic with a dirty book-
seller for so much a sheet of letterpress. When
the bookseller offered Milton tive pounds for his
Paradise Lost, lie did not reject it and commit
his poem to the flames, nor did he accept the
miserable pittance as the reward of his labour ;
he knew that the real price of his work was
immortality, and that posterity would pay if.”
This is nobly said; and Immortality, breathed
softly, might soothe the local bard like “ that
blessed word, Mesopotamia.” Suppose we write
it over the cashier’s desk ?
&
Why, asks an Amer. critic, does Alfred Austin
continue to worry about American copyright
law? “Nobody here would want any of Alfred
Austin’s books, law or no law.” In a recent
article, by the way, Austin stresses the difference
between the poetical taste of to-day and that of
the last generation, his own. Nowadays, we are
all for the lyric—the thrill, the ecstasy, “ the
short, sharp shock ”—too often of “ a cheap and
chippy chopper,” it is true. Descriptive or pic-
torial poetry, or poetry of characters and charac-
teristics in the manner of Crabbe, is rarely pub-
lished and more rarely read. The fashion of
“little flutters” extends everywhere, and the
best long poems become a cycle or collection of
“little flutters.” Austin disparages the new
mode and regrets the old. One has met this com-
plaint, this complainant, in many paths before.
His Christian name, l think, was John, —
His surname, Leisure.
“Not known in this battalion.”
&
In America, says Everybody's Mayazine (N.Y,),
repeating to some extent what was said recently
by Munsey’s—
Book criticism is now for the most part conducted on
the following exalted lines :
The daily newspapers notice the books of the houses
that advertise.
The literary magazines are owned by the book-
publishing houses, which issue them for the purpose of
“ boosting” their own books.
Sometimes they trade “ boosts,” that is, review the
hook of another house in exchange for a review of one of
their own books.
The book trade is in the worst, state of depression it
has known for years, and such are the curiosities of the
human mind that with these obvious facts before them.
some publishers wonder why.
4*
Opening one magazine, see the English atti-
tude : King Edward to Lord Roberts—
, I am unable to part with My Oommander-in-Chief
without returning publicly to him My thanks, and those
of My Army which he has commanded, for the invaluable
services he has rendered to My Empire, and I ask all
ranks of My Army to profit by the example of his illus-
trious career, and of his single-minded devotion to [first]
his Sovereign and to [second) his country.
Opening another magazine, see the American
attitude—
It is being said that the Japanese are so “ loyal ” that
“ the secret wish and noblest ideal of every Japanese is
to die for his Mikado.” And the saying is getting a great
deal of admiration. But is it admirable? Is it not, on
the contrary, a low and ignorant and barbarous ideal,
indicative of the long distance the Japanese have to go
before they reach real enlightenment?
How pitiful would we think an American who incar-
nated his coun ry in a mere man, and that man one who
had not earned his title to leadership but was a mere
hereditary accident ? Think of having as one’s noblest
ideal to die for Theodore Roosevelt! Yet, man for man,
the Mikado is probably a very small potato beside Mr.
Roosevelt.
“ Loyal” has a good meaning, high and noble. But it
is n’t often used in that sense.
How badly some Australians need a dose of
American vermicide, to kill the hereditary worm !
♦
Interesting books announced in England include the
collected edition of Swinburne’s poetical works, to be
sold only in six-volume sets at 365. net—and a new
volume of poems; Menpes’ Whistler (2,1. 2s.)—nothing
being said of Pennell’s, which is expected to be the
standard biography ; Spencer and Gillen’s Native Tribes
of the Northern Territory of Australia ; another repro-
duction of Turner’s Liber Studiarum, at the low price of
10s. <od. net ; Ellis’s new two-volume edition of Blake’s,
poetry at 12s. 6 d. net ; and Spencer’s Autobiography,
two vols. for 28s. net.
Of the last-mentioned the author wrote, explaining
why it was not published in his lifetime, that “as the
volume advanced I became conscious that a constitu-
tional lack of reticence is displayed throughout it, t«
an extent which renders present publication undesir-
able. In years to come, when I shall be no longer
conscious, the frankness with wlych the book is written
may add to whatever value it has ; but while I am
alive it would, I think, be out of taste to address the
public as though it consisted of personal friends.”
G. 6. Shaw talked a piece about Shakespear the other
day—rather more earnestly than usual. He likened the
Bard to a modern journalist with an aptitude for picking
up little bits of information, and making the most of it.
Shakespear had no message to give to the world. He
came upon the scene at the beginning of a period of which
we were nearly at the end ; he had no religious belief—no
philosophy of life. He was ari extraordinarily' shrewd
observer. He saw all the creeds tumbling to pieces ; he
saw through men and women, and found that all the
pretence of religion was imposture. There was not a
single line in all his writings which suggested that he had
a belief in after-life. The result . was that when he
philosophised he twaddled, as in the Seven Ages
of Man, which any schoolboy w'ould write for five
shillings. Shakespear must have written £hat with
his tongue in his cheek. His writings charmed
one very considerably, hut they conveyed no
message, no teaching. Banyan at his best was enor-
mously greater than Shakespear, because Bunyan had
spiritual insight. Shakespear was a gentlemen who
became a hanger-on of the Arts and; the upper classes,
and he did not give such a vivid picture of real life as
Bunyan did in Pilgrim’s Progress or the Life and Death
of Mr. Badrnan. Shakespear had the reputation of
being an admirable family man, hut he was certainly
nothing of the kind. He was away from his wife for
twelve years. Shakespear would always be a man,to
make men despair ; but, fortunately, people had such an
extraordinary faculty for reading things without under-
standing them, just as people read the Bible with a vague
sense of the meaning of the word “ Mesopotamia.”
A.G.S.
KANKGA [?]OO POINT
Near Hobart, across the water, is a place made-
dear to Hobartians by many tender recollections.
On the map it is called Bellerive, but those of
whom I write prefer the rough forest flavour of
its earlier name : they talk-of going to Kangaroo
Point. They “ paddled ” there as children, and
every now and then they quietly slip away to
walk the beach and enjoy tiie bitter-sweet of
memory. In the simple days they look back to-
with such fondness, fattier and mother were so
strong, and happy, and loving ; and now—land
and sea and sky keep their old familiar out-
lines, but the .-.un sets on graves, and for them-
selves its beams are already declining. In this
feeling of passing away in the presence of the
great enduring forms of nature, lies the vague in-
articulate poetry of the common heart; and in
this frame of mind, happy yet melancholy, I em-
b irk for the Point after an- absence of thirteen
years.
J*
The road to the right is cut out of the face of
the headland. Below it a tree clad steep sinks to-
a flange of wave swept stone, while above rises a
fortified hill. Rounding the cliff one sees a long
curve of yellow sand, on which the waves
are breaking. The water is almost limpid,
of a glad light green, deepening to blue
in the distance ; and there is a soft swish with a
touch or hint of heavy sound. The mountain is
azure gloom, and the far circling heights are arid,
grey, and green. The sand is smooth and hard,
and I soon reach the further headland, and rest in
a glamour of wind-purged sunshine and glittering
wayes. .Now, I follow a pretty rocky path that
winds; among the she-oaks, listening as I go to the
murmur in their tops. A few liquid notes fall
from a solitary magpie. The sea is uncoloured,
strange, and remote. At the end of the rocks
I come to a beach of sand, backed by
a lagoon, and drop to the edge of the
water by a three-stemmed, wind-tortured gum in
white, rose and purple. There is a sweep of
wind in the she-oaks up above, but at the foot of
the cliff a warm and sunny stillness. And now I
turn back with face to the west.
What a children’s world in this rocky cove!
Beneath the waves, in the sunlight, are stretches
of emerald-green; there are shelves and islets;
pot-holes with pools of water and pebbles and
weeds ; and in the air there is a genuine smell of
sea-wrack. A faint, gurgling sound a
tiny blow-hole. The worm-eaten rocks form
. reaches for “paddling”; and beyond is a bay of
islands. Looking up I catch a gleam of sunshine
on a far off hill—just a transient effect but one to
be remembered 1 The rocks are lofty and the
roaring of the she-oaks is faint in this tempered
warmth. And here is Neptune’s very chair,
carved and hollowed by the waves, the canopy
forming a rude Greek honeysuckle ! I sit and rest
in it, and listen to the ripples telling of the
romance of the sea, and fearing in my heart
that I have by mentioning this unique monu-
ment doomed it to destruction at the
hands of the relic-hunters and the pencils of
the name-scribblers.
Climbing a low rampart of rock I reach
the upturned base of a smooth red pillar
thrown down like those Phoenician ones
that strew the bed of the Tyrian Sea. Above
a projecting heavy mass of tree-grown rock
forms a shallow cave, into which I climb
with all the old ancestral memories quick
at heart —only to drop quickly out of its ominous
yawning-lipped mouth as the shock of a heavier
wave shakes the hill itself. And now I make my
great discovery ! I find a little cave with a
rude fan-like' roof—a Henry VIPs chapel; and
crouch in it with perfect content. This hermit’s
retreat by the sea gives me greater pleasure than
I have experienced for a long line. I go on
in happy mood: here climbing over jumbled
rocks; there along shelves roughened and honey-
combed by the action of the waves. I pause at
a natural fireplace and chimney blackened by
the smoke of many a pleasant picnic. The way
is marked by footprints worn on the very rocks,
telling of the passing of many lovers of
these humble cliffs and caves. There is a low
wall with the head of a ruined pillar still
clinging to it, just like those that. I havs
seen many a time in the green abbSy-lands
of England. I go up some stony steps into a
veritable pirates’ lair ! How happy are the boys
out here ! In the old days I had need of a strong
imagination for a child to transform a ledge in an
old stone wall into a place of desperate refuge!
Past foaming reefs and sheltered inlets I reach
once more the sand and rocky path.
&
There are my tr icks on the beach, but I am not
the man who made them. I am transformed by
a sense of wind and wave and sky. I carry a
memory tl*at seems salt with the sea and golden
with the sun ; one that will grow in beauty until
it becomes a permanent seascape in the world of
my dream. Many a time I shall see those white
caps, those tree-crowned rocks, and feel the
rough breath of the wind. Each tracing of this
ramble by the sea will make for health and sanity.
That seems to me the art of life—to live each
moment for a perfect remembrance.. But not
with pleasure simply for an end.
The gulls are dipping, and a dog.is chasing
them along the shore with eager barks. In this
pleasantly excited state I am led easily on to
make a little parable about man and his white-
winged illusions. But are all man’s experiences
illusions? For certain minutes I. have for-
gotten the stress of the world, have felt a
quiet happiness, have gained a little country full
of light and wind-swept purity for solace in the
dark days. Surely that is no illusion ! Yonder
are blue distant havens with sunlight falling on a
white sail—that is a work, an interpretation, of
my mind, and it is real for me to the end because
it is mine.
Here I have been happy : here I will erect an
altar to the genius of the place.
J.H.


fdh
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYX>3STE"S".
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOM BE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
ARE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
, SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT t
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTCFFS EYFUEHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
I""* \/ r“
r Y to
ESjnyyj |g Emm
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
NEVER FAIL.O.
Ask your Chem'st for the little Eook:
“HOW TO PfESEKVE THE EYES”
CURED
The Leading House for Sporting: Goods and Tobacco
N*
I. Hollis
& Sons’
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, |2 Gauire, Top Lever, Bar Action, Real Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt, Left Choke, Rebounding: Locks, Snap Foie-
end, chambered for 2}in. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
EOLLIS & SONS’ “ KITCHENER, ’ 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for cartridges,
left choke, right cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, sna >
fore-end, half pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
POWDER. Absolutely the best value m tlie States at price
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, botli
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatlv engraved, chambered for 2jin.
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States ...
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING RIFLE, 1903 model, Special
22 Calibre, fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight sJlbs.
£5
£l2 12s
£5
AMMUNITION.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL „
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB „
E. B. SMOKELESS „
AMBkRITE
E.C.
.. 12g. 6/-per 100
.. 16g. 6/6 „ „
12pr. 6/6 „ „
12g. 6/6 „ „
.. 16 or 12g. 9/- ~ ~
12fr. 11/6 „ „
.. 12g. 12/- „ ~
fd
iPy* REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
r
A S loud (1
bund,
Folding
Collector Gun,4log.
Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel
case burdened locks
£1 15 0
WINCHES'! EE” S.S. Rifle, IOOb mode!, 22 Cal. 11. F., peep or V sights,
scroll trigger guard, stool heel plate, weig.it 2jlbs
“REMINGTON” S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20iu. barrel,
weight
WINCHESTER, Repeating Rifles, 1802 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine Round barrel, 065.; Octagon barrel,
FIEIER’S “BAYARD” S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weight
3£lLs lets. Od.
0
1
2
1
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES
18 6
0 0
17 6
1 6
r
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE>d
RELIABLE.
c e\ir\e”f^if’le
22 (Short orLtnd, P/m Pha, 80/hAcfion
Pound Q/ued S/e e/ /e/mh BarreJ, rte/ghhH
fir/ed n/ffjp/a/n 1/orS/jd/pg Bach S/gh/o
(guarranfeedfor/iOOYDi). Po/iaheodd/nut
Sfoch. Pos/dge onßrf/e./sdo ex/fa.
MCK SIMMON 5,
d/yvMSrpeP, c rtor-;Fr>'.
Rifle Ap^rf
hfd
WITH PLAIN SIGHTS 13/d
SUOING SIGHTS TO 300Y05 15/6
Carfnc/ges Can Only Be Delivered by Rail orßoaC
TO
s%*
■>l 'll
MUM
m.
in
I
hf
mm
dh
fdh
fd
hfd
Are you a Weak Man ? Are you Nervous, Fretful and Gloomy ? Have you a
Haggard Look, eyes sunken, or a listless, indifferent feeling ? Is your rest broken,
appetite bad, or have you lost all interest or ambition in life ? If you have any or
all of these feelings get a DR> EVIcLAUGHLIN ELECTRIC BELT!
Don’t let these first symptoms of Decay and Weakness go on ! Don’t let them
turn to the more serious disorders that afflict mankind! You can be cured
speedily by the use of this world-famed Electric Appliance, and thereby save yourself a lot of misery and suffering. There is no greater remedy on
earth to-day than Electricity, as we apply it, for all ailments of the Liver and Kidneys, Indigestion, Weak Back, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Bad Joints, and all Weakness and Decay in Men and Women. Thousands have been cured when every other Treatment has failed! Why!
Because Electricity is a Natural element of the body. Your Weakness, your Want of Nerve Power and Vitality is due to a loss of the amount
Nature has placed ill
the power to run it.
Health and Strength,
has done for them,
and explaining the
make so many cures.
Belts and attachments
hfd
your Body. The system is like an Engine, it requires
Until you get sufficient of that power you cannot have
Many men and wompn will tell you what it
Write for our Free Books giving full information,
method by which we treat various ailments and
These books are beautifully Illustrated, showing the
and how they are applied to any part of the body or
limbs. In addition they contain photos., names and addresses of a great many cured patients. They should be read by every sick perso >.
We send them, closely sealed, in plain wrappers Free and post paid to any address on application. If you can call, our ADVICE
is given FREE, and the working of the Belt explained. Our Consulting Rooms are open daily from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
CAUTION. Beware of “Free” Electric Belts. Write to us for full particulars. If anyone has wasted money on frauds
“ Moyne,” Palermo Street, SOUTH YARRA, VIO.
Gentlemen, —It is with pleasure that I send you a report of the result
in the use of your Electric Belt. I may state that for a long time I never
felt refreshed after my night’s rest, I really felt more tired on awakening
in the morning that when I retired to rest. I was also troubled with
vexatious dreams. I now awaken in the morning quite fresh, my head is
clear, and my vision much brighter. Then again I used to have cramps, or
hfd
write us and we
will see that the
money is re-
funded.
similar pains, in my legs and arms ; this has entirely' left me. My body seemed too heavy' for my
legs to carry, but now I do not feel the weight of my body' irksome, as my legs have become
strong, and are now good weight carriers. I was much troubled with Sciatica, but this has now
left me, and my appetite is good. I attribute this return to health solely to the use of your
Marvellous Electric Belt, and lam truly thankful that I bought one. I have one of the High-
Grade Belts, and use it twice a week, about three hours at a time. I am a long way past the
prime of life, but, thanks to the Belt, I now feel as good and fit as ever I did in my prime.
Wishing your Company the success it deserves,
I am, Gentlemen, yours truly, E. R. JOHNSON.
Railway Station, INVERELL, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I may state for your information that it is now about sixty days since I felt any
sign of my old complaint, so, therefore, I may say that I am about cured through your electric
Belt. I may state that I never felt so well for a number of years as I have felt this last month, so
I must thank you with all my heart for the cure that your Electric Belt has worked for me, and,
so far, I have adhered to the diet laid do., n for me. Feeling so well as I do at present, I cannot
but help thanking you again for your recommendation of the High-Grade Electric Belt, and the
wonderful cure I have received by it lam recommending your Belt to everyone I see in need of
one. I remain, yours truly, ALEXANDER ALLAN.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEV,
167 E. Swanston Street, Melbourne.
NZ. Office—s 4 Willis Street, Wellington.
ELECTRICITY


A NOVEL PRESENT.^
fYN receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
” any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Oct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct, G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
Stamps. Address:
WNI. LANCSTON, M. R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first close of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsv when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 1.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nioholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
WEAK, NERVOUS
And DESPONDENT SUFFERERS-our concentrated
extracts of HERBS, ROOTS, BARKS and BLOSSOMS
will restore you to sound HEALTH, STRENGTH and
' igorous MANHOOD when all else has FAILED. Valuable
advice explaining NATURE’S SIMPLE TREATMENT
sent post free-to the afflicted. Address—
BOTANICAL INSTITUTE,
VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
UANISHED VIGOR,
■ Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
Tho Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vinegar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURGEON LANISTON, M.R.C.S., ENG.
129 Collins Street, Melb urno.
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
Cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalled head; the facial disfigurement, a 3 in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin,
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, aud beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
_ odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humous
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns ft Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. I'rench Depot: 5 Rue de la i’uix, Baris. Butter Ditua and Chem.
Core., Sole Brops., Boston, U. S. A.
Tn
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
The Physician*!
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS 1
ImACNESIAi
hd
ffle/dea/.ftfd/rfoods/br//of C/imafes:
A progressiva
dietary suited to the
growing digestive powers.
The Milk Foods are as easy of digestion
as maternal milk, and promote both vigorous and,
healthy growth. The " Allenborys" Foods are especially valuable?
en hot climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING ( 4 s pages) Free.
Allen&Hanburc/s Ltd Ziom&anfst. London,
f The’Allen bu rys*
I Milk Food N9K
from 6/rth to 3 months*
The ‘ALLENBURYS*
Milk Food
from 3 to 6 months.
The‘ALLENBURYS*
Malted Food N? 3.
from 6months irpyvort/s.
LIST
OF
fh
BOOK OP NATURE and lI-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over f>o engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art ok Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular.
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels. 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold Is ’•
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmakixg and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated. Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and 5s ; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
'' chhn s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Lasy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Js 3d. Self In-
structor, is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, is 3d. Of ilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
hy Old Pro, is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, is, and is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, Dd, Is 3d, 3s 6d. 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. W annan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANd any book you want.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to anv address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catak gues : —No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful end Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE. —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUCHS.
I THAT REFRESHING FEELINg]
of thorough purification given by I
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND.
NERYOUSNESS.
of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at laat dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
dfh
L
fdh
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Deafness
Hand Head. Noises, no matter ol
Show long standing. Are the same
’ to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatic*,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Rented]/.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by PoingdicstklS A Truman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
soi.d in two sizks, 9d. A Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre A Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
p % rxco ao's
l.tss^H ce °y y,\ f £ -
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNEBS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. „
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Quean St.,
Melbourne; iV.N.IP.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney-
Sending, mention this paper.
w.
T7IREE BY POST.—A reliable
recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAb
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
Free to Men.
WHITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show .you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and j r ou will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Writi
Mons. Arm and Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.


WM
Your Barber or<
Your Druggist?
If your hair is too long, go to your
barber. He has the remedy a pair
of shears. If your hair is too short, go
to your druggist. He has the remedy
—a bottle of Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
It feeds the hair. The hair grows
long and heavy because it gives to the
hair just what it needs.
If your hair is turning gray, it shows
there is lack of hair nourishment.
Give your hair this hair-food and it
will take on new life. Soon all the
deep, rich color of youth will return
to it.
We are sure you will be greatly
pleased with Ayer’s Hair Vigor as a
hair-dressing. It makes the hair soft
and smooth, and prevents splitting at
the ends.
Prepared by Dr. i. C. Aver Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
XJS3E3
SPOONEE’S
SPOONERS
v
*
*
ATINT LEATHER BOOT*
*GUZ£DJU OS t?.
M (lifcvW
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle) , Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrlvallod EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Snops, Saddlers, etc.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
REA.D XT.
JOHN DICKS - - . Strand, London, W.C.
HOW’S THIS?
I offer Twenty-five Pounds Sterling
(£25) Reward for any case of Piles
that cannot be cured by
“PETERS’ PILE CURE,”
when used according to directions.
Ask your Chemist or Store-
keeper for Peters’ Pile
Cure. If he cannot supply (accept
no other) send me his name and Five
Shillings (5/-) and a BOX will
be sent you by Return Post.
Each BOX contains full Dicec-
tionsfor Use, also Certificate
of £25 Guarantee.
None Genuine without the
Autograph Signature of
F. A. Peters in Red across
Label.
Proprietor F. A. PETERS,
BOX 617, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
\A/IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
I w.el Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lilt.
-USIVE TARIFF lor Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
Guineas per Week.
LOSS of VOICE
Sore Throat
Bronchitis
_ * ui Jnjtiiwia
Ccir§a v/un ~
BONNINCTONS
Carrageen or
IRISH MOSS
Large and Small BpTtleS.
sr
r “NEW RIVAL’*
| Loaded Shotgun Cartridges.
Good powder and shot, carefully and
I scientifically loaded in the best of cases,
make Winchester “New Rival” Black
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
liable and satisfactory on the market.
A trial will convince you of their super-
iority. Be sure and get the Winchester
“ New Rival ” brand next time you buy.
SHOOT THEM A.NJD SHOOT WELL
m
niiiiiM
Concerning Elgin Watches^*-
-
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADIES’ —Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents :
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
HUNDREDS of PEOPLE DO NOT KNOW
that they can buy a really GOOD watch for very little money*
ypjHE Watch H. F. SMITH sells for 21s« is the right kind ; it will
JL never go out of fashion; it has a field all to itself—its very own.
There is nothing: that competes with it.
There are “cheaper ”
watches, but the
quality of those is
“cheaper” than the
price.
When you know this
is absolutely the best
watch in the world
for the money, you
will wear one.
21/-
H. F. SMITH
BRISBANE
21/-
The case is of Solid Silver, extra strong and engine turned,
keyless action. The works are J ewelled in all important parts.
Accurate to the second, honest all through, and
the price is amazingly small for so much timekeeping worth.
H. F* SMITH, Queensland Leading Jeweller,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA (Q.)
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Devil’s Days.
’Tis the age of frost and rime,
Eyes no longer flash with mine ;
In the good old comrade-time
There was sparkle in the wine.
Blazing skies and daring eyes,
Lips too red for wine to stain,
Jest and kiss of wanton bliss, —
Devil’s Days of woman’s reign !
Now a blonde and now brunette,
Now a syren either side,
Captive in a witch’s net,
Ruddy-lipped and amorous-eyed.
Loves enscrolled in. rose and gold,
Guerdon rich so lightly won,
Merry chaff and reckless laugh
When the dizzy course is run !
Other fellows make the game
In the maze of Devil’s glade ;
But their nerve and. blood are tame,
O, the rattling pace we made !
Sparkling wine of vintage fine,
Wanton laughter ringing still,
Woman’s mouth to lave the drouth—
Who has got a soul to kill ?
We could give the fledglings ground
And the ambling gait eclipse,
We could clink the glasses round
On the daring scarlet lips !
If he spare the maiden fair
No good comrade lives in vain,
Jest and kiss, of wanton bliss
Make the wine, of woman’s reign !
Splendid thoughts with meteor-dash
Sprang from fire of woman’s touch,
Bursting with a sudden flash
When the wine was sparkling much.
Rare romance of luring glance,
Ecstasy of brilliant phrase—
Who so wise but woman’s eyes
Lead him on with lambent rays !
Let them preach who fight remorse.
Ours was not to wrong a girl,
But, boon comrades, hold a course
On the dizzy, downward whirl.
He was crowned who had a pound,
Lavish-handed, shared the same
With the band from No-Man ’s-Land,
Citizens of La Boheme !
N.s.w.
W. M. WHITHNEY.
In November.
I sometimes wonder does she still remember,
That girl of long ago,
The gladness of that lovely lost November,
The glamor and the glow
Of love-lit days, within the wild bush ways,
We used to know.
I sometimes wonder, when the lights are failing,
If she recalls as yet
The twilight hours beyond the stockyard railing.
Or does she e’en forget
Those nights of star-lit bowers, of wild scrub flowers
With dew-drops wet ?
And, oh, the glory of the sunset’s splendor,
Beyond the range afar;
The silver grey and rose-flush faint and tender,
The light of star on star—
Where east there fades from ridges and from glades
The last gold bar.
And where we watched the sunset’s opal fires
Fail fast and die;
Listening to the wild birds’ vesper choirs,
Just she and I.
Ah ! ne’er can I forget, in memory set,
Those jewelled eves gone by.
Ah well, ’tis past; the path beside the creek,
Whose waters brawling
Half-drowned the whispered words so sweet to
speak,
What use recalling ?
’Tis all so far away, and o’er Life’s day
The dusk is falling.
vie.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
Good-Bye.
“ Good-bye, good-bye ! ” The echo rang
Adown a day-dream sweetly low ;
It whispered of a song she sang
To me so long and long ago.
The perfumed rooms, remembered well,
The gleaming lamps, the singer fair
Who held my soul beneath a spell
With her sweet presence—all were there.
And violets theje, and almond blooms,
With dreaming hours so interwove,
Held royal court throughout the rooms
Where Minstrelsy appealed to Love.
And softly dark the deep eyes shone
That brought me to the singer’s feet,
While echo sang—sang on, sang on—
So sweetly sad, so sadly sweet.
It breathed a half-forgotten tune,
It roused my drowsy soul from sleep,
Where hoarded memories lay a-swoon
’Mid dreams that made my pulses leap.
It conjured up a vision bright
Of laughter-loving imagery,
And jewelled fingers soft and white
Sei med turning Memory’s leaves for me.
And dreamful eyes of golden brown
And soft as slumber seemed to rise
Through purple mist that strove to drown
The magic of their witcheries.
** Good-bye, good-bye ! ” The echo rings
Adown a day-dream sweetly low ;
And whispers w'ild imagining -,
And breathes unutterable wee.
VIC.
CHARLES CRAWFORD.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established .1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
3 Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
V AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any line.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
GOOD
HAIR FOR
ALLt
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m" For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
O’ For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACK AY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
1
i
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
S FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the
Be
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's
New Zealand Loan * Mercantile Agency Co.
SYDNEY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
s
fl
a*
\
FREE 1
Cut this out and send it
to us and we will send
you free, postage pre-
paid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the new edition of our splendid, invaluable
and standard illustrated Medical Work, which
acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
Ts an up-to date appliance, whereby electricity in a gentle and
continuous current saturates every nerve, muscle, fibre and organ
of the human system. It absolutely cures all cases of Nervous
Disorders, weak back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney and
Stomach Troubles, Coine-and-Go Pains, and that tired feeling.
We don’t ask anyone to take chances on our in-
vention. If we fail the loss is ours, all you lose is your time ; all
we ask is, give us security that you will pay, and you can have our
appliances, and
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to you fairly, and carry it out fairly.
You don’t have to pay till you are cured. We could not do this if
our Belt was not the very best. We warrant that it gives a strong
current and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from
grateful patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delay
longer. Write at once. We can help you.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DEPT. M.,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Mew Zealand Branch: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
BUSHMAN and
Price 1/1
Post Tree.
HARRY M3RANT:
His ’Ventures & Verses
BUCCANEER
GRAMOPHONES
The “ MONARCH ” Gramophone is the “ King ” of Talking Machines.
The “DE LUXE” Gramophone is the “Queen” of Talking Machines.
The “MONARCH Junr.” Gramophone is the “ Prince ” of Talking Machines.
WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT ?
Or will you take the whole “LOYAL FAMILY”?
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Runclle-st., Adelaide.
WestraSia -
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand-
-11. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. . .
%
22=
Send for Price Lists
and Catalogues of
Records.
The‘MONARCH’
Triple Spring
Gramophone,
Fitted with
Tapering Arm,
complete—
£l4 10s.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


General Debilitation.
A CASE IN PYRMONT.
A Permanent Recuperation.
The Case of Mr. W. H. ATKINS.
(by our reporter.)
What an easy matter it is for a benevo-
lent being to diffuse pleasure and gladness
around him. In order to do so it is only
necessary to consider what means are pos-
sessed to lighten the burdens of our fellow-
men, and to help in whatever direction the
conscience may dictate. It is evid< nt that
Mr. William Henry Atkins, of No. 211
Crown-road, P>rmont, shares in this
opinion, for he said in reply to a question
put by our reporter :
“Of course, I will give you any informa-
tion you require, as the knowledge I gained
may be turned to good account by some
poor sufferer in need of good advice. It
has always been my motto to help those in
distress, and I think I can do so by letting
humanity know about the remarkable ex-
perience I had. I think that worry was at
the back of all my troubles, for after an in-
cident which grieved me greatly, I fell into
bad health. I did not care about anything
to eat, simply because I had no appetite.
The most tasty morsels imaginable failed to
tempt me as a rule, although I had to force
myself to take some nourishment when I
felt that I could not hold out any longer.
Not only was my appetite bad, but I ab-
stained from eating because of the pains
which afterwards appeared. My stomach
always got full of wind, which shifted about
from side to side, and left cramping t ains
in all directions, and heavy pains affected
my chest. Sometimes I felt as if the
breath was being crushed out of me, the
oppression was so great, and I naturally felt
deeply concerned about it, as chest com-
plaints are so serious in their consequences.
As my food was not doing me any good I
lost strength rapidly, and soon I dropped
into that languid state of indifference to
everything which is so disastrous to every
business man’s career. I felt as if I did
not care how things went, and the morbid-
ness of my spirits quite precluded me fiom
thinking about anything pleas int. Haras-
sed as I was by depressing hea’aches, and
with my eyes dim and feeling as if they
were swollen, no wonder that I lost all in-
terest in life, for the average man does not
wish to live unless he is contented and at
ease.”
“But your lot was not so hard to bear
when night came, for then, I suppose, you
obtained relief in sleep ? ” remarked Mr.
Atkins’ interrogator.
“Don’t you believe it; if anything, my
nights were more intolerable than the days,
as I could not succeed in getting anything
like a night’s rest. Certainly, I used to
doze off from time to time, but the sleep
was not refreshing, because of the intrusion
of repulsive dreams, and when I got up I
felt as weary as if I had i een awake all
night. I could hardly stand the bitter taste
which was in my mouth every morning, and
the unhealthy condition of my stomach
could be detected by the fur on my tongue;
but what I regretted more than all else was
the quick and painful throbbing of my heart.
When I laid down I felt that organ shaking
inside in a way that caused me much alarm,
so that, with every particle of strength
being gradually eaten away by my com-
plaints, there was nothing in my condition
to assist me in entertaining hopes of a re-
covery. The least exertion brought on a
feeling of faintness, and when 1 stood up I
used to get quite giddy, as if everything
was on the move. All this I put down to
my extreme weakness, which was also re-
sponsible for the annoying aches in my legs
and loins From some cause or other my
arms were also intensely painful, and if ever
a nerv<?«* system was wrecked it was mine.
On the least provocation I became excited
and irritable, while the trembling of my
nerves served to increase the general misery
of my existence. My body was greatly de-
nuded of flesh, and I can tell you in all
seriousness that my life was a burden which
I would willingly have cast off at any
m ment.”
“I believe you suffered in this way
several years,” interjected the scribe.
“ During the period of your illness did you
ever enlist the services of a medical man ?”
“ Considering that I was lingering, wait-
ing, and hoping for years, I should rather
think 1 did,” replied Mr. Atkins. “ Why,
I consulted dozens of doctors, yet my suffer-
ings grew worse, and I may also state that
I have taken scores of medicines which were
procured at stores and chemists’ shops. It
would have been far better if I had kept
the money in my pocket, for all but one of the
medicines were of no service to me. The
only remedy which suited my complaints
was Clements Tonic, and this was recom-
mended to me by a man living in Harris-
street, who had used it, and knew what it
could do. After taking two bottles of
Clements Tonic I felt much better, and was
able to get about with much more freedom.
I went to a chemist to get some more, but
he put me off by saying he could give me
something better, and pointed out the
difference in the size of the bottles, so,
foolishly enough, I bought his medicine in-
stead of Clements Tonic, and in a few days
I was as bad as ever. Then I insisted on
having Clements Tonic, and again I im-
proved under its influence, so that there was
no doubt about its being the best medicine
in the market. I would rather have one
dose of Clements Tonic i han a barrelful of
any other medicine, for it proved its supe-
riority in every possible way. The first
thing it did was to make me eat and sleep,
and I was glad of the respite from my
afflictions which I had when resting. Be-
fore long a feeling of animation spread right
through my system, and I then shook off
the yoke of depression which had clouded
my past few years, as I felt assured that
Clements Tonic would pull me through. In
course of time the pains arising from indi-
gestion were quelled; the nauseous taste
left my mouth, and my head was free from
aches. Some of my doctors said my liver
was diseased, while others said my stomach
was extremely weak; but if they had seen
me after a few weeks’ use of Clements
Tonic they would not have known me. My
stomach could then digest and retain any
kind of food, and my liver symptoms were
non-existent. The shaking of my nerves
was promptly checked by Clements Tonic,
and the regulating and strengthening effects
of that medians on my system generally
were really extraordinary. ache and
pain yielded to the pacifying influences of
Clements Tonic, and I am heartily thank-
ful to say that by its exclusive use my
health was re-established. I have lived in
this house for the past 17 years, and all the
neighbours know that Clements Tonic cured
me ; but for the benefit of those who are
unaware of tin se facts you may publish
them in any form you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Hknry Atkins, of 211 Crown road,
Pyrmont, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four
folios and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish
in any way my statements—which 1 give volun-
tarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscrib'd and declared at Sydney, this
twentieth day of February, on* thousand nine hun-
dred and two, before me,
JNO. C. HALLAM, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
<1 ’ C> aOJQJF'Y COIVtI»JESTITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, «&*.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Vexsgs.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RENAR. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
So€jß AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AIT KEN. N.S •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
li?’s
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during’ their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking- any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
fdh
Acetylene
Gas
TABLE_LAMPS.
OUR ADVANCE is
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
acetylene gas
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Large Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO.
161 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
FREE CURE.
Wonderful Home Treatment that Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 1317), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E. 0., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
Mb. A. Docherty.
avoid all questions of doubt, he
sends free to every sufferer a
free trial of his method, and
there can be no earthly reason
why anvone.rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this
generous offer. As an instance
of this remarkable method,
the cure of Mr. J. J. Hogan,
Cobar, N.S.W., is well worth
noticing. He was cured at the
age of 70 years, after suffering
10 years.- He made an affidavit
to this effect, of his own free
will, before two J.P’s.
Mr. J. Kubank, a farmer of Yarloop, Western
Australia, was cured aftegrguffcring 48 years from
a scrotal rupture. Mrs. 11.I 1 . -Medley, 177, Sturt
Street, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia, was cured
after suffering 5 years. Mr. A. Docherty, 23, War-
wick Street, Birkenhead, Cheshire, England, was
cured of an irreducible scrotal rupture—one of the
worst kinds known. No treatment he had used
would enable him to return the rupture to its
proper place. He tried the method of Dr. Rice.i
which not only reduced the. rupture, but also
effected its comp'ete cure, and he is now as sound
as a bell. A full description and sample r of this
remarkable method of cure will be gladly sent
upon application. It has cured thousands. Do not
hesitate to give it a trial. Write at once—to-day. 1
Don’t delay in a matter of such importance. ;
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Caloium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
v% e .’ Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading- Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tube »
the Machine does the rest.
to h§VMt
Beware of Infringers of our Patents
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our Neiv Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co, of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
telephone No. 10h3
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
M ARQUEES, TEIMTS and DANCINGS FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Do You Want a New Suit ?
For £2 we will forward Post Free to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Keady-Made
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Price List of other goods on application.
Address:—
T. C. BEIRNE & CO.,
"I'lie Valley, Brisbane.
fd
Engineman’s Master Key
Steam Power, Electro Motive Force.
All Subjects relating' to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining- Regulations. 2nd Edition, 1904.
360 Pages over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
f a r<TiuMi m\
ZEMATONE POWDER ACiCARETTES
MunruriF'f
The marvellous remedy for Asthma, Bronchitis and
Complaints of the Respiratory Organs. Instant relief and J
cure. Recommended by the entire medical profession. Price 1
2/6 pe* box. Trial box free from Cornford & Co.,
6 Coronation House, Lloyds’ Avenue, London,!. I
2
WHY SUFFER
the ILLS and WOES of the flesh, when you
will be MADE STRONG, HEALTHY, and
VIGOROUS by SIMPLY WEARING one
of OUR IMPROVED and PATENTED
“GLADIATOR” ELECTRIC BELTS?
Call or send for price list and GENUINE
TESTIMONIALS, post free. Address—
ELECTRO APPLIANCE CO.,
63M ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
ROTHerhaivis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
ONZ)
it"'*
0- B O
yißC-
'Sa s
%
SOLD BY ALL
WHO-CAN-SHOW-
" Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
%,fh
/
N
■i
m
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles f u'jly warranted.
Latest
Models
£2.1 Oto £s*s*o
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycle9
Tyres , A ccessories , Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
’Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 839 B
CHICAGO, V.B.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
‘BRIGHT’S DISEASE AND DIABETES;’
FULTON’S COMPOUND—OnIy Known Cure. ,
Agents—Benjamin Bros. & Co., Ash-street; ON SALE;
A. E. Durno, Pitt-street, Sydney.


9
The Standard
of Purity
throughout
the World.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts,, SYDNEY
Has just been re-furnished and renovated throughout in the most up-to-date style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy_first in the public’s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2-30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.
-The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
ROBERTS’ HOTJEiL
SY3DKTEY.
ART
IN THE
HOME
1 “GIVING UP THE RETAIL” SALE
| THE TOUCH THAT TELUS IS THE TOUCH THAT SELLS.
! The Artistic Touch.
Our AUSTRIAN. STATUARY comprises pieces from the hands of the most celebrated
artists of the “ Secession School,” and are alone worth double the value we now place upon them
as “ the touch that sells.”
From Venice we show lovely little specimens that in form, color, and design may be summed
up in the one word— Exquisite.
CRYSTAL WARE, cut in chaste and varied designs whose lustre is only rivalled by the
many facets of the diamond.
We beg you pray accept our invitation, to inspect.
REMEMBER—What we say we do ( we do do.
Holdsworth, Macpherson &Co.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The refinement of good taste
is shown in a preference for
They cost more than “the other sort
(&D
n
ANY PAIR OF
HANDS CAN LAY
In Summer, cool as an ocean
breeze.
In Winter, warm as toast.
See that you get the original and
genuine RUBEROID ROOFING,
with the word 44 RUBEROID **
stamped on every 4ft* of the roll.
YET IT IS THE BEST ROOFING UNDER THE SUN.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
COOL,
CLEAN
and
COSY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25. —No. 1265.
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 1904.
Price 6d.
POLITICAL COMBINATIONS.
EX-PREMIER DEAKIN FINDS HIMSELF CORDIALLY INVITED TO COME OUT FOR A LITTLE FRIENDLY WALK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the A iisti-altaiis.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspapen-Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS - -
(In Advance, Only).
Per Annum . :v ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
* NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JtlaeJc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted, for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lvudgate Circus.
South Africa.— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetown ; 11. R.
Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia ;
and others.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
T^ie^^xxllelzoi..
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 1904.
THE NEED FOR POPULATION AND
OTHER MATTERS.
The fact that Australia requires population is
obvious enough—so obvious that it hardly
admits of argument. No country which contains
an average, of 1J inhabitants to the square mile
has a tenth the population essential for its
defence—to consider only one aspect of the case.
Also a country which owes about £6O per inhabi-
tant can’t be blind to the fact that if its popu-
lation were quadrupled it would only owe £l5 per
head, and there also it wants men badly. But for
many reasons Australia only wants white immi-
grants. First of all, it is the most barren of all
the continents —so barren and waterless that it
can never be populated as Europe or North
America is. While its climate remains as
it is—while' there is no great range of
mountains down the centre of the country to distil
rains and make rivers—it can only hope for a belt
of settlement round those parts of the coast where
the desert doesn’t come right down to the sea, and
a smattering of inhabitants inland. It can proba-
bly hold enough people to defend it—if the people
are all of a splendid fighting race and people
whose interest lies in defending Australia. There
is no space to spare for Chinese, Kanakas and
other races whose interests aren’t wholly bound
up in the defence of Australia, nor for men of
beaten and subject communities who are
accustomed to knock under to a white enemy
and to regard themselves as his natural
inferiors. When a country can only feed
a very small garrison in proportion to its size—
when it will always have to defend with two men
the stretch of coast which Europe can garrison
with twenty or more—it is necessary that these
two shall be of the best. They must not be weak-
lings, nor cowards ; and even for brave men whose
interests don’t lie wholly in the defence of Aus-
tralia, there is no space to spare.
* * * *
Another reason why Australia wants only white
immigrants—those of the Teutonic race for pre-
ference —is that even the white man, however
miserable • he may seem to Japanese cranks like
Cole, of the Book Arcade, has a right to space
somewhere. Europe, with over 100 persons to the
square mile, is twice as thickly peopled as Asia,
with less than 50, and nearly seven times as
thickly peopled as Africa with 15. Even North
America is now more thickly populated than
Africa. (South and Central America and their
islands are so evenly divided between white and
colored races that they can’t be definitely regarded
as belonging to either class.) Some place there-
fore must be regarded as the white man’s exclusive
outlet, and that place may as well be Australia.
The world isn’t all for Shem, nor is Ham the only
person to be considered,
* * * *
The question arises, therefore, how Australia
is to attract population, and how this can be
made a desirable outlet for the white man
who needs an outlet. Its population shows
a reasonable increase—about 50,000 a year—
by excess of births over deaths, and it also,
under the Federal system, begins to show a
steady increase by immigration; but the growth
isn’t nearly so rapid as it should be. The great
flood of immigration stopped dead in the year
when the monumental smash of the dishonest and
incapable Tory person’s banks, and the infamous
repudiation or default by the Tory person of his
obligations to his Australian and English deposi-
tors, covered this country with disgrace ; and it
has never resumed on any large scale since. As
regards the hopes of the future these three propo-
sitions seem to be incontrovertible :
(1) Australia can’t hope to get an influx of agricultural
immigrants unless it has good land to offer them oh some-
thing like the same terms as they can get equally good
land for elsewhere. It is no use offering the "inland
deserts or semi-deserts. And there is no hope of having
good land to offer in any quantity unless the big estates
which now block settlement in the well-watered parts of
the country are remorselessly broken up by a Federal
graduated land-tax, so heavy as to make the holding of
big estates utterly unprofitable.
(2) Australia can’t hope to get a great influx of artisans
unless it has manufactures to employ them. And it can’t
have extensive manufactures while it imports, in propor-
tion to population, more goods for its own use than any
other country on earth. It can’t make its own boots,
hats, ironwork, cottons, woollens, linens, silks, &e., and
also import them.
(3) Australia can’t hope for a large influx of valuable
immigrants of any class unless it is a high-wage country.
Good men won’t go to the far end of the earth unless they
can earn more by so doing. High wages may mean in-
creased cost of production and increased cost of living,
but the glamor of high wages remains, and all the great
flow of immigration is to high-wage countries.
And if these conditions are not fulfilled Australia
must postpone its hopes of greatness indefinitely.
It may have to postpone them permanently. His-
tory is an appalling chapter of accidents. If we
don’t hurry to realise the ideal of a great and, so
far as the country’s limitations admit, a thickly-
Seopled White Australia, a Brown Australia, or a
lack Australia, may arrive while we are waiting.
* * * *
There is no vestige of hope for the future in the
miserably unpatriotic Freetrade party. There is
nothing in its programme about a Federal gradu-
ated land-tax or the breaking up of big estates to
provide good land for settlement, so it holds out
no prospect of an influx of agricultural settlers.
And under its policy the only hope for manufac-
tures lies in producing, with our comparatively
unskilled labor, as cheaply as the most skilled of
our competitors, and that means necessarily either
no great increase of manufactures and no influx of
artisans, or else manufactures run on a low-wage
basis. On such a basis we might attract the Chinese,
Jap, Hindoo, or even the Italian artisan ; our low
wage might still be higher than the wage he gets
in his own country ; but it wouldn’t bring the
Britisher—especially while he has the high-wage
and heavily-Protected United States and Canada
close to his door. And Chow and Hindu immi-
gration leaves the original problem as far from
settlement as ever. When Australia’s hour of
trouble comes it wants, if it is to have any show,
to be defended by at least ten millions or
twenty millions of white Australians —not by four
millions of whites encumbered by a useless, or in-
different, or possibly hostile mass of six million
or sixteen million Asiatics or miscellaneous aliens.
The people who propose to fill the land with
hostile, or dubious, or inferior races because they
are cheap, are traitors to Australia, and while
Australia enjoys the dubious privilege of being
part of the British empire they are traitors to the
empire also. More than that, they are traitors to
civilisation, to the white race, to Europe in general,
and to the Christian faith. The people who are
willing to let the Australian country districts
remain empty because it suits the greed and
selfishness of the Clarkes and Chirnsides, and
the Australian Agricultural Co., and the S.A.
Co., and the Y.D.L. Co., and the Westralian
Jarrah Syndicates, and the Darling Downs land-
grabbers to block settlement till they are bought
off at impossible prices, are traitors likewise. So
are the people who would keep our great manu-
facturing towns unbuilt because manufactures
would interfere with the profits of M ‘Mi lean’s
importing business. So are the whole race
of cheap labor advocates. A country that is
already thickly populated may keep its people on
a cheap labor basis, but a thinly-peopled country
never attracts good immigrants by offering them a
reduction of wages, and the cheap labor policy is
a conspiracy to keep Australia empty, desolate,
weak and unprogressive.
* * * *
It is for those reasons that there is no visible
hope for Australia in the Freetrade party, now
that the loan boom, and the gold boom, and the
great railway-building boom are over. That party
has nothing now to offer the immigrant save a
share in a huge debt; a hopeless scarcity of in-
dustrial employment except at wages which will
compete with our cheapest foreign rivals ; and
some State lands out in the desert, or the prospect
of buying private lands at £4O an acre in a country
where the big landlords have made an artificial
scarcity ; together with the necessity, in the
absence of a large manufacturing population, of
seeking a precarious market for his produce
16,000 miles away. And while this is the position
of the Freetrade party, there is only a small mea-
sure of hope in the half-hearted Deakin following.
Its Protection is insufficient. It has apparently
no distinct comprehension that unless Australia is
made a high-wage country by high Protection and
socialistic legislation there is nothing to attract
valuable immigrants in this direction. And a
large part of it has a melancholy reverence for the
rights of the great landlord to shut out the English
farmer who wants to come here, by refusing him
space except at prohibitive rates, and to drive away
the Australian farmer and his sons by the same
frocess. But in the Democratic party, now led by
'remier Watson, there is at least a prospect of
betterment. It has a firm grip of most of the ele-
ments of the situation. It realises that the British
race is worth preserving—that it is worth keeping
some place to receive its overflow. It compre-
hends that the sheepskin title-deeds of the
Clarkes and Chirnsides and the great land-steal
companies don’t convey a right to make war on
humanity, to stop the growth of a nation, and to
order the Anglo-Saxon people, about whom these
landlords drivel with so much lip-loyalty, off the
face of the earth—so far, at least, as these landlords
can control the earth. It realises that if Australia
becomes a low-wage country it must either do with-
out immigrants, or accept the world’s cheap scum
and the world’s cheap failures. And some portion
of the party comprehends clearly that it is im-
possible to find work for our own artisans, and
for an influx of artisans from outside, while
almost everything these artisans could be em-
E loved at making is imported—that we can’t
oth make our own boots and clothes, and
buy them from M ‘Millan’s emporium of slops in
England. Some of them even realise that the
future of Australia is of more importance than
M‘Millan’s slop emporium.
* * * *
But the politicians who realise these things are
fe’tf, and arrayed against the Democratic Govern-
ment are many forces and many enemies. They
include the dry and dusty book-economists of
the Bruce Smith type, who prove by figures and
by many tomes of literature that we sacrifice
the whole future of our race we may save 2d. ;
the land-grabbing class which is solid on its right
to drive the English-speaking race right off the
face of the earth if sheep pay better than Anglo-
Saxons ; and the importing class which points out
that if we raise a great nation of workers its
profits will be bruised, and that it lives by
preventing the growth of local industry. Also
there is the cheap labor employer who speaks
with tears about the British flag and the
glory of the British race, and adds that the China-
man and the Hindu and the Dago are much
cheaper, and that the superfluous Briton had
better go to the' United States and learn to fight
against his own country in due time. Likewise
there is the battered rake who has become a pro-
Jap crank because of his love for that country’s
magnificent immorality, and who would sell his
country and his race for a Jap harlot; and the
crazy political idealist and the holy snuffler who
hold that, though it is perfectly correct for Britain
to deprive the Hindu of all political rights in liis
own country, it is an outrage for us to refuse him
the right to pervade ours. And at the tail of
the procession there is the great mass of em-
ployers who love the nigger because he is servile
and can be kicked, and who desire, for the sake
of their own vulgar pride, to fill Australia with a
feeble, servile, and easily kickable race, which
will be-of no defensive value in the hour of trouble.
Finally, the new Democratic Government is con-
fronted by a horde of disappointed and angry
billet-hunters, so taking all these matters into
account the odds are heavy.
THE TURNING OF THE SUPERFLUOUS
WORM JENKINS.
Among the troubles of the Australian Government
the row about “ State Rights” is not the greatest,
but by reason of its small, mean, malignant,
buzzing character it is one of the most annoying.
The fact that certain powers were transferred,
when Federation was accomplished, from the
States to the Commonwealth, necessarily implies
that the powers of the State Governments were
lessened to just the extent covered by those
powers, and certain truculent, petty, squalid
Jenkinses who now run the diminished State
authority, consequently find a grievance in every-
thing done by the Commonwealth Government.
As regards, say, South Australia, every act of
the Australian Ministry serves to remind State
Premier Jenkins of his diminished authority;
it is an act which Jenkins would have power
to do if there were no Australian Ministry and
which Jenkins hasn’t power to do now, and
therein the Jenkins variety of mind finds an
injury. And this excited and bumptious
Yankee ex-book-canvasser has allowed his sense
of reduced importance to hurry him into an act
that approaches to a wild American insurrection.
By the terms of the Federal Constitution all
matters relating to immigration were placed under
the control of the Australian Parliament and the
Australian Government. The other day certain
Chinamen demanded admission to the Northern
Territory, and the Australian Government, acting
under its reading of the Australian law, refused
to admit some of them. Whether it acted rightly
or wrongly—and it is much more likely to be right
than the other party, considering the book-fiend
Premier’s record for monumental incompetence—
was no concern of Jenkins. Federation took all
such matters out of his political range. If there
was anything wrong, the Australian Government
and Parliament, the High Court, the Chinese
immigrants, the Chinese Government and the
British authorities—some or all of these would
argue the matter out, while Jenkins stayed at
home and attended to his own small job of saying
“ Yessir ” to the Opposition.
* * * *
South Australia’s bounding book-fiend has
apparently been spoiling for a row ever since he
was snubbed by Chamberlain re his struggle to
enter into direct personal correspondence with
the British Government instead of conducting his
business through the Federal authority. From
the date when he was informed that he couldn’t
bring the honored name of Jenkins under the
direct notice of British noblemen in the Cabinet,
until now, he seems to have been an angry man.
In the present case he rose in a large, wild,
insurrectionary fashion and sent policemen to
forcibly bring ashore the Chinese to whom his
superiors in all immigration matters, the Federal
authorities, refused a landing. Of course they
were arrested as prohibited immigrants _ as
soon as they got ashore, but by that time
J enkins had got his advertisement. Exactly how
much else he may be liable to get for his lynch-law
and infuriated-cowboy methods, if the Australian
Government likes to press the case, is another
matter. But, for the moment, Jenkins is a proud
man. He may be an even prouder man if his
example spreads, and the Mayor of Adelaide (who
occupies the same position towards Jenkins as
Jenkins does in this matter towards Premier
Watson) sends the inspector of nuisances and the
local scavengers to upend his authority, as he has
tried, in his obscure way, to upend that of the
Australian Government. In this matter it is
difficult to see that Jenkins is actuated by any
save the meanest motives. The Northern Terri-
tory is not South Australian soil ; it is only
temporarily administered by South Australia.
Jenkins isn’t exactly Premier of it. He repu-
diates all responsibility for its deficits, and
doesn’t pretend to be accountable for keeping
its finances straight. To Jenkins the Territory is
nothing in particular, and the Chinamen are
nothing in particular, and immigration questions
are nothing at all. But a chance arrived for
acting in a soured and disagreeable manner, and
the chance was promptly availed of.
* * * *
That section of the community which discourses
incessantly about “State Rights” is, of course,
with Jenkins in this matter. As a matter of fact,
however, there is no such thing as State Rights.
There are only the rights of the people of Austra-
lia. If they exercise more rights through the
Federal Parliament then they exercise less through
the State Parliament, but they have the same
rights all the time, neither more nor less—barring,
of course, the fact that when they attempt to
exercise their rights through the State Parliament
the property qualification of the Upper House
swindles them out of a portion of them. It
doesn’t diminish their power of self-govern-
ment to exercise it through Australian
Premier Watson instead of through the local
Jenkins; it only diminishes Jenkins, who can’t
bear much diminution, lest he should disappear
altogether. To Jenkins, in his yearning after his
little dignity, this is probably an important mat-
ter, and the world is full of Jenkinses and Tom-
kinses and Briggses, and such like, not counting
people named Smith and Bloggs, who would
gladly embroil a whole continent for the sake of
twopenn’orth of unsavory personal advertisement.
The Jenkins view of the case is naturally sup-
Eorted by four classes of the community, who may
e thus summarised :
(I) The people who want Chinamen in Australia,
whether they arrive lawfully or otherwise.
(1) The Freetrade-Tory push, which is prepared to
swear that anything and everything which the Demo-
cratic and Protectionist Watson Government and the
Democratic Australian Parliament may do is wrong.
(3) The small politicians who were left behind in State
office because they weren’t large enough for Federal
office, who only hold their present positions because the
larger men u er.t away to a higher sphere, and who desire, for
their own glorification, to force the people to entrust most
of the business of Government to the brief, unstable
Jenkins, who remained behind, rather than the larger
Kingston or Holder, who went away, so that the small
Jenkins may look a larger Jenkins than he is.
(4) The papers which used to control, and still control,
the State Governments, but which can’t control the
Government of all Australia ; and which want to see as
much power as possible reserved to the Governments
which they can control, and as little as possible put in
the hands of the Federal authority, which is to a great
extent beyond their reach.
State Rights may therefore be summed up as
simply Jenkins Rights. The people can’t ii-
crease their State Rights without correspondingly
diminishing their Australian rights. In fact, the
loss to the people in the Federal sense will be greater
than the gain in the State sense, for State Rights
mean the transfer of power from a Legislature con-
trolled entirely by the people, to one partly
controlled by the people and partly by Property.
State Rights mean the people’s loss —and the gain
of Jenkins, ex-book-canvasser. Also, the more
State Rights we have the more Jenkinses we have
to support.
* ♦ * *
South Australian Attorney-General Yon Doussa
has thrown some new light upon the case since it
was last alluded to in these columns. He admits
with disastrous frankness that the Jenkins Go-
vernment isn’t troubled in the least about the
justice of the case as regards the persons it pro-
fesses to defend. According to Yon Doussa it
doesn’t care whether the allegedly wronged China-
men are wronged or not, and its motive is purely
selfish. “We are not testing the matter for the
Chinese,” he said, “ but for the purpose of decid-
ing what are the rights of a sovereign State against
the Federation.” As a matter of fact South Aus-
tralia never was a sovereign State ; it has always
been subject to Britain, and it is now subject both
to the Australian Government and to Britain. It
is no more a sovereign State than is the area ruled
by the London County Council, and every time
Jenkins poses as the head of a sovereign State he
is throwing off his allegiance to EdWABD VII.—
among other things. But leaving that matter out
of the question, it is admitted by Von Doussa that
the sole object now in view is to maintain or
increase the “sovereign” rights of South Aus-
tralia and thereby diminish the still more
“sovereign” rights of the Commonwealth of
which South Australia is part—to enlarge the
rights which the people of the State exercise
through Jenkins (when the Upper House
doesn’t get in the way), and dimmish those
which they don’t exercise through Jenkins.
The matter being thus narrowed down there
seems no real reason why Australia should take
any interest in the dignity of Jenkins. Still
that bumptious person has achieved something.
A little while ago he was making a most unseemly
squall about his right to communicate directly with
his Majesty’s representative. Supposing the law
were pushed to the uttermost it seems just possible
that Jenkins might be found to have at last
acquired the right to communicate directly with
his Majesty’s representative—when that func-
tionary takes his seat on the bench and asks
Jenkins what he means by all this noise and cat-
chorus.
CONCERNING COALITIONS.
Mr. Reid, beaten in Parliament, has appealed to
the Press, and an active agitation is being carried
on on his behalf by the Sydney Telegraph,
aided to an extent by the Sydney Morning
Herald and the Melbourne Argus. Ttiese papers
scold vigorously the men who will not move to
put the apostle of Yes-No into power ; they
implore them pathetically ; they argue with them
speciously. A wilderness of words is wasted on
the subject. Now Mr. Reid’s “sincerity” is
praised, now his “ability” is lauded, now his
“genial good nature” is held up for admiration.
The desperately extravagant eulogies suggest
counsel pleading for an accused whose case
is, on the evidence, hopeless, and hoping to
get a sympathy verdict. The Argus forgets
all that it had to say once of the treacher-
ous foe of Federation. The Herald wipes
from memory the just scorn it aforetime held for
the man who fought on the narrow and bitter side
of provincialism, and fought not with the weapons
of open warfare but with the stiletto of the secret
assassin. The Daily Telegraph discharges from
its thoughts the savage attacks it once made upon
the same Reid— the convincing proofs it printed
of his utter unreliability, his financial misdeeds,
his political profligacy. This forgetfulness of past
misdeeds, this sinister unanimity of praise signifies
what ? Simply the hysterical rage of the organs of
the importing and shop-keeping classes at the
existence of a Democratic Ministry. The
rage is too hysterical to allow _ of any
reasoning. The Democratic party is in power;
triumphant democracy is personified in Premier
Watson. The Freetrade papers turn with frenzy
to Reid to wipe away this stain. A little reflec-
tion would suggest that it is usual in politics to
make tlie punishment follow the crime, to apply
the remedy when the evil is apparent; that it is
grossly unfair to condemn, unheard and untried, a,
new party assuming, under strict constitutional
conditions, the reins of power; that it would be
decent to wait until something which can be
alleged as an evil comes from the Watson
Government before shrieking for its execution.
If a Radical Cabinet is so surely of the
Devil and accursed, it would be wise to
allow it to show' the cloven hoof before
pronouncing anathema. If their hostility
towards Premier Watson were tempered with
any wisdom or any sense of Australian fair play
the Freetrade organs would be content to hide
their time. But the importing, shop-keeping
crowd, the foreign Hebrew exponents of “ British
fair-play ” have not at this crisis time to think.
They are full of a snobbish fury because Watson
is a Labor man ; and only his execution without
trial will glut their hate.
* * * *
If, even, some little cunning were mixed with
their calculations the Foreign-trade newspapers
would change their tone, for there is one fact,
perhaps one fact alone, clear to those who study
the temper of the Australian Parliament. That is
that Reid as the leader of any sort of a coalition
is impossible; that Reid, even as a prominent
partner in any union of forces, is almost impos-
sible. Deakin or Turner might possibly form a
coalition which would oust W atson from office;
Lyne might; John Forrest might; even Dugald
Thomson, of N.S.W., might. But, in the present
temper of the House of Representatives, no leader
of any other section of the House will have any-
thing* to do with Reid. There is not one with
anything to lose who would take the risk of
playing a hand with him as partner. It is
not merely/ that he plays crooked, but that
he has gcv£ into the way of playing crooked and


losing. In politics you may lose, but if you play
straight you may still be a power; or you may play
crooked and win and be counted as a factor when
combinatfdns are being made up. But to play
crooked and to lose is to go down. That is Reid’s
position.
9 * • *
Imagine the ambitious leader of a section of the
Federal Parliament, seeking some coalition which
would lead to office, turning over in his mind
the question as to what Reid could bring to the
common pool. A strong programme on which to
appeal to the electors ? Emphatically not. Reid
contested the last elections on the Freetrade issue
and abandoned that as a hopeless cause within the
first week of the new Parliament. Unless the
noisome sectarian intolerance which clings to
him and will not be shaken off is Reid’s
platform, he has none, and in the Australian Par-
liament there is no hope of forming a Government
on the issue that a now half-forgotten Australian
Premier once went to see the Pope. Can Reid
bring to a coalition a loyal following ? Again no.
On the last crucial division, at his own instiga-
tion, Reid’s party split into two, and the greater
part of it is now morally pledged to support the
Watson Government. Of that greater part a
section is avowedly eager to break the pledge, but
what a foundation to start a coalition on—a ring
of self-confessed political liars ! To go into
battle with one wing composed of proved traitors
is not a course that suggests itself to the
practical politician as likely to lead to victory.
Could Mr. Reid bring to a coalition a personal
character for reliability, a reputation for industry
even ? Again, emphatically not. His Yes-No is
proved to be a habit—not an occasional political
crime or impulse, but a settled and constant degra-
dation of mind. His want of industry is as
notorious as his want of principle. There is, in
short, no single reason why any party aspiring to
power should give one moment’s thought to Reid
as a possible partner. He could bring no platform,
no party, no good reputation, no record of success,
and anyone who went on the trail with him would
have to always carry an axe and never close an
eye in sleep. Why should anyone take as mate
the political Gabbett ?
That a coalition of some sort will ultimately end
the present situation in Federal politics is likely
enough. But it is not possible to imagine a union
under the auspices of Reid. There are in the
Parliament at present two parties and a remnant.
Premier Watson has a party, loyal, honest,
pledged to a definite platform. Deakin has a
party, in the main just as honest and loyal, but not
nearly so clear as to its aims. Reid has only a
remnant, an aggregation of individuals with no
platform or policy to bind them together, profess-
ing a sort of general obedience to their leader
hut voting against him as often as not, and
having little of the ability necessary for
administrative work. It is possible that, if it
becomes clear that the Watson Cabinet cannot
continue in power, a Deakin-Watson coalition
will be formed. It is possible that, when Reid
finds that he cannot lead a coalition, he will come
to some sort of terms with Deakin and help him
at the price of a subordinate position in his Cabi-
net. Neither of these contingencies need have
any terror for the Radical voter. A Deakin-
Watson coalition would ensure a fairly Radical
administration for a term. A Deakin Govern-
ment helped by Reid would drive all the Radical
elements of Parliament into an Opposition so for-
midable as to be able to prevent any movement
towards reaction, and to win undisputed power at
the next elections. The Tory press, in urging a
coalition, is really trying to cut its own throat:
the one form of coalition which it favors is
impossible; other forms would ultimately serve
and not damage the Democratic cause. There is
really only one serious danger to be feared —that
the Watson Government will stay in office and do
nothing in particular.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Japan.
It is probably a fair thing to assume that three-
fourths of Australian sympathy with Japan arises
out of Japanese immorality. Japan is the boss
harlot of the earth. It is a country where the
business of Rahab is respectable—where it has
long been commendable and honorable for a girl
to sell her honor to help the household’s fallen for-
tunes, and where she didn’t lose caste by so
doing. It was this more than anything else which
first advertised Japan and made it a favorite
resort. In Japan the unctuous and gloating old
gentleman, whom Stead denounced so fiercely
when he wrote his “ Maiden Tribute ” obscenities
some twenty years ago, and the equally
able younger individual of the same species, found
a new sensation. It was the one country on
earth where Rahab might be a lady—not merely
the remains of one ; the only place where Rahab
could possibly be fresh and (m a manner) innocent,
and yet be Rahab, simply because the calling of the
lady of Jericho hadn’t lost all respect there. When
the facts were realised there set in a vast tide of
tourists —mostly hard-faced individuals of wealth,
who left their feminine belongings behind them—
to the land of the Rising Sun. They advertised it
as no other place on earth was ever advertised, and
said the earth held no other place like it —and, in
a moral sense, the earth didn’t. They came back
to tell other hard-faced gentlemen about the un-
concerned Jap girl, who came modestly and un-
ashamed, and without losing any of her feeling of
self-respect, into the tourist’s bathroom to see if
that partially-clothed person was supplied with
soap and towel. There was hardly one affluent,
battered and incurable rake in any Australian city
who didn’t become a Japan-haunter and a teller of
smoking-room stories about the girls of the Chry-
santhemum country. The tide of immoral
tourists, of course, carried with it, in time, and by
the process of advertisement, a crowd of other
tourists, and Japan became a craze, a holiday
resort, a place that everyone knew and talked
about. But above all it was the Mecca, all the
time, of the hard-faced bounders whose intentions
were strictly dishonorable. The comparatively
moral Russian hadn’t the ghost of a show to
acquire popularity in this kind of competition. No
unctuous elderly citizens make annual pil-
grimages to Yladivostock or Dalny, and there is
no specially novel variety of sin at Irkutsk.
Japan, the flowery, picturesque bagnio among
nations, is solid in the sympathy of a large and
nefarious section of the community, and that
section’s voice has made public opinion. It feels
that if anything serious happened to such a coun-
try it would be nothing short of a world-wide
calamity.
♦
A State that Indulges in Constructive
Murder.
When The Bulletin pointed out, at the time of
the passing of Victoria’s Amending Lunacy Act
last session, that what was wanted was not a new
Act, but scientific administration and the expen-
diture of a decent sum of money in providing pro-
per accommodation for the insane, and an adequate
number of attendants and trained nurses —it
hardly expected its warning to be emphasised so
speedily and so strenuously. At Yarra Bend
Asylum, lately, an unfortunate—one of the
“ special ” cases that needed continuous watching,
hanged himself, and the evidence given at the
inquest clearly showed where the responsibility
lay. The medical officer in charge told the
coroner plainly, “We have no observation ward
in the male division, and that is the only safe-
guard against suicide.” That was in one of the
two big metropolitan asylums in an allegedly up-
to-date, civilised country ! There were only two
attendants on night duty in this huge establish-
ment-one had to look after 160 patients, of whom
63 were “specials”; he was on duty continuously
from 8 p.m. to 7 a.m., five nights one week, six
the next, throughout the year. The other
attendant had to look after 190 patients in
the different cottages and 24 ‘ ‘ specials ” in
addition. He also worked 11 hours continuously,
and 1;...d been doing night duty steadily for nearly
three years ! These two must be men of iron
nerves (or of none at all), or they would long
since have joined the patients themselyes. They
managed to give a glance at the patients every
hour or so ; that was all they could do. Coroner
Cole recorded a verdict of suicide while insane,
and acquitted the attendants of all blame. As
his billet depends on the favor of his bosses, Bent
and Sammy Gillott, he said no more; but,
without departing an iota from the truth, he
might have recorded a verdict of constructive
manslaughter against the Victorian Ministry
which initiated the conscienceless, penny-
wise system of retrenchment under which Victoria
suffers —the system that refuses to provide the
most ordinary necessaries for a Hospital for the
Insane, that allows no nurses and an insufficient
number of doctors, and that sweats the few atten-
dants it has to employ—“ the well-paid, pampered
public servants” —in an utterly disgraceful manner.
♦
The Butter Brigands.
Even as far as it has gone the Victorian Butter-
Trade Commission’s inquiry has dug up admis-
sions of trickery and fraud which would be
reckoned too ‘ 1 strong ” for even a two-up
“school.” Into so shocking a state of immorality
has the business degenerated, and apparently so
long has the immorality existed, that now the
admissions are made almost cheerfully. “We are
a firm of standing,” said one witness. “I tell our
representatives they are not to use any sharp
practices, and not to scandalise anybody.” And
then the head.of this firm of standing, which was
so jealous of its reputation, told the Commission
that it traded practically under two names, and
thus was able to collar two commissions—one for
acting as agent and one on the final sale;
that, having spent £2OOO on opening up a
trade to “the East,” it proceeded to get the
money back by putting up 15oz. of butter in
“nominal lb.” tins; that it planed brands off
butter boxes, and put others on; that it even
scraped brands off the butter itself, and substi-
tuted other marks ; that it engaged secretaries
of butter companies as its agents for the sale of
factory requisites, and paid them a commission
for selling the goods to their own companies ; and
other things of the same character. Beside the
admissions of chicanery, in connection with which
perhaps the most lamentable feature is that the
men who make them profess to see no evil in
them, and may therefore be expected to do the
same things in the future, or even worse things
as their moral sense becomes still more blunted—
beside these admissions, the original matter of the
shipping companies’ rebate looks small and dull.
Not only did one agent admit having drawn a
per cent, commission from the Orient Company
since 1896 —“a secret commission, and not to be
disclosed”—but in the matter of insurance they
“charged their principals a little more than they
paid.” They charge the butter factories 3| per
cent. “ for supervision ” and admit that the
supervision is almost a myth. Others charge
3 per cent, as “consulting brokers,” or ex-
port agents —and admit, some of them do, that
the export agent is “ a quite useless and unneces-
sary expense.” It is a record of blood-sucking—
open as far as they dare, and then continued
secretly as far as they can—which is probably
without parallel; and it is all done by
men who profess to be “ farmers’friends,” and
to be deeply concerned about “ the producing
interests.” Taking bribes themselves (for these
second, or secret, commissions are essentially
bribes), they did not hesitate to offer bribes to
others—“anything,” as one witness put it, “ from
a cigar to £100.” “ Sometimes it was ihe manager
of the factory, sometimes the secretary, sometimes
the chairman, and sometimes two or three of
them.” And at the bottom of it all, Bearing the
weight of all this fraud, paying all these com-
missions, some of them unnecessary and others of
them immoral into the bargain, unconsciously pro-
viding all these bribes, and paying all this black-
mail, and being looted by all manner of thieves,
and shamefully looted by the very men whom he
paid to watch his interests, is the farmer :
In four weeks they received from one factory 16001 b. of
butter, which they did not pay for. The butter chart
showed a margin of 5 per cent in their favor, so that they
were obtaining £6B per week for nothing.
Mr. Croker : Who would suffer ?— Particular farmers
who supplied cream to the factory.
The farmer—and what sort of an ass does he think
he has been? When Kyabram blared its little
trumpet, he whooped with it for Private Enter-
prise. He got it; and what does he think of it ?
The Labor party offered him State help—some-
thing in the shape of the -State Export Dep6t of
Adelaide, which has been absolutely free from sus-
picion—and he replied by kicking the Labor party.
Does the farmer know his friends now ? If he
doesn’t, he is a hopeless case.
♦
The N.S.W. Local Government Problem.
“There are no great difficulties,” says Acting-
Premier Wise, “in connection with local govern-
ment in populous areas. All the difficulties are
associated with country municipalities in sparsely-
populated districts.” Boiled down, most of the
problem amounts to just this : How much bonus
is the State going to pay those who “go on the
land” and engage in what the Foreign-trade papers
call “the great natural industries,” and how is it
going to distribute the bonus ? There is a local
government problem just as there is an education
problem, regarding which a conference was held
the other day. But, just as N.S.W. has manufac-
tured most of the education problem, so it has
manufactured most of the local government
problem. If N.S.W. had encouraged its people to
go in for manufacturing iron and the boots and
clothes and the other things they need, and
which they now import, instead of scattering
them over the whole face of a State which
is mostly semi-desert in ordinary seasqns,
and putting them at the shockingly precarious
business of growing grain and wool, there would
not be half as much education problem, or half as
much local government problem. And if, by a
stiff graduated land-tax, N.S.W. had forced open
the coastal lands to those who still wanted to
go in for raising wool and wheat, leaving the back-
lands to the squatter who chose to go there of his
own free will, then most of the other half of the
problems would also disappear. The real, big
question now is: Are we going on perpetually
propping and subsidising these unfortunate people
whom we have forced out into what is a desert
more than half its time, or are we going to give
them a show closer in ? If we decide to give them
a show close in (and we can do that by stiff
Protection and a graduated land-tax), then the
local government problem becomes a very small
problem indeed; for as Acting-Premier Wise
says, it is “the sparsely-populated districts”
which provide “all the difficulties,” and
there hardly need be any “ sparsely-popu-
lated districts ” under this scheme. There would
be a thickly-populated coastal district and table-
land which would be able to run its own local
government system without cadging from the
State. And then there would be the West, which,
being occupied by sheep (which couldn’t be made
aldermen), and bullocks (which don’t make good
mayors), and just enough men (largely of a
nomadic class) to look after these beasts, would
require very little government of any sort.
: ♦
What the Reid Party is Doing.
It is whispered among the members of the
so-called ‘‘Freetrade party” of Reid —though
why so-called now it is hard to say, since it has
definitely abandoned any notion of Freetrade, or
even of working for a lower tariff, and is held
together only by some rotten bonds of sec-
tarianism, provincialism and mutual shameless-
ness—that the Watson Government is to be
defeated on the inclusion of the railway servants
in the Federal Arbitration Bill. Conroy, Lee,
Sydney Smith, Lonsdale, Willis a,nd Lid-
dell —the “wreckers” of the division of
April 21—will cross to the opposite side;
having voted one way on April 21 they
will cheerfully vote the other on May 21. Bruce
Smith will rally to the side of Reid ; Joseph
Cook, W. E. Johnson, W. H. Wilks, and G. B.
Edwards will find some excuse for being absent.
That is the yarn. The Bulletin does not alto-
gether believe it. That Reid is quite capable of
attempting such a thing is true. That all the
men mentioned would fall in with a scandalous
plot to frustrate the frequently expressed opinion
of the House on the Railway servants question it
is difficult to believe. There surely cannot be
such a general development of shamelessness in
the Australian Parliament; nor is it possible to
believe otherwise than that, with the development
of such a plot, there would be a protest on the part
of decent men in the House effective enough to
make it impossible that George Reid should
profit by the intrigue. But the mere suggestion
of this plan shows to what lengths the direct
Reid following is prepared to go in its greed for
office.
- 4
There is a large and wonderful lack of gratitude
in this world. For nearly three years the Demo-
cratic party led by Watson kept the Barton-
Deakin Ministry in office. In all that time it
demanded for itself not a single billet and not a
single salary. It gave to the Barton-Deakin
minority the spoils of office absolutely—all the
§or tf olios, the Speakership, the Presidency of the
enate —everything. All the concessions it asked
were for the people, not for itself. And nobody
seems grateful to it for its splendid unselfishness.
There are three almost equal parties in the Repre-
sentatives, but the Reid minority and the Deakin
minority, whatever else they disagree upon, seem
solid on the one point that they are the salt of the
earth, and the only minorities which should
hold office. The Watson party abandoned
Deakin, not on any sordid question about
the division of the loaves and fishes —it was
willing to let Deakin and co. keep the loaves and
fishes all their days—but on a point of principle.
Now the air is full of the adjurations of Toryism
and Fat that Reid and Deakin should sink their
principles in order to get the sordid loaves and
fishes back again. The Tory press has wept for
three years about the “degradation” of the Bar-
TON-Deakin Government in submitting to the
“dictation” of the Democratic party which kept
it in office —as if every Government wasn’t dictated
to by the party which kept it in office. Yet within
24 hours after the end of this allegedly degrading
arrangement every Tory paper in the land was
calling upon Deakin to submit to the dictation of
Reid and Reid to submit to the dictation of
Deakin in order that they might get the
sordid salaries, and to sink their principles for
the sake of portfolios. Nothing more shameless
and sordid could be imagined than this appeal
to Deakin to sell his principles, partly for office
and partly for a low mean revenge on the men
who unselfishly supported him, without* fee or
personal reward, until their principles made further
support impossible. The appeal to Reid would
have been equally shameless if anybody suspected
Reid of having any principles to sell.
4
The Japanese victory on the Yalu shunts the
Christian a little further back and the Pagan a
little further forward—and allegedly Christian
England is still cheering wildly for the Pagan.
So, to a great extent, is partly Christian and
partly horse-worshipping Australia. A whole lot
of considerations have been stirred up by that
disastrous episode on the Yalu River. A multi-
tude of foolish people kept explaining to the Jap
that the Russian position was exactly similar to
that of the Boers on the Tugela, and when the
Japs carried the position at the first attempt and
remembered how the British failed over and over
again to clear the Tugela, the Jap came to the
conclusion that he was a decidedly better man
than the Britisher. The fact that Asia has licked
Europe, even in one big battle, is a fearsome blow
to the prestige of the white man. Britain
in India and Burmah, France in Further
India, Russia in the north—they all live
on the white man’s prestige, and Shem is begin-
ning to ask if there will be any white, man’s
prestige left soon. There is wild talk about
organising the innumerable Chow and making him
as good a soldier as the Jap, and if that can be
done—though, fortunately, it seems a very improb-
able event —there certainly won’t be any white
man’s prestige in Asia a very few years hence.
The European roused Japan from its sleep and
taught the Jap how to shoot, and now Shem begins
to have dreams of spreading the information with
a view to the general shooting of that darned fool
Japhet, who gave away the secret of his supre-
macy. If only a fragment of the dream is realised,
there should be exciting times ahead for Japhet.
4
There is apparently no subject on this earth about
which Joey Carruthers, leader of N.S.W.
Opposition, can’t make a long series of non-com-
mittal remarks. Joe’s platitude is always on
hand. This, for instance, is what he had to say
about Wise’s proposed Local Government Bill :
The scheme of local government that he proposes to
introduce is just another of the cumbersome and burden-
some schemes which have been proposed year after year,
and which smother all the aspirations of the people for
local self-government. It is not the sort of thing that the
people want. It is inelastic and overweighted in every
direction with machinery and administrative matters. . . .
What the country wants, and what they will never get
from this Government, is a simple measure of local self-
government which will adapt itself to the growing require-
ments of a locality by reason of the elasticity of the
measure itself.
Carkuthers never does anything, never devises
anything, never drafts a measure, never says any-
thing definite. What he always does say is some-
thing to the effect that “ the country requires a
wise, simple, and elastic scheme,” which won’t do
anything immediately, but will combine the
wisdom of Solomon with the advantages of an
air-brake and a well-oiled back action, and which,
while embodying all the noblest aspirations of a
great and intellectual people, will take up little
room in the back yard, and fully satisfy the na-
tional yearnings after political expansion, also
serving as a step-ladder when required. In his
haziness and his sordidness of thought Joseph
vaguely suggests a second-hand rainbow in a
pawnbroker’s shop.
»
The diplomatic spieler who gives away inter-
national secrets to the press is not always reliable.
He is often the poor relation of some knee-
breeched ambassador who suffers from pains in the
back through kow-towing in the presence of a
Czar or a Kaiser Bill. The poor relation comes
in for the crumbs of court gossip, which he rushes
into the nearest magazine. “ Coloniensis,” in
current Fortnightly Review, states that Russia,
during the Boer war, offered not to discourage
Japanese expansion in Oceania and Australia pro-
vided Russia were allowed a free hand in Korea
and Manchuria—in other words, that Russia, for
the sake of Manchuria, made the same kind of
offer to Japan which Britain, for the sake of
Egypt, lately made to France re Morocco..
Certain Australian papers print this as
another instance of Russia’s perfidy. If
“Coloniensis”’ statement is true there is
significance in the fact that the Bear knew the
kind of bait likely to tempt the Monkey. Even
the distant Slav is not blind to the Jap’s yearning
for our large airy continent. The Argentine, the
Esquimaux, the Finn and the man who eats rein-
deer in Greenland are alive to the fact. Yet the
editors of the Sydney Herald and its contempo-
rary news-ravagers grow savage and liarsome when-
ever the white Russian gets in a small blow at the
yellow invader. Some day, when the alleged
Australian squadron steams away to assist
Britain against a hostile European combina-
tion, the Monkey may drop in upon us
and demand permanent board and residence for
a million or two of his coolie population. A
Monkey press censor may yet sit alongside the
Telegraph’s editor, and command him to say
nice things about Mikados and Monkeys in general.
A second Jap censor may steal round to the
Herald and request the proprietor to throw away
the office Bible and use a nickel-plated praying
machine instead. At all events, we have the
assurance of the daily papers that Japan
has hostile views towards Australia, and
that they are so hostile that Russia thought
the offer of its passive encouragement while
Japan became unpleasant towards us would be a
valuable consideration. If the story is false it
doesn’t amount to anything. If it is true it shows
up Japan as a very notorious enemy of this
country.
❖
How they do things nowadays in Victoria: —
Bent, at latest, was still bellowing round Victoria,
varying the monotony of indirectly promising railways
and other concessions by vilifying the public servants,
the unemployed, and anybody who wasn’t there to answer
back. At Koorong Vale he met a couple of deputations
which had evidently summed him up to a nicety. The
first, from Inglewood Council, calmly requested an “ un-
conditional grant of £6OO ” to improve the township’s
main drain. Bent ascertained that the council only
raised £450 a year in rates, and that consequently it was
practically asking for 16 months’ revenue. As this fact
soaked in the Brighton Bully started to bellow, but was
smartly switched off by Hon. Minister Langdon,
who introduced another gang of sturdy beggars
representing the Loddon United Water Trust. They
casually mentioned that they owed the State
£18,841, and would like £3841 of this knocked off.
Inquiring, Thomas discovered that this blessed Trust had
already, in ’99, shoved on to the State’s shoulders £1717
of its capital liability and £8846 of its overdue interest;
that it was getting in arrears again nearly as rapidly" as
before, and that what little interest it did pay came out,
of the municipal subsidy , so that the State really paid it.
Bent nearly went into convulsions on learning this, but.,
as usual, after bellowing for a space, he told the stolid,
anti-Socialistic farmers he would talk the matter over
with Minister Swinburne and honorary Minister Lang-
don —who also happens to be member for the district—
and, of course, those farmers went away thoroughly
understanding that their chance of looting the Treasury
depends on Langdon, Bent and co. being returned to Par-
liament again.
• ♦
“ Wingen ” Abbott, who hadn’t been heard from
for a long while (a fortnight at least), writes to the
papers that, as all the attempts made during the
past 43 years to settle poor men on the land have
failed, all the old nonsense should be dropped, and
the land sold by auction to the highest bidder.
“ The man who gives the highest price is the least
likely to hold the land out of its proper use.”
“Wingen” says he has, himself, land which is
fattening 10 sheep to the acre. It is the most
statesmanlike contribution yet made to a big
subject. The beauties of the plan are many;
here are a few :
(1) During the past 43 years nearly all the settlement
has been in the Centre and the West, where it is mostly
sand and drought and distance. If a poor settler, who
has sand and drought and distance in his favor, fails, he
is obviously the wrong sort of settler.
(2) The right way to settle people on the land is to let
the rich acquire the freeholds. You can get proof of this
any day on the freehold estates of the A. A. Co., Peel River
Co., and on the Monaro, which are simply over-run with
settlers—you can meet one nearly every day if you walk
fast.
(3) Mr. Abbott himself shows what is the best use to put
land to. He has country which is fattening 10 sheep to
the acre. It is better to fatten sheep than men. You
can sell fat sheep.
(4) The more you pay for land the better. If you pay
a lot for interest or rent you can afford to pay more for
wages. Everyone knows that the more you pay for
butter the more you have to buy bread with.
W. E. Abbott’s plan glistens with other virtues ;
but these ought to be enough to commend it to
any sensible body of men.
♦
The Victorian Bent Ministry is giving sops to
everybody now that the elections are so close, but
about the suddenest thing it has done yet is its
removal of the grievances of the police force over
the alteration of the retiring age. When the
Bent-Irvine Government decided to keep police
officers on hand till they turned 65, instead of 60,
in order to save pensions and promotions, the
honest howl of the ordinary policeman was so
loud that Chief Secretary Murray thought it
advisable to promise that only a small proportion
of the inspectors should be kept on for the extra
five years. But the promise remained unfulfilled
for many months. Now new Chief Secretary Sam
Gillott is said to have discovered, to his con-
sternation, a fact which many people knew before
—that the police vote and the votes of policemen’s
relatives and friends are a thing to be reckoned


The equitable life assurance society
HENRY B. HYDE, Founder.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOE YEAE ENDED 31st DEOEMBEE, 1903.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
ASSETS
SURPLUS
The New Business EXCEEDED that of 1902 by
£289,738,301
£78,341,950
£15,053,725
£8,383,994
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAE, M. 8., M.L.C.
Hon. Sir FEANCIS B. SUTTOE, Kt., M.L.C.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
once.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O
for this?
N
Write for our Illustrated Booklet, mailed Free on application. Ask for Catalog 8.,
explaining what can be done with the Pianola,
All Records supplied irom our immense Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
Sole Agents for
Australasia,
323 George St., SYDNEY; 185=7 Collins St., MELBOURNE; & at Finney, Isles & Co., BRISBANE.
with in his East Melbourne constituency. He forth-
with got the Cabinet to ratify Murray's promise,
that the bulk of the officers would be retired at 60
in order that their subordinates might have a
show for promotion. Then, on second thoughts, he
fell over himself in his haste to persuade Bent
and Co. to abolish their whole police polioy, and
now every policeman is to retire at 60, as of old.
When Bent and Co. raised the retiring age to 65
they yelled about their firmness and economy.
And when they reduce it to 60 again, they shout
about their fairness and generosity.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Theatre Royal “Great Millionaire.”
Criterion “ Little Lord Fauntleroy."
Palace Nawn’s Comedy Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Pierrot Entertainers
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Three Little Maids.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Sign of the Cross.”
Theatre Royal. “ Her Second Time on Earth.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
It was a shaven and shorn Fauntleroy—a
shorn Fauntleroy, anyway—that Wm. F. Hawtrey
restored to his ancestral halls at Sydney Criterion
on Saturday night. Most Fauntleroys have tossed
pretty curls—generally their own ; for the boy who
is robust enough to look the part isn’t, as a rule, the
sort of youngster with patience either to learn or
play it; so the long line of Fauntleroys, from
Olive Berkley, who came across from America in
1889 to create the character, have been girls. They
looked like 15 while their mothers said they were
10. Mr. Hawtrey, however, has got hold of a real
boy, Sydney Halliday, who looks no older than the
girls did, wears his velveteens and crimson scarf
just as well, and doesn’t seem even quite so
priggish as Mrs. Hodgson Burnett made the
original. All things considered, he does remark-
ably well; often he plays so naturally that you
don’t see the drill-master behind him. The part
is so heavy a one that to be even word-perfect is
something; yet that is only a small feature in a
performance of very distinct merit. In fact, it is
a good performance right through. Miss Lane, the
little lord’s mother, has what looks like the most
congenial role of her season. Certainly it is the
“ pretty part” of the piece, the part which makes
the dress-circle use its handkerchief violently.
Then Oily Deering, who keeps the corner grocery,
comes along and relieves the situation with
remarks calculated to show how queer a fish a
republican is when compared with one who
believes in the old nobility. Hawtrey, of course,
is the old nobility—with the gout, and the vile
temper, and the brutal manners—and he makes
the best of him, which isn’t much. Gregan
M‘Mahon is his spidery family lawyer, and makes
a very good character-sketch of it, restraining the
M'Mahon tendency to overdo the business. The
gouty earl, and the picturesque kid, and the widow
who make the dress-circle weep will give place to
J. C. Williamson’s comedy co. at the end of the
week. Also Heggie, who is Hawtrey’s tenant-
farmer and has a wife and seven sick children, and
has had all the manhood squeezed out of him, will
last only a week more. The Bulletin cordially
invites those who go to see the aristocracy to con-
sider Heggie in a part which ought to be worth
several votes to the policy of taxing out the Aus-
tralian squire-canker before it gets very deep into
this young nation’s life.
* sfc * *
These are the last nights of the Perman
pantomime at Sydney Palace ; after Friday night,
Red Riding Hood will cease to have strange
adventures as she seeks her grandmother, who
keeps the tea and tote shop on the main road to
the Australian capital. Some jokes that have
been thought of since the first nights are being
issued without extra charge. Tom Nawn and a
just-arrived co. of American comedians follow on
Saturday night.
** * *
There is this to be said for Bland Holt’s
“Great Millionaire,” that, besides amusing the
public thoroughly, it does its best to boom that
blessed birth-rate along. Bill of the Barcoo gloats
enthusiastically over the children he is going to
have when the girl says “Yes,” and the patriotic
sentiment is urged on several other occasions. The
“ Millionaire ” has now taken on its autumn tints,
and those who have been postponing a visit, with
the idea that the play is going to run a year or so,
should hurry up.
m* * *
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, the “Light
that Failed ” burnt with unabated vigor until last
Tuesday night (this is written on Tuesday after-
noon, but the final burning is taken for granted)
and maidens have gathered round it thick as
moths round the candle that the writer takes out
at night when snail-catching in the family rose
patch. On Wednesday that everlasting daisy,
the “Lady of Lyons,” blossomed, unless some-
thing prevented it, for a matinee and a night, and
Cuyler Hastings, who recites most effectively,
was Claude Melnotte, the gardener’s son,
Sided nothing happened to the contrary. He
that palace, lifting to eternal summer,
in thrilling American accents —or if he didn’t he
and the advertisement may fight it out between
them. To-night Hall Caine’s moan, “The Chris-
tian,” is to go before the audience, and onlookers
will long to give John Storm’s double a good meal,
then take him into push society for a night, and
afterwards treat Caine as Cain dealt it out to
Abel. On Saturday there will be a revival of
“Sherlock Holmes,” with Hastings and Athol-
wood in the respective starring parts of Holmes
and Moriarty, while Mabel Lane will be welcomed
back as Madge Larrabee.
The most remarkable thing that has hap-
pened at Fitzgerald’s Circus since The Bulletin
last sampled the strange odors of the wild beasts
and counted the sticking-plaster on the Jap
wrestlers, oocurred outside the tents on Saturday,
when strong-man Gordon tied himself into a
swingle-bar between six horses and five tons of
wheat, and gave that cheerful end of the city a
free view of a very novel procession. Inside, the
Gascoignes are mysteriously getting out of every-
thing except their knee-breeches and starched
shirts, including a large quantity of handcuffs.
The tiger is being brought to a proper frame of
mind, and Zapf will next week show him in various
new yes-no attitudes.
* * # #
The Tivoli programme has been brightened
by the arrival of Nat Clifford, eccentric dancer,
whose amazing foot juggling is unlike anything
hitherto seen here. His are the most grotesque
capers since the early days of Johnny Coleman ;
and his capers accompany jokes which don’t yet
wear the wrinkles of weary old age. Clifford’s
singing voice is nothing to speak of ; probably he
wouldn’t use it if he had another to sing with.
Altogether, so far as they have gone, he is the
most distinctive comedian manager Rickards dis-
covered in his last travels. Next Saturday comes
the first of the wrestlers who have lately been
filling the London ’alls with audiences and the
sporting papers with challenges. Most of the
wrestlers are Abdul Something, or else end in
schmidt or ovski ; this particular one, however, is
a plain John, from Cornwall, where the “ rastle ”
and the cock-fight grow on the same bush as the
“tater pasty,” the conger pie, and the local
preacher.
* * &
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), last Satur-
day, there was a large attendance of the two
publics—the one which reverences “ Sign of the
Cross” as a play, pure and holy, and the other
and less verdant public, which accepts the preachy
melodrama on its spectacular merits. “ The
Sign ” has not exhausted the attractive power of
its title. When the present scribe notes the satis-
faction that many people derive from their faith
iii the goodness of Wilson Barrett’s teachings, he
almost wishes he didn’t know any better. Each
revival of “The Sign” reminds him of the
story of the twelve Christian brethren who
formed a theatre - party on the night of
the first production of the play in Mel-
bourne (at the Princess’s), seven years ago.
Eleven of them were young brethren. They
smiled an earnest Sunday School smile, and
studied their programmes in an apostolic manner,
as though they were reading a tract. The twelfth
was the elder of the party, a gloomy, stiff-bearded
saint, full of wise texts and gloomy instances, and
he took his place reluctantly at the end of the line,
on the bend of the dress circle —an uncompromising
playhouse-hater, waiting to be convinced of the error
of his visit. The curtain fell on the first act, and
the eleven young men applauded earnestly. The
hard-faced ancient sat silent a moment, shading his
eyes with his hand. Then he leaned forward and
beamed all along the line, saying ‘ ‘ I am gla-a-d
you brought me ; yes, indeed, I am truly gla-a-d
to be heah.” Ebenezer evidently got a lot of
personal comfort and joy from the moral superi-
ority of those earlier Christians who prowled
around pagan Rome, armed with clothes props,
looking for trouble. Anybody could spot the
Early Christians by their cheap washing costumes
and their aggressive meekness, but why they
should have carried clothes props (when they
didn’t intend to jab them at their persecutors) is
a secret known only to Wilson Barrett and the
Lord.
* * * *
Julius Knight is seven years older and
hoarser than when modest Mercia first got him on
the string, but his taste in Roman trappings is
more gay and frivolous than ever. The actor was
dressed to kill on Saturday; also he posed to
paralyse, and whenever he pressed his beauteous
arms to his yearning breast, which was nearly all
the time, he looked nice enough to eat. It is in
this respect that the original Australian Marcus
Super bus fills the bill better than Wilson Barrett
did. No girl ever longed to be the lion that
gobbled Barrett. Miss Jeffries walked righteously
through the pale and spotless part of Mercia, the
Belle of Old Rome, and the Pagans, as a rule,
were satisfactorily presented, although they didn’t
banish the suspicion that some of their characters
have been more effectively treated in one or other
of the previous productions. Dainty Miss Una
Russell has joined the co., and she made a
promising professional deblit as Stephanus, the
early Christian boy, who gets flagellated in
the second act and terrified again at the finish.
But these Christian sufferers suffer mostly by
comparison with the splendor of the godless
Roman aristocracy. All the new and gorgeous
costumes are allotted to the Pagans. r lhe pro-
gramme states that Mrs. Grundy had a hand in
their manufacture, which reads like a wicked
libel on a notoriously respectable institution.
The real Mrs. Grundy would have thrown herself
to the lions rather than be guilty of building a
divided Pagan shirt or a tunic such as serves to
reveal the noble Prefect’s loveliness.
* * * *
That charming little event, “ The Marriage
of Kitty,” will cease to happen at the Princess’s
after Friday (13th), when the short and sweet
season of the new Williamson Comedy Co. must
terminate. “Kitty” will return in the not-
distant future, and meanwhile it will have an
honorable place in the light comedy gallery of
Melbourne’s theatrical recollections—a place next
to “ The Tyranny of Tears.”
* * * *
On Saturday the George Edwardes co.,
from London, via America, will start an Austra-
lian tour at Melb. Princess’s, under contract with
J.C.W. The newly-arrived tourists are said to be
equal to the previous Gaiety co., which brought
a big reputation to these shores and kept it bright.
In that case the somewhat advanced _ scale of
prices—6,4, and 2 —will look less than might have
been expected. The co. has a repertoire of four
musical comedies. “ Three Little Maids ”is ap-
pointed for Saturday.
** * *
‘ ‘ Her Second Time on Earth ” is now in
its third week at Melbourne Royal, and will be
continued until further notice. The drama doesn’t
improve on acquaintance, but, on the other hand,
familiarity with the crudities of its “ comic relief ”
breeds a spirit of toleration towards the hard-
working couple who are required to promote
shrieks of laughter every evening.
** * *
Subsequent to a bagpipe overture from
three members of the local Scottish Regiment,
a stout Scottish chieftain in a kilt, supported by a
tuneful “Gaelic prima donna,” took the floor at
the Athenaeum Hall last Saturday, with the
intention of repeating his appearance for five
nights. The braw Rob Roy was also tuneful in a
commonplace tenor way, and when the lady wasn’t
singing he often interrupted his discourse by
breaking into song on his own. But as a
rule the chieftain talked in a tartan strain concern-
ing the bonnie bleakness of his country and the
unrivalled valor and humor of its matchless
people. He delivered anecdotes with the air of a
Scotchman whose seriousness is intended to
aggravate his audience’s merriment. And at the
end of an exceptionally long story or recitation, he
announced that the customary interval of ten
minutes would be followed by a further entertain-
ment of bagpipes. A highly diversified pro-
gramme.
** * #
At the Opera House a number of first
appearancers came crowding into the bill on Satur-
day. A lightning sketch artist perpetrated striking
unlikenesses (in color) of various immortal poli-
ticians, whilst his accomplice went through a form
of making “Fun in a Studio,” The man at the
easel partly atoned for his other works of
art by adding a beard and a cocked hat to an
alleged portrait of Queen Victoria and labelling
the awful result “ Long Live the King,” but the
wandering mummer in the foreground offered no
atonement for anything. A Celebrated Comedy
Trio from America also failed to account for their
foreign greatness, and there were other strangers
of smaller pretension. The present strength of
the Rickards programme lies in the older turns—
Fanny Powers, beauteous Maud Beatty, Ernest
Fitts, and the wonderful Uessem lads.
* * *
Adelaide Royal is occupied by the Pollard
opera people, who have turned up from South
Africa and other parts, after an absence of years,
during which they had time to grow up. Result:
instead of former old-fashioned juveniles, a team
of youthful adults. They opened in “The Gay
Parisienne,” and later revived the once-celebrated
“ I)jin Djin ” pantomime. The former was
only seen in Adelaide when Ada Reeve
played it. Jessie Ramsay is surprisingly
good in the name-part. Alf Stephens, Harry
Quealy, and Percy have lost none of their old
powers, and the co. is now strengthened by Olive
Lenton, playing a comic-slavey part, much like
that of May Beatty (another old Pollard juvenile)
in “The Chinese Honeymoon.” At the Tivoli,
the dog has stolen Dewar’s supper and said the cat
did it for the last time. Arnoldi, juggler, and
Murphy, trick cyclist (both very clever, and both
Adelaide boys), and the rest of the Rickards Co.
have moved on, and at present “Fondly thine,
C. J. Stine,” is talking broad United States in
“ Mama’s New Husband.”
The Wild Cat Column.
State revenues for April show a slight improve-
ment, on the whole, though the N.S. Wales returns were
considerably under those of last year. The figures, so far
as they are available, are :
State Revenues for April.
April, 1903. April, 1904.
N.S. Wales .. £1,000,782 £952,186 Dec. £48,596
Victoria .. 529,505 666,705 Inc. 137,200
Queensland .. 310,981 351,059 Inc. 40,078
Tasmania .. 78,470 . 90,200 Inc. 11,730
The Westralian figures for April are not yet available ;
those for March, furnished a month ago, were £13,212
ahead of those for the preceding March. The N.S.W. re-
turns show a shrinkage almost all round. Land revenue
alone is £21,916 less ; and even railways, from which a
steady increase was expected in consequence of the
phenomenal harvest, provided £203 less. On the other
hand, the large Victorian increase is alleged to be mainly
due to railways and excise. The month’s railway figures
for the States which show them are :
April, 1903. April, 1904.
N.S. Wales.. ..£353,056 £352,854 Dec. £202
Victoria .. .. 271,552 358,308 Inc. 86,756
Queensland .. 100,343 102,276 Inc. 1,933
Tasmania .. .. 26,256 25,085 Dec. 1,171
S. Aus. (9 months) Inc. 62,252
In April of last year Bent had already partially succeeded
in paralysing the Victorian railways, so that the compari-
son as to that State is hardly fair. Also, just previous to
this time 12 months ago the Irvine Government
was busy hatching its scheme for despoiling the
railway service, cutting down old age pensions, and
covering Shiels with glory as a financier. An essential
part of that scheme was to represent the finances as being
in the most awful condition of bog; then followed the
vile “retrenchment,” and within a month or two the
announcement of a surplus, while Irvine, Shiels, and
Bent stood in the limelight posing as the trinity who had
saved their country. It can he proved that the announced
surplus was a fake, and it is as likely as not that the
threatened awful deficit from which Shiels and the others
saved the State was a fake too ; and this casts doubt
upon the great improvement in revenue shown this
month when compared with April, 1903. Bent’s present
policy isn’t to show that the country is in a bog ; intent
on getting hack with a majority at the coming elections,
his game is now to promise remission of taxes, and he
can’t do that without showing that the finances are
flourishing. Whether they are or not nobody outside
the Treasury knows ; for Victoria doesn’t publish any
expenditure returns till the end of the year—not even
faked ones ; wherefore Bent can tell any tale he pleases
about the finances on the eve of an election, and there is
no way of bowling him out. All that the State can go
on is the gentleman’s reputation ; and whether that is
good enough to justify a reduction of taxes on his mere
windy bawl, and without an audit certificate, Victoria
can decide for itself.
* * * *
Most of the foregoing remarks apply also to the
figures for the whole year :
State Revenue for Year So Far.
1903. 1904. Increase.
N.S. Wales (10 months) .. £9,235,523 £9,416,458 £180,935
Victoria (10 „ ).. 6,589,006 6,034,095 445,089
Queensland (10 „ ).. 2,830,342 2,944,010 113,668
Westralia (9 „ ).. 2,927,533 2,632,985 294,548
S. Australia (9 „ ).. 1,766,946 1,786,981 20,035
Tasmania (4 „ ).. 275,767 298,832 23,065
The N.S.W. increase has been mainly from land revenue
(£103,050) and railways (£99,158), both consequences of
the phenomenal harvest ; against this Commonwealth
refunds have declined (£144,089). Queensland shows a
steady recovery, maintained month by month. Westralia
has suffered from a reduction of local duties. S. Aus-
tralia has gained by increased railway rates and a larger
(though not more profitable) harvest.
As usual, comparatively few expenditure
figures are available :
State Expenditure for Month.
1903. 1904.
N.S. Wales (April;.. £1,196,523 £1,184,641 Dec. £11,882
Queensland (April).. 193,816 175,804 Dec. 18,012
Westralia (March) .. 301,194 317,556 Inc. 16,362
And for the longer period :
State Expenditure for Year So Far.
1903. 1904.
£> £ £
N.S. Wales (10 months). .10,260,981 10,290,715 Inc. 29,734
Queensland (10 months).. 2,587,585 2,506,762 Dec. 80,823
Westralia (9 months).. 2,637,428 2,674,712 Inc. 37,284
S. Australia (9 months).. 1,820,029 1,877,121 Inc. 57,092
Queensland is the one conspicuous example of a State
which has realised its precarious position, and is getting
out of it as fast as it can—which isn’t very fast. When
over 40 per cent, of your gross revenue has to go to a
person named Cohen who isn’t taking any retrenchment,
retrenchment becomes difficult. The South Australian
increase has been mostly in connection with the railways,
which absolutely refused to be neglected any longer, last
year’s surplus having been partly faked by starving
them and tying them up with string. That is how
Jenkins got his name for statesmanship and economy.
* * * »
Viewing the situation generally these results
show up :
Deficits.
r " A ->
1902. 1903. 1904.
N.S.W. (10 mos.) .. £385,719 £1,025,458 £874,257
S. Australia (9 mos.) 165,796 53,083 90,140
Surpluses. Deficit
Westralia (9 mos.) 283,732 290,105 41,727
Available for current half-year’s interest.
Queensland (10 mos.) 212,828 242,757 437,248
The Queensland interest bill is about £129,000 a month, so
that the deficit so far is about £79,000, against £268,000
this time last year. Victoria does not appear in the list,
as that State issues no progress expenditure figures.
As to loan expenditure, there are figures from
only two States :
Loan Expenditure for Year So Far.
1903. 1904. Decrease.
N.S.W. (Works) ..£2,666,832 £1,550,188 £1,116,644
N.S. W. (Resumptions) 1,426,812 680,905 745,907
Queensland .. .. 775,611 512,541 263,070
The N.S.W. outlay for April was larger than for any other
month of the year with one exception.
> * * »
The Owe’See’s proposed “ sale of surplus lands”
in connection with the new Sydney railway station turns
out to be something a good deal more than a sale of sur-
plus lands. Among the lots to be offered is a three-storey
hotel “recently erected by the Government” —and paid
for out of loans. If a sale is made it will be interesting to
watch what is done with the purchase money. They sent
a woman to g:aol the other day for pawning some time-
payment furniture.
* * * *
Maoriland’s financial year, which closed on
March 31, showed these results
Revenue .. .. .. £7,130,116
Expenditure 6,434,281
Surplus £695,835
This surplus, together with £303,905 accumulated surplus
—in all, £999,740—was absorbed by transferring £350,000 to
the Public Works Fund to assist loans, and by carrying the
balance forward. Whether the surplus was real or bogus
depends mainly upon the nature of things which were
paid for out of the Public Works Fund. If the whole
spendings out of the Public Works Fund were included in
expenditure the year would show up as follows :
Revenue £7,131,780
Expenditure 8,054,658
Deficit .. .. .. £922,878
In other words, if Maoriland decided to run on the no-
borrowing ticket, and pay for works out of revenue, it
would last year have had to raise £922,878 more revenue,


hfd
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
IP INTERESTED, write
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
a. e. LEPLASTRffiR, Manager. 4-0 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Register, Adelaide, 28th May, 1903
“The accounts of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, reveal a very satisfactory state of affairs, progress
having been made in all directions. The chairman of the
meeting was able, with good cause, to congratulate
members upon the result of the past year’s working, and
to point confidently to the future.*
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company have
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, South Melbourne, for a 1200 horse power con-
densing plant, with Edwards’s type air pumps driven by
compound vertical engines, and a horizontal cross com-
pound steam engine, to work in conjunction with the
condenser. This engine plant will, when finished, be one
of the largest and most powerful plants at work in the
colonies, and is to be erected at the Port Pirie Works.
* * » *
The best Brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * »
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.* * * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st.,^Sydney.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * ♦
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Rivited Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchang-e), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
w* * * * .*.
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.* t
**’*'*
To Prospectors And Others.—The Curtin-
Davis Proprietary Co. N.L. is prepared to purchase
approved mining properties. Particulars to, John Potts,
Legal Manager, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Share-pushers are still busy with the North
Western Associated, Kalgoorlie. A cable published in
London, dated March 11, reads: —“ Confirming my cable
of 4th instant, ore recently struck assays most satisfac-
torily. Average width 3ft., and value 27dwt. per ton;
every appearance of being permanent, and widening in
depth. Prospects most encouraging, and sufficient to
warrant immediate erection bf reduction works. Am
crowding on work sinking main shaft and winze. All
machinery in good order and working well.” Writer, on
reading this, made a bee-line for the mine, whose
prospects were “ sufficient to warrant the imme-
diate erection of reduction works.” Found the
usual three men and a boy; no ore was developed, and
everything was in the primitive stage of the Garden
of Eden. So much for “crowding on work.” N.-W.
Associated can’t be recommended even as a gamble.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Chri9tcburch, and Dunedin N.Z,
or reduce its expenditure by that much, in order to keep
square ; and that is apart from the money it required for
the repurchase of estates.
With practically nothing in the way of extra
taxation, Maoriland has increased its revenue a little over
60 per cent, in 10 years :
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
1895 .. £4,447,899 .. £4,266,712 .. £181,187
1896 .. 4,556,015 .. 4,370,481 .. 185,534
1897 .. 4,798,708 .. 4,509,981 .. 288,727
1898 .. 5,079,230 .. 4,602,372 .. 476,858
1899 .. 5,258,228 .. 4,858,511 .. 899,717
1900 .. 5,699,618 .. 5,140,128 .. 559,490
1901 .. 5,906j16 .. 5,479,704 .. 427,212
1902 .. 6,152,G39 .. 5,914,915 .. 237,924
1903 .. 6,447,435 .. 6,214,019 .. 233,416,
1904 .. 7,130,116 .. 6,434,281 .. 695,835
It is probable that, in the matter of charging- to loan
funds works which ought to be charged to revenue, all
the States are about equal sinners, M.L. being no worse
than the others; yet, while the other six States can
scarcely rake up 10 surpluses among them during
the past 10 years, Democratic M.L. has had 10 to its own
credit. The laws that were going to “ frighten capital
out of the country” and pauperise the people have, on
the contrary, been accompanied by such prosperity and
such increase of wealth that, without extra taxa-
tion, the revenue has increased over 60 per cent, in
ten years ! The income tax has been absolutely uniform ;
and this is the record of total collections year by year :
1895 .. £89,891 1900 .. £128,721
1896 .. 92,778 1901 .. 173,809
1897 .. 105,504 1902 .. 179,397
1898 .. 115,210 1903 .. 200,684
1899 .. 115,480 1904 .. 221,365
There is no twisting these figures. And brutal Bent,
whose idea of achieving prosperity for Victoria is to hack
a few miserable pence off the pensions allowed to the
State’s aged pioneers, might notice that the compara-
tively magnificent financial results in M.L. have been
accompanied by this record of pensions paid :
1899 .. £3,124 i 1902 .. £207,468
1900 .. 157,342 1903 .. 210,140
1901 .. 197,292 I 1904 .. 200,844
A long spell of Bent legislation and administration calls
for a huge pension list—or inhuman neglect of the aged
poor. On the other hand, a spell of such Democratic
government as M.L. has been having reduces the need of
pensions, for the aged are ceasing to be poor; and so,
instead of that enormous and intolerable increase for
which Maoriland was told it would have to prepare, we
find in the past year an actual decrease in the amount
called for.
* * » *
The big butter-exporters, or butter-dealers, who
composed most of the interested audience at the Mel-
bourne Commission of Inquiry into the trade, seem an
unusually youthful crowd. Few looked over 40 or 45, and
hardly any had developed bingies. As an offset, every
man of them seems afflicted with a sort of moral strabis-
mus. They calmly admitted selling factory butter to
themselves —under another trade name—and collaring
the commission thereon; afterwards selling the butter
and annexing the profit. And as to the altering of brands,
the trade point of view was neatly set forth : “ If you buy
butter for your own export, do you take off the factory
brands and put on your own before you export it ? ”
“Yes. Why not? It is our own butter.” They couldn't
be made to perceive that they were robbing the factory of
its good name, gained, perhaps, after the expenditure of
much money and effort. The exporting middleman seems
to be built on much the same lines as the importer—he
absolutely can see nothing wrong in what most people
call plain swindling.
* « * *
Two or three witnesses who have been examined
by the Victorian Butter Trade Commission made it quite
plain that a secret commission isn’t a commission—it is a
bribe. One witness admitted that the White Star line
offered to carry the butter of his clients for £d. per lb. ;
yet he still went on paying, or making his clients pay, Jd.
to a shipping company from which he was getting a
‘“commission.”
* » * *
Maoriland Government Accident Insurance
Department (another remarkable example of the success
of socialistic legislation):—
Carried to
Reserve Carried
for to Total
'Cross Gross Unexpired General Re-
Tncome. Profit. Risks. Reserve, serves.
1901 .. £11,897 £4096 £3780 £316 £4096
1902 .. 14,171 931 240 691 5027
1903 .. 24,449 4758 4510 248 9785
The accident branch of the M.L. Life Department was
authorised by an Act of 1899, which provided that £25,000
might be raised by debentures or stock. As a matter of
fact only £lOOO was raised (that is to say, that was the
amount of the capital on which business was started);
and apparently even that amount has been paid back
during the past year, as the item has disappeared from
the balance-sheet. One result, of course, is that the
branch has now no interest to pay. This is a remarkable
record ; it has refunded the paid capital before the end of
three years, and now trades upon reserves. And evidently,
in spite of the remarkable profits, the department’s
charges are not regarded as excessive ; anyway the
growth of premium income shows that it is more than
i holding its own with competitors. In 1902 the premium
income was £14,100, in 1903 £24,381. The total income
> during the past two years has been distributed as follows:
Distribution of Income.
1901. 1902. 1903.
p.c. p.c. p.c.
f Claims .. .. £2O 8 2 £5l 19 3 £54 2 3
Expenses .. .. 45 3 4 41 9 4 26 8 6
1 Carried to reserves.. 34 9 6 6 11 5 19 9 3
iln accordance with the general experience, the percentage
'Of income absorbed by claims is steadily growing ; but
Hast year that growth was much more than counter-
balanced by the reduction of expenses. In this latter
respect the progress is most excellent.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Life Insurance
Department :
Added
Claims Provided to In-
Revenue and sur- Ex- against De- surance
renders penses preciation Fund
1893 .. £361,684 £141,321 £54,071 £lB,OOO £148,292
1894 .. 369,478 178,107 55,722 135,649
1895.. 386,012 171,544 50,462 164,008
1896.. 394,985 166,369 55,019 10,500 163,097
1897 .. 398,121 205,193 59,164 133,764
1898.. 410,148 210,245 58,825 4,650 136,428
1899.. 421,569 211,383 59,639 14,400 136,147
1900.. 423,700 219,993 61,431 142,276
1901 .. 460,753 256,100 59,194 145,459
1902 .. 451,348 271,268 59,895 22,783 97,402
1903 .. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129,244
The insurance fund is now £3,512,061 ; in addition there is
an investment fluctuation reserve and a tontine savings
fund (No. 2 ; No. 1 matured in 1901). The Investment
Fluctuation Fund has been operated upon as follows
during past 10 years :
Investment Fluctuation Fund.
Written off. Balance. Written off. Balanbe.
1894 .. £43,000 1899 £5,788 .. £36,297
1895 .. 43,000 1900 .. 36,297
1896 £29,500 .. 24,000 1901 .. 36,297
1897 .. 24,000 1902 2,485 .. 56 595
1898 965 .. 27,685 1903 .. 56,595
There has been no writing off in the past year ; and ap-
parently none was required. The only available way to
test whether the investments ought to be written down
or not is by considering the interest earnings ; and from
the fact that these have kept practically stationary it may
fairly be assumed that there was no slump in the invest-
ments last year. The interest earnings for 10 years past
have been :
Interest Earned on Insurance Fund.
1894 .. £5 5 0 per cent. 1899 .. £4 11 1 per cent
1895- ..5 2 3 „ 1900 .. 4 9 3
1896 .. 419 0 „ 1901 ..4 8 8 ”
1897 .. 416 7 „ 1902 ..4 8 6
1898 .. 413 11 „ 1903 .. 4 8 5
This is on the mean of the insurance fund alone. In-
cluding- the investment fluctuation fund the movement m
the first four years has been : 1900, £4 Bs. 3d. ; 1901,
£4 7s. Bd. ; 1902, £4 7s. sd. ; and 1903, £4 6s. lid. These
last figures are 2s. under the average earnings of the
AMP but they are still well above the record of a
majority of offices. As to the form of investments these
two big offices compare in this way
A.M.P. M.L. State.
Public Securities .. 24J per cent. 2'2|- per cent.
Loans on Policies .. 21 ~ 17 ~
Mortgages .. ..46 ~ 52 | „
Real Estate.. .. 4J ~ % ~
Which shows very little difference between the two.
As to the expenses of the M.L. office :
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1894 .. £l5 1 7 per cent. I 1899 .. £l4 2 11 per cent.
1895 .. IB 1 5 „ 1900 .. 14 10 0 „
1896 .. 13 18 7 „ 11901 .. 12 16 11
1897 .. 14 17 2 „ 1902 .. 13 5 5 „
1898 .. 14 6 10 „ | 1903 .. 13 19 4 „
The figures for 1901 were reduced by the No. 1 tontine
fund passing into the general fund in that year. Com-
paring 1902 and 1903, the increase in the latter year is
chiefly accounted for by the expenses of the triennial
examination made at the end of 1902. It is fairer to take
the following years, which stand in the same position
with regard to these special expenses :
1894 .. £l5 1 7 I 1900 .. £l4 10 0
1897 .. 14 17 2 | 1903 .. 13 19 4
There are offices which have a lower rate than this ; but
in nearly every case they are offices with a much larger
income. * Moreover, Maoriland, in which this office main-
tains all its investments, as well as does all its business,
requires by way of taxation a much larger amount than
the other States. On a revenue of £2,598,809 the A.M.P.,
with investments all over the place, pays £26,727 in taxes,
or £1 Is. per cent. ; on a revenue of £463,380 the M.L.
State office pays £9524, or £2 Is. per cent. Taxes there-
fore account for £1 per cent, of the difference between
the expense rates of these two offices.
Generally, then, the M.L. Life Department has.
had a very favorable year. It has had the largest income
on record. Its interest earnings have been maintained
better than the average, and are now higher than the
average earnings of offices doing business in Australasia.
Its expense rate has been lower than that of any previous
corresponding year. And its investments are distributed
in almost precisely the same way, and are yielding almost
precisely the same return, as those of the A.M.P., whose
manag-ement is regarded as the most conspicuously suc-
cessful among privately-owned mutual offices.
The curse of ignorant journalism lies heavily
upon Australia, where an unlettered class of pressmen
cuts out with the scissors information which it doesn’t
understand, and blights it with a fresh, crude comment,
and then throws it at the public as offdiandedlyi as if it
were an old boot. As an instance this is from a recent
issue of Sydney Evening News :
“Debt, Wealth and Taxation.
New South Wales unfortunately holds the record for
taxation among the leading countries of the world, but,
on the other hand, her capacity to bear the burden is
superior to that of most nations. The subjoined table
shows the position of the nations named in this important
connection:—
Wealth Debt Net Wealth
Country per per per Taxes
Head Head Head per Head
New South Wales .. £264 £55 £209 £3 6 0
United Kingdom .. 302 22 280 3 1 0
United States .. .. 234 6 228 2 10 0
Canada 196 14 182 1 12 0
France.. .. .. ..252 32 220 2 12 0
Germany 156 12 144 2 10 0
Russia 61 7 54 1 0 0
Austria .. .... 104 13 91 2 0 0
Italy 101 18 83 2 14 0
Spain 135 16 119 1 10 6
Portugal 87 31 56 1 17 3
Sweden and Norway 114 5 109 1 10 0
Denmark 230 5 225 1 8 3
Holland 183 23 160
Belgium 154 14 140 0 19 9
Switzerland .. .. 164 4 160 1 19 0
Greece 101 15 86 0 18 6"
That is another indirect contribution to the great mass of
helpless literature which teaches this country to be very
sorry for itself as an overburdened place which can’t stand
any more taxation and so can’t be expected to pay for
its public works out of revenue, or pay off any of its
debt, or do anything definite except sit down and talk
about its burdens. The fake is done by taking in
only national taxation, and leaving out all mention of
local taxes. In the United Kingdom there is local taxa-
tion everywhere. It has to cover not only local works,
but the great bulk of the expenditure on charity, police
and education, and it averages in towns about 6s. in the
£. In N.S.W., most of the country pays no local taxa-
tion, and the scrap that has local government doesn’t, on
an average, pay over Is. 6d. in the £. Taking all taxes
into account, N.S.W. is more lightly taxed than England,
and it has no cause to feel so very sorry for itself, nor is
there any reason why it shouldn’t leave off borrowing and
tax itself up to the English level to pay for its public
works. It only requires grit, common sense,jtnd less mis-
leading information from the Evening News.’
* * * *
Finance: Said many, many times in The
Bulletin. By the way, almost every insurance co. does
give the number of lapsed policies W. Watson : What
was said was that mining rents are not excessive, seeing
that the lessee has not merely the use of the land, but the
right to cart away all, or nearly all, that makes the land
of any value Bega : It looks all right, though there’s a
good deal of doubt as to whether it hasn’t lost all its
capital and reserves and more besides. Of course, you
don’t get a return like that without risk.. ..G.G. : (1) If
it was an honest error, certainly no danger of prosecution.
(2) Communicate with the office, and it is highly probable
that an arrangement can be made Bogan : A.M.P
Lea A. : Referred for further inquiry.
* * * *
The Wellington and Manawatu Railway
Co. (M.L.):—
Railway Land Dividends Total
Feb., Profits. Profits. and Bonus. Reserves.
£63124
1899!'. £6,258 £1,849 5 p.c. =£8,500 62^731
1900.. 8,094 8,099 5 „ „ 8,500 70,424
1901.. 8,773 7,866 6 „ ~10,200 76,863
1902.. 7,969 3,624 6 „ „ 10,200 78,256
1903.. 10,301 35,221 16 „ ~27,200 96,638
1904.. 11,036 6,940 7 „ ~11,900 102,744
The people are still buying back small slices of the land
which the Government gave away many years ago, and
the co. is paying 7 per cent. And of course, as settlement
proceeds, the railway revenue proper looks up ; in 1902 the
gross takings were £104,208, while last year they were
£122,182 ; working expenses meantime had risen from
£55,502 to £63,682. The co. still has a considerable area of j
land to sell (the Government values it at £39,222), and land ]
purchasers’ instalments still unpaid total £50,029, so that
there are a few dividends yet to come from that source.
In addition to the co.’s paid capital it has issued £680,000
of 5 per cent, debentures. The reserves are represented
by M.L. Goverment stock, Bank of N.Z. deposits, and cash.
* * * *
The Red Indian Insurance Agent, I)r. Mon-
tague, explaining the little matter of a £5O donation to
Alex. Peacock’s “ Fund” swore : —“Wherever I have been
I have always contributed to the election expenses of any
gentleman in whom I took a friendly interest.” That’s
interesting reading for 1.0. F. assurers, since Montague
seems to have got his funds from the society, in the
Peacock case anyhow.
* * * *
The appeal to the Privy Council of the Citizens’
Life Assurance Co., in the action Brown against the co.
for libel, has been dismissed with costs. At the first trial
the plaintiff got a verdict for £6OO. The co. appealed on
' the ground that its agent had acted (written the libel)
without its knowledge. The Full Court granted a new
trial, but the co. wanted a verdict entered for it. This
the N.S.W. Court refused, and the co. appealed. While
the co. was appealing the second trial was held and a
verdict for £650 given, the jury deciding that the agent
acted within the scope of his duties, and on the co.’s
appeal again the Court refused to disturb the verdict.
City and Suburban Permanent Building and
Investment Societt (Brisbane)
Dividends Added
Profits and Written to Be- Be-
Dividend Tax off serves serves
Dec., 1896 .. £4076 3p.c.=£2953 £7,928
Dec., 1897.. 4110 3„ „ 2797 £366 £947 8,875
Dec., 1898.. 4681 3J „ „ 3125 102 1454 10,329
Feb., 1900.. 5914 4„ „ 4007 211 1696 12,025
Feb., 1901.. 4937 4„ ~ 3221 556 1160 13,185
Feb., 1902.. 4778 4„ „ 3221 1417 140 13,325
Feb., 1903.. 4502 4 „ „ 3219 1192 91 13,416
Feb., 1904.. 4547 4 „ „ 3159 1353 35 13,451
Interest earnings have been a shade better during the
past year, which accounts for the small recovery in
profits. The movement in this and other respects during
the past five years has been
Deposits, Interest Interest
Capital. &c. Paid. Beceived.
1900 .. £82,916 £74,418 £3332 £11,343
1901 .. 80,353 73,709 2934 9,576
1902 .. 77,275 74,551 3137 9,406
1903 .. 76,591 77,701 2992 9,018
1904 .. 75,515 72,918 2958 9,146
Included in the “deposits, <fcc.,” during the past two
years is £4OOO, loan on the society’s premises. The in-
terest paid on the mean of the deposits and overdraft
during the past year appears to have been £3 18 s - 6d. per
cent., which was slightly higher than in the previous
year, while the gross earnings on the mean of capital, de-
posits, &c., and reserves were at the rate of £5 16s. 4d., as
against £5 13s. 6d. in the previous year. There isn’t a
- very wide margin to work on here, but it is apparently
extending a little, and making the 4 per cent, dividend
surer than it looked a year ago.
*•***.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd., shipowners,
Island traders, &c.:—
Added
Written to Be- Be-
March, Profit. Dividend. off. serves, serves.
1896 £106,062
1897 £36,187 8 p.c. = £21,400 £lO,OOO £4,787 110,849
1898 48,289 8 „ „ 21,400 5,000 21,889 132,738
1899 42,212 8 „,, 21,400 8,550 12,262 145,000
1900 53,072 8 „ ~ 22,000 31,072 176,072
New share premiums added to reserves 598 176,070
1901 46,610 8„ „ 22,000 24,410 201,080
1902 55,219 8„ „ 22,000 33,219 234,299
1903 52,629 8„ „ 22,000 30,629 264,928
1904 44.917 8 „ „ 24,000 12,372 8,545 273,473
In addition to these reserves there is an amount of
£25,941, described as “Sundry reserves at branches” ; if
these are included, then the total reserves are £318,390.
These “ sundry reserves,” whose real nature has never
been explained, but which are understood to be a con-
tingency fund, have diminished by £3017 during the
year ; and it looks very much as though that amount
should come off the profit to get at the actual results of
the year’s operations, leaving the net profits at £41,900.
The paid capital is now £300,000 ; on this and reserves
(not including “ sundry reserves at branches”) the earn-
ings were at the rate of £7 19s. Id. per cent., as against
£lO os. 7d. per cent, the previous year, when the paid
capital was £25,000 less. The gross profits were about the
same in both years—in fact, they haven’t varied much
for several years—but in 1903 more had to be provided to
meet “ sundry losses ” (£16,241), with which, probably,
the wreck of the Ovalau had something to do.
* * * *
New Hillgrove Proprietary (N.S.W.) announces
120 tons for 6090 z. free gold, with If tons concentrates
valued at 21oz.—total 6300 z. Mine said to be looking
really well underground, but only one shift is working at
the battery, and this does not tend to improve prospects
of shareholders. If the battery were working three shifts
over 1500 oz. per month could be handled. Manager
Porter has, it is said, conditionally accepted management
of a mine in S’Africa.
* * o
Crushings lately from Baker’s Creek co. (N.S.W.)
have not been too promising, 120 tons for 950 z. being the
last. Tributors, however, are doing well.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek No. 2, owned by a lately-floated
local syndicate, is on the north side of Baker’s Creek, and
adjoins Baker’s Creek mine. Owners have started opera-
tions, and are crosscutting for Baker’s Creek and other
reefs.
* * * *
Average wheat yield per acre in N.S.W. : —•
1902 .. .. 10'6 bushels
1903 .. .. 1-2 „
1904 .. .. 17-5
And that is the reliable sort of industry that the calico-
importing gang reckons this State ought to keep itg_ eye
glued upon !
* * * *
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S.W.), about whose affairs
it is next door to impossible to get any information in
Australia, has published in London an account of its 12
months doings to the end of last September. Though work
was to a great extent hung up for two months through
want of water, the company treated 63,506 tons of ore and
73,445 tons of sands and slimes, and recovered 27,1170 z.
of gold, worth £82,009. After writing off the whole of the
cost of development for the year (£4237) and charging
depreciation, &c., this showed a profit of £21,545 ; and
£4990 had been brought forward from the previous year.
On Sept. 30 it was estimated that there were 80,000 tons
of milling ore in sight.
* * * *
Two changes have occurred in Victorian mine
management. Alcock, of the Glenfine South goes to
the Jubilee, Scarsdale ; and Williams, of the Jubilee,
to the Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud, so long ruled by Zeb
Lane pere. Alcock’s departure gave Glenfine South a
kick. Looks as if that show were likely to figure among the
has-beens at no distant date. It has a big heap of tailings
which it might sell, but it is hopeless to expect improve-
ment until the board is shaken up. It was a good move to
get Williams at the Lord Nelson. The shaft wants cutting
down, more sinking done, and tailings dump turned to
account. Outsiders smile to see the Jubilee linked up
with the Lord Nelson. Will Williams keep a stiff upper
lip against having a diamond drill put out from the Lord
Nelson to test Lord Nelson North ground? Old Zeb.
Lane was very firm against it. It maybe—“ New men
new manners.”
* * * *
R. Gilpin, of Queen-st., Melbourne, did not do
badly out of New Stirling Co., Stirling, after all. Grant
Meudell got a solatium when the co, went to Gilpin.
Now shareholders vote Gilpin £75 to let the secretaryship
pass on to J. H. Egan. Everyone patted everyone on the
back at the half-yearly meeting, though a row had been
predicted, and when 24 of “ the boys ” passed out for a
drink, Sam Bags, the mediator, looked better pleased.
Man, if there had been a free fight ! Assayer Bamsey
wants the company to postpone putting up a plant till
another lift is sunk, and this is sound advice. If the
shoot of stone is not longer, 5-head ought to do.
* * * *
Stock Exchange, Melbourne, is thinking over'
new rules so as to get into line with Adelaide and Sydney.
This means a solid broking combine in the three cities.
Brokers are the worst class of middlemen. They spec,
the goods of their clients and make money out of the
deal. Yet they have the cheek to wail about the evils
that will come in the wake of the Watson Ministry. To a
man they are against bringing railway men under the
Arbitration Bill, and all the time they are engineering an
inter-State union of their own.
* * * *
Legal managers in Melbourne in future cannot
halve commissions on share sales with Melbourne brokers.
They’ll have to be contented with a third. Well, there’s
not too much broking business just now, so it’s a sprat to
nothing that if legal managers demand a half Com.,
hookers will tumble over one another to give it to them.
* * * *
Why did the directors of the Russell’s Reef,
Lauriston (Vic.), see the need to deny that more tons were
sent to the battery at the recent crushing than reported ?
Surely they should have remembered Qui s’acevse, etc.
No, it was not malicious yarns of that sort that knocked
shares back. An idea existed that the stone was poorer,
and there were not enough backs to warrant market
values. The, co. is financial; thanks to oz. crushings,
but it wants to prove more stone. Until it does that,
shares will always have shocks.
• * * *
West Berry Consols board coquetted with
Bewick Moreing to provide capital for a new shaft, but
the firm didn’t look like nibbling. The best thing West
Berry can do is to unite with Madame Berry West.
Events seem to be shaping that way, though a bit of a
strike to the east in the Madame gave shares a lift. But
it has to be shown that the wash is payable. If not, it
would be a charity to bring the two shows together.
* * * *
.Beudigonians are in a flurry over the strike
in the shaft of the New Chum Goldfields. When the reef
first came in it seemed a thin formation, but the mullock
cut out and gold-bearing quartz was met at over 400 ft.
The find has yet to be opened out on, but it indicates
possibilities for Bendigo away on the southern extension
of the field. Victoria Proprietary, next door to the
Goldfields, is an English concern, where Bull is getting
some show under cheap Australian management.
* * » *
Sticht, of Mt. Lyell (Tas.), is in Melbourne
penning his first report for the amalgamated Lyell co.
Mt. Lyell is pretty well gutted of decent ore, and there-
fore its ore has to serve as fuel through the contained
sulphur. North Lyell ore body is shrinking in size as
sunk on, though it carries its rich bornite down better
than most people expected. What is wanted from Sticht
is a straight-out estimate of the concern.
* * * *
Crown Lyell (Tas.) test parcel landed the co. in
a loss. Net return was £55 from 89 tons of nearly 6. per
cent, copper ore sent to the Mt. Lyell smelters. This is
pretty stiff. If the big co. could make its own 3 per cent,
dirt pay, where did the difference go ? Haulage and profits
for the smelter probably tell the tale. Why should the
Crown Lyell have stopped at 89 tons when it was to have
sent 100 tons? Was it because the chute pinched out?
Madden ought to publish the Lyell statement of charges.
* * • *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), has fired out
all tributors after a run of six months extending from
October last. During this time the tributors have rooted
out nearly 500 tons for a return of about 6000 oz. of
bullion worth £23,000. The co.’s royalty on this little lot
was £4600, in addition to full treatment charges. This
ore has been won chiefly from the 300, 400, and 500 ft.
levels, so that the rich patches must be pretty equally
distributed. During the same period the co. itself has
won only 1200 oz. to 15000 z., and as the ore treated has
been very low grade ore, the gold has probably been won
at a loss. It will be interesting to see if manager Davies
will prove any more successful than his predecessor,
Henderson, in locating the rich dabs, and be able
to maintain an average monthly output of 12000 z.,
as has been maintained by the aid of tributors.
If he can, the scrip should be good buying. The co.
is now opening out at the 500 and 600 ft. levels, on
which very little work was done during Henderson’s time ;
there was a bulge in the shaft above these levels, and it
was considered dangerous to lower the cage below the
bulge. The defect has now been rectified, and working at
the lower levels is in full swing. The co.’s South Gipps-
land property is still very disappointing and barely meets
expenses.
Continued on page 80).


- S$
v |
' ' ;: 'xS' s
THE “ORIENT"
ONE GUINEA BOOT
Black Calf.
Special.
Price -
21A
Delivered, Carriage Paid, to Any Address in the States.
DAVID JONES AND CO.,
6EOR6E agd BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
m
From Fashion’s Domain.
THE NEW
P-D
..CORSETS..
The Leading Shapes
In Straight=Fronted Corsets.
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on
band inside, as illustrated.
Obtainable from leading Drapers everywhere.
SOCIETY
Canadian
Club
Whisky
A MATTER OF TASTE.
L ADY: “ You suit me very well, cook, but I
wish you would not call me by my name in
the house. Ido not like it.”
COOK: “ Very well, I’ll call you ‘ma’am’ if you
wish; but I don’t think Howard is such a
very ugly name, after all.”
A ludicrous function was solemnly per-
formed at Melbourne Town Hall last week when
the life-size portrait of Mayor Sam Gillott was
respectfully raised to its position on the wall. The
big building is now pretty well crowded with these
amusing pictures of commonplace old gentlemen,
who for a- year sat in the chair to see that Coun-
cillor Ryan confined himself to the subject while
discussing the construction of a water channel in
Little Bourke-street, or that Alderman Jinks
didn’t infringe Parliamentary rules and principles
while moving the acceptance of a tender for the
supply and delivery of 500 yards of bluestone
spalls. The paintings are of no earthly interest
to anybody but the mayors and contemporaneous
councillors, and as works of art they are nearly all
beneath contempt. “Real oil—all on ’em,”
proudly announced one of the councillors last
week, and that is all that is to be said of them.
Probably by the time all the wall space is occupied
—each takes up a space of ten by five—the newest
Mayor will quietly tell the caretaker to get the
picture of the oldest one out of the way some-
where to make room for his own, and so will begin
a pathetic, unending procession of mayors into the
oblivion they really occupied (though they didn’t
know it) all the time.
* « * •
A male petitioner for divorce (granted) at
the Melbourne Court, last week, stated that he
was in the habit of leaving home at 10 o’clock “ to
go to the shop of his employer, where he slept.”
The employer was a butcher, and petitioner was
required to act as a watch dog in charge of the
joints. One night lie left some money at home,
and when he returned to get it he found his wife
partaking of bread and cheese and beer and kisses
with a strange man. Unfortunately Chief Justice
Madden didn’t preside at this case, or he might
have condoled earnestly with the respondent.
Madden, summing up the case of a young matron
who enjoys a liberal daily diet of butcher’s meat,
whilst her husband is imprudently making himself
scarce after 10 p.m., would have been a most
instructive moralist.
* » * *
Massage is booming. The agent of one
Sydney masseuse shadows big-girthed citizens
home from private bars and other giddy haunts.
He then forwards to them by post one of Madame’s
circulars setting forth the benefit of massage treat-
ment for extensive regions of flesh that have
become a burden to the owner and a horror to
female eyes.
* * + *
“ Marat ” : Passed through Liverpool
(N.S.W.) yesterday cooped up in the same rail-
way car with a flabby, large-girthed brute and his
female portion.
She sniffed a
perfumed ’ker-
chief when we
were passing
the tubercle
farm and the
poor-house, and
he exploded :
“Damned in-
fernal shame to
build places of
this sort in view
of the line. A
man couldn’t
sell his pro-
perty if people
going back-
wards and for-
wards had to
gape at germ
farms and poor-
houses.” A
little man sit-
ting half under
the big brute
said that he
rather liked
consumptives;
they were thin
and took up so
little room in a
railway carriage
that it was a
pleasure to
travel with
them.
* *
Judging by
the frantic
efforts of the
unfortunate
waifs to escape
from them,
the Salvarmy
reformatory
“homes” for
boys in Victoria
must be dismal
dens of terror.
At some of them
the menu of
ignorance and cold gospel drives the lads to
escape almost as fast as the State hands them
over. When asked for an explanation recently,
the , bo ? s Salvo said he “really couldn’t under-
stand it ; but the number of escapes having
risen to about 10 times that of any other reforma-
tory> private or Government, he held a confab
with other Salvarmy “reformers.” They evolved
gsj-
of blood-and-fire Bible-punchers in charge !
One almost unnoticed cause of the
declining, birth-rate is the Westralian
goldfields. When they broke out there
was a great rush of men towards the
sunset, while the women were left behind
in grass widowhood —many of them are
grass-widows still. There were married
men without wives in the west, and
married women without husbands in the east,
and the birth-rate doesn’t get a fair chance under
such conditions.
* » • •
The usually-gradual Victorian law can be
sudden enough at times. The other day an old
woman of 72, who had just been discharged from
Pentridge Prison after doing 12 months for
‘ ‘ vagrancy for poverty—collapsed outside
the big gate and threatened to “ peg out ” there
and then. A passing constable who questioned
the ancient dame, finding that, though “ very
intelligent,” she had neither relatives nor friends,
promptly rushed away for a couple of honorary
magistrates and opened an impromptu court in the
middle of the footpath. The practically dying
invalid was sentenced to another six months. One
of these honoraries remarked that “it was a pity
there was no home or provision for such cases.”
Yet the very same day another old woman of 70 —
one of Bent’s pensioners at 4s. a week—having
declined a vacancy at the Benevolent Asylum be-
cause she thought she was still able to battle along
somehow, was given six months’ hard labor at
Richmond. Her particular crime was that “the
shed she occupied was devoid of household utensils
and other furnishings.” Well, 4s. a week would
hardly allow of a Brussels carpet and piano, but
at least the old woman was doing a better thing
for herself and the State on her poor 4s. than
Bent’s Government, which keeps her in gaol at a
cost of 15s. lOd. a week.
e • • •
Our mild colored fellow-subject is a very
truculent and bumptious person in the West. At
Broken Hill, the other day, three of him stopped
a mounted white man on the highway, and
savagely attacked him because he had refused to
give their camels free pasturage on the land which
he leased for his own cows. When he fled for his
life they pursued him, and only that the swiftness
of his horse enabled him to keep ahead of the
odoriferous camel his death would apparently
have been certain. This is only one of many
recent outrages, and in some parts of the West
the white man who goes out alone almost takes
his life in his hand nowadays, unless he is willing
to give the Afghan free pasturage, and the run of
his tank, and the use of his house if he wants it,
and always turns off the highway to made room
for the cursing brown fury.
* * • »
An artistically gruesome horror—a proof of
how truth can leave fiction behind in such matters—
was enacted at the N.S.W. Lazarette last week.
Ah Mow, a Chinese leper imprisoned a little while
ago, resented the loss of his freedom. On Thurs-
day he escaped, was tracked down, arrested and
brought back (by the public tram', seemingly). On
the way he struggled fiercely, but was finally hand-
cuffed and dragged back to his old quarters. As
soon as his fetters were removed, the leper seized
an axe and rushed to attack a warder, when a
policeman fired and hit the Chinaman in the
breast; a second shot, this time in the stomach,
was necessary to bring him down, and then Ah
Mow was taken to the hospital. Australia pays
for its old-time hospitality to Asiatics with some
quaint tragedies.
* * # *
The conviction of John Lynch for perjury
at Bathurst (N.S.W.) Circuit Court was not alto-
gether satisfactory. Lynch was a Dubbo resident
and had long had a vendetta with the Dubbo
police. Tried at Dubbo Circuit Court on a charge
of perjury, the jury disagreed and Lynch was re-
minded, not to the Dubbo Quarter Sessions, which
followed soon after, but to the Bathurst Circuit
Court. He was allowed nothing for the convey-
ance of his witnesses to the new place of trial and
was convicted there. On the face of it, it does
not seem a fair deal.
REVERENCE.
THE OLD MAN (to son who has brought his in-
tended bride home for approval): “ Now, look
here! You needn’t argue any more with me.
You’ll have to give that girl up. She’s nothing
but a — a — eh — slattern.”
THE YOUNG ONE (who has his own idea about
the girl): “ You talk! I reckon she’s a darn
sight better than that old one of yours,
anyway.”
B. R. Wise and barrister Mocatta lately
argued a sheep and pig prohibition case before
Sydney Supreme Court. A carcase butcher sued
to recover jd. a head for inspecting the grunter,
and -J,d. a head for the baa-lamb—inspecting pig,
apparently, not being half as strong as inspecting
sheep. The argument turned on the word
“cattle,” counsel contending for upwards of two
hours that cattle didn’t include pig. Wise started
to trace the Australian history of pig from the
reign of George IV., and became so ennobled
about pig that he shook with eloquence. He then
quoted ex parte Dutfield, wherein a learned counsel
had given vent to the following definition : “The
modern colloquial acceptation of the word ‘cattle’
is not restricted to herbivorous animals of the
bovine genus to the entire exclusion of the equine
quadruped.” And even after that Darley, Owen,
and Pring dismissed the application, and refused
to swallow Wise on Pig.
* * * *
The inquiry into the murder of a
young Maori woman at Pungarehu (M.L.)
in the Wanganui district, disclosed that
the murderer (her husband) had a mad, un-
reasoning passion for his victim. Marriage
didn’t cure it; he was wildly jealous if he
saw her talking to anybody, and when they
walked abroad he always held her by the hand.
She was practically the prisoner of an affectionate
brown husband all the days of her life. They
slept in a whare with another couple, and when
the man attacked his wife with a razor one night,
the other two didn’t seem able to render assist-
ance. He cut the woman’s throat, and then
operated similarly on himself. The jury returned
a verdict of “temporary insanity ” —and perhaps
for once it was right.
BANZAI!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cable states that when the Japanese transport Kinshu
Maru was sunk by a Russian cruiser, the Jap officers com-
mitted suicide in their cabins and the soldiers bayoneted
each other. The S.M. Herald calls this outburst of
lunacy “ Desperate gallantry,” or something of the sort.
Said Captain Yokohama See
To bold Lieutenant San :
“ I think that we imposingly
Should die for old Japan.”
The officers around them heard
Them making up this plan,
And passed along the fateful word—
“ We die for old Japan.”
They stood up resolute and glad,
They stood up man by man,
And blew out all the brains they had—
“ Banzai! Nippon I Japan!”
The cook his long, sharp carving-knife
Right through his bowels ran,
And took away his fat, brown life
To help along Japan.
The common soldiers, fired with zeal
And glorious elan,
Stuck in each other yards of steel
And perished for Japan.
The cold, green sea was waiting by
To swallow every man,
But they must in the limelight die—
To advertise Japan.
This is the sort of garish deed
That only Fitchett can
Do justice to, in lines that bleed,
Banzai ! Nippon 1 Japan !
CREVE ROE.
PARTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Good-bye 1 ” we said,
Our hands clung fast;
Against the red
We saw the mast,
The mast and sail,
The light, the sea,
A tiny trail
Of smoke (ah me 1)
“ Good-night I’’ The sun
Sank in the west,
The Day was done
And Night confessed.
Each mast and spar
Swung gems of light.
While star on star
Burst on our sight.
“ Good-bye !’’ The cry
Of sailors came,
O’er the sea wall
A rocket flame
(A kiss) —a wake
O’ moonlit white
Twixt me, and him—
‘ ‘ Good-bye ! Good-night I"
VIO.
DOROTHY McCARAR.
GOOD-BYE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
May-time beckons me away
Coaxing me with tears and smiles,
(But I’m deaf unto her wiles),
“ Good-bye, April 1” still I say.
April’s gone, with pattering drop
Of her acorn-bordered gown,
Fringed with needles sweet and brown
Fallen from the pine-tree’s top.
April’s gone 1 her flowing veil
Fades in mist, beyond the hills.
“ April’s gone 1 ” the thrush-note shrills;
—Echoes “ Gone / ” the black-bird’s wail....
Through the fields of flow’ring grass,
Where slow cattle swish their tails,
Gone ! —beyond the white cloud mass
Crossing Heav’n with widespread sails.
April’s gone ; she could not stay ;
Empty is the lane and town,
While I sigh to think she’s flown,
Maytime beckons me away 1
vie.
DOROTHY M'CRAD.


H
AIR DESTROYED.
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Destioy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or Injury
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits, but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DRUG CO., 8 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS.
The most fashionable hairdressing estab-
lishment in Sydney, where six first-class artists
are engaged, is Wild’s, 30 King-street Arcade
(upstairs) George-street entrance. Open from 8.30
to 6.30., Monday to Friday; 8.30 to 1 p.m.
Saturdays.*
Mr. JONATHAN REEVES, Hutchins, Texas,
writes :
“ I had an attack of PNEUMONIA —continued to grow
worse until the DOCTORS GAVE ME UP TO DIE. Then
JAYNE’S EYPTfiOTOT?. ' \tt Cttt»y>t> n?
m
. '' S
mst
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
KfV
I
0
9i
9
N.S.W. Government Statistician’s figures,
showing the births registered in each municipality
last year, help to drive home the suggestion that
it is the lazy well-to-do who are not doing as much
for the birth-rate as they should. Coghlan doesn’t
give the population of' each municipality at the
end of the year, so the percentage of births per
1000 can’t be told absolutely; but the “Statistical
Register ” gives them up to the end of 1902, and
that is close enough to get a view of the truth.
Apparently, the very poorest birth-rate is at
fashionable Yaucluse, which furnished 13 in-
fants among a population of 1180 —the re-
markable average of 11 'Ol per 1000. Set
against that Botany, which isn’t absolutely
fashionable, and where, on a population
just three times as large, they furnished
116, or nearly nine times as many infants.
Hunter’s Hill, another exclusive suburb which is
understood to be satisfied that the cradle would
rock if the Labor party fell, managed a birth-rate
of 16'6 per 1000 ;on the other hand, Broken Hill,
which is given up to a working-class population,
helped the country along with a rate of 32 7 per
1000. Randwick, which is perfectly satisfied
about the working-man’s lack of patriotism, had a
rate of 21'4; working-man Annandale, 30 5.
Around Newcastle, in exclusively working-men
suburbs, there are some of the highest records in
the State ; Adamstown, for instance, has a record
of 37'6 per 1000. There doesn’t seem much doubt
about the class of people that want to be talked to
re the birth-rate.
* » * *
In a long list of divorce cases before the
courts this month two stood out lurid and
attracting. In one a Gippsland grazier, of
unusual habits, was finally disjoined from his
helpmate. This landed gentleman with a stake
in the country was in the habit of drinking two
bottles of whisky daily, and sleeping with a
loaded revolver beside him. He also roamed
about the house at night, carrying a gun, a knife,
an axe or a crowbar, and he would smash doors,
shoot fowls, riddle water-tanks, and take other
hygienic exercise. When the fowls and the doers
gave out he seems to have taken, or threatened io
take, exercise on the bruised ear of his wife. The
petitioner in the other case was an elderly
Westralian, who assured the court he considered
himself a “first-class fool.” He had been coaxed
into matrimony by a widow, on whom he imme-
diately settled an hotel worth £5OOO. The pa r
lived together only 13 days, when, having
got the hotel, besides casual moneys, the lady
departed without any fond farewell. The grass
widower was then m Melbourne, and, during
the next five years, he fled back and forth between
that city and Perth 22 times in a vain endeavor to
entice the missing lady back again, but she
managed to dodge him. At last he got three
minutes speech with her, in Perth, when she
positively assured him she ‘ ‘ only married him for
what she could get,” and firmly declined to be
seen in his company. He was a placid, easy-
going old chap, and the court sympathised with
him and gave him his decree.
* * » *
The boycott exercised towards the blackleg
by Trades Unions
is very mild com-
pared with the
social ostracism
inflicted by mem-
bers of that closest
of all unions—the
Bar. At a recent
Bar dinner in one
of the States, a
sheep, suspected of
wandering from the
professional fold of
etiquette, found,
on arriving at the
banquet hall,
that the seat al-
lotted to him was
one of solitary-
grandeur at a
table all by him-
- - self.
THE RETURNED HERO; A KHARKI
CHESTNUT.
A plaintive cry for a gentleman whose
beard is of a good bright chestnut color :
IF this should come under the notice of the Gentle-
man who, with another, entered a tram some two
or three weeks ago up George-street, and proceeded
thereby to King-street, the tram being at the time
full he stood up all the time, and was much engaged
in conversation with the gentleman who got in with
him ; of good medium height, dressed in tweed, the
trousers of lighter color than his coat, gentlemanly
and prepossessing ; he wore glasses, short beard, nob
dark, but rather of a good bright chesnut color. If,
therefore, any of these incidents should be recognised
by that gentleman, he is earnestly requested to com-
municate. Memory, Daily Telegraph office.
This is leap year, by the way.
• * * *
A good idea may be had of the fire-resist-
ing qualities of Sydney’s different buildings by
noting in what strength the brigades turn out
when they receive a call. The other day the
brigades got an alarm from the Parliamentary
Buddings, Macquarie-street, and, within a few
minutes, Superintendent Webb was racing there
with the whole city brigade force behind him.
Luckily, only a chimney was alight, and was soon
extinguished.
SHE DID ITT KNOW.
NERVOUS STRANGER: “ W-W-Will that dog bite!"
SERVANT: “I will inquire, sir!”
A female cook in an Adelaide hotel
gave notice recently because one of the
boarders, whilst seeking shaving-water, came into
the kitchen in his pyjamas. A man cook wouldn't
throw up his billet if a boarderess took to mean-
dering round in her nightdress. Men are built
differently.
* * * *
Of the 130 labor unions registered under
the N.S.W. Arbitration Act no less than 26 failed
to send in returns of membership in February,
though the law provides a £2O fine for default.
Two years ago 58,203 unionists were registered;
12 months ago, 62,384 ; and if all the returns had
been sent in now the total would probably be
70,000 or more. As it is, through the neglect of
a few of the biggest unions, including the Tram-
way Employees, Wharf Laborers, and Barrier
Miners, with over 7000 members among them, the
total is only 61,195, and of course the daily papers
have dwelt on the “ falling off.” When you a n
gut a good face on things it is just as well to do if.
[any a man has been hanged because h's
happened to be the other sort. If the Govern-
ment does its duty and collects £520 and costs from
the defaulting unions they may remember to put a
better face on things next year.
* * * *
The “go on the land” cry is having its
results. This Sydney Herald advertisement
shows them—also, it shows how much can be got
into three lines with judicious abbreviation :
/~i ENTLEMAN, sfcrgr. (27), good app., with £3OO, de-
VT sires acq. attrac. yg. lady, with or without means,
view matri. and strawberry culture. H., Enfield P.O.
• * * *
“ E.L.” writes from Brisbane :
Your par. (B. 7/4/’O4) re the Jook of York’s boots
reminds me : Years back, when a small boy, at a London
Wesleyan bazaar, I was tempted into a tent to view a
“ Superb Royal Souvenir.” The showman, with much
flowery language, informed the crowd that he was the
proud possessor of a dinner plate from the Royal yacht,
off which plate our present Gracious, then heir-apparent,
had once satisfied his princely appetite. Amid dead
silence a curtain was reverentially lifted, revealing two
plates of ordinary white and gold. The showman said he
wasn’t sure which plate it was, but it was one of their,
and it might be both. He charged 6d. extra for holding
the plates in our hands, and several availed themselves < f
the privilege. One woman kissed the plates, and another
wept as she stood with a crockery in each paw, ai d
said with tears that the episode was one which she never,
never would forget.
“Argo” : Wanted, urgently, a reform of the
Lunacy system in N.S.W. A neighbor of mine re-
cently became violently insane, after years of parti: 1
dementia. After acting the madman all night, he
procured his gun and pulled the trigger at his
wife. Fortunately there was no cartridge in it.
Then he took to the bush. He turned up 15 miles
away next morning, saying he didn t feel well,
and was out for a walk. The police took charge,
and he was remanded for medical treatment]
After spending eight days in a gaol hospital, he.
was discharged —cured. He is now home, as bad
as ever, and ready at any moment to turn his
home into a slaughter-house. When he does so, I
suppose he will be considered mad. Apparently,
it is only those with property enough to maintain
them who are considered eligible for an insane
hospital.
L * * * *
Cutting from Adelaide Register (23/4/04):
MARRIAGES.
CARVOSSO —JARRETT. —On the 7th April, at the
Methodist Church, Kent Town, by the Rev. Win.
Jeffries (President of the S.A. Conference), assisted
by the Rev. J. A. Jeffreys (ex-President of W.A.), Rev.
Corrvton G. Carvosso, ofW.A., toCaroline M. (Pollie',
fourth daughter of Edward T. Jarrett, Watson
Avenue, Rose Park. At home, First Avenue, East
Adelaide, Wednesday, 4th May, from 3 to 5 p.m., and'
7.30 to 10 p.m. ; and at Watson Avenue, Rose Park,
Thursday, sth May, from 3 to 5 p.m., and 7.30 to 10
p.m.
If it had only been a death notice now ! The
dead are always at home from 7.30 to 10 p.m. and
even later.
* * * *
A portion of an old-time grant comes into
the market by order of the trustees of Lord’s
estate at Botany. In the long, long since—close
upon a century ago—the founder of the Lord
family, Simeon Lord, had 600 acres given him at
Botany. This family founder came out in the
misty days of very ancient Sydney, and, whatever
brought him to Botany Bay, he profited by the
trip. He was in business in Governor Hunter's
time, and judiciously steered himself between the
shoals in Bligh’s reign. He became one of Mac-
quarie’s pets, was made a J.P., and put his legs
under the gubernatorial table. In the early part
of the 19th century he built a fine house which
still stands in Macquarie Place. Later, he
erected a woollen mill on his grant at Botany,
and Lord’s tweeds were a very marketable com-
modity. Early records tell that an exile was the
first to start woollen manufacture in N.S.W. (at
Botany, too). If he succeeded he was to have a
bonus and his free pardon. The Governor sup-
plied the looms and material and prison labor for
the venture.
• * * *
N.S.W. rainfall records for April ought to
be studied by the parrots who cry “Go on the
Land,” and mean the Grown lands out where the
sun sets. While the coast and mountain lands
have been drenched (Sydney had nearly 13 inches,
and other stations more), a full half of the State
had less than an inch. Even as far east as Forbes,
which is not quite one-third of the way across to
the western border, there was only three-quarters
of an inch—scattered over several days, and prac-
tically useless. The lower Darling country is still
a desert ; and the abandonment or amalgamation
of holdings goes on as vigorously as ever.
• * * *
“Wusslean”: At the bear-fight, held in
Melbourne Town Hall, and misnamed a Milk
Conference, the representatives of the outlying
suburbs pleaded so hard to be allowed to have
dirty dairies and to be let alone in their filth, that
the representative of Brunswick left in disgust.
He said he attended to represent citizens, not
cows.
“ F.C.” : Happened across a sweet speci-
men of Bent’s “ economy without extra taxation ”
the other day. ’Twas at a State school in the
Bully’s electorate, forsooth — a brick buildfhg
accommodating some 300 or 400 scholars. The
school itself is still' standing, though it looks as
though an extra-loud bellow from the direction of ;
Brighton might upset it at any moment, but the
fence has gradually and finally disappeared. The
seats under the surrounding pines, where the
kiddies eat their lunches, are being broken up and
annexed, and the guards round a number of young
trees have cursorily walked themselves off. The '
underground tank is falling in and the pump is
broken and useless —as the Yan Yean is laid on
alongside that doesn’t matter much save for the
possible disappearance of a casual youngster or
two. I counted four large holes and three small
ones in the windows, and came away depressed by
the general atmosphere of dilapidation and neglect.
And all for the want of a few pounds yearly for
■ ‘ sundry repairs.” Bent expects the teacher to do
repairs out of his own small salary, but as that
sweated person may no longer vote for Bent he has
lost interest in things.
• * * *
A curious letter from Maoriland :
That odor of carbolic that blew over to Australia on
April 25 merely meant that Maoriland had had one of its
periodical awakenings. On that morning the land arose
in its casual fashion and reached for the morning paper
in order to see whether Lord Plunket had kissed the
King’s hand any more, and discovered instead that a man
had died in Auckland from the plague during the night.
Maoriland instantly forgot all about breakfast, and became
as amazed and terror-stricken as Adam was when the
police reported to him that Abel had been found dead
under suspicious circumstances. It acted as if it had
had no experience of plague in all its life before. It
rushed out in its slippers and pulled the chemists out of
bed, and howled to them to squirt formalin and carbolic
acid and rough-on-rats and bug powder all over it, and
went rat-hunting in battalions. The price of cats went
up with a bound that exceeded in height the bound with
which the cats themselves, who became alarmed at their
sudden popularity and suspected tin-cans, started fo.r the
bush. The Minister of Public Health was roused from his
sleep and fired off bulletins and orders and circulars .every
10sec., urging the public to be calm, and take a firm stand
three times a day after meals, and get disinfected, and arrest
everybody, and isolate itself, and report itself every ten
minutes. Long lines of citizens swarmed into the doctors’
consulting-rooms, and Maoriland put its tongue out in. a
body with the perspiration of terror pouring off its head.
The Cabinet took a special train and whirled rapidly
round the islands, shout ng directions and runn ng oys* as
many rats as possible. The volcanoes caught the infec-
tiori and burst into eruption and roared and blazed, and
the skies opened and the seas howled and broke on the
rock-bound coast, and wreck and ruin swept through the
land, and Time was no more and Eternity set in forth-
with. This alarming upheaval happens every, time tfiat
small-pox or plague appears in Maoriland, but as soon as
the scare dies away, and a few rats are killed, things
settle down again. Consequently there keeps on appear
ing the ridiculous spectacle of the City Corporations and
the Health Department announcing that the dirty and
insanitary sheds that are a menace to the public health
must be attended to, and that the rat-infested localities
that survived the Department’s last stern announcement
that it would wipe them out must be wiped out this time
without fail. The Department has just stated that if the
disease-incubators are not attacked by their proprietors
it will itself 'probably attack them with kerosene and
matches, the careful reservation implied in the ‘ ‘ proba-
bly ” being, no doubt, a wise precaution against the
Department committing itself. It never carries out its
fearful threat, and when the next scare happens the same
jump and perspiration will ensue, and the Department
will throw the furniture about and threaten to execute
everyone who has a speck of dirt in Ins paddock, or any
dust on his sheep-station. Maoriland can be energetic
when it likes.
JUST AS GOOD.
“Gimme thrippence. I wanter buy a kerridge
and pair.”
“No, I won’t give you threepence .?
'All right, boss; then lend us yer face to go
cadgin’ with.”
Something that reads like a scarcity of the
truth, from Maoriland :
It is great fun to live in Taihape (M.L.). It possesses
two pubs, two papers, two policemen, and two plenty of
other things. Its two policemen got laid up the other
dayv and the population gathered round the two pubs
and got delightfully drunk. An imported policeman pro-
ceeded to fun the populace in. About dark the prison
got full up, and the rest of the crowd felt so sorry for the
over-worked bobby that it began to wander into the
prison yard ar.d settle down for the nigl t. To prevent
suffocation, the services of a J.P. were requisitioned, and
the Court weighed out great masses of justice by candle
light. Drunks, whose crime was the spending of a
.month’s cheque in two days, were given a month’s work
in-Wanganui. Others were emptied out after paying
sundry fines. Then the energetic policeman sallied forth
for ant ther batch.
SOUTH HEAD ROAD—A SYDNEY BALLAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The greatest hero e’er I knew
Had never faced a Boer,
Nor was he, with a ship-wrecked crew,
Cast on a barren shore.
He braved all dangers, made no fuss,
No sign of fear he showed,
Although he drove an omnibus
Along the South Head Road 1
The Councils and the Government
All absolutely swear
That not one cent shall e’er be spent
Upon that thoroughfare !
I’d fight the Jap! I’d fight the Russ 1
I would ! But I’ll be blowed
If I would drive an omnibus
Along the South Head Road
Talk not to me of William Tell
Grace Darling, and the rest;
Those heroes acted fairly well,
But, though they did their best,
The highest honor known to us
Should rightly be bestowed
Upon the man who drives a ’bus
Along the South Head Road !
The road to H , the clergy say,
Is paved with good intent ;
I’d rather let them have their way
Than start an argument!
But though that misleads those who call
At poor Old Nick’s abode,
There is no paving done at all
Along the South Head Road I
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Bulk and Case
SWIFT & COMPANY,
32 O’Connell Street,
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
fdh
THE LADIES’
MASSAGE
SOAP
vb
n't
nSI
py
PURE
FRAGRANT
REFRESHING
BEAUTY IS POWER.
“VALAZE,” Dr. Lykuski’s RUSSIAN SKIN POOD,
will make you beautiful. It is absolutely the best skin
cleanser, guaranteed to remove freckles, tan sunburn,
wrinkles, acne, blackheads, all skin impurities ; restores
flabby muscles and starved tissues. Yalaze will improve the
worst skin in one month. Try one jar, and see for yourself.
NELLIE STEWART SAYS: “Have used skin prepara-
tions from America, London, Paris ; paid fabulous prices
for some, but nothing has proved half as beneficial as the
Russian Skin Food, Valaze. It is absolutely the very best
skin preparation I ever used. Can never praise it
enough.” Price 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Guide
to Beauty, 3d. Washington Soul and Co., 160 Pitt-st.,
Co-Operative Civil Service Society, Sydney. Leading
Chemists, or direct from Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein,
293 Collins St., Melbourne.*
8
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 10, 1904.
My Dear Abini
A fresh personality showed up with the State
Governor’s family at the Fresh Air League Ball
last week. He was a young man with a Chin.
Boyds is his name, and he is a lieutenant in the
navy, and is uncled by Governor Bawson. As
well as his Chin, which looks as if it could ram an
ironclad, the handsome youngster is big and fair.
He is one of the Antarctic ship Discovery men, and
has been two years iceing himself. The Discovery
people got 240 miles farther south than any previous
expeditioners. Also they lived on penguin and
seal, not because the tinned terrapin had failed,
but because scurvy broke out. Mr. Boyds’ brief
in the expedition was for climatology. The South
Pole would not be such a bad summer resort.
Temperature during that season does not go below
freezing point and in the sun it rises to fifty
degrees. Nights of four months duration, how-
ever, rather got on Mr. Boyds’ nerves and even
the coal seam that was discovered did not compen-
sate for snow-blindness and the loss of all the dogs.
There is a wild rumor that the next expedition
will take motor cars instead of sledges and dogs.
What bumpy riding it will be, for the ice, when it
is not hillocky, is ribbed. What is really wanted
is a piece of machinery that will progress by
springing off its tail like a kangaroo—a motoroo
or a kangamote or an autofrog ; you can patent
the idea.
The Bawson family must have good consti-
tutions. They and Mrs. V. Kyrke and her
daughter are again smiling on the face of the
waters (marine-scape opposite Cranbrook is exten-
sive) as unweariedly as if they had not just
completed a 2000 mile rush through the country.
Four towns a day, sometimes, were done, ad-
dresses everywhere, speeches, stone-layings, schools
visited, shows opened and smoke concerts
attended. Ladies of the party went through it all
excepting the smoke concerts. Last Wednesday
they attended the Fresh Air League Ball with aide-
de-camp Wilson, Private Sec. Share, and polar-
berg Boyds. Aide Wilson’s complexion would
be improved if he rubbed lemon-juice on his face
and then stood in the sun. That’s how the local
Scotties who get into kilts brown their white
knees. If some skin-food purveyors or freckle-
eradicators could only prevail upon Captain
Wilson to say in print that he regularly used
their lotions !
Usual group of ladies who work for the worthy
charity that sends poverty-stricken children away
from the city to health resorts were in the vice-
regal set at the Fresh-Air League Ball. Miss Mar-
garet Harris was beautifully jewelled with dia-
monds and sapphires; Mrs. Matthew Harris had also
considerable glitter and an uncommon coral rose
with leaves in her hair. Mrs. Caro wore a black
gown of the new chiffon velvet, with a lot of old
rose-point lace. Mrs. Kyrke was the best-dressed
of the Cranbrookers, in a long white robe under a
shorter one of black-jetted lace. Mrs. John Hay,
Mrs. Bichard Arthur, Mrs. Sly (with the new 19-
inch waist and a lovely yellow gown with pearl
embroidery), the two Want girls (Mr. Jack Want
has adopted his two step-daughters) were amongst
those who came along for charity’s sake.
Lady Bawson’s sister and niece, the V; Kyrkes,
leave by the Marmora next week.
Mr. Bobertson Clark and his two sisters are at
their Boggabri station. It’s no use writing the
name of the place, for you could not pronounce it.
When put down on paper it looks like an intoxi-
cated gridiron.
“lota ” (Mrs. S. Mannington Caffyn), erstwhile
of Middle Brighton (Vic.), has been suffering from
overwork, and has gone to recruit at the Bighi in
Switzerland; afterwards at Brussels and in Ger-
many. She is at present occupied on a new novel.
Of her three boys, two are in the army, and the
other preparing for the same service.
Mr. James Osborne, who marries Miss Maud
Jeffries in the sweet by-and-bye, is the third son
of his father, the late Mr. Pat Osborne, who is
reported to have left 13 stations for division among
his fairly large family. Prospective bridegroom is
not very affluent just now, but will be when some-
thing or other is wound up. He went to the
S’African war, and suffered wounds, said to have
been due to the bursting of some dangerous sub-
stance. He got a commission in the toney Sixth
Lancers, was nursed in the Princess Henry of
Pless hospital, and afterwards convalesced at one
of the Pless palaces, right under the blue magic of
the beautiful princess’s eyes. Beport said that
the prince’s eyes began to see green. Wounded
warriors are so attractive. Mr. James on his
return to Sydney glittered in the retinue of the
Duke of York what time that personage’s trumpet
was blown mildly in these parts.
The engagement of Maud Jeffries —it is, so to
speak, officially reported—is welcomed with a sigh
of joyous relief by her tall brother, who. plays
minor parts in the beauteous Maud’s company.
He has never been over-fond of the stage, but it
was necessary that his sister should be accom-
panied in her voyagings by a relative, and the
duty fell to him. As soon as sister Maud marries
he means to quit the boards and return to the
family pursuit of planting something or other in
the West Indies or somewhere. For the sake of
his beauteous relative it is hoped that. things will
go well with him, and that whatever he plants
will grow swiftly and be free from caterpillars.
How the camera can lie ! Lady Northcote in
the flesh proves this assertion to be true as regards
her photographs. At least, as regards those
’graphs with which the illustrated papers have
spoilt our eyes. The Gov.-Gen.’s wife is a hand-
some woman, with a smile (not a mere expansion)
and sixty facial expressions to the minute, all
attractive ones. Her illustrious consort (as the
late Baron von Mueller would say of plain Mr.
Smith) looks in his cocked hat and uniform exactly
like a Japanese admiral. The much-talked-of
Sydney procession of welcome resolved itself into
something quite as exciting as the march to school
of Mary and her little lamb. Lady Northcote
and Himself stepped out of their carriage and
stood for just 75 seconds (a man told me he timed
them with a stop-watch) on a dog-skin mat at the
foot of the stone steps of Parliament House speak-
ing up into the faces of Messrs. Wise and Suttor.
Said faces wore three by six smiles. Mr. Suttor,
like Meredith’s hero in “ The Egoist,” has a leg,
so, of course, he wore (with his smile) a court cos-
tume. Just as we had realised that Lady N. was
wearing a something grey and pink and silken,
with a black picture hat and white ostrich plumes,
and that she had great, pear-shaped pearls in her
ears, the procession had resumed business at the
old address, and its trot had taken it out of sight.
I saw Sir Tatton Sykes several times lately.
He and a married daughter—a large, warm-colored
lady—have been staying at the Australia, with a
trained nurse and a valet. The Yorkshire baronet,
who must be of a venerable age, is a very tall,
trembly man, who goes off at the chin and runs to
nose. Extravagant stories of his luxury are abroad
—for instance, that he sleeps swathed in silk
shawls, and is daily rubbed with extract of rose
petals and champagne. He has a capacity for
long silences, and is said to travel with 27 trunks
of luggage.
“ Lilianfels, ” Chief Justice Harley’s Katoomba
home, is again suggested as a summer residence
for the Governor-General, or the State Governor,
during dog-star weather. The C. J. wants to sell
it. If the Northcotes were to sample the moun-
tains during this exquisite weather they wouldn’t
wait to have a house given them. They would
buy one there. (What about the Mount-Stephen
millions?) The mountains in summer are just
earth, rocks, trees, and sky, each very ugly —
a very badly-arranged picture, as if Nature didn’t
know her business. Now, under the glamor of
weather that deserves to be celebrat d in a fresh
lyric every day—crystal air with a nip of frost in
it night and morning, a forget-me-not blue sky
under which every leaf and twig and grass-blade
has a separate radiance, the picture must look a
great Australian masterpiece, eren from the
standpoint of the Great White Throne. To seize
the poet’s meaning of “ God made Himself an
awful rose of dawn ” you ought to see the sunrise
flush the scarred faces of the cliffs and the lakes of
mist opposite Echo Point, Katoomba.
Annual matinee known as Hospital Saturday
seems to become more popular year by year.
Each collection works a pitch above the previous
one. This year the charitable actors made such
long arms that pockets were reached to the tune
of £4673, which exceeds last year’s collection by
£351. True, there were 200 more collectors than
last year drafted to the suburbs. And it must
have been the valiant two hundred that made the
rise, for every one of the town collectors seemed to
have changed temperaments with a tortoise.
Men who looked like Rockefellers were allowed
to pass the outposts without the challenge
of a box-waggle. The outposts were too
busy talking frills. Some new methods
are needed, and I have thought out a few. There
is the box with a telescopic handle—you pull a
lever, and the thing makes a sudden sound like
“pftht” and expands any distance up to 90ft.—
in order that an appeal may be made to men work-
ing on roofs, and wealthy old hunks on balconies ;
this box could also be inserted through open win-
dows where there was a suspicion that the room
held people of means. Then there is the boa-
constrictor or giraffe box that would look over
walls to see if there was a possible contributor in
the garden, and the sidelong box that would look
round behind the house to see if there was any-
body in the back yard. There are also possibilities
about the dog-box that would bark till it got a
donation, and the horse-box that would run
swiftly after possible contributors that were trying
to escape in the distance.
I am also of opinion that highway robbery by
authorised collectors should be allowed after 11
p.m., the returning reveller being left with only
his clothes and a document (which would secure him
a free tram-ride home) stating that he had been
officially cleaned out. Further, lam of opinion
that there should be some beautiful male collectors
to appeal to ladies only.
Hospital collection box-holders were thrilled
into a vigorous shaking of their receptacles on
Saturday by the circulated story that fourteen
of the young ladies who shook the box in Sydney
last year had married gentlemen whom they bailed
up for thrippence on the highway.
At a fairly fashionable marriage that took place
in our State last month the bride, a widow, wore
very bridal-white finery, and several persons com-
mented, saying she shouldn’t try to look the rose-
bud considering that she is full-blossomed and has
the portrait of her first plucker in a locket. The
commentators should have seen a Melb. bride, who
married her second in great style some years ago.
She was 60 years of age, and carried an orange-
blossom coronet on her red hair. Her nine chil-
dren were present, and a couple of her grand-
children bore up her train, which was profusely
trimmed with orange-blossoms and white daisies.
It’s bad enough to have a physical double, but a
double in name and profession is a curse which is
liable to fly up and hit one at all sorts of unexpected
moments. For some time now Hr. Nash, M.L.C.,
the well-known democratic medico, has been the
recipient of angry letters demanding that he take
steps to clear the Chinese off his property at
Belmore. Others are quite content to heave gibes
and remark that democrats were ever like this.
And as the doctor has no property at Belmore,
and has accumulated no great amount of real
estate anywhere, and doesn’t own a single China-
man, he is beginning to feel vexed and is making
efforts to find the other Hr. Nash.
Advt., S.M. Herald :
SCHMELITSOHEK.—May 3, at Villa Felix, Roseville, Mrs.
F. Schmelitschek—a son—No. 4.
This palpably comes of the birth-rate discussion.
We may now expect to see any day:—
KlDD.—June Ist, at San Souci, Mrs. J. T. Kidd—triplets
—Nos. 17-19.
Colonel Bell, our late American Consul, who is
living at Wellington (M.L.), has completed the
writing of the book on which he has been engaged
for the past nine months. “Mr. Oseba’s Last
Biscovery ” will be published immediately.
From Melbourne comes a story about a high-
and-mighty Federal dame. When Dr. Maloney
was declared elected his supporters shouldered him
and carried him down Collins-street. The girls in a
big drapery shop on the road leaned out from the
upper windows and waved to the victor. The
Tory dame saw this, rushed into the shop and in-
dignantly declared that she would never buy
another packet of pins there while such bold hus-
sies were kept on the premises. As it was im-
Eossible to sack half the staff, complainant had to
e satisfied with the assurance that the girls would
be reprimanded for their “unladylike” conduct.
That lady, like her husband, doesn’t know how to
take her gruel kindly.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent: —
“ Lady Northcote left for Sydney with a halo of
hospital visits round her head. The incurable
children at Austen Hospital had some bead-mats
made in readiness for her call. She got them to
write the name of each donor on the gifts, and the
kiddies found later that they had not cast their
mats on the waters for nothing. Apart from
return gifts, children love to individualise and be
individualised. A three-year-old hereabouts de-
clined to give his penny to the children’s hospital.
But when he saw the collecting-card with its pic-
tured group of small patients, he picked out a
curly-headed girl-invalid of his own size and said
he’d give his penny to that girl, but that if he
couldn’t give it to her he’d keep it for himself.
“The ‘Record Bazaar’ proved a broth of a
boom, to the delight of Father Robinson, whose
admirers claim that he combines the best points
of a bishop and a Barnum. Beforehand, the
cheery cleric offered a two-guinea prize for the
best four-line poem, ending in the beautiful words
‘Father Robinson’s Record Bazaar.’ Though
many verses were sent, few were chosen —for
publication. ‘ Bazaar,’ unfortunately, calls up
unsuitable rhymes, such as ‘bar,’ ‘cigar,’
‘tramway car,’ and ‘Jack tar.’ Convent-pupils
who tried their ’prentice pens had to stick to
‘star’ and ‘afar.’ The Yellow-Pup would have
yelped horribly had the scholars ventured to hint
at anything so giddy as ‘ guitar.’
“ At the Madden’s ‘ Travancore’ party the two
Misses Henderson were admired. They are a pair
of tall, slender, glowing girls. Mrs. Henry
Madden, who died some two years ago, was
another Henderson. A fourth sister is a convent
religieuse. 'a Her talents would have made her a
notable and distinguished person in the local art
domain.
“As a rule the Society girl comes to her
majority silently. The Mayoral M‘Eacharns
recorded the majority of their daughter by a
‘ Goathlands ’ hop, when the ‘ Stonington ’ aides
and a select rally kept up the felicitations accorded
to the 21-year-old daughter of the house. In time
to come that birthday spree will be recalled and
the days of the honored one numbered with malign
mathematical accuracy.
“‘Young Mr. Osborne’ (this is the Toorakian
term) sprang a surprise on the Motor Gymkhana
crowd the other day. He carried a novel stick
with a spade handle, and by stabbing the earth
with this cane, the spade part unfolded into a
seat. Of course a Tommy Bent or a big John
Forrest wouldn’t have dared, but an individual of
healthy weight was safe. So the cavalier, when-
ever checked in his peregrinations with Miss
Jeffries, performed the stabbing trick and pro-
vided rest for his weariness. It annoyed some
exceedingly to see the long, graceful figure of the
fiancee left in perpendicular fatigue while her
Adolphus sat and smoked at ease. But this is a
day of novelties.
“Miss Jeffries and her intended Osborne made
a tour of the Japanese stalls that go to make
up the Record Bazaar of the Rev. G. Robinson, the
other afternoon. Julius Knight in a marvellous
suit and highly-ornate small-goods etceteras saun-
tered in the rear. A Beaucaire rose—saved from
the season’s flower-plague—was reserved for Julius,
but he already wore an exotic to match his silken
hose, so the orphan rose of the Flower-stall went
to waste. Miss Jeffries has gone into subdued
raiment —by way of allaying her ecstacy perhaps.
She wore all black this day, looked upon the crude
bazaar-Geisha with a plaintive air of sweetness,
and turned her Say-so eyes in a lovely trustfulness
upon her smug escort. A great crowd of gapers
followed in the wake of the pair.
“A nice question is now under heated discussion
by the predatory sirens of a recent bazaar. Is a
theatrical star, on being invited to revolve at such
a show, exempt from attack by stallholders ? The
star in question, after being aided to further
decorativeness by a superb bouquet, took her way
round the stalls, wearing the gracious expression
of a Lady Bountiful but spending nothing. Some
of the stallholders were furious. But the star was
invited as a decoy duck. Her attendance was
boomed as a draw. And she drew accordingly.
That was doing her share in the cause of charity.
“ There was a movement on foot the other day
among some rather bright-witted women to break
into the fortnightly walks of the Wallaby Club.
The members heard of the design, immediately
gathered together and made for Sandringham
beach. And there they went for a swim in
unmixed bathing costume. That checked the
feminine intentions for a time.
“Manager Varna, of ‘The Darling of the
Gods’ Co., seems to be a curiosity in theatrical
nature. Absurdly youthful in the first place and
almost callow in the second, he has not yet cast
swear words at the chorus, nor employed extreme
similes to the ‘ super.’ In one instance he handed
over his chair to a waiting chorus chick who
wasn’t even good-looking. In fact, the im-
ported young man is polite to a point that
leaves the stage-worn woman aghast. Melbourne
people like him and have entertained him a good
deal. He made a return during the ‘ Darling’s ’
run-, by taking a smart coterie behind the scenes
to view the tricks that impose a River of Souls
and clouds of Heaven upon the impressionable
, public.
“The engagement of a society charmer to a
young person rich in real estate was the signal,
last week, for a frantic break out of the Felicita-
tion Tea to the girl. Why does the affianced
woman rejoice with such loud public joy while
the man goes off to stand the chaff, the pity
and the sneer of club-cronies ? One of these
days a beauty of some daring will order a Requiem
to her Liberty and then things will be about
equalised. For, after all, a woman’s vanity deserves
something more sympathetic than a congratulatory
pot of tea on the momentous occasion of her
surrender. It may be a willing, not to say eager
surrender, but it might as well present the appear-
ance of a favor conferred.
“ Collins-street witnessed a quaint scene, the
other morning. A carrier dumped down an up-
to-date and elaborate perambulator at the steps of
a large and much-frequented club. Ihe hall-
porter haughtily called for the removal of the
domestic furniture from the bachelor quarters.
The carrier submitted the name of the member.
More questions elicited the information that the
pram, had been won at a bazaar. Still the club
functionary snorted and rejected the thing. So
the carrier bore it off.
“ The members of the petticoat Political League
rolled up in force the other night, in honor of
Yida Goldstein, poured speeches on her confident
young head, and completed the occasion by a
presentation of gold-lettered eulogy and a weighty
purse.
“ Melbourne friends of Miss Tyrrell Gill are in
an aesthetic commotion over a volume on Turner
which she has just bestowed upon the world of art-
worship. The gentle canvas critic still has,
according to report, a tangled thatch and the
yearnful eye of much spiritual imagination. She
left these shores for an art atmosphere, and
because her frail poetic nature was warped m
Melbourne’s rude elements. The little volume
she has sent across the mighty deep is precious to
those who have waited for Tyrrell-Gill to find her-
self, and who think any kind of a printed out-
pouring is evidence of the fact.
“ The intricacies of fashionable hair-dressing
have brought a general demand for the ‘ Trans-
formation ’ —a name by which a half-sized wig is
known. For this contrivance woman rolls all her
tresses in towards the crown, flattens them there,
and affixes the transformation. Presently she’ll
be gumming on her smile and using detachable
eye-lashes. The scope of artficial improvement
seems boundless.
“ The Huttons have departed from the Grange,
and now that well-appointed mansion, with all its
household effects, goes under the hammer. This
probably means that Gen. Hutton will not be
with us much longer.
“ On one of the first nights of ‘ The Darling of
the Gods,’ at Her Majesty’s, a line spoken in the
play happened to apply with caustic effect to an
annoying incident in the dress-circle. People who
troop into the circle after the curtain has risen are
always a particular nuisance at Her Majesty’s
owing to the construction of the theatre, and on
this particular night a small army of military per-
sons m gaudy array were a specially conspicuous
and numerous nuisance. They had probably
quaffed some bumpers of blood-red wine to the
health of the King (God bless him !) before coming
to the theatre, and had been further refreshing
themselves during the interval. Anyhow, there
was a lot of slow, heavy dignity about their pro-
cession back to their seats. The third act of the
Jappy drama was in hand, and just as the pomp-
ous warriors re-entered for the manyth time,
Maud Jeffries had to shake her fan reproachfully
at her lady attendant and say—‘ What manners ! ’
Three-fourths of the audience thought she was
making a much-needed reference to the manners
of the heavy brigade, and expressed enthusiastic
concurrence.
‘‘Late private advices from South Africa
include details of a one-time Melbourne widdy-
woman’s doings in the matrimonial line. She
was first married to an Englishman, practising
law in Maoriland. He died. Next, she married
another import—an ex-colonel out of the real
. British army. She separated from him and came
to live in Melbourne, being well-known in St.
Kilda for a decade. Later, he also died. _ Then,
with her three marriageable daughters in tow,
she went for a long stay in Natal. She is now
reported to have married a Boer ex-lieutenant
twelve years her junior. And while the war-
worn mother has had three husbands, the three
nice daughters haven’t yet managed to raise one
among them.
“Not long ago a suburban Mayoress determined
to improve the Beception-hour by taking lessons
in etiquette. She sought out a polka mistress,
and went even to the length of learning the pro-
portions of a Reception-smirk, the strength of the
municipal hand-shake, and other kindred points.
Then the Reception arrived. All went satisfac-
torily until the tea-urn began to steam. It hap-
pened to be at the other end of the apartment,
and the anxious soul had distinctly understood that
the official hostess should remain seated to preside
at the tea-tray. She took to hurried thought and
struck a brilliant idea. By a series of vigorous
but slow stage jerks, the Mayoress was able to edge
her chair from one end of the room to the other.
So she reached the tea vessel at last in safety, and
had infringed on none of the polka marm’s direc-
tions. The sleek cats who looked on were
maliciously amused, but they hadn’t half the fun
that fell to a more recent municipal crowd, a
great table of trotters, pig’s cheek and mounds of
corn beef, with all the suitable trimmings, was set
for a Reception bout. The mayoress was a butcher’s
wife, and she had pilfered the shop for a square
feed.
“ Over the mantel-ledge of a Toorak boudoir,
where card-tables are more numerous than pot-
pourri vessels or Oriental lounges, is the Marl-
borough sentiment, ‘ Sure, cards have kept us
women from a great deal of scandal,’ and the wag
of a hostess slowly turns her eyes in its direction
whenever an interval in Bridge allows time for
spiced gossip.
(Continued on page 25.)


FAINTED FROM WEAKNESS.
“ I, Dora Whiting, of 2 Oliver-street, Ballarat, in the State of Yictoria, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I was absolutely
in the last stages of Anaemia and Chlorosis. From the time I was 15 I began to fade. I had no appetite at all. I just kept alive on
bread and milk, maizena and fruit. Fearful, splitting headaches almost made me cry with pain—but I think I was too weak even to
cry. I often fainted right away, and had to be brought to with brandy and water. My mother and all the neighbors thought I was
dying. My mother used to cry about me again and again. I could just walk out of my room into the garden by myself, but if I
wanted to walk 50 yards I had to be helped along on my mother’s arm./* The nurse told me I had positively not a pound of real flesh on
my bones. When I fainted, my face and hands were almost transparent. Everyone who saw me said I was consumptive and could
not live long. I was tortured night and day by horrible nagging backaches and shooting, jumping pains under the arms. Even when
I got up from the couch my heart would flutter like a terrified bird, the spasms of pain would come on, and I would press my hand to
my side in a vain effort to still the wild throbbing and the stinging pains. Nothing strengthened me till I took Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. They absolutely saved my life. Gradually they increased my blood-supply, and before I had taken six boxes I
was a bright, happy, healthy girl again. lam 18 now, and am in robust health. lam positive my cure is permanent.”
Declared at Ballarat this 24th day of November, a.d. 1903, before me, Rd. Pearse, Mayor of Ballarat.
THE NURSE’S STATEMENT—“ SHE WAS A LIVING SKELETON.
“ Miss Dora Whiting was simply a living skeleton,” said Nurse O’Brien, of 65 Ligar-street, Ballarat. “ She suffered exceedingly
from Chlorosis and Anaemia. There was not a pound of flesh on her whole body. Her lips were blue and colorless, and there were
black rings round her eyes. She was actually so weak that she could not walk outside. Her clothes hung on the poor girl as if she
was a scarecrow. Everyone thought she was in the last stages of consumption. Her arms and limbs were almost transparent. She
was just a bag of skin and bone. I regard her cure by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills as perfectly marvellous. I have had personal evidence
of the blood-purifying and strengthening effects of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, for they completely cured me of acute rheumatic sciatica
and lumbago. As a nurse, I strongly recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to my patients. Their ingredients make them specially
valuable to women at certain times. (Signed) Nurse Margaret O’Brien, 65 Ligar-street, Ballarat.”
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Prime Minister Watson is starting with a
refreshing absence of frill. His new office in
Melbourne has heretofore been used as the
visitors’ waiting-room to the Minister of Home
Affairs.
Old C. H. Goode, the wealthy Adelaide
warehouseman, will have his 77th birthday on
May 26th. He is a well-meaning old soul, who
persists in calling the totalisator an iniquitous
institution.
“F.C.”: After a careful inspection of
Victoria’s new Governor, and the outworks and
ramparts of his figure, so to speak, I incline to the
opinion that the gentleman’s name is really
Reginald Tallbottle.
Said that Rev. Dill-Macky gives up his
church soon ; he has vacated the manse and his
“theological library” is advertised for sale. The
sale will be conducted under the regulations of
the Explosives Act.
After a tempestuous two years in Westra-
lia, Wallace Nelson, the ex-Queenslander, has got
the Labor nomination for what is reckoned the
safe Hannan’s seat. If, as is expected, he passes
into Parliament he will probably enliven it con-
siderably.
J. B. Beauregard, a record-breaker book-
agent, representing at the time some medical
work, suicided in Melbourne the other day.
Beauregard reckoned he could sell 10 copies a day
of any three-guinea book ever published. Yet he
died by his own hand.
An East Sydney bottle-collector who
christened his cart George Reid, has now named
his horse “ Progress,” because it finds Reid a great
drag on it. Progress makes vigorous efforts to
shake George off, and a few days before the
Federal crisis he smashed his front-board in.
Thomas Horton, who lies under sentence
of death in Adelaide gaol for the deliberate murder
of his wife in a crowded city street, on a Saturday
night, has been pronounced by Dr. Cleland, super-
intendent of the lunatic asylum, to be insane.
Dr. Ramsay Smith and other medical experts,
however, consider he is sane enough to be hanged ;
while the man most interested doesn’t seem to care
which way the thing goes.
Ebenezer Ward, for years one of the two
or three finest orators in S.A. Parliament, and
once Minister of Education, was in the Adelaide
Police-court, last week, on a charge of intoxica-
tion. Four constables were positive on the point,
but the poor old waif pleaded that he had merely
fallen and stunned himself. He was badly cut
about the head, and a compassionate P.M. gave
him “the benefit of the doubt.”
FOLLOWING HIS LEADER.
“Second reading Alien Immigrants Bill passed House of Commons,
241 to 117.”— Cable.
AUSTRALIA: “ Well, old dad, what's the matter now ? ”
J. BULL : “ Going in for a White England.”
At Sydney University Commemoration the
students had a tableau representing the Devil
escorting Dill-Macky and Cardinal Moran. Said
that the Cardinal was personated by Dill-Macky’s
own son —who is a student at the Uni. —whilst
the part of Dill and his calves fell to the lot of an
ardent young R.C.
“ Tom ” Hassall, late Secretary for Lands,
N.S.W., is now stock buyer for a South African
cold storage combine, with quite a big salary. He
is fond of slandering the politics of his native
land ; and certainly the fact that Hassall could be
a Cornstalk Minister is a good argument against
the N.S.W. political system.
Vic. Premier Bent seems to be following
in the steps of the great faller-off, Brassey. A
while back he fell from a ship’s cabin-roof to the
deck ; the other night he fell off the platform at
the conclusion of his Cheltenham speech; and
presently he will fall off the Treasury bench. The
third fall is expected to be fatal.
“ Petramos ” : Le Hunte is more an
ordinary man than a Governor. Saw him hail
Victor Hood, who was passing in a motor, by
putting his fingers in his mouth and whistling.
The sight of a vice-regal person standing in the
street and whistling vigorously made me feel
faint, and I had to get someone to shout me a
drink.
The daily-press-formed idea of Dr. Maloney
as a person who plays fantastic tricks whenever he
gets on his feet is grotesquely wrong. He doesn’t
whirl and gesticulate on the platform at all, but
talks quietly in calm, steely, electrical tones that
reduce an audience to silence. After a noisy
speech by M.H.R. Webster at Melbourne Trades
Hall, the other night, the effect of Maloney’s voice
was almost magical; and he finally received the
expanse of applause he deserved.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) miner met with a
strange death last week. A large dynamite charge
had been put in; the other miners left in the
usual haste; and then looked back to see their
mate waiting beside the charge to be blown up.
They shouted, but he didn’t move. Then one
rushed to fetch him away by violence, but just
then the charge exploded, and there was a dead
miner. It was either suicide, or misplaced cata-
lepsy, or deep thought, or something. Anyhow,
the jury called it “ death by misadventure.”
Australia got two new bishops last week—-
at least, it got one, and the promise of another.
So far Westralia has had only one Anglican
diocese ; now the South-west has been carved out
to make a second, and Dean Goldsmith h<ns been
chosen to wave the crook over it. He has been a
Dean for 16 years, and inveterate chess-playing is
his only discovered crime. The other gaiters go
to an old assistant-master and rowing-coach of
Eton, St. Clair Donaldson, who takes the late
Dr. Webber’s place at Brisbane. The Donaldsons
are an old Queensland squatting family, and the
new bishop, though educated at Cambridge, was
born in Australia.
“ C.P.” describes a great statesman :
How ridiculous the papers make Tommy Bent look. In
the numerous interviews which have appeared since the
massive gentleman blundered into the Premieiship of
Victoria, reference is continually made to his mannerisms
—his habit of “ dropping his beard on to his chest for a
few seconds,” turning his “ eyes to one side with a know-
ing look,” and so on. This is all very well, but why, oh
why, is the picture not completed ? The rivulets of saliva
running down his chin and dripping, like rain through v a
leaky roof, on to his soiled shirt-front have been over-
looked—the ex-market gardener is a notorious slobberer.
And Thomas doesn’t look “knowing.” He looks secret,
furtive, sidelong, suspicious—anything of that sort you
please ; his small black eyes are angry often enough, and
sometimes they look harried and sometimes morose. But
I have looked into them often, and they aren’t knowing.
The champion mean man is in a certain
Australian city—call it Brismell or Sydbourne,
or anything else. And the true story about him
runs thusHe is the chief of a large concern,
lazing on a big salary, and had three of his sons
working in the office at starvation rates of pay—■
most of which pay he deducted for their board.
While away on a long holiday he received a letter
from the acting-chief, reporting that the youngest
of the trio was in a state of insubordination.
Whereupon papa wrote back saying that he had
found a jackeroo’s job for the youth on an uncle’s
station, youth to be forwarded promptly ; but, as
the boy had no valise in which to pack his tooth-
brush, the acting-chief might think it advisable to
start a subscription among the boy 1 s fellow-clerks
to provide him with one.
Mr. Beveridge, who died at; Albury lately,
had one close call. He was of a party which went
to the rescue of Wantabadgery station when it
was “stuck-up” by Moonlight and his men. The
rescuers were captured, and Moonlight ordered
them to be shot, and they were lined up for the
purpose. Then Moonlight changed his mind, and
empanelled a jury of five, two of them bushrangers,
with himself as Judge. The jury returned a ver •
diet of “not guilty, on the ground that prisoners
didn’t know it was Moonlight they were going to
attack, and would probably have stayed awa / if
they had known. The, captain accepted the ver-
dict, and discharged the prisoners with a caution,
delivered in a manner that it would have pleased
Vic. Chief Justice Madden to listen to. If Moon-
light had only worn a horse-rug on his head for a
wig the show would have been complete.
“Caber”: A parson told me
this story. When Thomas MTlwraith
was standing for North Brisbane
(Q.) in 1888 he wanted the local
Presbyterian vote badly, and pro-
ceeded to mollify the tabernacle of
Knox by asking what he could do
to beautify that eminently plain
structure. The parson said that a
memorial window to each of the
apostles was what they had been
craving for, and MTlwraith said
that the blessed privilege of putting
up a memorial window to each apostle
had been the dream of his life.
After the election M‘II wraith’s
cheque for £25 arrived very gradu-
ally. Then the parson called to re-
monstrate, and there were explana-
tions, and a large indignant man
pranced round the room saying he
'“thought there were only two of
the scoundrels” and expressing the
opinion that the other ten were im-
postors.
A few Christian names of
women upon whom honors were
conferred at recent Melbourne Uni-
versity commencement : —Penelope,
Marguerita, Grata Floss Matilda,
Clare Dorothea, Melora, Castalie,
Loudye. Among the men were
Glynne, Giblin, Gortly, Cordale,
Angivin, Aldersley, Gore, Constan-
tine Trent Champion, and —Le-
thieuller.
It was really cruel of the Argus to report
Vic. Premier Bent verbatim, thus: “Weintend
indexing the statutes to make the contents readily
accessible. This is merely a continuation and
completion of the work of conciliation of the
statutes begun by the late Chief Justice Higin-
botham.” Voices: “Consolidation!” Bent:
“Eh? what?” Minister Mackey: “Consolida-
tion; you said ‘conciliation.’” Bent: “Did I?
Well, concilidation” (loud laughter) “consolida-
tion, there you are.” And, mopping his perspiring
brow, he plunged heavily on.
SENATOR G. F. PEARCE (WESTRALIA).
A Victorian paper has been disinterring
from the back files of the Age and Argus things
they said about Premier Bent in bygone days.
Here are some Age samples:—
From Bryan O’Loghlen to Mr. Bent the present Ministry
are men who have degraded politics and demoralised
parties. . . . Mr. Bent’s management of the railways was
■enough in itself to wreck the Cabinet. . . . Let us rejoice
that we shall have no more Bentism, no more bribery,
and no more Kensington Hill jobs, MTntyre, Geary,
Brough Smith, or Newport Workshop jobs.
The spawn of Conservative rancor ... a leader among
syndicators, who peached on his pals ... a man who,
having boomed in the days of company promoting, would
oppose legislation to prevent it ... a man not ashamed
to say that he would assist the Upper House to maintain
the sweating system ... a discredited politician. . . .
On the old days of Thomas Bent we can only look back
with a shudder.
These are cheerful and breezy remarks.
Deakin’s brief term of office as Premier has
aged him more than he owns. Anything between
five and ten years seems to have been added since
Barton went to the High Court; and altogether
he has stood the strain but indifferently. Although
an idea, is encouraged to the contrary, Deakin is
essentially a, nervous, susceptible man; and
neither the position of Prime Minister nor of
Opposition leader is the ideal place for him. A
billet of sub-Minister, stationed perennially at
the elbow of a calm, imperturbable Treasurer like
Turner, would suit him best. As for Turner, he
looks more placid and abstracted than ever.
During the entire debase on the Arbitration Bill
he seemed to be thinking only about the decora-
tions on the ceiling; but probably he was really
chasing around in his mind for some better method
of keeping the finances of Australia in a permanent
rectangle.
An old-timer writes :
Apropos “Answers to Correspondents” (8., 21/4/04).
Thomas Williams, alias Frank Johns, was executed, not
for the attempted murder of a warder, but for stabbing a
10 years’ prisoner named Roberts, who was doing time for
maiming a racehorse named Terminus at Hay. He had
been the owner, but the horse had passed into other
hands. While Roberts was cutting the horse’s throat it
broke the halter and escaped. The wound was stitched
up, and the horse won many races afterwards. The
prisoner hanged for the attempted murder in Parramatta
gaol was Thomas Kelly, who assaulted, with a stone-
breaking hammer, the overseer of works, M'Laren.
The latter wore a silver plate in his skull after that
episode. To do Mr. M‘Laren justice, he wrote from his
sick —and it appeared to him dying—bed, asking the
Governor to spare Kelly’s life. The latter was doing
seven years for highway robbery at Deniliquin, and had
put most of the time behind him. He was the first man
hanged on the “ new gallows”—a fixture, gallery fashion,
in an angle of two wings of the prison. A memorable
scene ensued when Kelly appeared on the scaffold. He
claimed that as M'Laren had not been killed, he should
not be. He fought, kicked, bit, plunged, and, finally, with
a determined kick, temporarily disabled the chief hang-
man, who refused, on recovery, to perform his office. The
assistant, with some warders, did the execution. That
was on January 2, 1872. Since then, 33 men and one
woman have been hanged on that platform. The four
Mount Rennie boys, though their names are inscribed on
the beam outside, were hanged on a scaffold specially
made, and which did not act well. It is a noteworthy fact
that the then prosperous firm which made the “Mount
Rennie ” scaffold was not as prosperous afterwards.
Ex-Freetrade politician M ‘Millan now runs
a model dairy farm on his estate, Albion Park
way. He may be expected to modify his views as
to the protection of dairy produce now.
Old Adye Douglas has been shifted out of
the Tasmanian House of Dodery, as a penalty,
probably, for taking the “title” that he spurned
most of his life, and Dodery himself, it is expected,
will take his place as President of the Speck
Council. Warrior Douglas, now in sight of 90,
might put in a year or two writing interesting
things. Over 60 years ago he was squatting in
Victoria, then part of N.S.W. ; before that, he
had been admitted to the V.D.L. Bar. On one
of his several trips to England he saw a railway,
and came back full of the subject. Tasmania
didn’t want any railway; but the revolu-
tionist stumped the country, got elected to
the Assembly in 1862 (he had been in the Council
years before), and battled a Bill through. Alfred
of Edinburgh “ turned the first sod ” of the shock-
ing and insurrectionary institution in 1868 ; the
line was from Launceston to Deloraine.
Shiels, for 25 years the raven of Victorian
politics, has determined to “quit the bust above
the door.” He has been suffering acutely from
neuralgia of the heart. Six weeks ago he went to
the country, hoping to get together sufficient
strength to fight a stiff battle for the Glenelg seat
in the new Assembly against Burke, the Labor
candidate. Now he has written to the secretary
of one of the many leagues that are poking an
inquiring nose into the election, stating that he
is not equal to the strain. Shiels is dramatic to
the last. He concludes his long letter with the
following passage:—
To part from my constituents whose attachment has
been sure and steadfast for nearly a quarter of a century
is indeed a severe wrench. The bitterness, however, of
saying- good-bye—which may be for ever—is sweetened by
the memory of the splendid fealty and trust which the
electors of Normanby have shown me during a long
political career, which now is near its close. Accept for
them the homage of my heartfelt gratitude, and believe
me, sincerely yours,—(Signed) Wm. Shiels.
(Continued on page 25.)
The Troubles of Watson and of Other
People.
From the Federal Gallery :
A Watson Ministry has caused wonderful heart-search-
ing round about the Federal Parliament House. Members
who cared little about Deakin while he was Prime Minister
are much concerned now about his future welfare. Papers
that were either hostile to him or less than kind are now
treating him as if he were their property, and giving him
to this or that coalition. The Age suggests a Watson
agreement, the Ahgus a Reid understanding; Big
John Forrest wants a Bruce Smith or Dugald
Thomson combination. Watson is not scared, because he
knows that he is going to get fair play, just as for three
years he gave fair play. Of bourse, Deakin is playing his
own game, just as Watson in the corner played his ; but
the game on both sides was, and is, aboveboard. Neither
of them belong to the Age, or the Argus, or Big John. It
is quite possible, if the Arbitration Bill were out of the
way, that a basis of agreement would turn up, but that
Bill is not out of the way, and the gulf will more than:
likely widen.
Spence puts it this way, and Spence is as whole-hearted
and clear-headed as any of the Ministerialists:—“The
Ministers are not going to fall over the Arbitration Bill.
We are going to get the public servants and the railway
men in if we can. If we can’t, why should Watson resign ?
His party never made it a vital issue. Deakin did that.
Watson has not taken over Deakin’s notions as to what is:
vital, with Deakin’s office.” This must mean that Watson
may take the way out which he offered to Deakin, and
make the question a matter of the sense of the Committee.
The question is whether Spence is talking by the book, or
not. It is difficult for Watson to come into office because
public servants are not included in the Bill, and remain in
when they are struck out. Anyway, that is a matter he
has to worry out himself. If YVatson does not go out on
a legislative principle he will certainly not be put out on
a personal issue. There are some little men in the House,
but there are a few big men, big enough to scare them off
that sort of work.
A coalition between Deakin and Reid depends mostly on
how much Reid is ready to drop. With Reid this hardly
counts, for he mil drop anything, but he may drop so
much that he would be a Minister without a following,
and that kind of coalition would amount to nothing. At
the Premiers’ Conference, which fixed up the final Federal
Referendum, Reid suggested a Federal Ministry of all the
then Premiers. “ Oh,” said Turner, “you are the only
block to that with your Freetrade.” “You fix up the
Ministry, answered Reid, “and I’ll fix up the Freetrade
business! ” He is quite ready to fix up the Freetrade
business again to-day.
The real danger ahead of Watson is not in Reid, or
Lyne, or any of these things, but in the troubles in the
Departments. “ How did all these matters get to such a
climax?” said Defence Minister Dawson when he went
through his papers. But he follows Chapman, and Chap-
man has known for three months that somebody else
would be in office about this time, so one and another
difficulty has been digged about and watered so that it
would blossom in May. Most of them are blossoming
to-day, and the new men have to worry with States ques-
tions, and military questions, and a heap of troubles
that have been sometimes too much for old
stagers at smoothing difficulties. Fisher is in the
same boat at the Customs, for he follows Lyne.
As to Big John his Home Affairs Office is full to the brim
with electoral worries and mistakes, all of which must be
settled by Batchelor. In the Treasury the loan business-
is knocking loudly at the door. The States conversion
loans are cominz along, and if Bent, or Butler, or Wad-
dell loses a lot of money over them, Watson is bound to be-
blamed. External Affairs has a war on hand with the
Book-fiend, and, generally, the Departments are full of
new or bottled-up troublesome questions. Ministers will
want a heap of kindly feeling from the Parliament, and a
solid faith from supporters to get through.


&
The Leading House for
Cameras, Phonographs,
Gramaphones,
Magic Lanterns.
Up-to-date Selections of Phonograph Records
and Gramaphone Discs.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
375 George St. f Sydney
260 Collins Street, Melbourne
37 Bundle Street, Adelaide
90 8e 92 Queen Street, Brisbane.
m
Uiiiliy
Marpy B^oTmcrs.
JEWELLERS. QOLDSniTHS. SILVERSMITHS.
STERLING SILVER PIN-CUSHIONS AND STANDS.
Combined Silver Mounted Pin-
Cushion and Trinket Box, 14s.
Others in large variety and all
sizes to ;£7 106.
Customers residing
out of Sydney will
gain some idea of
HARD Y BROTHERS’
immense stock by pro-
curing their large
fully illustrated
1904 C Catalogue
which is sent post free
to any address in the
Commonwealth.
Goods are also sent
on approval to the
country.
Sterling Silver Pin-Stand,
10s. 6d.
Others, 11s., 12s. 6<J.
13 HUNTER STREET .SYDNEY, &AT BRISBANE & LONDON
Aboriginalities.
CURIOUS EXHIBITS AT THE ZOO.
“ Spring ” sends some rabbit facts :
. The original rabbit came to light very many years ago
in the country now called Morocco. Soon he trekked
into Spain. Spain was quite proud that bunny had deigned
to come and stop. Goins with Mispania and a rabbit
beside her were struck. Then'the rabbit ate his way and
flicked his white-tipped tail all along the Mediterranean.
It is mentioned that, just before the Christian era, the in-
habitants of the Balearic Islands begged the Roman emperor
that either new lands be given them or that soldiers be
sent to deal with the fearfully destructive rabbits. No
quadruped has played such a part in the history of the
Anglo-Saxon race. How many poachers have been sent
to the gallows and to Australia through bunny ? About
the year 1864 a public-spirited gentleman established three
couples of rabbits at Barwon Park, near Geelong (Vic.).
In 1878 bunny was across the Murray, into S. Australia.
One year after, that State started to legislate against the
pest, and was soon followed by all the other States, in-
cluding Maoriland. They are still legislating.
“A.Gr.” : Someone in a recent Bulletin
gave a list of his trades. Would like to have a
yarn with him. I started toil with a photographer,
then acted as clerk to an auctioneer, then tried
barbering. Shipped on a beche-de-mer cutter.
Fell over a tobacco shop in Townsville, and spilled
my money.. To make a recovery, plunged as
draper’s assistant. Then into the telegraph-office,
passed my exam. Went as striker to a black-
smith. Left that and went painting (I can paint
Ross Island red in two days—l’ve done it). The
West called me, so. went out as a station book-
keeper ; had a bad time in Hughenden, and never
reached my job. Went spare-boying for an ox-
conductor instead. Floated round the West for
years as musterer, drover, overseer, wood-and-
water joey, spud-hawker, fencer, blacksmith,
dam-sinker, cook, shearer, rouseabout, and (last, but
not least), bogged-sheep extractor. Came back to
the coast and started cab-driving. Did fairly
well—on beer. Shipped as stoker on a coastal
boat. Left one night and humped my few rags to
a job as nigger-driver. Got a recommendation
from a parson—a good sort —and went as tutor to
a family on a station. The mistress would not
allow me to start—too good-looking, I suppose—
so I went as slushy at the next shed. Broke in a
few head of horses later on, and amputated a
Chow’s finger. Went for six months to Stewart’s
Creek for sweating a horse ; always was a hard
rider. From there to Westralia as a miner, back
to New Guinea, then dragged a pack-horse to
Charters Towers. Worked my passage from
Rockhampton to the Melbourne Cup. Sneaked
back without picking the winner, which I was
confident of doing. Worked in Chow Africa as a
stonemason two days. Struck Queensland with
the drought, and plucked dead wool. Started a
butcher’s shop near a pub., but failed to keep both
going. Applied for a bookkeeper’s place, didn’t
get it; got seven days instead. Between these
callings I have been backyard pugilist many a
time. Owned a dog once that could fight some, so
had to learn myself. After 30 years battling I
found time to record my first electoral vote, and
wind up with one leg, three ribs, and five teeth
sound. Is life worth living, in a Cornish boiler ?
Yes, I should smile.
4c
“ C.C.” : “ Nym ” (B. 14/4/’O4) offers some
astonishing information about the “goanna.” I
forebore to criticise it promptly, because, in my
mind’s eye, I saw a ton of derisive remarks being
unloaded upon The Bulletin counter from
aboriginaliars. According to “Nym,” the eye
can detect no difference in the “bingy” of the
“ go.” when he emerges from his winter quarters
to assist in the early spring lambing, and the same
“bingy” when it wobbles away from the interior
of a dead bullock. Also, according to “Nym,”
the “go.” must have killed that bullock on his
own (by breathing on it when it slept, probably),
because “Nym” has “never known the ‘go.’ to
eat dead food, unless, like the Hindu and Jew, he
has killed it himself.” Then, if “Nym ”is right,
it is time the “ go.” came under the Noxious
Animals Act, for he has killed all the horses,
cattle, sheep, pigs, kangaroos, bun yips, &c., &c.,
that we foolishly imagined died from the drought.
I have poisoned “go.” with meat that was cer-
tainly not alive, though it was fairly “high.”
Once shot a “go.” from the back-door, and whilst
waiting for his mate the latter came down the
tree and started to coffin the corpse in his
“bingy.” Ihis will answer your correspondent
“ Lost,” who inquires if the “go.” is a cannibal.
Writer’s remarks refer only to the big old-man
“ g 0.,” who roosts in hollow limbs of trees, and not
the small, yellow variety that camps in holes in
the earth, mostly at the roots of trees. The latter
are very quick, and it takes a smart dog to catch
them, for if they are overhauled they will turn a
complete somersault, and are fifty yards back on
their tracks before the dog can turn. To sum up,
the “ig.” will kill birds and small game if he can
sneak upon them, but his carnival is held among
the dead in a dry time. “Nym’s” “ig.” was pro-
bably hand-fed in the Zoo.
* * * *
A yarn re the further development of the
battle, murder, and sudden death curse which
seems to have fallen on the South Wairarapa dis-
trict (Maoriland): —
People in South Wairarapa are taking to the searching
habit as others take to drink. It started with the murder
of Collinson, and the consequent search for Ellis, his
alleged murderer ; disappearance of J. C. Andrew, a Wel-
lington solicitor, while deer-stalking—l6o searchers em-
ployed at 10s. per day—encouraged the habit; and the
search for the bodies of Udy and Cadwallader, drowned
in the swollen Ruamahanga River, about the time Andrew
was firing his last signal shots, is still being pursued so far
as Cadwallader is concerned, with gloomy satisfac-
tion. An episode of the search was the death
from heart disease of Constable Smith in his
trap. This maddened the animal he was driving,
and people still go out on Sundays in search of pieces of
the trap, which are stored as melancholy trophies of the
event. The '303 rifle exhibited as being similar to the one
alleged to have been used by Ellis in despatching Collin-
son was seen by a consumptive station hand, who was in
search of something like that, and he put the muzzle in
his mouth and pulled the trigger with his foot. A man
named M‘Leod, going home from the races, got down
from his ’bus hurriedly in search of something—probably
another beer ( vide inquest)—and died subsequently in the
hospital. The three weeks’ sheep-dog-trial drunk is at
present in progress, and the meeting has reached that
stage when many of the participants perambulate the
scrub on hands and knees in search of the higher life or
something. It is a very seekful neighborhood.
* • • •
Speaking of Asiatic hawkers,
about the worst specimen I have seen favored us
with a call the other day. Our bulldog eyed him
attentively, and when he got near the kitchen
door, made a rush and grabbed him in the usual
place. Almost immediately the dog let go again
with a howl of disgust, and held his paw to his
nose. Fact.
A TERRIBLE LOSS.
GRASSYFACE : “ Yes, I'm wantin' hands to sorter
cook, an' do round the house, to milk, an'
’tend cows, an' look after the poddy calves,
chop wood, an' do a bit o' fencin’ an' clearin',
besides keepin’ the garden up, an' mindin' the
poultry, an’ helpin' generally.”
H IDEBIND : “ Great Scott! how d’yer come to want
that crew all at once?”
GRASSYFACE : “Well, yer see, the missus has just
died on me.”
“Lying Dormant” (The Bulletin isn’t
sure about the “dormant,” but the “lying”
seems all right) sends this
Re snakes swallowing their young. A farmer working
in his field here (Woodend) saw a large black snake lying
dormant. He struck the reptile with a rake, when, to his
astonishment, a large striped snake ran out of its mouth.
He struck the striped one, when out of its mouth ran
thirteen short ones. Alarmed at this astonishing multi-
plicity of snakes he stopped hitting them, but is con-
vinced that he might have increased the number indefi-
nitely. Woodend is 13,500 feet above sea level.
* * * »
“A.P.R.” : Have often seen Castlereagh
River men go out on Sundays, armed with toma-
hawks, to hunt for grubs. The axe isn’t needed
to kill the grub, but to chop it out of the tree it
inhabits. Grub’s vicinity is detected by a
white spot on the bark, and, after perhaps an
hour's chopping, a long, milky insect is brought
to light. These grubs were a favorite dish among
the blacks, and they are pronounced delicious by
those who eat them.
“ Gilrooney ” : Met a Murrumbidgee
darkie, the other day. He was accompanied
by his gin, who carried a month-old picca-
ninny on one arm while she dragged along
a three-vear-old imp of inkiness with the
other. “ How long have you been mariied,
Joe? ” I inquired. “ Oh, I dunno—’bout six
months, me tink it.” “ But,” I remarked,
“ that boy is surely older than he ought tc
be?” “Ah, but don’t you see, me an’ the
missus ’a’ been mashin’ close up four years
now ! ”
* * * *
“ Myrtle ” : Living in the Mary-
borough (S.Q.) district in ’95 and ’96, I en-
thused over iguana shooting in summer, and
spent much time experimenting with the
“fat ” and oils. With the aid of the splendid
sentinel, the soldier-bird, I found little diffi-
culty in tracing the whereabouts of the “ go ”
in the bush. The soldiers seem to have a
common grievance against the iguana, and,
having discovered him, spend hours in squeak-
ing and hovering around him. To locate the
goanna, one has to simply stroll through the
bush and listen for the soldier. Most goannas
I opened had swallowed the soldier-bird’s
grievance, and the bird too ! But the goanna
is a disgusting reptile to deal with, being ex-
tremely smellful, and covered with ticks.
* * * *
“Matchbox”: Noticed, the other
day, a magpie swoop down and settle in the
middle of a brood of half-grown chicks. The
general scatter seemed to amuse maggie, who
fluttered here and there, increasing the rout.
But when the old white hen recovered
her composure, things altered. She went at
that magpie like a white streak, her feathers
all ruffled the wrong way, and a piteous
squawk from maggie drew me to interfere. He
had his wing broken in the first brief struggle,
and presented an awful illustration of the folly of
poking one’s beak into other people’s business.
“A.L.M.H.” : The great Aus-
tralian tiredness (if there is such a
thing) is evidently not acquired
until maturity is reached. The
Australian small boy possesses
quite as much boisterous excess of
energy as any other small boy in
the world—in fact, sometimes
rather more. And there is also in
some of him the tenacity of pur-
pose so often lacking in his elders.
For instance, was passing Rose Bay
in a tram a few Saturdays ago, and
noticed a thin fence—four by three
hardwood—running out into the
water some twenty yards, and for
the greater part of this distance
consisting of one rail only. On
the waterward end of this were
straddled three extremely small
youths, each holding a fishing line
and intently staring down into the
water. Their struggles to reach
their precarious perch must have
been Hurculean, only to be equalled
by their endurance in sticking
there. Sit on a hardwood rail
yourself for half-an-hour, and you
will understand what I mean. Yet
when I came back some three hours
later, they were still there, in pre-
cisely the same positions, and gazing
into the water just as intently.
Whether they caught any fish, and
how they managed to catch them
without falling off, and where they
put them when caught—all these
things are mysteries. But their
devotion to their purpose called
forth my admiration.
“Myrtle”: Once saw a goanna make a
bold bid for some leavings of meat in a preserved
meat tin —lid only partly opened. He attempted
to squeeze his head in at the opening, and failing
that he ran round and licked the outside of the
t’other end violently. Tried the front door of the
tin again, and again rushed round and licked the
back entrance. Started after breakfast, and he was
still running round the tin at tea-time. Then the
dog killed him.
*•* ‘ *
“ A.E.V.” tells of the dirty dairyman :
Was prospecting for few months recently among the
ranges near Brisbane, a “cockying” and dairying
district only 20 miles from the Q. metropolis. All the
cream produced goes direct to 'the Brisbane butter
factories. Two instances out of many that came under
my notice. One man, milking many cows, had his yards
unspeakably dirty ; no shed whatever over the hails;
buckets leaky and plugged with old rags ; barn-dairy
made of slabs and bark, with wire-netting windows;
inside in one corner a lot of half-rotten potatoes ; opposite,
a heap of harness and old bags ; in the middle of the floor
was the separator and open cream-can, and right along-
side spread out was a freshly-salted, stinking cow hide.
The neighboring place was even worse. There a man was
living, and milking about a dozen cows. His one
little shanty was living room, dairy, and fowl
house, with a hog sty joined on the end,
and all under the same roof. The fowls used to roost at
night on a rail right alongside the old man’s hunk, and
the smell inside on opening the door was terrific. Here
the milk and cream were kept on a shelf with wire-
netting in frpnt to keep the cat and fowls out. The fac-
tories must be —I believe are—kept clean, but taking
cream from such tainted sources it is small wonder that
such a lot of butter is made that is not fit to eat. A friend
in one of Brisbane factories told me they got all sorts of
things in the cans of cream—one day a dead rat, another
a pair of boots, and another a man’s waistcoat. Evidently
the cream is often tipped into the can in the dark. No
cocky would deliberately give in a waistcoat with his
cream.
WORN OUT.
SHE : “At last you have condescended to put your
paper down. I have addressed you three times
without receiving an answer.”
HE: “My dear, you remember the doctor ordered
me complete rest.”
“Thurla”: Noticed once, when visiting
the Sydney Zoo, the striking resemblance between
the dingoes there, and their neighbors in captivity,
the edible dogs of China. May be there was a
time when the latter animals were brought to
Australia, which would account for our dingo
being pouchless.
MALONEY’S MOTOR CAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The people in this neighborhood were always half-inclined
To say Maloney had a most inventive turn of mind ;
No new idea was mentioned, or no new invention shown,
But, straight away, Maloney had another of his own !
And so it came to pass that he, in Brown’s Dead Dingo
bar,
Had sworn by all the saints he’d build a “ crimson motor
car.”
And, faithful to his promises, Maloney toiled away—
All day he had no time to smoke, at night no time to
pray.
With batteries and dynamos—a modern God of Fire !
The wonders tiiat he worked in wood and coils of fencing-
Wire !
The timber polished with an axe, a final touch of tar,
And lo ! the waiting world beheld Maloney’s motor car.
His simple neighbors often said they’d give their lives to
know
The nature of the mystic force that made that motor go.
And if some folk, inquisitive and doubtful of its might,
Were hurried to Eternity, it only served ’em right !
But sceptics from the- I)ixo;> Press grew most particular
In noting all the wonders of that awful motor car.
And now it’s something fine to see the way that motor
whirls—
His daughters go to scandal-tea, his sons to see their
girls ;
The family to functions grand—for, somehow, don’t you
see,
That crazy car has whirled them into high societee.
And coasting down those country lanes by light of moon
and star—
It’s a picture worth the framing is Maloney’s motor car !
There’s not a sight for man to see, but there Maloney
goes;
He “patronises ” races, and he “favors ” all the shows ;
He leaves the trotters standing still, and runs the
“ scorchers ” down,
And beats the train by furlongs in a morning' spin to town.
No mountain tracks are steep enough, no roads too rough
to bar
The record-breaking progress of Maloney’s motor car.
And now Maloney “ motors it ” the whole wide country
through—
The trips no man could hope to make that motor has to
do;
It carries water for the house, he loads it up with wood—
No motor car in all the world was ever quite so good !
. . Yes, of all the great inventions in the land where
wonders are,
The one that “ takes the pastry ” is motor ear !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


AS GOOD
FOR
WOMEN
AS
FOR MEN.
a
CIRCLE BROOCHES
of every new design and merit may
be found in our Enormous Stock.
The lines we illustrate are simple, elegant Brooches
that we have just produced.
Of Pine Gold and Workmanship.
Set with choice real Pearls and Turquoises.
We mention real Pearls—not that we ever stock
anything in imitation, but because Sydney
teems with imitation pearls.
We carry a very large stock of all the latest
Brooches, but these lend themselves to illustra-
tion in a newspaper, where more ornate designs
do not.
LONDON PRICES ONLY.
15ct. Gold, Choice Pearls
and Turquoise, 30/-
The same brooch, all
stars, not leaves, 20/-
Solid 15ct. Gold,
Choice Whole Pearls
and Turquoise,
larger size, 32/-
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
“D. Byrne”: There was nearly a
fight yesterday in the hotel where I get my
bad beer because one professional horse-
that, when pulling, more strain
comes on a horse’s front legs than on his hind
legs, and the other one said it was the other
way about. Is there any way of finding out,
1 wonder ? I know there is a great deal
of energy about a horse’s front hoof. Have
carried the mark for seven years where an un-
gainly brute flopped a great iron-shod fore-
clog on one of my bare feet, whilst I lay
in peaceful slumber beside my waggon at
Woolgangie, in the land of sand, sin, sorrow,
sore eyes, saltbush, sandalwood, sweat and
syndicates. Would like to communicate
with some person whose foot has been stood
on by a horse’s hind extremity. If the com-
municator is a lady the correspondence may
lead to matrimony, but that is a matter for
further consideration.
* * * *
“ C.” : It isn’t every horse that is an
ass. At New Plymouth (M.L.) there is a
moke that will do anything but drink beer.
It sniffs at every pub. and brewery it passes
on the road, and is such a strong Prohibition-
ist that it has lately adopted new tactics to
reform its bibulous owner. When it per-
ceives that he is too full for business, it stops
dead at the police station, and refuses to
budge. Constable couldn’t understand it at
first, but soon perceived that the nag wanted
to give its driver in charge for being drunk
whilst professing to drive a horse and trap.
Owner was locked up accordingly. It has
repeated the performance since, and now the
owner has made a serious reduction in his
beer. He is said to have taken a fiendish
vengeance on the horse the first time it
arrested him, by locking it in its stable
and then pouring whisky on it through a
hole in the roof; but that kind of cruelty
is expensive.
* * * *
- “H.K.L.” :At Mount Morgan they
don’t breast the bar. The average man
“runs the cutter.” One shilling and a billy
are presented to the barmaid with the order
for “a ‘bob’s’ worth of beer, and may the
Lord strengthen yer arm when yer get ’old
o’ that pump.” Usually there are seven or
eight at the same game and pub., all with billies,
and a stranger is cordially invited “to dip his
beak ” as he faces them on the footpath. They
generally sit on the kerbstone in a row.
* * * a
“Muru”: Accept my unreliable testi-
mony to truth of “ Leo’s” remarks on Tohungaism
at Manaia (Auckland, M.L.), in recent Bulletin.
Can remember a half-caste girl hanging out the
witch-doctor shingle at Manaia with unsatisfac-
tory results. There appears to be the same pre-
judice against women doctors everywhere. With
the object of inspiring confidence in the Maoris,
the lady gave out that on a certain date, at mid-
night, she would invoke and conj ure up the shape
of the dread Fluterpush. Fluterpush, though
awesome, is not such a malignant spook as, say,
the terrifying Guyflutus, but he is comparatively
fearsome, and the Maoris assembled accordingly.
At ten minutes to 12 (the tohunga’s watch was
fast) a white object erected itself over the whare
of the witch, and flapping its wings in the gentle
breeze, remarked, “ Behold ! I am the Great Dried
Shark! ” or words to that effect, and the crowd
fell flat and crawled away, scaredand convinced.
The habit of dipping patients in the ice-cold
creek was, strangely, beneficial in many fever
cases, but there was a rapid diminution of those
THE EVOLUTION OF GENTILITY .
MRS. BIBBS: “And did Mrs. Tompkins find that
brooch of 'ers ?”
M ISS BLOBBS : “Ho, no, my dear! And it did
get 'er on the rawr. She wouldn't 'ave lost it
for anythink. Why it was 'er mar's Toother's
brooch."
suffering from pulmonary complaints. The local
policeman, instigated thereto by the local doctor,
was j ust waiting to lay his hands upon an authentic
■case to charge the woman with murder, when she
•disappeared. She had worked out that settle-
ment. Three years back a Maori, who murdered
his wife in Hawkes Bay at the suggestion of a
tohunga, was successfully recommended to mercy
by a sympathetic jury—nothing was done to the
tohunga. The faith-healer and supporter of the
Dowie class, dusky or white, always does seem to
escape somehow.
HOPE ETERNAL.
(Time 11.30 p.m., Bondi Beach.)
STRANGER (to angler): “ Any luck?”
ANGLER : “No, not a bite.”
STRANGER : “ Well, why not chuck it and go home?”
ANGLER: “Not me! A bloke got a whitin' here
to-day."
A Westralian pressman (the wrong name
and address will be furnished to Lands Minister
Hopkins on application) writes :
This is not from “ Hopkins’ reporter ” : Northam is the
relief agricultural town of VVestralia, about 100 miles from
P :rth. ° It is the home of the Throssells, and on the main
Ine of railway to the goldfields. Soil, red loam, with a
thick top-dressing of dttst, empty jam-tins and broken
b ittles. The river Avon is supposed to run through the
t )wn, but, as it is of purely Groper origin and has the
tired feeling most of the year, it prefers gathering in
holes and playing pool to running. The town has nine
hotels, a Japanese laundry and one flour mill, also several
shops for the sale of Victorian butter, Maoriland cheese,
South Australian apples, N.S.W. bacon and Tasmanian
potatoes. Queensland preserved meats form one of the
staple articles of food, but occasionally fowls and ducks
are brought up by rail from Perth, and command high
prices. There are no vegetables grown locally, the tinned
variety is much easier to cultivate, and the cans, when
empty, make nice ornaments for the front yard.
Northam has one street, two miles long, so that residents
can see a creditor or policeman from afar off, and make
arrangements to pursue a different track. There is also
a branch of the State Agricultural Bank, so that any
selector who is being squeezed for payment for his
ploughs or reaping machine can borrow money with
which to satisfy the machinery merchant. Everything in
connection with the Land Bank is satisfactory—especially
to the great Throssell family, which has already furnished
a Westralian Premier. All Ministers of Lands in the
Groper State regard Northam as the Mecca of the West.
Katanning, the home of the great Piesse family, is
another alleged agricultural centre. It mostly consists of
Piesse apple gardens, a Piesse flour mill, and a religious
conventicle. The I’iesses being cold water advocates
there is a scarcity of pubs, in the town, which has not
attained such a high political standing as Northam. There
is a paper in each place, and a few goats. According to
Hopkins there are other important agricultural towns,
but maps are not yet ready.
* * * •
“ Bloated Agriculturist ” writes :
lie that man on the land that a Sydney morning paper
unearthed the other day—l refer to the one who reared a
family of nine or so on half an acre of clay and limestone.
That par was, no doubt, very appealing to the industrious
city laborer. It has induced several of him to come and
settle out our vvay. One of him has rented a farm handy
here; said farm consists of seven acres, so, according to
the indisputable showing of the Sydney paper, he can wade
in and rear a family of 126, if he feels disposed. The land
consists principally of sandstone, but this is immaterial.
It’s land— and what cannot a man do on the land ! AH
you require is energy and perseverance, and you wil
soon gain the experience. The last owner of this pro-
perty came here with some money, much energy and a
lot of superfluous flesh, and had the place under culti-
vation in no time. He was persevering, but the drought
persevered too ; and, as the drought had no family to
support, it outlasted him—so he left. But, to my know-
ledge, he made money off this land—he sold a load of
firewood for three bob ; but the deal unbalanced his sys-
tem so much that he went and boozed the proceeds. The
family were coming along all right, too, when he left.
He hadn’t nine, certainly, but, of course, this takes time.
This man, after selling, had enough to pay all back debts,
so he left with a clear conscience. He left with nothing
else, save experience and the clothes he stood up in.
A REFLECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m feeling far from gay
This swelt’ring Summer’s day,
Too hot for work or play—
Poor wretch condemned to stay
Par, far away in wild Australia ;
Where men are rash enough
Their hapless selves to stuff
With beef and tea and duff—
Dread Saturnalia!
When comes the break of day
The flies commence the fray—
Ruthless successors they
To those mosquitoes grey
Who all night long have wrought confusion.
In vain my curtains spread,
They’re all around my bed,
I feel them—feet and head—
Foes Lilliputian.
Altho’ but early morn—
The day but little worn —
I here am left forlorn,
While from the shanty’s borne
Sounds of promiscuous libation.
I’m left to make my moan
And whip the cat alone ;
To thee my thoughts have flown,
Sad Meditation.
Now when the brush is won
After a stiffish run,
Or deed with rod or gun,
Think of the absent one
Beneath the Queensland sun perspiring.
His hands are hard with toil,
His moleskins like the soil,
His hat—well, scarce the style
You’d be admiring.
W.M.P.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
. address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
W.F.E. : “ The little maid’s answer is supposed
to have been in the affirmative.” Then Tiie Bulletin is
sorry to disagree with the little maid Junction : Put
several tunnels into “ Hooley’s Hill,” and got kindly in-
dications, but had to abandon it at last... .M.P. : Don’t
like people wandering in their dreams through The B.
They might get into the “ Aboriginalities,” and there are
nearly always snakes there W.M. : More dream !
More danger Meerlien : All unsuitable, and writing
awful J.E.S. : When you have your second storm at
sea, please don’t send us any poetry about it....E.G.H. :
Girl’s eyes that only rhyme with paradise have at present
no market. They must be a lot brighter than that now
.... Pat : This much fresh about your sea, anyway—it
“ chants in a whispering uniform,” made apparently
of some green material.. ..R.N.P. : “Dawn” very
nearly G.B. : Kruger subject anticipated H.D. :
Ditto “ In Summertime.” Old Tom : If we publish “To
Her ” she will probably write to say that she is married
now and has five children and a husband and other misfor-
tunes, and hadn’t thought of you for years... .F.L.: “Bed
Gums ” and “ Wine ” both in old ruts... .M.M. : Same to
your “ Song.”... .M.F.H. : Wait another three years and
then tell us about “ Rosalie.” You’ll probably feel better
by that time.... Roma : Glad you don’t worry over things.
Makes it easier to say no to “Ship” and “Philosophy,”
both just under the mark... .Thos. A. McM. : Does a
Spring Morning in Gippsland really bump along like that ?
YoungS. : “ Comedy ” declined after some hesitation.
. ..R.L.P. : “ Partners ” rather an ordinary gang of sinners.
..James: “ Ignorance ” jingles, but only jingles. .C.C.H. :
The weather demands a much more vigorous curse than
that F.H.B. (Sydney): What sort of a lyre have you ?
Well, frankly, we don’t believe it’s a lyre at at all ; we
believe it’s a barrel-organ Idaho : Don’t trouble ; also
don’t sonnet. Quite worth while trying other easier
forms... .G.L. : “ Oh give me the Bush ! ” We can’t. But
we’ve given you a basket, though even this first attempt
balanced on the edge for some time Ishmael: Must
still wander....K.M.: “ Wives ” declined... .Migro : Not
bright enough W.E. : “How shall I tell you of my
love, my own ? ” Well, you can get a post-card for 1d....
M. : Pleasant, but so hackneyed Dunembrown:
Afraid not much hope.. .Fred D. : Whimsical, but crude..
Tim L. : Very lame and tame... .B.C.W. : Good enough
in its way, but it’s not our way Deadeye : “ Bother”
may be slang now, but it’s a good Celtic word for all that,
and is used in the Irish version of the Scriptures in the
sense of “tribulation.” Mamie: No; we don’t think
you’ve improved much Pucha (MaOriland) : Your state-
ment that the majority of publicans in N.S.W. (it was
N. the Watchman spoke of) are Irish Roman Catholic s
is a silly lie. Your statement that The Bulletin knows
the above to be true is a further lie. If you go through
the publican profession in the N.S.W. directory (as we
did before writing the par.) you will find that Irish names
are in only moderate supply. And when the whisky is
mostly made by the Scotch Presbyterian, and the
greater part of the imported beer is made by
the Scotch Covenanter in the Canongate of Edin-
burgh, or the English Protestant at Burton-on-Trent,
it seems they are the beginning of the evil
W.M‘D. : Regret “Australia” hardly up to usual maik
Grampions: “Bella” and “Drover” both very
nearly get there, yet didn’t quite arrive Nogo:
Picked one or two only out of last batch... .G.P. :
“ Tote ” very respectable—but we have a sufficiency cf
tales that are just a shade better D.T. : “ Last Drink ’
only a statement that an old man got drunk and fe 1
into a river E.F.H.G. : No freshness of thought cr
expression about verses R. Brookes: Dirty item....
P.X.Z.: Yours is an old dodge. A man sent us tw o
columns of fearsome doggrel once about Lord Roberts
with the same kind of letter ; said “ though the enclosed
may be contrary to your political views, I am sure you
have too much sense of fairness to refuse to print it.”
Then when his two columns of doggrel wasn’t printed he
wrote indignantly about the narrow-mindedness of a
paper which wouldn’t let the other side of the case be
heard W.B.W. : The correspondent you complain of
was for a long time employed by a very large
firm of butter-swindlers and cheese-frauds, and
knows the business. If one party is a liar,
we incline to think you are the party
O’Fipp : Kingston was not made “ nominal Minister of
Customs in the Watson Ministry ” because to have given
him a portfolio would have been to have signed his death-
warrant. If it had been possible to have made Kingston
nominal Premier, with the assurance that he would
attempt no work, that would have been done. But
Kingston’s sense of public duty is such that he would have
insisted on working, and thus killed all hope of his re-
covery W.B. : Treatment hardly skilful enough
J. Trainer: A feeble touch C.C.8.: You only describe
descriptions Mauser: The St. Petersburg’6B Conven-
tion agreed that no explosive missile should be used under
the weight of 400 grammes (140 z.) T.W.: It gives severe
literary indigestion T.S. : As we read your poem on the
“Death of Little Billy” a salt flood of tears came and
washed it into the W.P.B M.W.: “Shadows” rather
a well-worn theme Old Gallery Hand : Will you swear
to those episodes? Member No. 1 did sing in the House
once but was promptly suppressed. No. 2 certainly did
the “ silent ” dodge you mention, but under very different
circumstances. Do you mean to say that he did it twice ?
J.B.M. : “Old Memories” and “Parting” ordinary
and full of premeditated melancholy... .C.A.F.: Good
material, indifferently handled H.E.D.S. : Sorry to
reject such a carefully composed item, but the necessary
alterations would be too troublesome... .Handy A. : Not
without promise, but too formal and stilted... .Wurlee :
Yes ; there was such a title. The famous Paracelsus was
the Bombast of something i t other... .Lorraine : Defec-
tive English knocks you out... .Scrubber : Written round
a venerable chestnut Titus : Depends upon whether
you use the Spanish pronunciation or the Portuguese.
Former is “ Booaynos Irays ” : later “Bonos Ayrez. ....
D.T. W.: It will be duly returned... .Rob. H. : Hopelessly
bad T. Vigas : Very flat and uninteresting Old
North : Lacks vigor and spirit Bijah : One is bad and
the other not very g00d....E.H.8. : Neither is up to
standard Waxy : Pompously platitudinous
K.N.E. : It has all been said before—and better....
Owl-light: Not a bad notion, but not told with skill
enough O. Harvey: Merely a parody Nym : For
your own sake cut it down. A 10-line par gets in when a
20-liner goes to the W.P.B N.0.5.M.: Fear can*
extend the range of the “ Social ” column to your city
Drifter : Try and get off the girl-subject; there are too
many contributors already wanting to discuss open-work
stockings ; we only take very bright items on hosiery....
Monyah : 17 00 thin... .Alex : Some pars will be pub-
lished in time... .Athor B. : It’s a sweet, tame little
poem, which should go to a Sunday-school paper....
Tantalus: No public interest in story of how you dis-
agreed with your best girl about a church matter
A.M.K.: Verses describing howyou trod on the girl’s corn
in the dance far too long ; such a prolonged wail wouldn’t
be justified if a herd of elephants had trodden on her corn.
Clem : Pretty enough, but the only original thing is
the way you spell radiant with an “ e.”... .Ranji: Don t
know of any sanitoria in northern N.S.W. There is, of
course, a warmer climate at Walgett than at Albury in
winter, but the difference is not very considerable....
R.T. : Should find room in another paper James A.:
You write either very great poetry or balderdash.
Sample herewith, so that readers may judge without
prejudice:—
Beside The Lord Is & awe throne
And Nations lure & destroy,
Will that forth with & Is 1 a lone
Who doth create & non alloy 1
Bandar : Will take what you say to our heart Carl
A. : You start an article on the Jap-Russian war and
wander almost at once on to the Bible, Arbitration,
miracles, God and other subjects without any apparent
connection K.S. : You started out to be friends with
the girl on no-hugging conditions, and the agreement
broke down. We seem to have heard that story before.
....Caber: Equitably yes, but you couldn’t enforce the
claim Anti-Bung: (1) Never suggested that that
officer was “ foul-mouthed ” : his gift of swearing is
treated as a joke ; (2) scientific Protection would tax no
article at the customs which Australia could not reason-
ably produce here. It is the Freetraders who favor
imposts on what can’t be produced locally... .Unsuitable :
N.0.M., Alone, A.R., 8., Andy, W.N.P., Victim, F.A.F.,
W.P., Sibi.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. Mac.: Drawing poor, and joke not wildly hilarious.
Fred. O.: Pictures very amateurish.... Nivel: Picture,
nil; joke a minus quantity H.P.8.: Picture born
dead H. W. Turner: No joke involving the word
“ bally ” will be even considered, let alone published....
H. R. : Jokes wooden and drawing laborious... .R.McI. :
Picture rather indefinite. The gloom at the back might
be the back of a couch or a human arm or a shadow....
Donald : A good deal of humor, but not artistic Fad :
One may do as suggestion.
A FELLOW FEELING.
THE WOMAN: “ Tommy, you’ve got to come
in and ’ave your Saturday afternoon
bath.”
TIRED TIMOTHY ( who distinctly remembers having
had something of the sort once happen to
him): “Poor little wretch !”
“ Goldi ” re curious deaths :
In the early days, just after West Terrace (S. A.) cemetery
was opened, a cheap funeral came down from the Hills.
The coffin was in a cart; the driver sat in front, and
a shambling- and unsatisfactory horse completed the
outfit. Descending a hill the unsatisfactory horse went
down in a heap ; the driver was tipped forward on to the
road ; the coffin slid after him and fell on his neck, and
there was an extra grave wanted that day.
Judging from a report in this months “ Chemist
and Druggist,” the sales of Capilla Hair Tonic still con-
tinue to go ahead. This preparation has met with a
phenomenal sale throughout the Commonwealth, and no
doubt its proprietor feels ver3 r gratified with his endeavor.*
Dr. W. E. Thomas, Modern American Dentist,
57 and 59 Swanston-street, Melbourne, and other leading
centres. We forfeit £lO if there is any pain with our new
method of extractions. As to the quality of our work,
the fact speaks for itself that, although inquiries were
made at the National Bank Australasia, Melbourne, con-
cerning our recent £lOOO guarantee that only the best
teeth obtainable in any market in the world were used in
pur £3 3s. sets, and that our Porcelain Gums Sets with
wafer life spurred Stence Palates were the most natural
looking and best fitting of any made, no effort was made
during the time our offer was kept open to the public tp
controvert our statements.*


'A. . . > , ‘ • . / : ,
y* •. I J&st> 1 S <
i t . & || fffiwM
I ■
-’ -1/ ■ u
!OUTI® tSltef i4l lii{ IS
■ H
it.
L, ir ra r j 1 • ■ -“>
oh Sale <X h<*-
Ip* ~/v, £ s ,
■ kot<r<?lWs.
liifint'h. /Ml lt ||w
/Kyat&ar ]!>fio<\hM.*~
■fla! of" fo £5-.
C'4e • :i^as! "• _ v
iJlyv e Secttarj . '/
fesH 7^/3 /Y*J>
s \![jg-SSi£ fo-|?ce - Jfptet Ifje tLtyee&l Yah. it\& fk#f
fnfthy of ihe (hot*>J "J>arK fforses* Iviir be aVa/10.6ie as
- - - ' _
POLITICS, POLITE LITERATURE AND POVERTY.


iffe My fef U
■HTp Nfoieclecl (lildKerk HoV He r e % '"We*
slne /lfi' .n l/ono U r of
ffoertf."
He (Benf) tyKeJ Hje footle
in Ws SWt to wjc tclj 1
fe ?eM Prlwdr
confer wellVftr %
g> «* r **
M r Hotteri 6 ov. fandidute (W^mnljeib)
■'bjdhr hKetlfe word rule,
■huf would Support (orripdhorj turdlty
% fie lines Wd down bj M' / J3en+ ■"
It muyt belt/is™' l *
Benf J SZCf
Guvnor. - I see A ctaj> pom uj> Ijje
A\ wafjchin'.
Regulations jor'ttje 'foor'ce -
O Afe for electron. *7<Vf
==sw faKe all “V* *l
ro rn*Ke Known
iE> **fa
' henr- Vl| 4 w %5 e N
7/ Candidate z ,*t e ' *AN
JooK l|Ke J
_t*H>ur held in your fandy 4 -
tfjey Are %j^^VioleX;
(ViduJaft '
+o deliohled 3\uJience
«dl T^ m
JC he fo»ld havve Jisr foiYe
Wli Gm _
<S>w
If GtoyocltoTom j: - \ \
D \]till>u M"- > V (
5 were nii/ch mfornnjJ—
&■ tboeTjcr / >n*'* ouli x >
cy o K | d " J
EE^-Ren if:—' Wonder if 4erp enc^ft
on 1«e
•fa.llmtjn it)'"* I ••
yL
/C ' M b l \
\ (JnleiS jfey (Vlztyr, Gfi* )
\ bring op ije till « ,
\ tffr TH« V'lolAfion (
V' C U«y 4*y CAnnor
\ bt S2oA>d J’ronj de»-
fruc-tTon 'ljje
iM >\<ae
—My JhvCd Id do Any/friijO in
Wond for you - Sljort" of pomp Without _
' I ok"' - 1 - yot*
' Well, buri>y- # T/ad A "Try
loT About p«nbr.cKs
hp never found one of flje /(FT j
n \, J \ o r iLxX / Yi/v
'° ,| 5? ■ 5 \ \V^f
op b»j billed P_ p P=^s
ROLL UP-.,.
ROLL UP!.
CHURCH
Hty-T MIDDAY
fRMtRS
FOR THE HMJ£,llk|
OF 6£MT
iZHIWAZ 1
T *'% Urn**"!, L
tfilFj its SnorTcormnQ«j
ffjV> lTM‘Kinnof?“
H3u m never a>Ked
public piAyerj -for Any
-Hjine buTm riewof flje
(ounTtyV Peril WAnk 1 A a> 7.
i,et Abirf -for Uje cljurcljes To
fleaj w 'm deliverAnre from
Benf Pl^> ue
CONCERNING BENT, AND INCIDENTALLY THE COMMONWEALTH.


OUR WEDDING PRESENT DEPARTMENT IS A SPECIAL FEATURE !
Unique Pure Silver-plated INK WELL and STAND,
Beautifully Ornamented and Embossed, 17s 6d.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure SHver-plated TEA INFUSER, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 5s 6d.
B ar ,
its
iiiii
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, Highly Polished English
Oak, Pure Silver-plated Mounts and Shield, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation 6-bottle DINNER CRUET
Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, £6. Without Shield, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nursery Rhyme CHILD’S SPOON, 7s dd.
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d.
Our Illustrated
Catalogue,
is full of illustrations of every kind
of Jewellery, Watches, Clocks, Nic
Nacs, Silver and Electro Plate, in
every kind of variety to suit every
kind of need.
[§§f The Prices, too, are as interest-
ing as the Pictuie3.
Is worth sending for!
Gent.’s Pure Silusr-plated
SHAVING MUG, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s, 17s 6d,
JAM DISH, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Nickel
Silver, 17s 6d.
15s 6d. 20s. 255. 30s.
Pure Silver-plated A Quality CUP and Screw-lock
Top SPIRIT FLASK, in Russian, Morocco, or Lizard.
Oak BISCUIT BARREL,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts
and Shield, 20s. Other
Styles, 22s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS. Pure Silver-mounted CARVING KNIFE FORK and STFFU
They a, O ™de o. thevery bgt Seffldd Siee, feu rW niveM IM iS«d,
In Silk-lined Case, 15s. Double Sets, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Eure Silver-plated, Extra
Strong, Hand Carved, 20s.
Same Design, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s (i'A
Sydney
IllHlUiiiiuinwiwiiiuuimil
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut-glass SALTS and
Solid Silver SPOONS, in Silk-lined Case,
12s 6d. Heart shaped, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER and TOAST COMBINATION, ?ure
Silver-plated, White Crystal Glass Lining
15s 6d.
&UU&- W
mm
Oak BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, Serrated Edges, with China
Lining, 20s. Without Lid, 8s 6d.
Plain, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CHRISTENING CUP,
Beautifully Embossed, 3s.
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER
KNIFE, in Silk-lined Case, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISH and SERVERS,
Beautifully Chased on Hard White Metal.
Prices Ranging from 32s 6d to £2 10s.
m
-O)
«ST>
am
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CAKE SERVERS, Mother of Pearl Handle Beautifully Ornamented, 15s 6d.
Same Length, Light Handle, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Shell-shapsd
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, 12s 6d.
A 1 Quality, large size, 21s.
EGG STAND for Two, Beautifully
and Fluted, Pure Silver-plated o:
White Nickel Silver, 255.
Chased
1 Hard
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Hobnail Cut-glass TRIPLE or
FRUIT DISH, £2 ss, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Sili«a]
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE,
A 1,17 s 6d.
White Glass Lined, 10s 6d.
DINNER BELL, Pure Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, 255.
BREAD BOARD, Beautifully Chased and Embossed in
Floral Design, Pure Silver-plated on Hard White
Nickel Silver, £2. Can be used as Salver.
Knife, 7s 6d, 10s.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255.
Knife, 7s 6d and 10s, extra.
KMJUf
UIIMI
m
mi
mu
3-bottle BREAKFAST
CRUET, Pure Silver-
plated on Nickel
Silver, 17s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted
Hobnail Cut-glass
Cerebos Salt Castor
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
EGG and TOAST BACK COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-plated, 255.
A. SAUNDERS. . „ ,
Pure Silver-plated NUT-CRACKERS and
PICKS in Silk-lined Case.
Ivory Hands, 21s; Pearl, 255.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN,
9
?
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEOKGE-ST.
(OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION
SYDNEY.


Business, Robbery, etc.
“Petramos”: A hotelkeeper, who has owned
a country pub. in S. A. for 20 years, told me that until 12
years ago he received £lO per week for it. Then the
lessee asked for a reduction to £B, which was refused.
The owner lived in it himself and experienced all the
drought season, and four years ago managed to let it at
£4 per week. The new man went bankrupt, and it was
handed on to the brewers on lease at £2los. per week, and
after a while the brewers were glad to accept 30s. from a
tenant. The present occupant has the place for a fairly
long term at 30s.
* * * *
Just possible that in a very brief time the ex-
port of white pine may be forbidden in Maoriland. The
dairy farmer is beginning to wake up and ask where he is
to get the wood for his butter-boxes when the forests are
depleted, as they show signs of being, at the present rate,
in about 10 years’ time.
* * * •
“Deeby ” : If anybody wants a pleasant, lucra-
tive occupation let him arise and take up a camera and go
out as a travelling photographer. I have tried it, and
am now a misanthrope at the early age of 35. My
chief troubles were having photos thrown at me on
account of them not representing the wrinkled, wooden-
faced cockv’s wife as a beautiful, sympathetic damsel in her
teens. But I had other griefs, too —chiefly due to the
fearsome amount of competition. In one town I found
the local undertaker monopolised the business, while in
another the blacksmith did it. Also, one day near Wel-
lington I met an Indian hawker, on whose waggonette
was painted “ Skin Buyer and Photographer.” Finally I
was assured I needn’t go to Nyngan, for there was already
a Chinaman taking photos there. A camera is now for
sale cheap.
* * * *
Our friend, Mr. Bull-Cohen, ought to feel good
after reading some remarks addressed the other day by
N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell to a deputation from the
country, which made the usual request for the loan of
the keys of the safe for a few minutes. The deputation’s
particular trouble was that it hadn’t the money to pay its
waterworks interest bill; and, when the Treasurer asked
why, he was told that it was all because there had been a
wicked waste of money—Bull-Cohen’s money—over the
works. And the Treasurer—the man who is supposed to
have seen that Bull-Cohen’s money went in reproductive
works, as Cohen was told it was going—had to own that
quite truthful deputations could come from all parts of
the country with just the same story. Bull-Cohen is
always told that his money has been put into reproduc-
tive works, and the country towns water supplies were
supposed to be especially wise and solid investments.
Yet there is hardly one which isn’t in arrears, many of
them are hopelessly insolvent, and the Government itself
recognised that fact by introducing a Bill, authorising
the Treasury to write down the capital lost—in other
words, to put an end to the pretence of assuming that
these works can pay interest, and are worth the money
spent on them.
* * * »
Melbourne legal lights are much tickled at the
conveyancing production, which was, the other day,
duly lodged in the office, &c.” by a woman property-
owner, who essayed to be her own lawyer. The schedule
mi n l6 document headed “Encumbrances” was neatly
filled min the fair one’s handwriting-—“ George Thomas,
aged 3 ; Louisa, ag-ed II.” For the sake of the birth-rate,
every person who calls the baby an encumbrance should
get seven days without the option.
MODESTY.
GOOD, KIND GENTLEMAN : “ Then, I dare say,
privation forced you to pick pockets, my poor
fellow, and, as I hare recovered the property,
I'll let you go this time.”
THE PICKPOCKET: “Oh, bless you, bless you,
noble sir! I can scarcely find courage to ask
it, but would you let me keep the watch as a
memento of your splendid kindness of heart?”
* a •• •
Hen't spieler had hard luck the other day.
suffici r f°r wed ' know n jeweller as a country mug of
chain f to kiiy Sixpence worth of brass watch-
mnntwvvl' t 6e S^m^ B - The mistake cost him three
uns liberty.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : Gold diggprs have a nf
graduated scale of terms for the e f , ,
following-nugget niece s,wk P KT "'?u ’ llk £
mustard, and nixVthe latter k c<dor ’ Dost,
nowadays). I asked a fossk-ker „
yielded. “Only a maw-v flo-ifpr
replied, slamming his pan down fn dis-ust Chines^’work
on a different scale Fine o-niH „.;Fl fi, '-'b'nese voik
&;’vi& ) ’ ; the W elellaß”
ihey evidently imagine that gold increases in size with
° ’ • * „
“ Sox ” • Wb f *. *
bounder the b VV ♦lk a man " ea ting, blood-sucking
aDDliert fnenoi , avera §e labor agency is ! Having
I was infnrmen , fra ternity for a billet at 30s. a week,
been seleeteri tei , , cal 'ing three times—that I had
payment of in’s a ft° t.have the job upon immediate
(andmvhnA iuu j ‘ bad regained my normal position
to chare-e me roni t ,1 s aw in his eye that he was going
S ent if I lingered on his premises.
HE HAD 'EM HIMSELF.
BROWN: “ Well, Smith, I’ve been cured of the D.T.’s. I’m all right now.”
S MITH: “ Cured be d—! Why, you have a blue goblin on yer (hie) shoulder at the
presen' moment.”
* * * *
“M.” : An advertising delusion often met with
nowadays is the announcement “Watches Cleaned,
2s. 6d.” Seeing- that it takes a competent tradesman
2i hours at least to examine and clean the average watch
thoroughly, without attending to such details as polishing
Fl vot u’ new . holes - a, ‘ d * he doze, l and °" e min ? r de , tails -
Gie charge is out of all proportion to the contract pro-
fessedly taken in hand. The modus operandi is to find
various faults requiring attention directly the eyeglass is
foerfesed on the innards of the unwary customer’s time-
piece. In eight cases out Of ten the customer tells the
shark to do all that is required—and pays the charge,
generally 12s. 6d., without a word. If the watch-wearer
insists on the job being done for 2s. 6d., as advertised, the
watch is handed over to the henchman, who takes out the
cylinder, if a Swiss, or lifts the plate and removes the
lever if an English-made watch, and lets the watch run
down. Then he winds it up and puts a drop of oil on the
ava ji a |,i e pivots (those under the dial can go thirsty),
This is called “ giving the horse a run and a drink.” Then
the other parts are returned to their places, and provided
nothin B' is broken - the watch will probably go a few days
or weeks. Should it be returned for adjustment a further
charge is made.
*** . *
Although Dowie caused a certain amount of
disturbance during his visit to Adelaide, it is gratifying
to learn that he is being put to some use. He is now
being carried round in effigy as an advertisement for
Blank’s salve, a sandwich man being the means of
locomotion. On the sandwich board is a picture of
Elijah with the words “ The Great Healer,” and under-
neath the board tells how the salve cured ilia’s wooden
leg, and pulled tacks from the floor after they had
resisted the best efforts of the pincers.
There was trouble in the warehouse. Screw-
jopp, the front-office manager, who drew a big wage for
getting employees’ salaries ready, had informed the boss
that £9 had been paid away in overtime in less than a
week. “Let’s see,” said the boss ; “we pay ’em two bob
for the night, don’t we? We must cut it down to a
shilling.” “ Wouldn’t it be better to give them a tea-
ticket?” suggested Screwjopp, and the boss smiled. He
knew Screwjopp’s elder brother was in the eating-house
line, but, on the whole, he considered the idea excellent.
“By making them all—er —go to my—er—brother’s
place,” said Screwjopp, “ we could get shilling tickets for
about ninepence.” So it was settled ; but the boys were
unsettled, and bucked. The hosiery declared it was
infamous, and Herbert Smith called a monster meeting,
and suggested something which was immediately passed.
The tea-tickets were issued the following week, and on
the Monday the overtime men went to Screwjopp’s
brother’s restaurant. Next morning two entry-room
clerks were away ill, and explained next day that they
thought they must have eaten something nefarious. In
the middle of their explanation to the boss the manager
of the stationery department sent down a note saying
that three of his men were away ill, and a moment after
Smith came in and said he had left his younger brother in
dreadful pain at home, he having, apparently, con-
sumed something of a deadly character. Next day
four more were away with the same complaint, and
one even sent in a letter stating that he thought the food
he had had the previous night was dead. “Look here,”
said the angry proprietor to Screwjopp, “ how dead are
the sausages at your brother’s place?” Screwjopp said
sulkily that “ he reckoned they weren’t any deader than
other"people’s sausages.” “Well,” said the boss, “this
arrangement is off, anyhow. Let the men have their
florin for overtime, and go round and throw mullock at
your brother for me.” And so another financial device
fell through.
* * * #
An advertisement for a commercial angel (Perth
West Australian) :
CONFIDENTIAL CLERK (Lady) REQUIRED.—
Wanted, a well-educated, bright, brainy Girl,
fond of work, study, and research, a thinker —net
a mere machine —ambitious, resourceful, cut out
for business, and sharp as a needle. No dullard,
no putty required. Must possess above average
ability, if not talent.
To such person I offer a liberal salary and
assured position. Open till filled.
LOUIS SULLIVAN,
Financier, 501 Hay-street.
Fancy all that genius mouldering- in the office of “ Louis
Sullivan, Financier.” It suggests Michael Angelo helping
in a pawnshop.
* * * *
Melbourne tramways monopoly has struck a new
means of extracting an occasional extra threepenny-bit
from those customers who take a transfer ticket. Formerly
the ticket was available for half-an-hour from the time of
being issued, and could be legally tendered within that
time at any point on the line of transfer. Now it is avail-
able for only 15 minutes, and only at the point of junction
between the two lines. So it easily happens that a
passenger on the St. Kilda beach line gets “potted’’for
an extra threepence. He takes the car from the beach
within a two or three minutes’ journey of the junction,
pays his fare, gets a ticket, and alights at the place where
the other car is supposed to be waiting for him. The
other car not being there, he walks along the route in
preference to cooling his heels at the windy street corner.
When the dilatory car has overtaken him he discovers
that his ticket is worthless, and he must pay his fare a
second time. The tramways monopoly makes quite a
lot of small silver this way. As the end of its lease draws
nigh, it will doubtless introduce some more devices of the
same character.
* * » *
“D. Harum” : Have been selling big family
Bibles lately for the agent of an American firm. There
seems to be money in Bibles. I sell at 255. each (the
retail price of the agent), and get them wholesale at 18s.,
thus making 7s. on each book. The agent for whom 1
canvass gets the goods delivered free for 11s. The original
cost was about 4s. When all the agents and middlemen
have had their bite at the Holy Scripture the aggregate
profit is about 600 per cent.
* * * *
“Eiddal”: He came to-day—the old wine-
maker ! Every March for a dozen years now he has looked in
with his cheery greeting-, red of nose and broad of smile.
He will put in three weeks, or a month at most, down at
the Chows’ vineyard superintending the yearly vintage,
where he is treated well and paid according- to his merits,
with all the four-year-old wine thrown in that he cares to
tackle —after hours. The Chows never work at the grape-
picking or pressing themselves, though there are a dozen of
them "toiling in be gardens. The wine grown is a
splendid variety. The grapes are gathered by girls, well
paid, and the old wine-maker sees to things. Any hand-
two or three Europeans get a job regularly at the press-
ing, &c.—caught drinking new wine loses his chance of a
job there for the future ; but all can have a glass of old
wine after hours, as they require it, without stint.
Periwinkle : One gets a few trade wrinkles
from the Outbaok itinerants when in their cups. Had a
yarn with a travelling clock-tinker to-day. “The game
pays splendidly on the roads,” he said. “ Get a pal who
pens a good fist to write a testimonial to the effect that
you did her imaginary timepiece up after all the shop
artists had failed—and there you are 1 Make 225. 6d. a
day often. Your reference works wonders, as an introduc-
tmn, and talk does the rest.” “Do your jobs really give
satisfaction ? I asked. ‘‘ My troubles ! What sort of work
do you expect when I have to fix up the concerns on the
verandah with the cocky’s kids playing with the wheels,
and the old woman close by with one eye on me to see I
don t steal any of the innards, and the other on the wash-
tub, gabbing all the time ? But it pays. Had an awful
soft snap on up near Barooga, on the border. My pal and
1 were staying a few days at the pub., blueing our month’s
takings. Two travelling tailors were going on, a week
ahead of us, into Victoria. We fixed it up with them to
wreck the clock at every pub. where they stopped. We
did well along that road.”
* * * *
A Sydney suburban arithmetical humorist lately
drove the local post-office officials to the verge of lunacy
by sending his child, aged nine, with a note requesting
the P.M. to hand him four-and-ninepence worth of penny
and twopenny stamps, an equal quantity of each. The
telegraph operator, postal assistant, messenger, and P.M.
made calculations, but the puzzle remained unsolved.
Then the messenger got on the right track by selling a
stamp of each denomination to an imaginary buyer while
the P.M. kept a tally. The simple idea of dividing 57
! H 'nee by three never occurred to anybody concerned.
Now the boss lives in fear and trembling lest the
humorist should send for eleven and elevenpence worth of
“ fivepennies,” “ fourpennies,” “ twopeuce-halfpennies,”
“ pennies,” and “ half-pennies”—an equal number of each
—while half the staff are at lunch, and there will be no
one there to calculate that eleven stamps, of each deno-
mination will fill the bill.
* * * *
One pest that infests the mining industry is the
confidence man, who sticks out a shingle with a legend :
“Mining and Financial Agent. Assays made, Proposi-
tions Financed, and Companies Floated.” The guileless
prospector, with his bag of specimens and a few pounds,
is his mark. Inquiry and assay fees, expenses for postage
and for telegrams to Rothschild and other millionaires,
are piled up on the victim, who generally escapes alive,
but that is about all. His claim is never floated. The
answers of Rothschild, Rockefeller, Wernher, Beit, and Co.,
Kaiser Bill, Gabriel, and other personages supposed to
have been cabled to about his little hole or tunnel are
never satisfactory. In the end he departs minus his few
pounds and his bag of specimens, which Pierpont Morgan
unhappily forgot to return when he decided not to tackle
the show, but with a vague comforting idea that he has
been in communication with kings of finance, and has
breathed the air of Wall-street.
* * * »
A man of hard common sense advertised recently
in a Sydney daily :
A DVERTISER wishes to purchase any business on
verge of bankruptcy ; no assured fortunes
wanted ; no agents. Full particulars, Spot Cash,
Daily Telegraph.
Two empty niches outside a small Sydney
church are reserved for stone saints when the
faithful can collect the purchase-money. Mean-
while they are often occupied on wet nights by
two odoriferous billy-goats, which seem to have no
regular homes.
“ Burglar Bill ” : Attorney-General Wise,
speaking at Goulburn in connection with the work
of the Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society, got out-
side the area of small-beer charity, and spoke with
good intent when he remarked “ it was the inten-
tion of the society to employ officers who would
go round amongst prisoners awaiting trial and
obtain the names of friends who would be likely
to find bail or pay the fines, to save the prisoner
from the degradation of gaol.” The hunting up
of prisoners’ friends and witnesses before trial, by
a person who is not a policeman or a detective,
is worth more to the prisoner than any
amount of weak charity at the expiration of
his sentence. The defence of the friendless
undefended prisoner is generally a weak, ill-con-
structed arrangement owing to his commands con-
cerning the marshalling of witnesses for the
defence being executed by a tired detective, who
has exhausted his spare energy in hustling round
looking for evidence to convict. The prisoner, in
many cases feeling forsaken, and not thinking
much of the ’tec as a champion, refuses to sub-
poena anybody, and the tired ’tec does no vigorous
urging. The society, in short, would do more
good by helping the unconvicted, friendless
prisoner to get a fair trial than by giving him
charity after his release.
THE RIGHT SPOT.
General Booth, of the Salvation Army, is organising an
Imperial Labor Bureau for the purpose of sending “sub-
merged” emigrants where they are most needed. General
Booth intends to visit Australia in furtherance of his
scheme.
Messrs. Coffill and Co., the well-known undertakers,
have issued an excellent map of Australia, mounted on
cardboard. It is well printed, contains unusual detail for
a production of its size, and should prove very useful.—
Sydney D. T.
G.B.: “ The very place! Couldn’t he better! ”
Creeve Roe writes :
A correspondent, writing to the Herald, suggests that
a Shaltspeare Day should be arranged for the use of
schools, so to speak. He also thinks that adults every-
where should celebrate the occasion, and hints that an
annual oration would give great satisfaction to a number
of earnest persons who read the works of the bard in
question. I think the idea is excellent, but I would like
the oration to be delivered by Dan O’Connor. I
would give something to hear Dan recite Antony’s
speech over the body of Julius Cesar. 'When I
lived in Melbourne I was a member of a Shakspeare
Society—not the S.S. of which the late Dr. Neild was a
leading light, but another. Dr. Neild’s society was too
high-toned, and gilt-edged, and bank manager-ridden for
the like of us. We met in the back parlor of a little hotel
in Richmond, and read papers dealing with such questions
as, for instance, “ Was Shakspeare a Freetrader” ; “Had
Shakspeare a score at the Mermaid Tavern?” “What was
the private opinion of Anne Hathaway concerning her
husband’s poetry?” Before we started we had beers all
round. Beers during the reading of each paper. Beers and
general discussion afterwards. Ever since I have felt
inclined to spell the Bard’s name Shakesbeer. But it was
a good little society for all that, and many brighter and
better things were said at its meetings than were ever
uttered at the meetings of the silver-tailed Melbourne S.S.
OUR MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas a mine that you might read of any day,
“ Quite sensational,” we found the papers say ;
“ Three feet wide the reef on top,”
Looked “ just like a jewel shop,”
And they figured out a fortune straight away.
They had traced the line of reef for seven mile ;
They were certain many men would make a pile,
And the stream of men was steady—
Quite a thousand there already ;
The richest lease was held by Moses Guile.
There’s a mine we never read of in the press ;
It’s a mine we bought from Moses Guile, no less !
And that reef on top so wide !
And its jewel shop inside !
0 ! if Moses had but left us his address !!!
N.S.W.
WILL CARTER.
’MALGAMATIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Malgamatin’ on the pans
Down the Golden Mile,
Mixers belchin’ boilin’ sands
Swellin’ someone’s pile.
Heat and dust and KCY,
Hot mud splashin’ in your eye,
Twenty pans rotatin’;
Spin, you whirlin’ devils, spin !
Can’t hear nothin’ for the din,
’Malgamatin’!
Now the elevator’s stuck,
Twisted buckets jammed ;
Never saw such purple luck,
May the job be d—d !
For this flamin’ dust is chokin’,
Might as well in hell be stokin’,
“ Bash those edges straight in ! ”
“ Pass, oh pass the hammer here ! ”
’Taint all counter lunch and beer
’Malgamatin’!
Chippin’ mudflake off the edge,
Hammer-head went plump !
Close up three pound weight of sledge,
Hear the muller bump !
Snatch the clutches out of gear !
Blazes ! won’t the foreman rear !
Here’s a lovely ratin’!
(Can’t he give it to a bloke !)
Bet a quid there’s somethin’ broke,
’Malgamatin’!
Boss says, “ Clean up, Number Four !
Get the tackle to her ;
Lift the muller from the floor,
Guess we’ll have to shoe her !
Jam the bars beneath the dies,
Put some weight on, up they rise,
Set those cogs gyratin’.”
Pans on either side a-steamin’ !
Lord ! it ain’t no place for dreamin’,
’Malgamatin’ !
Lyin’ thick between the dies,
Cloggin’ up the pan,
Don’t it tempt a fellow’s eyes,
Man is only—man !
Half a hundredweight in this,
Ounce or two they’d never miss—
Go to blazes, Satan !
While my girl’s in me believin’,
Haven’t got no time for thievin’,
’Malgamatin’!
THE PRODIGAL.


fdh
GO TO T-i FiT.T
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
rheumatlcuro
never fails to cure
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
and Neuralgia, ot a ii chemists, 2/9
AGENTS-^ FELTON, GRIMWADE Sc 00., MELBOURNE
SPECTACLES
fd
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
... , _ . . dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously -accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
01 th » •>—»»»
A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 ueorgc-at,, Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Why Bile Beans Cures
Are Permanent Cures.
Bile Beans for biliousness are the product of
modern scientific research, and therefore thor-
oughly up-to-date. They do not merely purge,
giving temporary relief only, and leaving the
patient weakened like the out-of-date so-called
remedies of forty or fifty years ago, which contain
probably aloes, mercury and other harmful drugs.
Bile Beans, without the slightest discomfort,
prompt the liver and digestive organs to act in
Nature’s normal way, leaving those organs'
strengthened and stimulated to continue the per-
formance of their duties without further assistance.
They produce a gentle action on the bowels, curing
or preventing constipation, cleansing the stomach,
and ridding the system of all impurities. Do not
be mislead by claims of half-a-hundred pills in a
box, where probably four to six constitute a
dose, and the doses cannot be discontinued. ONE
BILE BEAN IS ONE DOSE. They can be dis-.
continued after the cure is effected ; they are-
purely vegetable; they do not contain any harm-
ful drugs, and they are the safest family medicine.
Bile Beans are a safe and speedy cure for bilious-,
ness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles,v
BEANS
BIUOl'SHESS
debility, female weaknesses,
nervousnes, bad blood,
bad breath, anaemia, dis-
turbed sleep, loss of appe-
tite, rheumatism, and in.
fact, all ailments that owe
their origin to defective
bile flow, assimilation and
digestion. At this trying
season no home should
be without a box. Bile
Beans are obtainable
generally at Is. l£d. or 2a.
9d. family size, containing-
three times the quantity.* *
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last Commonwealth Hansard came out
in a rose-pink cover. This symbolises the dawn
of hope with the advent of the Democratic party
to power.
Victorian Premier Bent, the man who was
“going to be down on this ’ere socialism as hard
as he possible could,” has announced his deter-
mination to put a stop to the adulteration of foods,
drinks, fabrics, and gold jewellery. Can’t Bent
leave private enterprise alone ?
The need for a comprehensive Australian
Navigation Act was shown the other day when
the crew of the Norwegian ship, Inger—chartered
to trade between Australian ports and the Islands
with phosphates—struck work for the Australian
wage-rate (£6 10s. per month). Some of the men
were getting as low a rate as 245. per month.
“ War E.” : How a great upheaval strikes
the aldermanic mind: Temora (N.S.W.) has
always given Prime Minister Watson loyal sup-
port. (Incidentally Temora wants a town clock.)
Met an alderman and congratulated him on the
honor of having the first citizen of the Common-
wealth as the representative of his town. “It
ain’t bad,” he replied; “we oughter get our
bloomin’ clock now ! ”
From a letter signed “ One Who Knows ”
in Sydney Telegraph :
Mr. Watson, if he persists in including' the civil servants
5n the measure which he proposes to submit to Parlia-
ment, in the belief that he will get a good proportion of
the Opposition to vote as they did before, will find himself
reckoning without his host.
At that rate what liars “a good proportion of the
Opposition ” must be !
Sydney D.T., lying in its ungainly fashion:—
The Victorian Protectionists, who banded together to
prevent a coalition with Mr. Reid on the ground that the
Premiership would go to New South Wales—
And the Premiership (and also the second
place in the Cabinet) went to N.S.W. with the
Watson Ministry, largely through the votes of
Victorian members who helped to turn out their
own statesman, Deakin, to make room for a
Cornstalk.
Supposing George Reid tries to annex the
position of leader of the Opposition with the
reversion of the Premiership by moving a vote of
want of confidence in the Watson Ministry, there
would be a magnificent chance for Deakin to
assert himself. If he moved an amendment to the
effect that “this House, while not definitely
expressing absolute confidence in the present
Government, seeing that it is as yet practically
untried, feels that it is much more satisfactory
than any Administration that could be formed by
the hon. member foi East Sydney,” it would be
about the most interesting situation in Australian
political history.
THE BITTER CRY OF OUTRAGED “ LIBERALISM .”
“ Watson! Watson!! Dae ye no ken, Watson , I'm gettin' old
and canna keep up wi ’ ye?”
Sydney Daily Telegraph now advocates
grants of land to persons who cultivate it :
That, at any rate, would offer a substantial bonus to
the cultivator, and the bargain would be a good one for
the State, as the carriage of his crops to market would
yield more revenue than his instalments would do.
It is only the .bonus to the manufacturer that is
™ral ? the bonus to the agriculturist (and to
the Freetrade newspaper) is quite proper—m fact,
it would pay the State to give it ! And yet it is
drought-proof and tick-and-rabbit-proof industries
that this country most requires.
The Socialism of the Bent Government is
■becoming rampant. Latest is a proposal to send
an expert to Britain to buy dairy stock for the
Government farms, “ and several gentlemen have
intimated their desire to take advantage of the
officer’s service (at the taxpayer’s expense) to pur-
chase and import stock for their own herds.” This
amounts to spending public money to save the
rich Vic. landlords the expense of sending buyers
themselves. Imagine the shriek of horror from
the “ backbone ” if an expert was sent to England
at State expense to buy machinery to begin a new
Australian industry !
A Raratouga resident,
in a letter to Otago Daily
Times (M.L.), tells of a re-
cent conference of natives
and missionaries at Ava-
rua, where church matters
were discusse d. The
church wanted roofing, or
something, and the church-
men fixed the amount of
the collection at £l2O.
This sum was divided up
among the different divi-
sions, or “ taperers ”—six
in all. The head man
calculates the amount re-
quired from each person
to make up the sum, and
they have to produce it
somehow. As there is
considerable difference in
the number of residents
m these “taperers,” the
amount per head isn’t uni-
form. In this case the
sum per head, man, woman
and child (except those
under 12 _ years), varied
from 4s. in the biggest
“ taperers ” to as much as
10s. in the smallest. These
collections for special pur-
poses are quite separate
from the yearly subscrip-
tion of £3 per head, which
the church people send to
England presumably to
pay the exes, of the philan-
thropic individuals there
who spend so much energy
m raising money “to pro-
vide the pore heathen
with Bibles.” The pore
heathen has to pay ss. a
piece for those Bibles when
they get to Raratonga.
In the matter of aid-
ing the land-grabber, Joey
Carruthers, of N.S.W.,
owns that even George
Reid is more decent than
he is himself. Carruthers
says that in his last Land
Bill he wanted to provide
for the city or foreign grabber getting selec-
tions without the beastly bore of residence,
but Reid wouldn’t stand it. Now, however, with
Reid out of the way, Carruthers says if he gets the
chance he will see the awful proposal through.
Which is sufficient reason for every father in the
country, with children who will presently want
selections, to see that Joey doesn’t get the chance
to job the eyes of the country away to absentee
grabbers.
Tasmania’s abject Propsting has thrown
over his Self-Assessment Bill. He has agreed to
drop all the clauses which had any chance to make
the Bill valuable. Assessment is now to be a sort
°f juggle; the local assessors’ values will be mauled
about by the local J.P. and other interested
property owners, with right of review by the chief
State Assessor and possible appeal to the Supreme
Court. Admitted in debate on the measure that
since local boards have had a hand, assessments
have fallen 15 per cent, and many estates are now
assessed at a fifth of their real value. The measure,
so weakly surrendered by the Propsting Ministry
was the most needed reform in Tasmania, but
Propsting is an abjectly weak prop.
“ Australis ” : Education
tests, admirable in theory to bar
the entrance of undesirables, do
not always work out well in prac-
tice. Maoriland is a good illustra-
tion. The gum-fields are already
overrun with Austrians, and local
diggers are complaining loudly.
Recently saw the education test (?)
applied to 30 odd of these un-
desirables. Would-be immigrant
was provided with paper, pen
and ink, and a passage of 30
words in his own language, al-
ready written out. This he had
to copy. Education test ? Why,
I only know English and
“ blanky,” yet I’d guarantee to
pass that test in Chaldee. What
Maoriland wants is not new legis-
lation, but administration of the
E resent law as it was intended to
e administered.
Bishop Clarke, of Mel-
bourne, has been an almost daily
visitor to Thomas Bent since that
worthy promised the Scripture
referendum, and the Cabbage
Gardener must have had a hard job sometimes
to repress the unruly word. Thomas was never so
closely in touch with the Church in his life before.
The Owe’Sullivan seems to have mulled
his chances badly for the coming State elections.
He would have surely won the reconstructed
Queanbeyan seat, but was badly advised to an-
nounce himself for Darlington, to which Labor
member Sullivan had a better claim. Now he has
abandoned Darlington, and talks of Belmore,
where he runs up against a Government supporter,
J. D. Fitzgerald. Belmore certainly offers more
hope than Darlington, but Queanbeyan would
have been better than either.
One lesson of the battle of the Yalu seems
to be that, other things being about equal, the
battle goes to the fellow whose big gun carries
501) yards further than the other fellow’s and whose
orwLu as 100 • T ards ’ longer range. Also, that
26,000 men with the best gun may be worth more
than 100,000 with the second or third best This
is a cheering prospect for Australia, which never
attempts to have anything dimly resembling the
best gun, but buys up the British army’s left-off
rifles and other lost ironmongery. Apparently
our defence forces aren’t simply a joke by accident
but are a premeditated shriek of mirth. *
THE MORNING AFTER.
RESPECTABLE CONSERVATINVE PERSON (capitalist with a stake in the
country who disappeared the moment he heard Mr. Watson
had been sent for): “ Really , things look about as peaceful as
usual. The great national disaster must hare been postponed.”
Vic. Tommy Bent is rapidly qualifying for
the nickname “ Tommy Rot.” At Charlton he
again got off this faded, stupid, old gag, which
was never aught but a brassy lie even when it was
new : —“The policy of Socialism was to wrench
from the real owners what they earned, and divide
it every Saturday night amongst those who would
come for it.”
There was formerly a fully-equipped, well-
populated gaol at Ararat (Vic.). The building
remains, but its former inhabitants
have gone. The prison gangs
made most of the roads and
streets in the borough. Also,
the public gardens were
laid out and kept in some
degree of order by prison
labor. With the removal
of the cheap labor, the
inhabitants, too mean
to pay for the work
hitherto done by
“ Government
men,” let things
mostly slide. But
the borough coun-
cillors, cordial sup-
porters of Bent, have
at last overcome the
difficulty. They have
organised “ working bees ”
to put the neglected
gardens in order. Included
in the ‘ ‘ bee ” are most of
the harmless patients from the
local Asylum for Insane. It is a
beautiful sight to behold the Reform
Mayor and councillors cheering on the
lunatics (who are supposed to be volun-
teers) to do all the hard work in order to
save levying rates on the local property-owner.
Queensland ex-Premier Philp holding forth
at Townsville (daily paper report):—
Mr. Philp spoke severely about the decision of the
Morgan Government to only build railways out of revenue
and said it meant that none would be built.
This country is full of flabby incapable elderly
gentlemen with the same sort of message to deliver
—that we are a miserable, hopeless, bankrupt,
cowardly race who can’t do anything unless some-
body in London lends us the money.
Kirton, the selected candidate of the Bent
fraternity for Ballarat West (Vic.), anathematises
the Labor party as founded upon The Bulletin.
This paper, after noting the good qualities of
many of the Victorian Labor men, entertained
the same idea, but didn’t like to mention it. Now
that the matter has been mentioned it feels it
owes Joe two drinks—one in gratitude for the
compliment, the other in sympathy, because Jo#
himself isn’t founded on anything in particular.
Every day now the N.S. VV. papers publish
a country wire something like this :
There is a considerable local feeling against the Labor
party, especially among selectors, as regards their land
policy and land taxation proposals.
Either the country correspondent is lying hard in
order to earn 4d., or the selector doesn’t know
enough to come in out of the drought. At present
the selector whose patch is worth £5OO has to pay
land tax on the same scale as the early grabber
whose estate is worth £50,000 or £500,000 (that
was the J. H. Carruthers party’s idea of a land
tax). The Democratic party proposes that the
selector shall not pay one cent more, but that, in
order to ease his burdens, the £50,000 grabber
shall pay an extra £420. As the selector isn’t
likely to be such a fool as to object to that policy,
the remark that he is showing “ considerable
feeling” is most probably the usual clumsy he.
Tim action of the Eederal Government
employees in Queensland in refusing to pay the
State income-tax follows on a similar attempt by
Eederal officials in Victoria. Whether the letter
of the law is with the Eederal officials or not, the
proceeding is a mean and disgraceful one. There
is no Federal income-tax, and if Federal officials
become successful tax-dodgers as regards the State
impost, then they set themselves up as a privileged
caste, and Australia has no use for privileged
castes.
Melbourne Argus reckons that a Deakin-
Reid coalition would “soothe the jealousies and
soften, if not dissipate, the rivalries between the
two great States of N.S.W. and Victoria.” Pos-
sibly it might. But at present we have a coalition
between Watson, of N.S.W., and Higgins, of
Victoria, and the touching spectacle of a large
body of Victorian members cordially supporting a
N.S.W. Premier and a largely N.S.W. Ministry.
Why not let that soothing influence have time to
soak in ?
Sydney Telegraph has got the borrowing
disease in an incurable form. Its Maoriland cor-
respondent recently commented on Seddon’s sur-
plus of £650,000, and this is among the things he
wrote: “Naturally, the first things which occur
to the mind are questions about the reduction of
the taxation and the chances of another loan.” In
the Telegraph’s financial system the possession
of more money than is required to pay mere salaries
and interest is justification for getting into debt,
and the chief use of a surplus is to “ restore con-
fidence ” on the London market.
The S.M. Herald, after protesting that
Watson hasn’t had the proper training for the
Treasury, says that the ideal Ministry would
include George Turner or Holder—as Treasurer
presumably. But when they became Treasurers,
neither Turner nor Holder had any more special
training than Watson has had: Turner went
straight, from his plain attorney’s office, and
Holder had been running a little country weekly
paper. Also Kidston, who is making a better
show in the Queensland Treasury than anybody
else, has made for years, got his special training in
a country store; and Butler, of 8. Australia,
Holder’s successor, is a young farmer. Bent, in
face, is the only Australian Treasurer, with,
“special training.” And Bent !
Victoria will, for the first time in many
years, have a chance, on Ist J une, to elect a whole
new tipper House, with a widened franchise and
a reduced property-qualification for members. So
far, it doesn’t seem to be making much use of its
opportunity. There are 14 electorates, each
returning two members, and, so far as yet
announced, there seems likely to be no contest at
all in four or five districts, while in several others
three men will fight for two seats, and sometime#
the third man —like the first and second —is only
one of the ancient gang of Rich Landlords whose
own old constituency has been abolished.
COULDNT SAY FAIRER.
“Mr. Reid hopes to save himself by a friendly alliance
with Mr. Deakin on the basis of moderation, mutual con-
cession, mutual good feeling, and mutual confidence.”
REID: “ Dooce take it, Alf, don’t cruel the garnet
Give us a hand to stiffen ’im an’ I'll go yer
whacks .”
Miners living in tents at Mount William
(Vic.) have been summoned by the Ararat Shire
Council and ordered to pay 3s. rates and 10s.
costs. The average Victorian shire is a shameless
dodger of its duty in taxing and rating rich pro-
perty-owners, which makes this attempt to tax a
tent as a building look particularly mean.
(Continued on page 53.)


CALLAGHAN SHOES
THE BEST
VALUE!
TRY
THIS
COLLARETTE
SHOE.
I
A Well-Fitted Foot
is evidence of refinement and good taste in
dress. Callaghan Shoes for Ladies all give
real satisfaction to the wearers.
Ladies’«Fine American Glace Kid Lace
or Button Shoe, with up-to-date, stylish
toe-cap of patent leather, and having
the new-fashioned collarette, as shown
in engraving.
12/11;
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
13/6
Anywhere except W.A.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANQED if not correct,
as we wish DISTANT Customers to be as pleased as those in town.
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied with the Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„ Sydney.
ARE YOU ILL?
II so . . . VITADATIO
WILL CURE YOU.
Eminent Doctors in England (al-
though unable to prescribe
VITADATIO through not knowing
its constituents) have advised
Mr. S. A. Palmer to proclaim its
virtues from the housetops.
CATARRH OF THE STOHACH
Cured by
VITADATIO
Ten Years’ Intense Suffering.
Call and See i*lrs. Cummins.
16 Vine-street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —For ten (10) years I have suffered from
Catarrh of the Stomach, suffering' intense pain during the
whole time. Several times my life was despaired of, and
at last the doctor said he could do no more for me. At
this time I read your advertisement, and determined to
give VITADATIO a trial. The result has exceeded my
greatest anticipations. I am now fully recovered, and
am in better health than I have been for the past twelve
years. I earnestly recommend the medicine to similar
sufferers. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, and I shall feel a pleasure in answering any questions
re my complaint.
Yours truly,
(Signed) ISABELLA CUMMINS.
For further 'particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N,,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
I VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
fit
'Wi
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bail Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Amusements.
FITZ-GERALD BROTHERS’ CIRCUS AND
MENAGERIE,
BELMORE PARK.
STILL ANOTHER CHANGE OF PROGRAMME AND
CONTINUED SUCCESS.
DR. CORDON, THE STRONGEST OF STRONG MEN.
THE JAPANESE WRESTLERS IN NEW ACTS.
S3T Watch for Further Startling Novelties Shot tly.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
CHILDREN SIXPENCE to Day Shows.
PRICES—4s, 35., 2s. and Is.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 14,
FIRST APPEARANCE IN AUSTRALIA OF MR.
TOM NAWN’S
POLITE VAUDEVILLE and COMEDY COMPANY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at the White Rose
Confectionery. PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Family Circle, Is.
A. CLARK, Business Manager.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING, TO-NIGHT,
BLAND HOLT
and his
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATION OF DRAMATIC
FAVORITES,
in the Mastodan Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS of
HAWTREY’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Mrs. Hodgson Burnett’s Famous Play,
Little Lord Fauntleroy
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. ~m, (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8, Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
THURSDAY, MAY 12, and FRIDAY, MAY 13,
will be Staged for these TWO NIGHTS ONLY, Wilson
Barrett and Bernard Espinasse’s adaptation of Hall
Caine’s Famous Novel, THE CHRIST I A H .
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 14, Special Revival for a
Limited Number of Nights of
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Q UEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .-. Mr. Herbert Flemming.
THE PIERROTS
Continue their Popular Career EVERY NIGHT.
MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Plan at Paling’s. Manager.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels.
Admission FREE.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Brilliant Reception Accorded NAT CLIFFORD.
LAST NIGHTS of Mr. FRED. RUSSELL & COSTER JOE.
MISS MAY MAUDE DUPREZ.
A Success of Enthusiasm, THE TWO BELLS.
Also, THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS.
SILLY BILLY ELLIOTT, the Yorkshire Comedian.
Mr HARRY LEGETT, Miss CECILE STEPHANO,
Miss DAISY SYLVESTER, Mr. JAMES OPIE, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Mr. SAM WILSON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE MARVELLOUS UESSEMS.
First Appearance BURKE, MOLLER & TELLER, American
Comedy Trio. FRANK HARWOOD, Actor Vocalist
ANGELOS, Comedy Sketch Artists. NELLIE KILBURN,
Serio-Comic.
ERNEST SULLIVAN, MAGGIE FRASER, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Miss MAUD BEATTIE and ERNEST FITTS.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD FANING.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne of
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY,
including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT in
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
For a Limited Number of Nights.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sub-Lessee William Anderson.
Business Manager .. Julius Grant.
THIRD WEEK.
MR. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO., in the
Great Melodramatic Success,
Her Second Time on Earth.
Miss EUGENIE DUCCAN as DORA CRAY.
Prices—-3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee •• •• Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE MARRIACE OF KITTY.
SATURDAY NEXT. MAY 14, First Appearance of
MR. GEO. EDWARD’S LONDON COMEDY CO. in
THE THREE LITTLE MAIDS*
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s ; Stalls, 4s ; Amphi-
theatre, 2s. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PETTY'S HOTEL
Church Hill,
S/DNEY.
(Late Mrs. William Gannon,)
This old-established Family Hotel is now under-
going extensive alterations, and, when completed,
will be perfect in every detail for the comfort of
visitors.
C. W. CUPIT, late Oriental Hotel, Melbourne.
I
WHY SUFFER
the ILLS and WOES of the flesh, when you
will be MADE STRONG, HEALTHY, and
VIGOROUS by SIMPLY WEARING one
of OUR IMPROVED and PATENTED
“ GLADIATOR ” ELECTRIC BELTS ?
Call or send for price list and GENUINE
TESTIMONIALS, post free. Address—
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO..
63H ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
UMB
PERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
you to cure Diseases, Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN-
NESS, Etc., win Reluctant Affection, create amusement,
make friends and money, and gratify your highest ambi-
tions. We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on
Hypnotism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated,
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised,
is the finest work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
teresting, and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send three stamps for Book, post
free, and test for yourself this remarkable power. Tim
American Institute of Science, Victoria Buildings, Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
hfd
3 of the World’s Best
£l
W
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts.
External and Home Affairs.
of
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— Hedley Button
P & B
fflalthoid Qampcourse
It is just the very thing you want to make your house
comfortable and safe. Every house must have a dampcourse,
and there are many kinds of material sold as dampcourses.
When we ask you to specify in your building contract for
P & B “Malthoid” Dampcourse
we are prepared to “go bail ” for its complete ability to rigidly
exclude, for all time,
MOISTURE,
that’s all—it’s all you want, and it’s all we claim.
Don’t be mis-led—don’t take silly imitations; we cannot
help you unless you specify—
“P & B MALTHOID,”
then we guarantee you “free from moisture.”
The Agents of the Paraffine Paint Co* are
W. S. FRIEND & CO Sydney .. .. N.S.W.
JAMES W. JACK Wellington .. N.Z.
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD Auckland . .. N.Z.
EDWARD REECE & SONS Christchurch .. N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON Dunedin ..N.Z.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD. .. Invercargill .. N.Z.
E. T. HARRIS Townsville .. N. Queensland.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
FOB SALE by ironmongers, EVERYWHERE I
AIso—PAPER, PAINT, ROOFING.
The Paraffine Paint Com pany.
Willi am. Baldwin
Australasian Represen
117 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.


A Melbourne suburban State school had
an experience not long since, when a fifth-class boy
arrived in an intoxicated condition, and fought
three rounds with the blackboard before a male
teacher gob on the scene to throw him from the
door. His father had given him some money for
books, and he had spent it hilariously in a wine
store.
In the Weekly Observer, a London jour-
nal published in 1791, there appeared a paragraph
on Botany Bay (Sydney and Port Jackson being
then unknown to the British public), which stated
that one of Lord Sydney’s notable acts was in
founding Botany Bay to provide a billet for
“Cousin Phillip.” The article states that, in
view of the money spent, it ought to be called
Bottomless Bay. It also alleges that Captain
Phillip tried to exchange positions with the
governor of Tothill Fields prison, but that the
latter gentleman preferred home comforts to the
chance of being eaten by Bottomless Bay cannibals.
“ J.F.D.” : Saw two youngsters playing
God and the Devil yesterday. The boy, who
acted the Devil part, caught a dozen frogs, while
the girl, who represented the Deity, judged them.
It was supposed to be the Last Day. She con-
demned 10, keeping two bloated green frogs who
were passed into Heaven (an empty jam tin).
“ The Devil” cast the 10 sinners into a fire they
had kindled, which fire was assumed to be Sheol.
When the boy wouldn’t hunt up any more frogs,
she gave up the two “saints” to keep things
going, and they were also cast into Sheol. I think
the Devil is a female.
There have been large masses of public
opinion floating in Maoriland’s soup for some time
past to the effect that that State is “not suffi-
ciently advertised,” just as if it were a new soap or
patent fly-exterminator. Struck with the enor-
mity of this shortcoming, the Government
arranged a hasty exhibit of kauri-gum and photo-
graphs of geysers and partially-naked brown girls
and rushed it off to St. Louis by the last ’Frisco
packet. A representation of such world’s records
as Waimangu, the black-water geyser, which
spurts up to a height of 1500 ft. on unexpected occa-
sions, drawing in guides, &c., in its flow-back,
should be the very thing for the sated American,
tired of a tabloid existence. As for the partially-
nude brown girl she is a good advertisement at all
times and all places. There was considerable
hesitation up till the last as to who would repre-
sent the State at Jonathan’s show. Minister Joe
Ward was surreptitiously packing his trunk for
the job, when Seddon broke down badly, and
Donne, of the Tourist Department, was summoned
hastily to fill the gap. It is notable that Maori-
land will be the only State in Australasia to have
its little tray of gum and photographs at the
show.
In naming its streets, Melbourne has
exhibited a lack of originality quite unsurpassable.
When it had pretty well used up the names of
kings and queens, it tackled governors, public men,
and two or three inanimate objects. It boasts (in-
cluding roads, lanes, etc.) 53 Victoria streets, but
only 9 Edward ; 50 Railway streets, 44 Park, 25
George, 20 Elizabeth, 25 William, 35 Station, 17
Gladstone, 10 Salisbury, 20 Church, 14 King, and
24 Queen. Wellington named 17 thoroughfares as
against Nelson’s 15. As to Governors, Hotham
leads with 14, Normanby tallies 13, Bowen and
Hopetoun 10 each, Loch 9—while poor old Brassey
hasn’t reached the dignity of even a solitary back
lane named after him. John, May, and Rose
streets each number 15, while even Coll ins-street
is duplicated 9 times. Brighton possesses a Male-
street, though Bent’s township hasn’t matched it
with Female-road ; and Richmond owns a Bother-
ambo-street. In spite of his many High streets,
King’s roads, and so on, John Bull is vastly more
original than this. Witness the Original Logger-
heads-lane (alongside the similarly named pot-
house) in Liverpool; Land of Green Ginger-street
in Hull; Holy Bones-street in Leicester, and
many other quaint “monnikers.”
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Meibom ne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
LSJ3
Melbourne
Branch—
\V. WOOLLEY
and SON,
Equitable
Building.
Queensland
Branch—
H. J. DIDDAMS
AND CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do you believe in NEW IDEAS
and NEW METHODS? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEM 3.
They Cut down TIME and LABOR—does that
mean money to you ?
The PRINCIPAL has “grip” and control of
affairs hitherto unknown.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent.
Shipping.
3NT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCIiER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOiCED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To EUROPE via SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. IRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tens, 6th JULY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
FARES TO LONDON .. Ist. £77; 2nd. £5O.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
1
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUE VIC, to Sail on or about
13th MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
AFRIC to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l7 17 0 to £25 4 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beioon 3fiel:l Parade
ST. KILDA.
fpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
QOBANIO
STE A JVC SHIP
C O JXX. 3F* _A. 3ST "XT.
A. AND A. LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
BpeciaJ Rates, Including: St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs>
m
BILLS
discounted.
ixr.s,-w.
(Slant depieteo.«||. (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEKrEAGH ST., 74
f , SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT,. General Manager.
■—Til 10—n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.H.R.
Resident. Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,880.
Policies issued 91,305- assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
ravelling. Liberal Bonuses - euuitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares issued to His Majesty in
terms of Board of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. 500,000
AmountofCapital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £3,000,000
The flankef IJorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esi|.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Bunts, Phi Ip & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... -250 TOO ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direitors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Mhr its, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John She, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessup, Dsq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, VV. N.
M'Farlank; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. VV.
Fahquhaii. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager fw Australia
Write for Prospectvs. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, i,td., is
separata y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
t*T BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM.
CAIMADIAIM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
THE NEW TWIN SCREW STEAMER
MANUKA
SAILS, MAY 16.
NEXT SAILINGS— JUNE 13, JULY 11, AUGUST 8.
Cheap Excursions to St. Louis
Exhibition, Niagara Fails and
New York.
Cheap Excursion to Rocky Moun-
tains, £6O for 63 days, including
all Expenses on Steamer, Rail,
and on Land. Cheaper than
staying at home.
Send far Particulars and Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J JAM IT ICO. «
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND(lnvested in Government Stock) 62.00 C
£695,46?
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con>
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. i*loderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
J3I&
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, tears ot *
the Government Stamp the nainfl
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IBE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS j|
Sept. 28 1805, says;
“If I were asked wliiuh single medicine t shoul 1
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bo
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodvms. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.'’
Slilpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And OULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippinpat Fremantla
to all North Western Port j
5.5. Friday, May 13,
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne.)
5.5. Yongala (New and
Fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, May 21,
at l p.in. (Without Tran-
shipnu nt.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North fcoThirm
5.5. Konoowarra, Friday,
May 13, at 5 p.ni.
5.5. May 20at 5 p.m.
S.S.Ointra,May 28,abNoon.
Ttest and Cheapest Iloute to Goldjlehl*.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interohangoable after the
first Port of call with other inter-Sfate Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Otfice.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime s
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARC!.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under. Postal Contract with the
French Government., calling at MELBOUBNK, ADE-
LAIDF, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follow*: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, lnaia. Cm in
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £‘A7 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meeij
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . .
“e. and n.” lime.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CON VENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe vi% Canada
and the U.S. America, < r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN 9.5. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agent*,
*7 Pitt-st., Sydney.
J
IS
3*o*l
<» *
All over
Australia
AS THE CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
ES * Clothing
Write for Patterns and pelf Heasure
Forms
Lincoln, Stuart &Co.,
Flinders Street, flelb. urne.
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Famous Farms of
South Africa,
mm
as
w.&h
w
Kl
y
Blacff, White, or
Cream.
3 for 10/-.
Post free to any address.
These Feathers cannot be
bought for twice the money
in any other house.
Write now. Send xo /- Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. STRAND ARCADE. PITTSL. SYDNEY.
Mention The Bulletin*.
CURED INSTANTLY BY
GUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Save!
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented;
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
£•
•'As a specific for Tooih ache it has no equal. I have
asr<l it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’BwORS DEIL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, lie,.
UP ALL tj.OKK.S.


Decaying Nations.
The nations of the world may be roughly divided
into two classes, those growing stronger and those
decaying. There is no such thing as a nation con-
tinuing of one particular force in wealth, industry,
intelligence, or anything else. Nations resemble
men. The case of some nations is hopeless; as
that of Turkey, beset by difficulties within and
without; and China, miserably defeated by a
neighbor it outnumbers 13 to 1, and now a prey
to any insolvent invader. Rarely, however, is
anyone such a physical wreck that Mother
Seigel’s Syrup is a natural tonic, compounded of
fruits, roots and herbs, of unrivalled efficacy, which
acts upon the digestive organs, assisting them to
perform their functions. “For a long time I
suffered greatly from indigestion,” says Mr. Henry
E. Thomas, of Clin ton-street, Goulburn, N.S.W»,
“and could find no relief until I tried Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. Ten bottles of that medicine
restored me to vigorous health.”*
My Melbourne correspondent continues :
“Every concession is being made in travelling
to the European woman smoker. Tourists tell of
great comforts in cafes, hotels, concert halls and,
latterly, on the big steamers, where a mixed smoke
may be enjoyed with male chums in a specially
reserved den. On the Ortona, recently, a titled
Englishwoman whiffed at her Turkish cigarettes
all day long whether reading, writing, or talking
time away. Every Melbourne globe-trotter
returns with the smoke habit. It seems impossible
to attain to any smartness without the aid of
cigarettes. We have even had a casual lady resi-
dent in an exalted quarter who scoffed at anything
less than a good cigar.
“ Tourists complain that, among other things,
Melbourne lacks a sub-rosa tea room. In London,
the bun shop on the fifth storey or in the under-
ground quarters of quiet access is a favorite resort.
There the little comedies and tragedies of ‘ high ’
(or gamey) life are brewed over the tea cups free
of distractions. In Melbourne, the large and well-
lighted street-fronted tea room is the rule. And
theie’s a band to help the general clatter. There’s
no room there for subtle confidences.
“Has the spinster in the vicinity of the forties
no sense of the ludicrous left over from the days
of her frolicsome youth ? One of her ventured the
other day into a ballroom in a ‘rouge-pink’
toilette. The Miss in question has a pallid face
and not a trace of pink emotion in her character.
There is another spinster who ventures forth
frequently in forget-me-not blue dresses, and her
white head carries on the struggle with the sweet-
and-twenty hue right boldly—so boldly that one
is compelled to admire her nerve. The elderly
maiden should attune her dress to her state of
preservation. Every wrinkle should remove her
further from the gay rainbow range.
“A resourceful Melbourne dame has left a
model of herself at a Paris atelier for future dress
requirements. It is the best way to secure typical
‘ creations.’ And, as she says, ‘ Women in the
forties don’t change much.’
“ A Melbourne charmer whose engagement (of
marriage) was broken off with expensive sud-
denness (to the man’s cost), recently found herself
during a carnival time, in another capital, lodged
at the same hotel as the breaker-off. With smiling
aplomb the fair one greeted the situation. In the
dining-room she rolled her eyes in his direction.
When in his confusion he left the table, she
followed, and on the balcony he was confronted
with her gazelle gaze. Finding no rest in all the
place, he fled. He did not want to pay over con-
solation money twice to the same woman.
“ The only two male persons to wear head-gear
in an official and social rally are Archbishop Carr
and Dr. Plevna Ryan. Dr. Carr flourishes the
purple cap which serves as the complement to his
flowing purple main-sails, and also serves to keep
his venerable head warm. It must be gummed to
the scalp, else it could never maintain that
precipitous perch on the slant of his bald
and pious pate. The jovial-faced surgeon sports
a Turkey-lolly cap of scarlet with a tassel.
The surgeon has a wife who helps to mould the
manners of the Alexandra Club, and she could
wear that conspicuous cap with far more aplomb
and chic if required. Consul Pinschof at the
swearing-in function swaggered in scarlet coat
■with brass fixings and pipe-clay cloth trousers.
At the Mayor’s reception the top of him was done
in Prussian blue and the rest in scarlet. A fire-
man’s helmet completed things.
“ The other day, in a Collins-street cafe, a
sporting official of high degree found himself in
what he thought an awkward position, and
proceeded inartistically to get out of it. He
was supping alone with a bold Byronic sonnet
of womanhood when an exalted party (with
whom the official was much in touch) paraded
down the room. Gulping his oyster, the official
made a dash to a table where two club pals were
seated, exhorted them hurriedly, and escorted
them back to the company of his charmer. The
party of four progressed with mild joy and comic
subtleties till the official, thinking his character
for discretion was yet in jeopardy, rose, made his
adieux to the astonished trio, and ostentatiously
departed. Of course he came back in time to
collect the charmer. But it is difficult to under-
stand how one or both of the agreeable young men
did not make off with the girl, or that the girl
didn’t make a break from so discreet a wooer.
“ A Melbourne chiffon firm has put its foot
down finally on the ‘ approval ’ game. The
liat and the corset, and the satin and
gilt suspender that passed out of the
E remises ‘on appro’ are not to be passed
ack again on the plea of unsuitability.
The firm has suffered so much in this
respect that it vows its willingness to
lose a wanton customer rather than be
‘ had.’ In the Big Smoke the firms are
afraid of such action. They have to
overlook the fact that the ten-guinea
toque chosen ‘ on appro ’ gets an airing
at Ascot, and is returned in tissue-
paper, and minus its original bloom,
the next week on the ground of
‘unsuitability.’ The Hon. Philo-
mena may sample a dozen hats
with impunity in London ; btit one
Melbourne firm is going to see that
Miss Rebecca Brown does not obtain
gratuitous wear out of its garments or
head-gear.
“At the mayoral reception Prime
Minister Watson was one of the first
to be lassoed for presentation to the
new Governor. His figure reminded
the gapers of Deakin, the quicksilver
kind of manner helped the resem-
blance, and the whiskered face gave it
more weight. Mr. Watson soon glided
to the rear of the gushers and fell into
cheerful confab, with Speaker Beazley of
Victoria. The manoeuvres of the IVlrs.
Pushdeshoves to gain the Mayor’s eye
and get a call were an agony to behold.
“The ‘sleeping belt’ is the latest
torture Fashion has devised to induce the
wasp waist. Pictures are shown in the
English journals of Miss Chic, robed in a
dream garment of the usual fluffiness but
girdled in by a nightmare belt.
“ Victoria’s new State Governor Talbot is a
typical Major-General, thin, high-nosed, bald-
ish. His elderly war-horse mien is in marked
contrast to the plump, precise personality of his
predecessor in office, General Clarke, military
statist and War Office pundit. The new Ex. has
the air of a hearty veteran, but he probably has
also the foibles of his type—the tactless, superiah
officah type.
“The papers of the Cold Country give brief
accounts of the loss of the Sassoli harp what time
Sheffield was waiting with all its cutlery soul on
edge to hear Melba and her platform associates in
a grand programme. The harp was to have arrived
some hours before the concert. It didn’t. The
Srogramme had to go ahead while wires and tubes
ore frantic messages all over the country. But
the concert proceeded, and the missing harp could
not be traced. One can imagine irate Melba’s
vocabulary at the loss. She who raged at a mis-
guided tenor who ‘ showed the whites of his eyes
to her audiences,’ and who shook a pianiste for a
spurious note, must have risen to noble heights on
this occasion.
“A beautiful illustration of society manners
was supplied by one of the promoters of a recent
croquet tournament. The tournament (in aid of
a charity) was contested on a round of private
lawns, the owners of the selected battle grounds
acting in turn as hosts to the crowd assembled at
the scene of action. The domicile of a retired
shopkeeper was one rendezvous. Two young
ladies came along to play against the daughter of
the house and her partner. The invading pair
must have been outside the highly genteel and
refined ‘ circle ’ in which the young hostess moves,
for when refreshment time came all the assembled
guests, with the exception of these two visitors,
were invited into the house. The hospitality
vouchsafed to the outsiders consisted of two cups
of tea served by a haughty parlormaid. They
found themselves in the position of ‘professional ’
croqueteers playing with the snobbiest of amateurs.
The story doesn’t state whether the two nice
visitors played better croquet than the resident
princess and her partner. Probably they did.
“One recent wet day I got at large in a reading .
room and diligently went through a pile of Big
Smoke papers in search of mention of any of the
Australians abroad doing time in the studio or on
the platform. There was none. What of the
legion whose triumphs are told us by cable or pri-
vate correspondence from month to month ? With
a grateful sigh I sank into the buttered column of
the British-Australasian, where a faithful
chronicler marks the smallest Australian sparrow’s
chirp in smooth eulogy.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
.. „ T . . ~
“Alba ; In reply to “ M.G.” (8.,
14/4/’O4) re the beating of women. Self and mate!
travelling on the outskirts of Inverell once, came
upon a cocky unmercifully beating his comely girl-
wife. Mate chipped in and knocked his nibs into
the nearest pig-sty. In the fulness of his wrath
my mate would have renewed the fight, but the
comely girl-wife stopped him with a tomahawk.
Result: three months in the Inverell hospital.
General verdict: serve him darned well right. That
comely girl-wife wasn’t a mental back-number,
neither was she insane or insanely vicious ; she was
just a woman. The true woman of the Lawson-
“ M.G.” yarn slaved the flesh from her bones
m order to feed and shelter a semi-cultured para-
site, because “he treated her like a gentleman.”
The gentleman in question was endowed with the
habits of the common house-fly. These fe-men
are idealised by writers of the Strange Winter,
Ouida, and Braddon types. The masterful
Dickens consigned them to the pit of eternal
laughter. How many of these brandy-soaked,
opium-fed satyrs have been adopted by Australian
women ? The Australian larrikin refers to them
as “English bludgers.” If “M.G.” doubts
that the average woman resents interference when
she is being beaten, let him wade in next time
Bill’s or the clergyman’s wife is getting a bit extra.
Since S.A. Chief-Justice Way, though an
office-bearer in the Methodist Church, appears at
tabooed social functions some of the unco-guid
have begun to speak of him as “ the Way of the
world.”
A recently-appointed postmaster in the
Sandwich Islands bears the unassuming name of
-David Kaphokohoakimokeweonah. The pro-
nunciation is optional. The easiest thing is to call
the man Smudge.
“ Melb.” : It was rumored that a Mel-
bourne Cup winning jockey had taken to shoe-
blacking. Anyhow, we have now a stalwart
practitioner in that line, labelled as “formerly of
His Majesty’s Coldstream Guards.”
“Crux” : Re par (B. 14/4/’O4) about
execution of John Knatchbull, defended by
Robert Rowe, afterwards Lord Sherbrooke. Lowe
adopted the daughter of the murdered widow and
married her after the death of his first wife.
A notable Rip Van Winkle, not of 20
years, but of 40, Explorer Howitt, appeared
before a Melbourne scientific meeting the other
night, and spoke about his rescue of King, and
the finding of the poor remains of Burke and
Wills.
T. F. Hamilton, old-time Vic. sportsman,
is still living at the age or 85. A quarter of a cen-
tury back a, friend bought his life policy on the
understanding that T.F. was within a few months
of his death. Presumably that friend is still pay-
ing premiums on the policy.
.Pi H. T. Hart, once a well-known Ade-
laide man, has dropped completely out of local
existence of late. As his wardrobe has been sold he
is evidently not expected to return. Said ward-
robe. included 20 or 30 suits, 20 pairs of trousers,
and several hundred sundries.
The present Antarctic Expedition recalls
the enthusiastic determination of Captain Philip
Eiqg, sonofN.S.W. Governor King, to discover
the South Pole in 1820. Apart from his abortive
Polar ambitions, he did a lot of valuable explora-
tionl along the coast of Australia, many of his
surveys still standing.
The brother of a prominent Federal poli-
tician was once incarcerated for shooting with in-
tent. He had a mania for collecting fire-arms,
and ended up by shooting himself. During his
period “inside” he was made storeman, and amused
himself by dealing out uncomfortably tight
breeches to the men who were bulky, and baggy
pants to those with attenuated understandings.
Deceased Dr. Blaxland, super, of Glades-
ville (N.S.W.) Asylum, had many peculiar ex-
periences among lunatics there, and at Callan
Park, where he previously ruled. Over and over
he was invited to join conspiracies for revolt.
The lunatics twice elected him to a seat in Parlia-
ment, as they thought, and many times sentenced
him to be hanged by the neck, but as time was
given him to repent, they forgot all about the
sentence before the day came round. But what
used to stagger him most was that numbers of
visitors to the asylum took him for a patient.
TWINS.
BULLSWOOL : “ I seen
yer doin' a knock
with me girl, Stin-
ker Jones.”
STINKER: “Yer
never.”
BULLSWOOL : “ I did,
yer liar.”
STINKER : “ Well, did
I have a patch on
me pants? ”
BULLSWOOL : “ Yes,
yer did.”
STINKER: “ Well, it was me brother.”
Richmond Henty, who died in England the
other day, was born at Portland (Vic.) in ’37.
Nearly 30 years ago, when a candidate for the
representation of Warrnambool in the Legislative
Assembly, he was defeated by the late Howard
Spensley by five votes. He was one of the
numerous claimants to be the first white child
born in Victoria.
An official veteran, Robert Kay, Director
of the S.A. “Public Library, Museum, and Art
Gallery, has died at the ripe age of 78. Looked
after the books, pictures, skeletons, beetles,
stuffed animals, etc., on North Terrace for 45
years. Before taking up this branch of work, was
alternately an assayer, miner, farmer, accountant,
ironworker, etc. The library has grown consider-
ably in size and value during his time, not only-
through his own good management, but through
the wills of many rich and liberal Crow-eaters.
It looks as though anything that may be
done now for Myles Flynn, the S. Australian
prisoner sentenced to 20 years for a crime of which
he and others declared him innocent, will be too
late. Flynn lately tried to escape, in the hope, as
he alleged beforehand, that, when he gave himself
up, he would be able to get his case inquired into ;
but, being retaken by the gaol officials, and not by
the police, he lost that chance, and was awarded
irons and dark cells instead. Now he has become
insane, and has been removed to the criminal
ward of the Parkside Lunatic Asylum,
“F.” : I have before me a N.S. Wales law
list of 1866, which has a roll of 48 barristers, not
including Judges and permanent officials. James
Martin heads the list, C. J. Manning is at the foot.
Of the four dozen just 12 are living, three of whom
are pensioned Judges. Five are on the bench,
Supreme, Minor and Land courts ; three, Dangar,
Mitchell and Long, never held a brief (too beastly
rich, etc.); and but one remains in practice,
J ulian E. Salomons, who lately went for a trip in
poor health, and has now returned to fight his
battle o’er again, provided a sufficient inducement
is marked on the brief.
According to a recent Sydney Telegraph
correspondent “ the late Minister for Lands was so
heart-broken at his failure to get closer settlement
that he declares from his domicile in South Africa
that N. S. W. is a place for good men to keep out of.”
To people who know the circumstances of the case,
it will be news to hear that this heart-broken
patriot left Australia because his efforts to save
the country were thus thwarted. Tom Hassall, as
a noble and burst-up patriot, is Thomas in quite a
new character.
“J.A.C.”: Re James Carroll, Maoriland
native minister (Bulletin, 21/4/’O4). There
appears to be a widespread notion that “ Timi
Kara ” is his name translated into Maori. It is
not so, but simply the nearest the Maoris can get
to “ Jimmy Carroll.” They have no j, y, corl in
their vocabulary. Similarly, in N.S.W., Woolloo-
mooloo is commonly believed to be an aboriginal
name, while it is merely an attempt by the black
Australian to pronounce “ windmill.”
“Spring” : Pity poor Mr. Owe’Sullivan !
Starting forth on his wild policy to the joyful
trumpet notes of “Borrow, Build,” “Borrow,
Build,” he finishes up by the Devil of broken hopes
banging the anvil and sending through the cold,
frosty air of political adversity the clang of
“Broke ! Broke !” He who found Sydney mostly
of brick, and left it mostly blue metal, had seem-
ingly a life seat for Queanbeyan, but now breaks
from there to fight for his political life in a city
constituency—a broken Minister fleeing from; a
hungry treasury, and cursing Cohen in a broken
voice. The word “ broke ” has many meanings
for him. The builder of the grandest railway-
station in the South —broke ; Australia facing the
Dawn—broke ; the confidence of Cohen—broke;
the confidence of the people—broke; and the
confidence of Owe’Sullivan —broke. Pity the
strong man whom even a Dan O’Connor dares
fight! ,
N.S.W. ex-Judge Wilkinson’s renewed
license as lay-reader, and his late activity in the
pulpit on Sundays, recall the great day of his
legal-religious life. He Crown-prosecuted the
flamboyant sculptor, Orlando Jones, for blasphemy
in Parramatta Park, some 30 years ago, and upheld
the Bible with strenuous zeal. G. B. Simpson,
then a District Court Judge, presided, and between
prosecutor and judge the long-bearded Orlando
had a bad time. Dave Buchanan laid about him
pluckily, filling the court with sonorous phrases
twanged wi’ Doric ; but Wilkinson won, and the
Judge fell on Orlando with two years’ hard. Par-
liament, however, practically quashed the con-
viction, at the instance of public meetings, at
which Judge, Crown Prosecutor and jury came in
for violent language. Jones is long dead, and
Ninian Melville, chief witness, is also dead ; but
Justice Simpson now unties matrimonial knots,
and ex-Judge Wilkinson expounds the Bible in
Sydney suburbs, and does it very badly.
Ex-Police Superintendent Pewtress, of
Melbourne, just 50 years married, was one of 50
constables who, in ’52, migrated from London to
Melbourne. Only three—Pewtress, Manson (now
dead) and Archibald, of Sydney—are accounted
for. Some of the others deserted, some were
asked to desert or make themselves scarce, and
some found their way back to London.
“Burglar Bill”: Be tobacco substitutes
( ‘‘ Periwinkle, ” 8., 14/4/’O4). Prisoners in ‘ ‘ sepa-
rate treatment” utilize potato-peels, spuds being
dished up in their jackets. Dried, pressed, and
made into cigarettes, they are reckoned equal to
the gaol twist, though certainly that is not saying
much.
A Sunday episode by Buna :
Why is the male singer generally a hog? The distin-
guishing characteristic of the male mummers I have met
is boundless conceit, and it seems to spread to the
beauteous youths who sing in church choirs. Last Sun-
day a small coterie of musicians swarmed on to Sj'dney’s
only cable car, on their way to sing at a fashionable
church. The baritone talked in a loud voice about having
hypnotic influence over women, and generally inferred
that in his suburb the frailer sex was in a state of wreck
on his account. Then the tram stopped with a hump, and
a sweet young thing with bronzy hair and brown eyes
stepped lightly on the front of the dummy. Lothario
expressed his admiration, bade his fellow-howlers fare-
well, and progressed to the vacant seat beside the young
girl—she was only about 18, and ought to have been im-
pressionable. For a while he just gloated, then he ogled
and then, as the hypnotic influence didn’t seem to work’
he boldly spoke to her. At first she took no notice, but
finally she told him to address his conversation where it
would be appreciated. He smiled a superior smile and went
on talking, and the girl got mad. “If you speak to me
again 111 smack your face,” she threatened. He laughed
and said something about returning a kiss for a blow.
Then she brought her pebble-mounted umbrella-handle
across his face, breaking his rolled-gold pince-nez and
smashing in -his time-payment hell-topper. He grabbed
for the valuable head-gear, rubbed his damaged counten-
ance, and then tried to pull himself together, and with a
look of withering scorn remarked : “ I suppose you are
what they call a lady!” “ Yes,” replied the girl, “but
no one would ever dream of mistaking you for a gentle-
man.” The bashed baritone re-joined his friends at the
side, and one of them in a loud voice poured oil on the
troubled flames by telling how he and a little brother
once tried the hypnotic influence on a good and faithful
collie, and so distracted the noble animal that it bit them
both three times before they could escape.
HIS PROSPECTS .
SHE : “But what sort of prospects have you if we
get married?”
HE: “ Well, I send regularly to Tatter sail’s, and
one never knows.”


Perfect Health
Is within the reach of about every woman. The
weakness, nervousness and irritability from which
so many women suffer is in general due to disease
of the delicate womanly organism. When the
disease is cured the general health is re-estab-
lished.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 24 Princess-street, Sydney*
tells how Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills saved her
from a life of misery, and restored her to health
and happiness. She writes :
“ Some years ago I suffered from headache and
biliousness, which finally ended in liver complaint*
so the doctors told me. I underwent treatment
from various ones, but no relief could I find ; my
back got worse, and I had to work hard with a
family. My back got considerably worse, and
finally I had to give up work. At the same time
I was badly affected with the various ailments that
women are subject to. I really began to give up
all hope, and felt that life was not worth living ;
but relief came when I was persuaded to take a
course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills; from
that hour I have never been without them. I
can say without fear that they completely cured
me, for I am now able to work without trouble,
regular in habits, and I can confidently recommend
them to all women similarly troubled, and I know
there are hundreds. lam only too glad to be able
to give this testimony. I may also state that my
husband has derived great benefit from taking the
pills.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills make weak
women strong, sick women well. They promote
regularity, dry disagreeable and enfeebling drains,
heal inflammation, and cure female weakness.
When these diseases are cured, headache, backache
and nervous weakness are cured also. Packed in
amber bottles, and sold throughout Australasia.*
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL,
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
15 St. Dunstan’s Hill,
London, E.C., England.
If you like a Book that is pure fun
from cover to cover, buy
TWELVE EX-TANK TALES
(First published in the New York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable,
American.
Price 3s. 6d
POST
PAID.
AMERICAN BOOK CO., Box 457, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TT'OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” ~9(S
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor- — GEO. W. ELLIS.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE.. LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney Rugby football has started its premier-
ship contests in real earnest. The presence of 13,000
people at Sydney Cricket Ground and University Oval is a
cheerful indication that the eye of the public is centred on
the game, and the yells and shouts of the gentle barracker
deepen the rich blue of the tender autumnal afternoons.
Last Saturday’s first grade matches resulted in big scores
for the winners. North Sydney beat Eastern Suburbs,
last year’s premiers, by 11 points to 3, University downed
Glebe by 14 to 5, Balmain kicked up 11 to Western
Suburbs’ nil, and Newtown routed South Sydney by 24 to
6. The real test of football prowess is the playing of a
defensive or losing game, and these enormous scores prove
lack of heart and condition, and incapacity on the part
of the backs. In the North Sydney-Eastern Suburbs match
it was the N.S. backs who won the game. Their for-
wards were inferior, but the backs played together and
scored. University backs also showed good passing-, and
but for some excellent line-kicking by the Glebe men the
match would have been an absolute disaster for the latter.
Kicking, taken all round, was not good, and though there
were attempts to pot goals they were neither brilliant nor
frequent. On the other hand, play all round was rough,
and a few prompt disqualifications are badly needed to
nip the trouble in the bud. Even in this short time the
teams have improved considerably, but the forwards
show a tendency to do an enormous amount of
running about for very little result. When a man can’t
run straight for the goal he should pass to some
one who can, and if no one is available he should only run
across the field till there is an opportunity to pass.
Sydney players pass as a last resort, whereas they should
do it frequently and on the slightest occasion ; it helps to
baffle the defence. In the meantime there is grave
necessity for the complete suppression of rough players.
On Saturday five players were “ laid out.” Glebe lost three,
and one of them (A. Oonlon) had to be removed to the
hospital. Eastern Suburbs had Underwood disabled by a
kick on the ankle, and O’Donnell of North Sydney had his
nose fractured.
* » * *
On June 4, Te Aute (M.L.) College team will
play the second school in the Great Public Schools com-
petition at Sydney Cricket Ground. The College has
always played a fast game and excelled at drop kicking,
and unless the local team has had some practice together
the Maoris will pile up an enormous score in the first
spell and settle down to a defensive game in the second.
The game to play against Te Aute is a strong defensive
game with plenty of line-kicking in the first spell, and
then rush them in the second, when the softer Maori fibre
begins to show signs of wear and tear. Also, local
barrackers are requested to keep absolute silence. A
heavy silence hangs round the Maori neck like a millstone,
while a pandemonium excites him to Homeric efforts.
He doesn’t care whether it’s hoots or cheers as long as
there is plenty of it. Te Aute, by-the-bye, when it poses
as a sort of schoolboy team, is humorous—considering
its dimensions. Our colored fellow-subject of Maoriland
stays at college till an age when the average youth of
British descent has taken up the white man’s burden.
The College has won the Hawkes Bay premiership on
certain occasions, and once, this writer understands,
beaten a Canterbury representative team. The average
weight of the first fifteen is list. 41b., and among the for-
wards is a young man who weighs 14st. They claim to be
a team of schoolboys, and yet they play University, a first-
g'rade club. If Te Aute beats the youngsters it will go back
and swell the already bursting head of the bumptious
Maoriland footballer ; if the wiry Australian boys beat the
great mass of Maori meat, it will probably declare that
although beaten it is not disgraced, and say nothing about
its weight.
* * * *
The Australian game again showed enormous
scores on Saturday, the list being headed by Balmain,
which beat Ashfield by 132 points (16 g-oals and 36 behinds)
to 30 points (4 goals and 6 behinds). The Australian game
is spreading, and has got a firm hold among- the schools ;
and unless the Rugbyites can devise some means of re-
taining the schools, their form of the game is doomed. In
the Eastern suburbs this season only three schools are
playing the Rugby game ; all the rest have gone over to
the Australian.
* * * *
Wallace, among the best but most unlucky of
M.L. footballers, will shape no more as a player. When
in Sydney with the M.L. combination last year his jaw
was fractured ; but he came again present season, and in
the first match had several teeth knocked out, and sus-
tained other more or less painful injuries. Wood, Wallace,
and Duncan being absentees from the back section should
materially affect M.L.’s playing strength this year.
* * * *
One thing about Sydney football that strikes a
stranger from Seddon’s Land is the thoroughness of the
attack. It’s too beastly thorough altogether. Just as a
player took a mark one of the opposite side rushed up,
rabbited him ferociously, turned him upside down, and,
bumping his head on the ground twice, dropped him,
grabbed the ball and made off with it, only to be seized by
about six others and used to mop up a pool of water that
had been a nuisance thereabouts for some time. Men who
can tackle like that should make the finest backs in the
world—when they’ve had a good bevelled edge put on
them, and had it ground into them that the object is not
to kill the opposite side. In fact, Sydney football
material seems to be excellent, but there doesn’t seem to
be a captain about to drill ’em into a team —they’re only
assemblies of players just now.
* * * *
E. M. Grace, elder brother of W.G. and batting
champion before him, is still going strong as captain of a
county cricket club in Gloucestershire—in his 63rd year !
Last season he took over 200 wickets with underhand
“ lobs.”
« * * *
“J.S.”: Cricket in Sydney is getting to be a
really lady-like game. Have been right round the parks
and haven’t struck one wrangle or ‘ ‘ stoush ” contest. Over
15 years ago I used to play among juniors on Moore Park.
One shilling per bat was stake money, and winners col-
lected ; but if the other fellow won, or threatened to win,
the blood of the pug dog was aroused and it became a
fight for the bag, i.e., cricket kit. Win or wrangle rules
prevailed, the losers doing the wrangling. We had
two top-notch pugs in our gang—one since occupied
a championship niche in the Temple of Fame.
Three others were second-grade stoushers, and the rest of
the team could fight a bit, either with their fists or with a
stump or bat. Also, we had some swift runners, whose
business it was to flee with the enemy’s kit as loot while
the fight was progressing. In three years we lost fre-
quently, but only in seven matches did we pay over ; in
those cases the other gang had a bigger and tougher push
of barrackers. We had no kit bag for two seasons,
but in the opening of the third season we collected
one from the Saint Something Sunday School club,
which took us on, not knowing the fate that awaited it.
We had a bowler who could break stumps—also legs or
ribs if they got in the way—and would have paralysed
Maclaren. When defeat —at the wickets—threatened us a
vanguard of barrackers left with our surplus tools.
Others made ready to defend our captain, who held the
stake money, and bluff and stoush ensued, our leading
pugs being generally sufficient to help the bluff. In the
event of a win and the other side trying to balance, their
bats, stumps, &c., would be seized. Starting with two
bats, in the third season we had 13, and as to stumps, pads,
&c., a superfluity. A scar across the forehead, caused by a
brass-pointed stump, itches when I think of those lawless
days. Warnerdoesn’tknowwhatbarrackingis. Heoughtto
have played against us. He couldn’t have barred our
umpires or bowlers ; wet or dry he would have had to play,
and pay if he lost, and feel lucky if he wasn’t killed when
he won. Alas; a cricket association, with umpires and
officials, took to registering and controlling junior
cricket, and police and park-rangers persisted in taking
an interest in us. Our star gladiators found the Old
White Horse ring a more profitable stoushing ground, and
dancing and other delicate pastimes won others away.
Yes, cricket in those days was a noble field sport. To-day,
it should be played in a drawing-room. I don’t believe a
cricketer has been slain by the other team during the
progress of a game for fully 10 years.
It is understood that the trustees of the Sydney
Cricket Ground intend appealing from the decision of the
Chief Judge in Equity, which gives cricket the first call
for the ground. The judgment still leaves one crucial
point untouched. The trustees can “block” cricket by
charging what they please for the ground. The trustees
have let the ground for a cycling carnival as far off as the
King’s Birthday, November 9, and rumor has it that many
holidays in the year 1905 have been “ let.”
* * * *
It is suggested as a way out of the difficulty
between the trustees of the Sydney Cricket Ground and
the Cricket Association that the ground should be governed
by a Court of Delegates, chosen from all sports, one each,
cricket, football, cycling, &c., &c.
« * * *
“Myrtle”: A youth stepped into a tobacco-
nist’s shop here, t’other day, to purchase a packet of
cigarettes. Glanced at it casually, and then threw it
back. “ None o’ them for us coves,” he said ; “ them’s
the company what gave Cotter (the cricketer) the kick
out.”
* * * »
“ Nymsie ” : Put in Good Friday angling in the
Campaspe below Echuca (N.S.W.) for a queer creelful.
Started fishing at noon over a log dipping into 6ft. of
water. Within four minutes had landed a 61b. cod.
Within the next four hours I could show for my labor
fourteen turtles, three water-rats, two dozen small cray-
fish, and one mussel. The turtles are worse tantalisers to
anglers than the yabbies, and I beheaded them with
fiendish satisfaction—the river bed swarms with them.
But I thought Nemesis had come when I landed my first
rat. The anger of a tiger-cat pales before the fiendish
ferocity of a hooked water-scavenger. Such teeth, such
sheer pluck, such devilishness I never saw before.
Couldn’t approach the rascals, so despatched them with
a stick, and cut the line above the hook rather than
handle them. Never caught the rodents before, and I
hope I will never do so again. The sole mussel, had
closed over the line just above the hook. There are
plenty of fish in the rivers since the streams have filled,
with brighter angling prospects next season if the rains
come in good time.
* * * *
“D.”: N.S.W. Gun Club, being possessed of
a dim idea that the pigeons on different occasions had
been specially trained so as to give the bookmaker a
bigger chance for his coin, and the bird a better show for
its life, has decided to go in for breeding the harmless
fowl. It will then be certain that the pigeon is not a
sprint performer working in the interests of Moses) and
that he will rise slowly from the trap and give the
“sport” ample time to train his gatling on to him.
The club advertises for a young married couple to
caretake ; must have good references as to character, and
will receive £2 a week, with enough slain fowl to make a
pie on shoot days. -
* » * » .
Orange Coursing Cup—among the big things of
N.S.W. Coursing year—was last week won by previous
season’s performer Great Heart who, notwithstanding,
shaped as if going off. Several of his trials were only just
won and he probably would not have beaten the Booty-
Golden Queen puppy, Chronograph, but for the latter’s
gruelling tussle with the semi-final. Chrono-
graph was put out by Windsor-trained litter brothers
Desmond and Demos in Opening Stakes, at Kensington,
and N.S.W. N.C.A. Derby, at Rooty Hill, last month.
* # * *
A Maoriland lawn tennis team of four men will
call round to play an inter-State match against New
South Wales some time in September. Maoriland is al-
most as proud of its tennis as it is of its football, only it
isn’t quite so vociferous over it.
* * * *
Parker, of Wellington (M.L.), who secured
tennis championships at South Australia and Tasmania,
has raised the Thorndon club’s standard to that height
that it is never called into local contests until the finals,
so that the interest may be sustained until Thorndon
comes along and squelches them all. When in Australia,
Parker did not meet Brooks, the Commonwealth cham-
pion, in open contest, but on the latter’s private court
the Maorilander beat him six of ten sets.
* * * *
Once high-class performer Ibex has apparently
lagged superfluous. At A. J.C. Autumn meeting he went
out favorite for S.T.O. May Stakes (one mile) on Saturday
at 2 to 1, and, thoug'h leading at the home turn, shut up
suddenly and finished nearer last than first. The pity of
it that Ibex wasn’t retired subsequent to beating Cruciform
and Wakeful.
* * * *
Ancient Commissioner (entered “aged” as
far back as 1898), gathered Sydney Turf Club’s Hurdle
Race at Randwick on Saturday with great ease. Big gaps
existed between first home and Toonga (second) and
Bnrnima (third). Winner came with a big' country repu-
tation, and went out favorite at “ evens.” Four years
ago Commissioner was at Randwick, where he shaped
three or four times without success, but increasing age
has improved him remarkably.
* * * *
Two-year-old sister (Birida) of champion Emir
had the colors up in Farewell Handicap at Randwick on
Saturday, and shaped so well to the home turn that
betting men have marked her for notice. She is still
owned by her breeders —the Messrs. Moses.
* * * *
Success of Sydney pony jockey Evans is remark-
able. Hardly a week goes by but he gets home twice, and
occasionally he has been up on five winners at a couple of
the city’s three “ unregistered ” courses. Sydney papers
have published that Evans purposes going over to the
horses, but that is hardly likely till the A. J.C. completely
withdraws the embargo placed upon all and sundry con-
nected with ponydom, to provide the opening. Were pony
riders paid as are those who figure at registered meet-
ings, Evans would be rich.
* * * *
M.L. nag Full Cry, which won the Thompson
Handicap of 400sovs. recently, was a cheap race-
horse. Originally Mr. G. Syme got it for £6, and
having fed his purchase during 12 months offered to sell
for £ll, or lease for racing purposes on any terms.
Ultimately present owner, Mr. Laurent, secured the nag
for two years with the right to buy any time at a cost
of £35. Since then Full Cry, who is now 7 years old, has
won 15 races totalling £l5lO in value ; once he brought a
dividend of £5O Is. for each of Usovs, invested on him.
* * * *
Sydney Turf Club Steeple brought six to the
post, including Maorilander Bippo, but he was a dis-
appointment and never once looked promising, and he
finished a furlong behind the winner (second favorite,
Grafter), who beat. Galtee More (of whom too much use
was made) by several lengths. First favorite (Teamster-
2 to 1) and outsider Hath! fell heavily at the initial lep.
Whilom Victorian trainer J. E. Brewer, now in
England, won’t stand any but Victorian oats for his nags.
He took a huge lot with him, and lately placed an
order for several tons more. Brewer insists this is no fad
and vows that England has nothing to equal the Victorian
product.
* * * »
Why Moses waxes fat. Haut Brion-Novelette
mare Carragheen (sister to well-performed Sweet Nell)
started a hot favorite at 7 to 2 for Turf Club Handicap at
S.T.O. meeting on Saturday, and, after playing up con-
siderably at the post, she only managed to finish ahead of
4in a field of 11. ’Tis difficult to catch Carragheen in the
humor; she won City Handicap on third day of recent
A. J.C. meeting, and fourth day saw her run anything but
decently. At City Tattersall’s gathering, a week later,
however, starting something of an outsider, she scooped
the big handicap easily; it was on the strength of that
performance Carragheen found so much backing last
Saturday.
* * * «
Things turfy are looking up in Brisbane. Despite
adverse weather on opening day of recent Q.T.C. meeting,
£3OO profit resulted. Most successful riders were J.
Stone (five winners) and A. Scott (four).
* * * *
Jack Hutton, the Tasmanian axeman, has
died in harness. Whilst he was clearing scrub a tree
fell upon champion Jack and killed him instantaneously.
The finish of some wood-chopping competitions
is often as exciting as a nose-and-nose wind-up on a race-
course. Two men were chopping in a competition in
M. recently, and both blocks were severed at the same
time. One block fell forward and reached the ground
first; the other fell backward, and took more time. Had
both fallen forward it would have been a dead-heat.
* * *
Ping-pong still struggles along under the auspices
of a select band, who take themselves very seriously as
“Table Tennis Players.” N.S.W. is to play Queensland
this “season”—this ping-pong season—and other attrac-
tions are announced. Among these is an invitation to
Geelong to send a team over to Sydney. Ping-pong is so
slow that even Geelong has overtaken it now.
* * * *
The inter-State rowing contests took place at
Hamilton Reach on the Brisbane River in glassy water,
and under a cloudless sky. There were thousands along
the banks, and every inch of water around the finishing
point, save the actual course, was dotted over with craft,
mostly filled with ducks of hats. The Champions Sculls
was contested by Burke of Tasmania, Slack of Queensland,
and Ivens of Victoria. Burke pulled a slower stroke than
the Victorian, but put more power into it, and slowly but
emphatically drew away till at the finish he was three
lengths ahead of Slack, who was two lengths ahead of the
Victorian. Burke pulled an excellent race, and main-
tained an attitude of contented superiority right through.
The Eight-Oar was pulled over an ebb tide, and was a
great tussle. Westralia dropped , out owing to an acci-
dent before the first half-mile was completed. Queens-
land, Victoria, and South Australia battled it out.
N. pulling a mild, harmless race, never threatened
to get in front at any time. Eventually, Victoria
made a mighty effort, shook South Australia off and won
by a length-and-a-half, with Queensland third, and N.S.W.
away to Beelzebub, four lengths behind Queensland. Vic-
toria has won consistently since 1894, and N.S.W. hasn’t
been in front since 1885.
* * * *
Tasmania’s railway service has had many insults
piled upon it, but the latest indignity is a severe one. The
distance between Launceston and Hobart is 116 miles,
and a cyclist, A. M. Campbell, has just beaten the alleged
“ express ” over the distance. The train took shrs. 58mins.
and the cyclist did it in 18mins. less. Apparently the
“ express ” was on its metal and put on a spurt; it usually
takes longer.
* * * *
That Don Walker will represent the Australian
Leagues at the World Championship Meeting at the
Crystal Palace, London, is due to the generosity and
enterprise of the Dunlop Tyre Co., which has already
been a fairy godmother to Australian cycling. Inter-eh.b
championships, Goulburn-Sydney and Warrnambool-Me.-
bourne road races are old-established and substantial
benefactions. Walker could not afford to go on his own,
and it was doubtful if the leagues could raise the money
in the time, and so the Dunlop people stepped into the
deficit in their usual large-handed, breezy way.
Thomas Rift, the one-legged cyclist who under-
took to ride from Rockhampton to Sydney, a decent
spin of 1400 miles, has, according to Truth,
finished the journey in less than the 28 days specified.
Writer once knew a man who used to ride 15 miles after
dinner to see another man’s wife, and then ride 20 to escaj. e
the husband’s anger, and he always rode the first part of
the journey with one foot; he kept the other, his right,
free for sprinting purposes, in case the other man came
home unexpectedly.
* * * *
They’ve got a bruising club out Leichhardt
(Sydney) way which calls itself the “ Sons of Rest Pas-
time Club,” and its secretary signs himself “ Chick
Lovely.”
* * $ *
At Sydney National S.C. last week ’Murkan
welter-weight Neill, of whom much was expected, made a
brief showing against this continent’s champion middle-
weight Jack Thompson, who stripped pounds over his
class limit, and yet didn’t look as if taking any more off
would have been for his good. Neill had shed much of
the stomach development he brought to Australia,
but there was still some more that might have been
shunted with advantage, as well as a surplus between the
shoulders and down to the small of the back. Betting
men, probably well informed as to the Yankee’s condition,
offered 5, then 6, and finally 7 to 4 on Thompson to lure the
Neill section, but there were not many to be tempted ;
most knew as much as t’other side. First round went
Neill’s way; he outpointed Thompson easily, and the
crowd laughed heartily at the evident one-sidedness
of the match. In the second a decided change
occurred ; Neill had already fired his last gun of any
power, and, after some slapping, went to pieces, with the
result that he was caught too slow at getting away while
ducking, and a weighty right upper-cut just chipped his
chin and finished hard against a prominent nose, ap-
parently breaking it. Neill fell forward on hands and
knees, while clots (not drops) of blood dripped to the
boards ; a few seconds later he struggled to his feet,
staggered back and clutched the top ring-rope, on which
the shoulders rested while his head hung over, and, just
as Thompson made to finish the job, the towel was thrown
to the ring-centre, in token of defeat. The crowd jeered
and boohooed lustily—not at Neill’s going under, as has
been stated, but because of his breach of faith with those
who paid to see a fight, in neglecting to train properly.
Neill showed enough to demonstrate that he is a first-class
boxer, and perhaps a good fighter when thoroughly fit.
* * * *
Wandering round Sydney just now is a gorgeous
figure in Algerian splendor of crimson and gold, baggy
white pants drawn in above the ankle, and white silk
socks filling the gap to the tops of his shiny leather
slippers. A greasy brown face, good-natured and
humorous, surmounts the towering figure, that is
spangled over with jewels. The apparition is over six
feet in height, about 50 inches round the chest, and said
to weigh 1$ stone. Such is Murzouk, the Algerian
wrestler, who says he is willing to meet all-comers,
Graeco-Roman style, for any sum over £3OO and up to
£lOOO. The push gasps as it passes him by in respectful
silence, for in the event of a row Murzouk might fall on
it —and then no more of “Spider” and “Ginger.” His
French manager claims that Murzouk, 3£ years ago, threw
Hackenschmidt, the “Russian Lion,” who recently wiped
the floor with Madralli, the “ Terrible Turk,” in London,
and though at present this is not officially corroborated,
Murzouk looks capable of throwing a megatharium if he
were in real earnest. Hard on the heels of the huge
Mohammedan came Jack Carkeek, the world champion,
who, though no slouch at Graeco-Roman, loves the Cornish
style. At present the champion is under engagement to
Rickards, of the Tivoli, but when he is free he will under-
take to throw any one who comes along with anything
between £250 and £lOOO about his clothes. Carkeek was
born in U.S.A. 43 years ago of Cornish parents, and
his father before him was a mighty wrestler. He has
never met Hackenschmidt or Madralli, but as he was
champion before they entered the arena, and they have
never sought him out to wrest the title from him, he is
still the holder. Indeed, Madralli once dodged him, and
forfeited his entrance money to do it. Ali Adali, a pre-
vious Terrible Turk, who weighed 3201 b., was thrown by
Carkeek. It was a tremendous struggle. Evidently the
sun of Buttan Singh has set in Australia.
* * * *
Strong man Gordon’s display in Sydney,
Saturday afternoon last, was highly sensational, but
what the test meant in the way of demonstrating
Gordon’s muscular power wasn’t plain. Apparently
taking the place of the usual swingle bar of a trolly
laden with 50 bags of wheat (said to weigh five tons),
and kept in position by stout chains and straps, Gordon
had, as far as could be judged, four horses attached to his
arms, these dragged their load from near Pitt-street to
just beyond the circus entrance. Set free, the strong man
mounted the lorry, evidently as fresh as before he started,
and with one hand broke the chain that bound him,
despite that it had just stood the announced five-ton
strain. He then delivered a short lecture on how to be-
come as strong as “me” to the assembled multitude. His
method is much easier than Sandow’s : “Open and shut
the hands, with arms extended, and vibrate the body five
minutes every day,” he said. Sandow’s way was to use
his “developer” for 10 minutes everyday. How easy it
is to become a modern Samson !
“The running-man shoot” at Randwick, on
Saturday (16/4/’O4), gave the rifle-g-allery shootists away.
Conditions were eight shots at 300yds. at a kharki figure
travelling 100yds. in 60secs., known range ; pace of object
an ordinary smart walk. Only 10 warriors faced the
ordeal. Best at this range was three bulls and four
centres, or 20 out of a possible 32. The championship
aggregate, which carries a gold medal, was won with 134
points out of a possible 288, or an average of 15 out of
a possible 32. These shoots have been abandoned
since for lack of encouragement and support.
The military authorities do not encourage them, and as
there is no boodle in them the pot-hunters won’t have
any. Yet the fixed-target shooting, which is fostered and
nursed, hasn’t a heap to brag of when a “possible” at
700 yards (30/4/’O4) is considered “ a performance of ex-
-0 optionally rare occurrence. •
Justice Cohen, in the Arbitration Court,
protesting once more against the silly lies that
are printed about the law under which the court
works :
No matter what award this court may make, an
employer always had the right to dismiss any man who
is acting dishonestly, or attempting to act dishonestly.
I want it to be clearly understood that this court has
never yet interfered with the common law right of the
e nployer to dismiss any of his employees for acting
dishonestly, or neglecting his work. There is, lam sorry
to say, a great deal of misunderstanding about the
Arbitration Court and its awards ; a very great deal.
The other day, by the way, when a cold-water
crank, charged with blocking traffic, said that
there was something rotten about the law, he was
sternly threatened with gaol for contempt. The
Arbitration Court doesn’t seem to be half so
sensitive as that.


A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
THE
I
LETTER BOOK
Makes a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write •
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy*
From C. Plummer,
Straw Hat Manufacturer.
Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
August 18, 1902.
Two months’ trial of the Pun Carbon Letter Book obtained from you has satisfied US
that your
p|EN
'roduce
reserve
revent
CARBON
lean
lopies
onfusion
ETTER
egible
asting
oss and
OOKS
ills
(right
ad Language
Yours faithfullj', C. PLUMMER,
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH &CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria—ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elirabeth St., Me r b”nrne.
ETIG
Patients will hear of
something to their ad-
vantage by writing to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY
RED BIRD
BICYCLES
Sherrin and Gilbert Footballs.
Nicholl’s Special Golf Clubs and Balls,
Egg and Pear-shaped Striking Bags.
Corbett Boxing Gloves.
Tennis Balls.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO„ Ltd., 357 George St., Sydney.
AUCTION SALE.
LITHOGRAPHIC FLANS ARE NOW READY.
SALE OF SURPLUS LANDS
By Order of THE HON. E. W. O’SULLIVAN, Minister for Public Works.
CENTRAL RAILWAY STATION APPROACHES
Having Frontages to GEORGE STREET, PITT STREET, GIPPS STREET,
RAWSON PLACE, ELIZABETH STREET, NEW CASTLEREAGH STREET,
and RANDLE STREET, on either side of the
NEW CENTRAL RAILWAY STATION.
RAWSON PLACE, the new artery for traffic between George and Pitt Streets, will be 100 ft. Wide.
I—The GEORGE, PITT, and GIPPS STREET
AREAS.
SECTION 2 (as per plan).
LOT I—THAT FINE CORNER BLOCK opposite HOR-
DERN’S CORNER, on which stands
“The Prince o' Wa'e3 Hotel,”
recently erected by the Government, and presently
occupied by Mr. Harry Walters AS A FIRST-CLASS
HOTEL. The frontages are 48ft. llin. to GEORGE-
STREET, 105 ft. lOfin. to RAWSON PLACE, 100 ft.
WIDE, and 109 ft. lOJin. to GIPPS-STREET, with
20ft. Lane at rear.
THE PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL is a NEW and UP-
TO-DATE BUILDING, WITH HANDSOME ELEVATION ;
Red Brick with Stone Facings, 3 Stories high, is one of the
BEST APPOINTED HOTELS in the STATE, and VERY
SOLID IN CONSTRUCTION. It contains the following
accommodation: —
BASEMENT—CompIete CELLARAGE.
GROUND FLOOR —Handsome and very large BAR, well
ventilated.
WHOLESALE DEPARTMENT, with entranee from
Rawson-Place ; 3 HALLS, 3 PARLORS, LARGE LADIES’
DINING OR REFRESHMENT ROOM, with entrance
from Gipps-street; KITCHEN, etc., LAVATORIES, and
W.C.’s. The fittings are mostly of Cedar, and the Halls
and Dadoes are tiled in good taste.
FIRST FLOOR —Large Landing, and area used as a Con-
servatory, Large Smoking Room, and W.C., Handsome
' Drawing-room, 6 Bedrooms, Linen Closet, Bathroom
and W.C., balcony round lighted area, and well-
appointed Dining-hall for 120 guests.
SECOND FLOOR—WeII-lighted Landing Area and Hall,
13 Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms, and W.C.
INCLUDED IN THIS BLOCK are the two Modern
Shops and Dwellings, fronting RAWSON-PLACE, occu-
pied respectively by Messrs. COFFILL AND CO. and
Mr. M‘GRATH.
LOTS 2 to 10 each have 20ft. frontage to Rawson-place,
100 ft. wide (excepting Lot 10, which has 35ft. 7£in.
frontage to Rawson-place, and 78ft. 3fin. to Pitt-
street), by various depths, to 20ft. lane at rear.
LOT 11—That LARGE BLOCK OF LAND, presently
occupied by
MESSRS. ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
corner of PITT and GIPPS STREETS, covered with
good 2-story Brick Buildings, excepting the corner
(HORDERN’S REFRESHMENT ROOMS), which is
3-stories high. The frontages are 50ft. lfin. to PITT-
STREET, 230 ft. o£in. to GIPPS-STREET, extending
to 20ft. Lane at rear.
SECTION 1 (as per plan).
LOTS Ito s—At the JUNCTION of GEORGE and PITT
STREETS. Each block has 20ft. frontage to GEORGE-
STREET by through depths to PITT-STREET, double
frontages, excepting Lot 1, which has 27ft. s|in.
frontage, with good frontages also to PITT-STREET
and the OPEN SPACE facing South (THREE FRONTI
AGES), and ONE OF THE BEST SITES IN SYDNEY,
with Stone and Brick Buildings thereon, occupied by
the ROYAL AMBULANCE SOCIETY, and previously
known as THE LOCKUP.
V NOTE.—It is proposed to sell the Building- Materials
Oil these Lots, selling* the land as vacant land only.
LOT 6 No. 812 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
Messrs. Coffill and Co. 24ft. frontage by a depth of
about 83ft. 9fin., next Christ Church, with right-of-
way at rear.
LOT 7 No. 810 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
Messrs. Wood and Company. 19ft. 6Jin. frontage,
depth of about 79ft. 6Jin. to right-of-way at rear.
LOT 8 No. 808 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
the Savings Bank of New South Wales. 19ft. frontage
by a depth of about 85ft. sin. to right-of-way at rear.
LOT 9 No. 806 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
Mr. Bass, 19ft. ljin. frontage by a depth of about
91ft. 4in. to right-of-way at rear.
LOT 10—No. 804 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied
by Mr. Martin, 19ft. lOJin. frontage by a depth of
about 91ft. 4in. on one side and 62ft. 3Jin. on the
other, to 10ft. and 20ft. rights-of-way at rear.
LOT 11 No. 802 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied
by Mr. Wynne. 18ft. frontage by a mean depth
of, say, 55ft. to 20ft. lane at rear.
LOT 12—The Comer BLOCK OP LAND occupied by
Messrs. Osmond, “ THE BUTTONHOLE,” and others.
77ft. frontage to GEORGE-STREET and 65ft. to
RAWSON-PLACE, by a mean depth of, say, 56ft.
4Jin., with 20ft. right-of-way at rear. THIS IS A
FINE BLOCK, AT THE CORNER OF GEORGE-
STREET and RAWSON-PLACE.
LOTS 13 to 20—Each 20ft. frontage to RAWSON-PLACE,
by depths ranging from 48ft. 2in. to 69ft., excepting
Lot 20, which has 14ft. 7Jin. frontage to RAWSON-
PLACE and 74ft. fin. to PITT-STREET. All these
Blocks have 20ft. lane at rear.
V THE PROPERTIES EMBRACED IN THIS AREA
(GEORGE, PITT, and GIPPS STREETS) include some
of the very best positions in Sydney, and should com-
mand the attention of
TRUSTEES, CAPITALISTS, BUSINESS MEN, AND
SPECULATORS.
2—The ELIZABETH, NEW CASTLEREAGH
and RANDLE STREETS AREAS.
SECTION 1 (as per Plan). —
LOTS 1 to 24, fronting NEW CASTLEREAGH-STREET
and the TRAMWAY LINE, each 20ft. frontage by
varying depths to 20ft. lane at rear, excepting 5
Blocks of larger frontage, 2 BEING FINE BUSINESS
CORNERS.
SECTION 2 (as per Plan). —
LOTS 1 to 14, fronting ELIZABETH and RANDLE-
STREETS, each about 20ft. frontage by varying
depths to 20ft. lane at rear, EXCEPTING THE TWO
CORNER BLOCKS, WHICH ARE GOOD BUSINESS
SITES.
***THE SALE OF THESE VACANT BLOCKS, SO
CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION AND IN THE
WELL-POPULATED PART OF THE CITY, GIVES AN
EXCEPTIONAL CHANCE FOR THE ERECTION OF
BUSINESS PREMISES AND RESIDENCES.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS ARE NOW READY.
HARDIE AKTI3 GORMANT
Have been instructed to sell by Public Auction, in conjunction with
RICHARDSON and WRENCH, Ltd.
ROOMS, 133 PITT STREET,
, and BATT, RODD and PURVES, Ltd., at the SALE-
SYDNEY, at 11.30 o’clock,
MO3XTDAY, MAY 23, 1904,
The SURPLUS LANDS of the CENTRAL RAILWAY STATION APPROACHES, as above described.
TERMSOne-fourth cash, balance 1, 2 and 3 years, interest 4 per cent.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS ARE NOW READY.
GH AS GILBERT’S
miFTOuW
Mail-Order Prize-Winners.
THE following are the Names and Addresses of the three customers who
sent the first, second and third largest orders, with cash, between March
17th and April 30 th, and are the winners in the order named :
C. F. BLANK Esk
R. TAYLOR • Warrnambool Downs, via Winton
M. SHANNON * Saltbush Park, via Eton and Mackay
B
R
I
S
8
LA
N
E
* •
First Prize - <£9 5 O
Second Prize - 3 810
Third Prize - 110 0
Amount spent - JBIB 10 O
Amount spent - lO 6 6
Amount spent - 6 0 0
being respectively half, third and fourth of amounts spent—as promised in
advertisement.
Have you sent for PATTERNS of NEW
WINTER SUITINGS ? If not, write to-day
and compare my selection and values.
NOTE. —Any number may club together in sending orders, and the prize
will be awarded to customer signing letter containing same.
SPECIALITIES
SHARPSHOOTIN6
\v?
For Sport and War,
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
W. W. Greener’s New Miniature Club
Rifles, 310 and 297/230. The Best Rifles
on the market for Kangaroo Shooting
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
W. W. Greener's well-known Guns, Match
Rifles, &c., Reloading Tools for 310
Rifles. A large stock on hand.
Catalogues on application.
C. W. BUCK LAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
mm
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
JESS'" Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE BT., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
The N.S.W. Master Builders’ Association
held its annual dinner recently and brayed to some
purpose. One J. M. Pringle deplored “the ele-
ment of compulsion in the legislation of Australian
communities, which was becoming a danger.’
Whoever heard of legislation which did not con-
tain the element of compulsion ? Even Pringle
would scoff if the law that prevents his cashier
robbing him provided that the penalty for the
cashier’s embezzlement could only be inflicted with
the cashier’s consent and approval; or if the man
who murdered him could only be hanged or im-
prisoned provided he didn’t object. Pringle
would probably have been killed long ago but for
the element of compulsion in the Australian law.
The socialistic farmer again ! Those self-
denying vignerons of Rutherglen (Vic.), who
lately objected to Premier Bent’s proposal to turn
the unused Viticultural College into a Consump-
tives’ Hospital, showed the full strength of their
objections by their subsequent proposal that
“farmers’ sons should get a three months’ course
of training, including board and lodging, for £B.”
Twelve and threepence a week to feed and lodge,
mend and “do for” lusty, growing lads, and a
first-class technical education into the bargain !
And most of the farmers would probably fall in
arrears with the 12s. 3d. and want it written off,
like the irrigation loans and the seed-wheat
money.
If there is anything in the cabled news,
Abdul the Damned —that terrified ruffian with the
long weeping nose, who keeps his palace lighted
up all night for fear of murder or visits from the
ghosts of those he has slaughtered, and who wakes
with a howl of terror from his broken slumbers,
and shoots promiscuously at imaginary assassins—
thinks he sees the end of his European empire in
the near foreground. Austria is pressing him to
execute his promised reforms in Macedonia. Bul-
garia is more than half inclined for war, and Abdul
is said to be sending his loot across to Asia and
preparing to bolt himself when he hears the first
gun in the distance. When he leaves Europe it is
surely up to that country to tell him he had better
not come back.
1
E
r
%
/ms
V '/ |)
, i
S&
5»
/
//
/ / // / mroji\
r m\
! !l\ Mv
From the
Blue Mountains!
PUNLOP
MOTOR
TYRES
Give every Satisfaction, even
over rough
Mountain tracks,
vide the following' letter received :
“ The Ivanhose,”
Blackheath, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.,
Bth April, 1904.
The Manager,
Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. of Aus., Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sir, —A line to let you know that the
Dunlop Motor Tyres you supplied us with for
our Jenolan Caves trip are very satisfactory
indeed and are standing splendidly, which is
saying a great deal when the conditions of
their usage are considered. The cars do their
daily trip from here to the Caves and back—B4
miles—without any hitch, and the mountainous
and rough country over which they travel puts
the tyres to as great a test as tyres are probably
jrat to in any part of the world, but nevertheless they properly stand
the strain and wear well under it. What is the great point, however,
is that we are avoided the expense and trouble which was our lot
prior to fitting your tyres, and I am sure you have devised a tyre
which will give the very best results.
Yours faithfully,
THOS. R. RODRIGUEZ, Managing Director,
Mountain Motor Oar Company,
Repairing and Re-Stripping
Motor Covers a Speciality.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co., of Aus., Ltd.,
150 Clarence-st., Sydney; and ail States.


friend.”
SLmediu
66
REGISTERED trade markno^bs
WD.* H O.y
Lo
LJ
w
f f
l\\\
w
MILD-
MEDIUM
& FULL •
On Grim wade’s selection
F. S. Grimwade, one of Victoria’s 48 Rich Landlords, was
interviewed the other day ; and, as is usual with that style
of person, he got off some remarkable statements about
the land question. He has no belief in compulsory pur-
chase, because “there is any amount offered for sale at
present,” and “ we have more land at our disposal than
we have people to place on it.” Then, to clinch the argu-
ment, Grimwade, reposing in his easy chair in his Caul-
field mansion, said, without a smile : “ I am entirely in
favor of getting the people on the land. In proof of my
statement, I, myself, and my four sons have just selected
10 square miles of the Mallee country, that is, a farm for
each of us.” And just when the interview should have
gone on to describe Grimwade and family as gathering up
their traps and making north to get their land ploughed,
the conversation turned instead on motor-cars and bil-
liard tables ; and the only charitable assumption is either
that Grimwade and his sons know not when it is ploughing
time, or that they have applied to the Government
for seed-wheat and are waiting for its arrival. There is
probably nothing in this weary world quite so exasperat-
ing as the twaddle of wealthy, fat, and comfortable people
of the Grimwade class about going on the land. Grim-
wade’s “ farm ” is in Melbourne city, where he makes his
money, and he probably doesn’t know a harrow from a
furrow. He has a toy farm at Bittern, near Melbourne,
where fancy horses and cattle are attended to by pro-
fessional grooms ; and when Grimwade trots out after
lunch, with a cigar, and inspects the latest arrival, he
possibly believes that he is “ on the land ” and “ develop-
ing our great natural resources.” And, considering the
wealth of Grimwade, it is quite easy to believe that the secur-
ing of as much land as he wants is no trouble to him, and
why it should trouble anyone else beats him completely.
Yet if Grimwade really went farming in the Mallee, and
saw some of the country that the farmers in the far north
are attacking, he might begin to have a gleam of common-
sense. Probably if he saw his own selection in a dry
season he would drop dead or take a fit. And in the latter
event, when he recovered he might admit that the hold-
ing of big estates—practically unused —in the fertile, well-
watered western and southern districts is an evil of grave
dimensions. At any rate, Tiik Bulletin will be pleased
to hear when Grimwade and his sons have taken possession
of their Mallee selections, what luck they have with their
crops, and whether they intend to go in for summer fal-
lowing.
Arthur Griffith (who, finding that local men
are available for Sturt, will most likely contest
the Narrabri district seat in the N.S.W. Assembly
instead) rakes the N.S.W. Temperance Alliance
in a recent letter. As a member of the Alliance,
he points out that in no single instance in recent
by-elections did the Political Selection Com-
mittee select a supporter of either the Govern-
ment or the Labor party. For instance :
At Waratah, though the Labor candidate (Mr. Charlton)
was a strong local optionist, and a man with an abso-
lutely clean record, the endorsement of the Alliance was
given to the opposition candidate, a gentleman who, at a
previous election, after pledging himself to the local
optionists, did the same to the licensed victuallers, who
on the day prior to the election sent a printed circular to
every publican in the electorate stating that he (your
candidate) had accepted their pledge, and had their
endorsement. This fact was well-known to the members
of the committee, who selected him against Mr. Charlton,
but evidently any treachery towards the cause of temper-
ance can be overlooked in a man who consistently opposed
the Labor party.
The same thing happened at Willoughby, where
Wade, the Alliance candidate, had the cordial
support of Bung —and apparently deserved it,
Wade not being even a local optionist. It looks
as though N.S.W. teetotal ism-in-politics isn’t a
scheme to promote teetotalism, but a device to get
into Parliament any drunkard or publican who
will support Joey Curruthers, and to keep out
every total abstainer who is suspected of demo-
cratic principles.
SOME
SOLD
SIR ROBERT!
hfd
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACIH
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. Th-e new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Fop, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 6d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus. , Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GutDE(simple testsfor minerals),
3s6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy's Priest, Woman, and tiie Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Gamille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. AM these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice io Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s (id. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Adviceto a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 7s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Curb, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather hound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
DO YOU Blixrow,——l
WILL FITWELL
is still on th.o old premiaea ?
B. R. MORAN, 179 c Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
« M
.»» .
WHY SUFFER
the ILLS and WOES of the flesh, when you
will be MADE STRONG, HEALTHY, and
VIGOROUS by SIMPLY WEARING one
of OUR IMPROVED and PATENTED
“ GLADIATOR ” ELECTRIC BELTS ?
Call or send for price list and GENUINE
TESTIMONIALS, post free. Address—
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.


There are SOAPS and SOAPS.
But for a NURSERY SOAP
there is no Soap like
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR
SOAP.
It leaves the skin w|th a wonderful feeling
of refreshment, and
PROTECTS FROM INFECTION.
the nursery soap.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound! that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation j but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don't say perhaps ; but I WII,U. Because
others have failed is no reason for not How being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b ix. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : KLLIOTT BItOS., Sydney. Purchasers sltould
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyriglv*}.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Hegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
m
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: *' 1 Viyella ' has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
WEAK AND
AILING
The outlook for a baby’s life, if he begins
his first day weak and ailing, is certainly not
rosy! There are numberless children’s ail-
ments, and, if there is no strength to resist
them, they soon become serious ! Then the
pity of it is that so many experiments are
made with preparations that do not help !
Such preparations being unsuitable make the
child worse instead of better, even if for no
other reason than that they waste time.
Scott’s Emulsion is not one of the wrong
things. It is essentially the right thing, and
this has been proved in every civilized quarter
of the globe and certified to by doctors and
nurses. If you are sceptical on this point you
at least could try Scott’s Emulsion, and we
will guarantee that no harm shall come to the
weak and ailing child, and that no time will
be wasted in beginning a cure ! But perhaps
you would prefer an independent witness :
17 Ross-street, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W., August 14th, 1903.
Dear Sirs, —My baby boy had been weak
and ailing from birth, and although I tried all
sorts of foods and medicines, none seemed
Seth. Southeron,
At the age of 14
months he weighed
only 141bs. At last,
reading of the good
that Scott’s Emulsion
had done in similar
cases, I tried it. Now,
after three months’
treatment, the change
is altogether surpris-
ing and satisfactory.
He has gained in
weight remarkably,
sleeps well, has a
splendid appetite,
and is full of life and
spirits. I can safely say that, without Scott’s
Emulsion, my baby would not have been the
bright, healthy child he now is ! Yours truly,
(Mrs.) E. Southeron.
Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.
If you want perfect Health yourself
or desire it for your children, write
to Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
send 4d. (for postage), name this
paper, and you will receive a free
sample bottle. Note this Trade
Mark when buying. Of all chemists.
fd
Landgrabbers and Immigrants.
In response to ex-Premier Deakin’s inquiry as to
lands available for settlement, the Queensland
authorities, in an endeavor to attract-settlers, have
succeeded in showing what a landlord-cursed State
they control. Their report, in fact, is a direct
incentive to farmers to keep away from Queens-
land. In a large and loose fashion it is casually
mentioned that Queensland has 62,927,920 acres of
unoccupied or unalienated land. This, however,
is admitted to be mostly a desert, and the total is
reduced to “8,613,453 acres suitable for farming,
dairying, etc.” These figures in themselves would
lead anyone not conversant with Queensland con-
ditions to believe that the Northern State is a
promised land only wanting thousands of settlers.
If any intending immigrant has come across the
figures mentioned he should go slow and, before
venturing North, digest the following further
facts culled from the Queensland State report.
Within 200 miles, or so south and west of Brisbane
there is no Crown land suitable for farming to be
had. The land-grabbers hold it, and the farmers
must either buy at fancy prices or rent. To the
west, from Dalby to Chinchilla, about 100,000
acres of scrubby or prickly-pear land, with a 29in.
rainfall, are available. Further west the rainfall
gradually decreases. Roma has been a long agony
to present settlers through drought and distance
from port and market, and only recently got a lift
through a co-operative mill. Going north, be-
tween Brisbane and Gympie, 245,000 acres are
available, scattered patches, mountainous and
heavily timbered, with 48in. rainfall. Kilkivan
to Nanago, 96,000 acres of good to no good,
heavily timbered, with 30in. rainfall. Mary-
borough to Degilbo, 12,000 acres, 40in. rainfall.
Maryborough to Cordalba, 90,000 acres of poor
quality. Maryborough to Bundaberg, 200,000
acres, 33in. rainfall. Bundaberg to Mount Perry,
land from good to poor, sandy, and quartz ridges,
33in. rainfall. Bundaberg to Gladstone, land fit
for grazing only. Rockhampton, ditto. To get to
anything like good land west of Rockhampton the
Brisbane conditions must be faced, and the farmer
must either buy at big prices, pay heavy rents, or
go hundreds of miles from market and port.
Mackay, where sugar-growers can’t afford to pay
their indebtedness to the State, has 130,000 acres,
but it is all far away from port and rail. Bowen,
ditto. Townsville to Wmton may be left out
as unsuitable, through drought and distance
from markets. Ingham has some few stray
flats along creeks. Mourilyan, Geraldton, and
Cairns district are alienated with the excep-
tion of rough and inaccessible patches. Summed
up, it is doubtful if Queensland has 1,000,000
acres of good, unalienated farming land. Then
there is distance from rail and port to consider.
Yet within a 100 mile radius of Warwick, Bris-
bane, Bundaberg, Maryborough and Rockhampton
there are millions of acres of good farming land
close to railways and ports. But they are held
for squatting purposes, or kept idle as a spec, by
men who grabbed the areas at 2s. 6d. or so per
acre. These are the lands wanted, and instead of
talking big to attract immigrants, or paltering
with the problem by buying out an odd big estate
or two, the proper course is to put on a thumping
graduated land tax and provide for compulsory
resumption. This procedure would force the land-
grabbers’ hands, and yield much needed revenue.
To attempt to settle big populations on the land
at present available, or to induce settlers by false
pretences to go out in a partial desert 200 or 300
miles inland, is a course that would reflect dis-
credit on a ping-pong club, let alone a State
Ministry.
The Stranded Australians in Chow Africa.
The Bulletin again suggests that it is time for
the Australian Government or the State Govern-
ments to lend a hand to help the deluded Austra-
lians now stranded in South Africa back to their
native land ; It was time, as a matter of fact, long
ago, but it is more than time now. Australia wants
population of the right kind, and these people are
mostly a sturdy, adventurous race, a thousand
times preferable to the class that Booth of the
Nose proposes to send us from England. They
can be got at small outlay of public money. They
are acquainted with Australia, and are far more
likely to make their way here than the raw new-
chum from England. They want to come here;
it isn’t necessary to pay lecturers to lie
about “magnificent natural resources,” and
to show limelight views of an impossible
kangaroo and a “ native bear,” drawn out
of all perspective, in order to attract
them. They are mostly men who have learned by
sad experience that Australia, with all its draw-
backs, is a better land than the average, and they
will come back to circulate the news among other
Australians that the distant hill which looks green
is not to be relied upon, and that it is better to do
everything possible for the improvement of this
country than to rush abroad in search of the land
we. don’t know. They will come back as a solid
reinforcement to the White Australia party, for
they have looked on the Chinaman at close
quarters and found him yellow, and they have
smelt the coolie at short range and found him rank.
They are good democrats to a man ; a sorry ex-
perience of the ways of Crown colony administra-
tion is a sufficient guarantee of that. Many of
them left wives here when they went away on the
luckless search for wealth, and for these wives
something should be done. In any case, and
apart from all other considerations, these stranded
citizens are Australians and have a solid and
enduring claim on us. The multitudes of stranded
Britishers in the land which Milner and
Chamberlain have ruined are not our affair, but
as regards the Australians over there the position
is different. Most of them are not the undesirable
swashbucklers of the war, but respectable, deluded
individuals who went across in the luckless and
misguided rush which followed the declaration of
peace, and in the main they are eminently
desirable citizens. Some democratic politician
who wants to help the Birth-rate should move in
the matter.
♦
“ Waitati ” from Maoriland :
Premier Seddon declared the other day “he would
rather wear out than rust out.” This was apropos to the
big man’s indisposition, about which there appears to be
much ignorance or misunderstanding. About three years
ago Seddon had a slight stroke—left arm numbed.
Doctors forbade whisky and smokes. Seddon was
passionately fond of cigars, but gave them up. Lately
he has been working night and day, travelling far and
near, going without proper rest, and generally over-
running the constable. Becently he had another slight
stroke —left arm numbed, and intense agony through
brain-fag. He has been told by the doctors that he must
regard both seizures as solemn warnings, and must either
go slow or break down altogether. When, the other day,
the arrangements had to be made to renew one loan and
to provide for another, Seddon had an anxious time.
The worry—coming on top of his Herculean efforts in the
Southern constituencies—told on the big man. Why the
efforts in the constituencies ? Because it is on the cards
there will be a dissolution this year. The freeholders
(foreign cheap labor men) claim to be in the majority, and
Massey (Tory leader) means to put the matter to the test.
If Seddon is defeated he will go to the country, where the
question of whether John M'Kenzie's land policy shall or
shall not be destroyed will be fought out. In the midst
of his other troubles Seddon will more than likely have to
face an Independent Labor party ; the railway men are
discontented ; the cry of country v. town is being raised ;
and there will be a fierce struggle between the Prohi-
bitionists and Bung. Altogether, the outlook is stormy,
and the “ old man,” as he loves to be called, has been
preparing for the fray in the electorates. Maoriland
politics will be worth watching during the next few
months.
4
Some sentences from the annual report of Vic-
toria’s diiector of Education, Frank Tate, should
be burned into the souls of the Deform Leaguers.
Tate is one of the livest and most energetic
officers the State possesses, but he is being dis-
couraged and baffled at every turn by the crowd
that the Deformers put into power. The whole
tone of the report is that of a disappointed man.
He says:—
There is such a thing as an unreasoning and unreason-
able insistence upon parsimony in the name of economy,
and the result is often widespread mischief and deteriora-
tion of a good system. Good education, like every other
commodity, demands its fair price, and if that is not
forthcoming the article served out soon suffers. This is
the experience of recent years in our State.
On the subject of the employment of ill-trained,
ill-paid pupil teachers, which is insisted upon by
the cheap Deform Leaguers, Tate remarks :
If we are to realise in our work the leading conceptions
of education, we must maintain a steady supply of well-
trained, well-educated young teachers. It is cant of the
worst kind to talk of the high moral effect of true educa-
tion, of the development of real mental power, of the
necessity of thoroughness in instruction, of the desira-
bility of getting rid of unreality and formalism in favor of
reality and close contact with the facts of life, of teaching
subjects in-wide relationship, and of giving power to apply
* knowledge in every-day affairs ; if we at the same time rest
content with the starved, illiberal pupil-teacher system
which obtains in Victoria.
Later on Tate points out that at present Victoria
is employing as monitors (the monitor is even a
cheaper folly than the pupil teacher) boys and
girls from 14 to 20 years of age at salaries of £l2
and £lO a year. Some of these have served for
over five years in the hope of getting appoint-
ments as pupil-teachers. Tate also shows that the
present cry in Victoria for technical instruction is
largely a “parrot cry.” The existing technical
schools, although managed locally, are wretchedly
supported, and little or no interest is taken in
them.
♦
N.S. Wales Public Service is still worrying as to
the ultimate effect of the higher grade examina-
tions established by the P.S. Board last year.
These exams, are compulsory to all those who
have entered the service since 1895, and without
passing them no one can rise beyond £3OO a year.
While not compulsory for those who joined prior
to 1895, an uneasy feeling prevails that no one can
expect substantial advancement without passing
this test, and the test is that required by the
highest form of a first-rate education. Three
persons have already passed the first examina-
tion. One, a junior officer, who, fresh from
a University career as he was, found the
academic and quasi-university examination
an almost easy task, while those doubly
his senior, in age, position, length of service and
value to the Public Service, shrink from the idea of
facing it. The Public Service Association has now
undertaken to wrestle with the Board over the
question with a view to a repeal of the regulations
referring to the higher grade exam. For their
repeal there is ample precedent. The _P.S. Associ-
ation was born out of the ferment arising from the
fact that in 1898 a system of examination was
bestowed on the Service as a whole. A few
months after the whole lot was abolished. One
man had two colleagues at this time. He sat for
exam, and passed flying. No. 1 friend failed.
No. 2 friend’s heart caved in, and he funked the
exam. These three now rank in this order in the
Service. The man that failed, Ist ; he who
funked, 2nd; he who passed, 3rd. The Indian
Government, by the way, has just swept away the
system of competitive examinations for the public
service, finding it “harmful.”-
’ °
Talk about Japanese fondness for bathing
is impressive until one learns that sometimes as
many as 300 persons take turns in using a tub
withput a change of water, and therefore the
dainty freshness of the geisha is not all it seems.
“ Brumby ” : Be “ M.G.’s ” par (B.
31/4/’O4) about sun causing hair to grow. Have
noticed after long course of sun-baths, incidental
to salt-water bathing, great hair-growth more
particularly on arms and legs. This can be
observed in the case of any laborer whose sleeves
are rolled up at work. Hair from elbows to hands
is thick and lustrous, out of proportion to that on
rest of body. While on subject, I know a lady
nearly 70 years old, with a beautiful head of thick
black hair. She has for years rubbed paraffin oil
into the roots frequently and regularly. She de-
veloped religious mania some years ago, but
whether through the paraffin or not I don’t know.
“Anticipations.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have been reading H. G. Wells’ book bearing
the above title. A brilliant book. I gather from
it that by the end of the present century (or there-
abouts) London will cover two-thirds of England ;
Glasgow will extend from the Cheviot Hills to the
Highland Line; a great city (name not fixed) to
be established in the Rhine valley will have Paris
for its west end; another great city will have its
centre in the valley of the Po and will spread over
all northern Italy; and so on. The great new
asphalted roads that will make a network over the
globe will be “swarming with a multitudinous
traffic of mechanisms,” and “linking wires will
stretch from pole to pole.” The fortunate people
who will live in this glorious coming time will be
chiefly of the engineer persuasion—severe, mechani-
cal men. Love will be no longer a passion.
Monogamy will be encouraged, but not insisted
upon. The Coming Men will not (at least not all
at once) throw God into the mythological dust-
bin. No—“ Being themselves, as by the nature of
the forces that have selected them they will cer-
tainly be, men of will and purpose, they will be
disposed to find, and consequently they will find,
an effect of purpose in the totality of things.”
This is handsomely said. It will, no doubt, be a
comfort to the Infinite whose shadow is light, as
Plato observed, to know that He will not be paid
off absolutely and put out of commission.
The New Man of the Future,
The Man of Mr. Wells,
Is he the Man-Child glorious
That Emerson foretells ?
Not so. He will be wiser
Than seer in dreams has seen :
Thin-lipped, severe, and cold, and clear—
A flesh-and-blood machine.
He will do things stupendous :
The grave, astonished stars
Will see a grand old earth gone mad
With monster motor-cars.
The New Man will march onward,
Implacable as Fate,
And topple down both cross and crown,
To build his great World-State.
The passionate Little Peoples—
The Irish, Welsh, and Greek—
For rights of race, and some small space
Of earth, shall vainly shriek.
The Man who has no bowels
Will, though he hears their yells,
Pursue his plan—the cold-eyed Man,
The Man of Mr. Wells.
When he goes forth to war with
Some still unconquered foe,
No banners fair shall flaunt the air,
No martial trumps shall blow.
. Not his the Berserk madness
That glories in the fight,
No cannon-crash or sabre-flash
His warriors shall delight.
Above his silent soldiers
No pennons brave shall fly,
But they will go to meet the foe —
Cold murder in each eye.
The house that he will dwell in,
This coming Engineer,
Shall be, like him, austere and grim,
And all devoid of cheer.
No fire its gloom shall brighten
With play of light and shade.
It shall be warmed —we are informed—
v By heat in pipes conveyed.
No delicate smoke-spirals
Shall from its roof aspire—
For it shall lack a chimney-stack,
As it will have no fire.
That house will hold no pictures
But engineering scenes ;
And four machine-made children
Shall play with toy-machines.
His wife shall be a lady
Of vigor and of vim,
Severe, austere, and cold and clear,
And “adequate to him.”
She will be fond of flowers,
We’re told —I think I know
The style, erect and circumspect,
In which she’ll make them grow.
This is the future festive
The Folkestone seer foretells —
Thank God that we shall never see
The Man of Mr. Wells !
V.J.D.


Australian stocks did not fall when the
Labor Ministry accepted office, • but stocks of
D.C.L. Whisky are always falling—down the
throats of wise Australians. They fall th’usly that
Australia may rise to the topmost height of
health, prosperity and happiness. The mission of
D.C.L. is to do good in our time, and to maintain
the Constitution of this Greater Britain in the
centuries to come.*
A NOVEL PAPER CUTTER, '
the design of which is illustrated above. It is a minature
sword and sheath, similar to those being used by the
Japanese in the present war, only of course smaller. The
blade is of polished steel, with nicely ornamented hilt
and plain polished steel scabbard. It is lOin. long and is
a most complete, useful and novel office requisite. The
price is most reasonable, being only 4s. 6d., post free, to
any part of Australia. Obtainable only from A. Saunders,
Sydney’s leading jeweller and optician, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street, opposite Railway Station, Sydney. ,
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent.*
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS invariably bring relief to women
suffering from chronic constipation, headaches,
biliousness, dizziness, sallowness of the skin and
dyspepsia.*
N.S.W. Ornithological Association will
hold its 10th annual show of canaries and other
cage birds at the Railway Institute, on May 26
and two following days ; entries close May 14, at
J. D. Reid and Co.’s.
Boulder Deep Levels, Kalgoorlie, a combination
of Great Boulder South and Boulder Bonanza, is being
boomed for all it is worth. The bulk of the scrip is said
to be held by Frank Gardner. So far back as 1899 the
co.’s report stated that “ payable ore is being opened up ;
vein in Gardner shaft at depth of 368 ft. is Ift. 6in. wide,
assaying 3oz. per ton.” Since then many similar puffs
have been published, and at various times it has been an-
nounced that test parcels were to be treated, but no re-
sults were ever forthcoming. Some six months ago it was
stated that the diamond drill, boring from the 900 ft. level,
had cut a sft. lode worth 3oz. per ton, 180 ft. from the
shaft. This ore body is now alleged to have been located
by crosscutting ; hence the boomlet. It is said to be the
Morrison lode, which is being worked in the adjoining
Hannan’s Star, and which has always proved patchy, and,
on the whole, low-grade. Scrip can’t be seriously recom-
mended on present showing; and it is just as well to leave
professional speculators to have the gamble among them-
* ♦ * *
Lady Shenton, Menzies ( W. A. ), has acquired a
new property about one mile south. It is stated that
four lodes traverse the leases, which consist of 103 acres.
Original prospectors treated 1918 tons for a yield of
27830 z., which reads very well; but, like many other
things, may not be what it seems. Ex-Govt.-Geologist
Goeczel and Falconer, late of Associated Northern Blocks,
and now manager of Lady Shenton, strongly advised
acquisition of new property.
♦ * * *
Bellevue Prop., Mt. Sir Samuel (W.A.), con-
tinues to publish much better assays, but the on
the mine leaves a lot to be desired. In the be/.naing of
December the new main shaft was down 244 ft., while, in
the beginning of March, the total depth was given as
262 ft., which would mean the extravagant rata of sinking
of 6ft. a month ! And this mine is managed by Bewick,
Moreing, and 00., the alleged champion mining engineers
of Australia. Certainly, the assays recently published are
a long way ahead of the figures given a few months ago,
but something must be wrong with the mine or the
management when the crushings and assays don’t tally,
or anywhere near it. It is difficult to get any reliable
news of the property, or how the new 40-head mill is pro.
gressing, but it seems a safe thing to leave scrip alone,
seeing that 8., M. and 00. have 230,000 shares to get rid of
before they make anything out of the deal.
* * * $
A little flutter is being tried in North Kalgurli
(W.A.) on the strength of an alleged find of 18dwt. ore
over a width of 4ft., 100 ft. south of the shaft at the 500 ft.
level. The country at this level, and practically down to
1000 ft., is very much disturbed, and it is very unlikely
that this find will show any permanency at the level now
opened up. A great deal is made of the fact that since
the mill started an alleged profit of £l2OO a month has
been earned ; but the fact that some £28,000 appears in
the balance sheet against development, or practically £1
a ton on every ton in sight, is gently put aside. "The
alleged profit is a pure myth. Since the mill started no
development worth speaking of has been put in hand,
and the fact that thousands of pounds were previously
expended in opening up the ore bodies now being treated
is quietly ignored. This may be good for rigging the
market, but it is not playing the game. ,
North Boulder, Kalgoorlie, has been galvanised
into life by an alleged development at 900 ft. In cross-
cutting eastward at this level a lode was cut at 213 ft,
which assayed lOdwt. for lft. and 3oz. for another foot.
Too much heed need not be paid to this development, as
the lodes in this eastern country have proved delusive
wherever they have been tested. For the sake of the un-
fortunate shareholders in the co., it is to be hoped that
everything will pan out all right, but for those who have
suffered disappointments in the eastern belt of the .Brown
Hill, Brown Hill Extended, and Oroya East, a further dis-
appointment will now mean little.
* * * *
Black Range (W.A.) Government battery has
told an ominous tale. One lot of stone averaged nearly
20z., but 50 tons from the Werrimuna lease only gave
200 z., and 57 tons from the Eclipse gave 270 z. Experience
of the Murchison proves that the richest stone is always
near the surface. Hans Irvine is now interested in
about 140 acres at the Range. He appears to
have the pick of the basket in the Bell Chambers
and Hack and Dent’s leases ; crushings have been 230
tons for 12820 z. and 674 tons for 28150 z. respec-
tively. The deepest workings are, however, only 120 ft.,
where the reef averages lift, to 3ft. and assays from loz.
to 3oz. Water is scarce, and the 10-head battery can only
work one-third time. Still it is only a matter of sinking, as
water is plentiful all over that part of the Murchison, and
there is no scarcity of mulga timber—excellent for fuel
and for most mining purposes. Looks as though Black
Range will prove a staid and respectable field—such
another as Lawler’s further east and Abbott’s away up
north on the Peak Hill track.
* * * *
There are now 17 State batteries on Westralian
goldfields, nine of them equipped with cyanide plants.
During March 5932 tons were put through for an aggre-
gate 56990 z., a little less than loz. per ton, but had it not
been for three very high returns from Lennonville, Leo-
nora and Niagara the average would have been under half
an ounce. Battery receipts totalled £5240, and the
estimated expenditure was. £sl2o,,leaving very little for
interest, wear and tear, and administration. Since the
State started to run batteries a great many wild cats ;have
been knocked on the head, and the want of crushing
facilities can no longer be pleaded as a reason for shep-
herding auriferous ground. For these advantages alone
State batteries have justified their existence, but they are
clearly proving that outside a few areas the gold yield is
not increasing. Up to date, State batteries have crushed
172,165 tons for 208,0000 z., including cyanide. Best figures
are—Mulline, 33,202 tons for 46,5570 z. ; Lennonville
15,532 tons for 23,7670 z. ; Mount Ida, 13,344 for 15,3270 z. ;
Norseman, 14,919 for 15,1790 z. ; Mulwarrie, 11,799 for
15,2890 z. ; and Niagara, 13,003. for 14,6720 z. With the
exception of Norseman and a couple of others, there has
been a falling off on every field where a State battery has
been erected ; and the same applies to the older mining
centres where crushing facilities have long existed.
* « * *
Ravenswood (Queensland) promises; well. The
New Ravenswood Ltd. has paid Bull handsome dividends
almost from the jump. Some London people, following
up their success, have embarked upon the Ravenswood
Deep. A shaft is already down 1060 ft. (vertical), having
gone 112 ft. during last month. That is not too slow,
especially as 124 ft. has been timbered. The shaft has
passed through several payable reefs, and may presently
strike the big one which the co. is after. Levels will
then be opened up. Already it is certain that the
mine will be a fair one, and later it may prove big.
The co. is proceeding on sound lines, and money for
development and equipment is being spent wisely. It
does not appear as if “ Deeps” were capable of as much
gold per ton, as the New Ravenswood, but this chance is
probably balanced by its apparent capacity for greater
tonnage. During next few months this field should be
worth watching. The ores are refractory, and contain,
besides gold, copper, arsenic, antimony, and other things.
As much gold as possible is recovered on the field by
amalgamation ; the rest of the metal is sent to smelters in
the shape of concentrates. The remaining shows are
mostly small, comparatively speaking, but occasionally a
div. looms up. The London recently declared one, and
straight away the bottom fell out of it, which was prqbably
as much the fault of the management as of the mine,
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) returns for Apri1—14,732 tons for
11,1850 z. gold. Compared with same month of last year
this is a falling off of 11460 z. gold, although 483 tons more
ore was treated. Still the comparison is not worth much,
as South Glanmire and Monkland, one of the larger shows,
did not clean up, but ran on for six weeks. No. 2 South
Great Eastern and Scottish Gympie account for the
bulk of the production. South Great Eastern re-
turn was 3900 tons for 45620 z., and a dividend ;
Scottish Gympie’s 6800 tons for 23720 z. ; this
is getting low down in contents. Exactly what grade
of stuff the Scottish treats is not easily seen. As is the
case all over the field, there is always a box of “speci-
mens ” handy to improve things a bit. Scottish apparently
can stand some specimens. Best return of the month
comes from No. 1 North Smithfield—26s tons for 13160 z.
No. 1 North Smithfield, and the North Smithfield without
any “No. 1,” each paid a div. No. 4 North Phoenix has
struck a poor patch ; returns 848 tons for 4060 z. It is
when the gold contents fade like this that the co. wishes
it was a Scottish Gympie in development and equipment.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Dora Rignold and Thomas Holding, late of Musgrove’a
Shakspearean co., are now formally engaged to be mar-
ried. An interesting young couple—grave and handsome,
and remarkably like one another in appearance and
manner. The resemblance was worked for all it was
worth when they played Viola and Sebastian, the twin
sister and brother in “ Twelfth Night.”
London Chronicle reporting an interview with Melba :
“ The interviewer had one question more. The effect was
electrical, as he asked, ‘ Did Madame ever think of
retiring ? ’ Melba, the great Melba, sprang to her feet.
‘My good fellow, I’m not forty yet. Retire ? Retire ?
When I’m forty-five, perhaps. But now—Never!’” And
she laughed long and merrily. The idea of retirement
was so ridiculous,
Adelaide Skating Rink, opened t’other week, advertised
its respectability in a quite definite manner. Over its
outer gate looms the following notice : “ No person will
be admitted to this rink unless becomingly attired.” A
further notice inside the building implores patrons to
assist in maintaining order and ejecting undesirable
persons.
Miss Eva Quinn, who was drawn from an astonished
chorus in the Tree 00. (Melbourne branch) to take the
part of the imported Miss Noble as attendant to Princess
Yo-San, and who again is given a forward part in the
“ Sign of the Cross,” used to dazzle the tea-drinkers at a
Collins-street cafe with her luminous eye ere she took to
the boards.
Touching “ The Cingalee,” which is the newest musical
comedy in London, Courtneidge writes out that “Carrie
Moore in a small part is excellent—the best in the show.’ 1
The curious are watching with interest the feud between
the big theatrical companies and the Lyttelton Times
(M.L.). For a long time past advance agents and managers
have read the slogging criticisms in that paper with dis
gust. It didn’t matter what sort of company it was, it
had to take its daily morning gruel. So the word was
passed round —and is still being passed round —to ignore
the paper altogether in the advertising line. The Times
is considering the position with its hand in its trousers
pocket, and is giving “ jammy ” notices whether shows
advertise or not.
From reports brought back by people who were away in
Chow Africa with Ada Crossley, things don’t seem to be
gorgeous there. The very best co. doing comic opera
round Capetown, Jew’burg, Durban and the other centres
has nothing to show in the way of all-round excellence
among its stars, and the chorus consists of eight young
ladies of the chair-warmer type, and four male choristers.
For brutal contempt for political decency
in the conduct of elections it would be difficult to
equal the latest achievement of Yic. Premier
Bent, the Bear of Brighton. Speaking at Lear-
month, in support of Kirton as the Deformed can-
didate for Ballarat, Bent indulged in some
characteristic clamor. Even if Tommy knows not
Walpole, he accepts his dictum that .every man
has his price. His speech concluded :
He had determined, at the instance of Mr. Kirton, he
might say, to place an order for five engines with the
Plicenix Foundry, at Ballarat.
In other words, he tells the people of Ballarat:
“ Support Kirton, the man who is able to persuade
Me to give you engine-building jobs.”
S. Australia had practically abolished
hanging, but the Jenkins Executive revives it,
and sends Thomas Horton to the gallows in spite
of the emphatic opinion of the superintendent of
the S.A. lunatic asylum that the man is insane,
and in spite of the fact that there has been insanity
on both sides of his family. In the past 24 years
S.A. has had only five executions, and in nearly
all of those cases the most interested person
was either a black or yellow man. This time he
seems to be a madman.
As The Bulletin went to press, George
Reid had publicly intimated, in his Mosman
speech, that he is willing to sink his principles
for the sake of office if Deakin will only join him
so that he can get office. Anything that is sink-
able Reid will be willing to sink. This isn’t out
of any patriotic objection to Premier Watson’s
Parliamentary policy, for that policy hasn t been
announced yet. Nor is it through any yearning
after the pure and holy principle of majority rule,
for it isn’t yet certain that a majority won t gather
around Watson when his policy is announced. It
is just office-hunger, plain and undisguised.
The Sydney Telegraph on its pet bogey
of “socialism” :
While we quite admit the stagnating influence of
socialism, it may be questioned if its effect will prove
quite so disastrous as foreshadowed. .. . The effect
produced will be to limit, and at worst wipe out the
iidustries which the socialists aim at making more:
remunerative to labor, and then labor must seek an
outlet on the land where socialism does not hold sway.
... In Maoriland, where socialistic doctrines have made
yet more headway, than they have here, the effect is
largely to direct enterprise into other channels which are
free.
Which is the usual Telegraph lie, as might be
expected. In Maoriland, instead of enterprise
being directed ' from manufacturing industries
which are most affected by socialistic legislation
and high Protection and ‘ 4 seeking an outlet on
the land ” to get away from socialism, the hands
employed in manufactures increased from 27,389
in 1895 to 48,718 in 1910, the last-year for which
returns are available. No Australian State,
though both Victoria and N.S.W. have a much
larger population than Maoriland, shows anything
like such an increase. These figures can be found
in Coghlan’s statistics, and are further backed up
by the fact that the TELEGRAPH says the contrary.
20 Strong Reasons Against the Possibility of a "White Australia.”
Because —the sun being the cause of
colour in the human skin, turns all the
people brown or black according to the
intensity of its rays. All men who are
much out of doors in the tropics must be-
come coloured. At Townsville, Thursday
Island, Port Darwin, and all parts of
tropical Australia, any part of the white
man’s body that has been exposed for any
time out of doors has become the colour
of a Malay, and if they were to go naked
they would become that colour all over,
and for this reason a tropical "White Aus-
tralia” is impossible.
Because— the white man cannot live
and work in the tropics. He is subject to
malarial and other tropical complaints, and
becomes enervated in body. With the
woman it is worse ; she is everywhere puny
or a wreck, and children born are weakly,
and half of them die early. Some tropical
countries are worse than others; for in-
stance, on the West Coast of Africa the
average life of soldiers and missionaries is
only two years. Nowhere, either in India, in
Farther India, in the Indian Archipelego, in
Africa, in America, or in any other part of the
tropics does the white man work; every-
where the coloured man works, and the
white man with his advanced knowledge
and capital does the bossing, and this Will
probably be so in the near future in tropical
Australia.
Because—every seventh person at present
in Australasia is coloured or partly coloured,
including Australian Aborigines, Papuans,
Kanakas, Chinese, Japanese, Indians,
Negroes, Malays, Syrians, Maories, Eurasi-
ans, etc. These will blend and re-blend
with the white population, and consequently,
from this cause alone, there cannot be a
" White Australia.”
Because —in every country of the world
people of all races are mixing their blood
with’ that of other races, particularly with
that of other races living contiguous to and
among those of their own blood. There
is no exception to this universal mixing,
more or less everywhere. For overwhelm-
ing proof ot this see Part 3 of "A White
Australia Impossible,” showing the mixture
from various causes ot more than 90 nations
Because —some of the objections to the
coloured men or Asiatics are no real objec-
tions ; for instance, the objection to the
insanitary condition of the average Asiatic
can be removed by the application of sanitary
laws, and there are millions of families in
Europe each living in a single dirty, un-
healthy room ; and certain parts of large
cities, such as Naples, Marseilles, London
and New York, are just as crowded and
unclean as any Asiatics’ quarter, while some
of the Asiatics are very clean in their per-
son, living, and habits. The Japanese, for
instance, bathe every day, and are at least
one of the cleanest, if not the cleanest, people
on earth. ——
Because —it would make Australia dis-
liked by all the coloured people of the world
for her selfishness and insulting attitude.
Because —it would make Australia a
laughing-stock to the world for attempting
to carry out an unnatural and impossible
policy.
Because —Jesus Christ was an Asiatic and
a coloured man, and taught that all men are
brethren, and many millions of " white men ’
worship Him and believe His teaching.
Because —Paul, the great apostle of the
Gentiles, was an Asiatic and a coloured man
and taught that all men of all nations were
of one blood, and because his teaching is
believed by many millions as the word of
God.
Because —the feeling of human rights
and human equity is deeply implanted in
man’s better nature, and will assert itself
in spite of all opposition ; and, therefore,
this iniquitous colour and class legislation
cannot last long.
Because—in spite of all colour and racial
and national and caste and religious and
other prejudices a fee ing of universal kin-
ship and universal brotherhood exists
between all the human race, and no enact-
ments of human legislators can permanently
set it aside, and therefore therte cannot per-
manently be a “ White Australia.”
Because —the love of travel and the
facilities and opportunities for travel are
increasing, and people will see and under-
stand more of the world, and realize that
human beings everywhere are very much
alike. Marquis Ito, who has been six
times to Europe, with his mental eyes open
each time, in referring to some of our legis-
lators, said, " A little extension of their
vision beyond the confines of their territory
will not do them harm.”
Because —the feelings of the English
Government and people are against the
policy, and nearly the whole British Em-
pire, six-sevenths of which are coloured, are
against the policy. Referring to my enquiry
about the feeling in Japan, the British
Minister at Tokyo, Sir Claude Macdonald,
wrote :—" I think you are doing a good
work, and I wish you all success.”
Because— every country on earth must,
and ere long will be free for any honest,
respectable man to live in.
Because—the humanity of Australia itself
will in time revolt at such a selfish and in-
human law, will probably gradually relax it,
and finally abolish it altogether.
Because —Australia, being able to supply
Java, Japan, China, and other countries
with natural products, such as frozen and
preserved meats, fruits, jams, butter, wool,
leather, etc., the interested, irresistible
power of commerce will break down the
barriers of our "White Australia."
Because—many of India’s 300 million.,
of intelligent, indu; trious, and overflowing
population, who form a part of the British
Empire, and of whom many millions can
already speak English, are bound to come
gradually as friends, or later on as foes.
Because —China with her 400 millions
of intelligent, industrious, and increasing
population, is already overflowing into Ton-
king, Siam, Burmah, and right down through
the Indian Archipelago, and later on they are
sure to come to Australia either as friends
or foes.
Because —Japan, the world’s greatest
wonder of progress, with her powerful fleet
and army, and with her 46 millions of intelli-
gent, industrious, and ambitious people, fast
learning to speak English, and increasing
in their narrow islands, and now overflowing
into other lands, will certainly, many of
them, come to Australia either as friends or
foes.
Marquis Tto, Japan's leading statesman, in speak-
ing to niyselt on our “ White Australia " legislation,
said :—“ln the revolution of human affairs we do not
know what may happen even in Australia. Who
could have foretold four or five years ago that
America would have taken the Philippines? I be-
lieve the Australians make a big mistake in closing
their doors against the people of this country. They
might possibly discover their error should any
national calamity, such for instance as an invasion
by a foreign enemy, give Japan an opportunity to
prove tier friendship to them by coming to their
rescue with an army and fleet.”
Because —Java, a little island only one-
sixtieth the size of Australia, has increased
her population from 5 millions to 30 millions
during the last 100 years (or 6 times as fast
as all the Australian colonies during the
same time), is still increasing at the rate of
300,000 a year, is only four days’ steaming
from our unoccupied tropical territory, and,
according to the inevitable flow of increasing
populations on to the unoccupied parts of
the earth’s surface, will overflow here. Now,
whether the Government of Java, with that
vast and increasing population, remains in
the hands of the Dutch, or is taken over
and adminstered by Germany, England,
America, or Japan, or returns to native con-
trol, they are sure to overflow. Yes, and
by the natural right of human exigency,
superior to all our dog-in-the-manger claims,
have a right to overflow into our Tropical
Territory of Australia. The doctrine of
no-use-no-title is gaining ground in the
world. Mr. Chamberlain told the inhabi-
tants of British Guiana the other day, when
they petitioned him against Indian immigra-
tion :
"The only ground on which a people is
justified in opposing immigration to its
country, is when it has beneficially occu-
pied. or has a fair prospect of so occupying
within a measurable time, the territory in
its control.”
Apply this doctrine to our vast unoccupied
territory a little later when population pres-
ses for entrance from the north, and where
are we ? This is one of the most important
items which the advocate of a " White Aus-
tralia’’ doctrine has to consider, and he has
to reason from these facts: —That in 1863
the South Australian Government took over
the Northern Territory, containing an area
of “523,000 square miles, or ten times the
area of Java. That durißg these 40 years
the white inhabitants of that territory have
increased to 1600, while during the same
time the inhabitants of little Java have in-
creased 16 millions or ten thousand times
that number.
.Friendly reader, examine the foregoing
reasons one by one, and see how many of
the twenty you agree with or disagree with.
One of the first questions raised against the little ■« Whit. Anstreha " policy wU^ t wh«her we *h»H
throw away a golden opportunity by refusing to develop our tropical region, and under our.
control.—Our splendid Tropical Territory, north of the Tropic of Capricorn, contains..l’tlafwitli olanation
an area ten times as large as Great Britain and Ireland. Travelled experts tell us that, with plantation
colonies of Chinese, Hindoos, and other coloured free and willing labourers this D^r« t ° r y c0 " ld be
yield, at least, £100,000,000 sterling worth of Cotton, Sugar, £>« Md mtoer tropical S |bJ o Sred peopTe
Such an outcome would not only find employment for mu
under our Government Institutions, but would vastly benefit the whole of Austral a. ruonc opinion
forming in this direction and against our present “cabined, cribbed, conhned policy.


CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIYER
TABLETS will clear and expel every atom of
poisonous matter which constipation and other
irregularities have stored up in the bowels. They
will accomplish this gently, painlessly, and with-
out griping.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Bullocky Bill had a cold so bad
That, though his language was very sad,
His team stood placidly chewing the cud,
While the wheels sank deeper into the mud.
Woods’ Peppermint Cure his voice brought back.
When of classical speech there was no lack,
And his cattle took to their work with a will
’Neath the lurid appeals of Bullocky Bill.*
hf
You can Learn all that is necessary in a
Few Minutes.
Photography
IS SIMPLIFIED FOR EVERYBODY.
A Kodak should be in every home. To-day it is
the family historian as well as the diarist and illus-
trator of modern life. Whether for postcards, or
pictures for your albums and your walls, the photo-
graph has the most interest and the most lasting
value :: :: :: :: :: :: :: Everything in Kodak
Photography is now done in broad daylight, without
:: a dark room and without mess or staining ::
Send for Price Lists, to be obtained of all dealers, or of
Kodak, Ifrtd.,
Please mention this paper.
284 COLLINS ST.
:: MELBOURNE
THE CALL TO ARMS
I
: ' : w ■
JL
ji
The interest for some time evinced in the Russo-Japanese War is for a time subordinate to the
interest shown in the great Federal climax permeating Australia. The proclamation of Labor as the
ruling power and its right to rule, its advancement and its possession of the Treasury Benches in the
second Australian Federal Parliament are matters of much comment in the Commonwealth to-day.
Viewed in any light,
THIS TEMPORARY TRIUMPH OF LABOR
has its significance. The foundation upon which the Commercial and Social worlds rest, the Muscle and
Brain of Men, has picked its professors and chosen its compeers to test the right to rule, to govern*
and to legislate. On all sides is the question asked, Will this temporary triumph be a permanent
one, and, if so, will it be for the people’s good?
CLEAR BRAINS and GOOD STRENGTH ARE NECESSARY.
It will be found that against opposing forces, powerful brains, and clear judgment will be necessary.
They are necessary in all ranks of life to bring success to the feet of men. And no man can be
strong in brain and mental power unless he is healthy. Without health a man joins hands with the
elements of Disease and Death. Health’s sources are undermined, mental destruction is inevitable.
Let any man who finds himself mentally, physically deteriorated, run down, lacking the
essential power necessary to success in life, and knows he is not what he ought to be at his age, call
and consult the Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute,
Sydney and Melbourne,
and he will be made aware of his condition. He will be told what is the matter
with him in plain and honest terms. These Specialists are qualified by Australian
Medical boards, and by experience to treat diseases which may at all times be
considered of a most serious character.
Some men remain weak because they are too indifferent or too busy to develop
strength by systematic exercise, others inherit weakness and suffer for the short-
comings of their parents. But a far greater number drag themselves through a
life of decrepitude because they are covering up some secret drain upon the
fountains of strength. Reformations and medical treatment are their most urgent
need. We cure thousands of cases of General Debility annually.
Young Men and Middle-aged Men who know they have made a
serious mistake, and want to recover the lost ground, should lose no time in
availing themselves of a course of our invigorating treatment. We guarantee a
cure in every case undertaken.
Excesses in the past years by young men, and irregularities and excesses in
middle-aged life are the causes of poor memory, lack of ambition and manhood
so common to the men of to-day. You can be restored, but will you ?
MEDICAL QUALIFICATIONS !! —Any man consulting is under the especial care and counsel
of Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., who is a Specialist in the
treatment of Men’s Disorders, of high intellectual order and great experience. He is registered
and certificated by the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America. One of the best
compilations of the day in medical literature is a book of 750 pages, 150 medical plates, 31
chapters, “The Sick Man’s Friend,” will be sent, post paid, to any man on receipt of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
NOTE ■ ! may > if x he 80 desires, through
Specialist,, , pr, '? 1 te l eaB ons of his own, consult the
ThfSi! 8 ' by addressing private'y “THE SECRETARY*’
street Svdn*i/ & n Wal J aCe Med ' cal Institute, 227 Elizabeth-
Cnr L®^ nev -r- lf mare convenient, “THE SECRETARY ”
fnBom.ii a B nd Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne opp CP 0.
ai| V an e ri '"Stances, a man may not be able to call person-
cernine himsoif e^e «ii^ 0 wrl * e u P°n matters seriously con-
hv thf fl , An Buch letters are promptly replied to
LR.C P 8 P E hyB ! c ' a "-'"-Cbiof, Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D*
tered bv the Mariir'*i E n L 's?'’ w L ho is qualified and regis-
America ThJe 0dca, „ ® oardB of Australia, England, and
EXPERIEMBs* e »?E e £ a, L #t 8 & reat medical work, “CLINICAL
isn’ a b° ok essentially for Men, 570 pages, 31
' on *
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS.,
SYDNEY And at Melbourne.
HOWARD FREEtfAN, Director of Institute.
RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., Phyeician-in-Chief.
WARNING TO WEAK MEN.
If you want to be strong, you should consult us.
Every Young man should aspire to Perfect Manhood.
In life, the successful are men who have never
VIOLATED NATURE’S PHYSICAL LAWS.
Is not the respect, admiration, and honor of the world
worth more than evils which may pave the way for Weak-
ness, Nervousness, Despondency and early Death? Young
Men and Middle Aged Men, who know now that they
have made a serious mistake, and want to recover the
lost ground', should lose no time in consulting the
Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Medical Staff.
WE GUARANTEE A CURE IN EVERY CASE UNDER-
TAKEN.
Have you a Trouble ? Is your manhood
TREMBLING IN THE BALANCE?
Do you feel the need of sympathy and aid ? Then come
to us and tell us all. Diseases fully cured soon cease to
be even matters of memory. The best place for you is
our consultation rooms, for there
YOU WILL FIND RELIEF
and strength and manliness. If you cannot call, write us
full and freely. We will tell you candidly if you are
curable or not. We have thousands of testimonials from
cured and now happy men.
MEN’S DISORDERS A SPECIALITY.
The Specialists of the Institute have practised in
Australia for a quarter of a century, and are famous for
their speedy treatment and cure of ALL CLASSES OF
MEN’S DISORDERS. Had they not been pre-eminent
in skill and experience relative to those diseases they
would never have acquired the fame that is theirs to-day. A
Their Specialities are—VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, PROS*
TATIC TROUBLES, WEAKNESS, LOSS OF POWER,
DISEASE OF THE NERVES, PARALYSIS OF THE 4
VITAL ORGANS, CONTAGIOUS BLOOD DISEASES "
RESULTING FROM A SPECIFIED BLOOD POISON,
STOMACH AND KIDNEY DISORDERS. Any man who i
would like to regain the Health that was once his may be w
cured when he perhaps thought himself “ INCURABLE.’* M
All patients are under the special care of Dr. Richard .
Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., the 1
Physician-in-Chief, who is registered by Australian, A
English, and American Medical Boards. He is a V
Specialist of International reputation in the treatment A
of MEN’S SERIOUS AILMENTS. Late of Hospital
Staffs Melbourne and Imperial Army Medical Staff. All A
letters are punctually and privately attended to, and m
medicines packed secure from breakage in postal transit. A
To get even with those persons who cheat
on the mileage rate excursion tickets, the N.S.W.
Commissioners are acting in an unbecoming and
goatish manner. They ukase that if you take out
a cheap Id. a mile ticket, you must complete the
journey This is becausesomepeopletakea Id. a
mile ticket to a destination beyond their real one,
which is outside the excursion zone, and so save a
few pence. The new rule may be in itself
reasonable, but it is absurdly enforced. A man
took a ticket from Sydney to Orange and back
He lived at Ashfield, and sought to alight at
Strathfield, and go thence to his home. The
ticket inspector stated that he must either go on to
Sydney and back to Ashfield, or else buy another
ticket to Ashfield from Orange ! Another indig-
nant person took a cheap ticket to Katoomba.
On reaching Leura, the station-this side, he found
his family on the platform. But he was not
allowed to join them. He had either to complete
his journey and walk back from Katoomba, or
take out a fresh ticket, Sydney to Leura.
W. A. Nicol writes from Proserpine
, la m 8 shareholder and director of the Proserpine Oen-
tral Mill Co., and would like to reply to your par. in
Bulletin of April 7. You imply that Proserpine share-
holders, amongst others, had collared all the proceeds of
our business, leaving nothing to pay our indebtedness to
the State. The Continuous Government took charge of
this mill in 1900, after the initial difficulties had to a great
extent been overcome, and after the incomplete mill,
erected on the advice of the then Govt, and its officers,
had been improved by the directors, who utilised the
°(tT
took charge, the directors were promptly sacked, and the
Govt, manager had a free hand up to the advent of the
Morgan Ministry. To the end of last year the gross pro-
fits for four years amounted to nearly £20,000, the
Sored'labor n here.* Se< The
employing cane-growers have actually provided most of
this sum, and have lost the interest on the money
invested (?) in this financing of colored-labor cultiva-
tion extension. They have also been handicapped with an
8 ? . p ® r . cent. mterest charge on whatever finan-
cial aid they (the white growers) required to extend
their cultivation, which aid was obtainable only from a
local hank, the Govt, refusing to assist any white-labor
growers out of the gross profits. Furthermore, during
the first three seasons under Govt, management we were
told that the colored-labor extensions were being paid for
ofo ‘^' atc r , f ) u f 'u S and were separate transactions between
the Govt, and the owners of the lands where those exten-
sions were taking place. Subsequently when the truth
began to leak out we re-organised the board of directors,
who then learnt that over £lO,OOO of gross profits had
been spent on non-shareholders’ lands over which the
company had practmally no security, so when the balance-
sheet for 1901 was prepared by the Govt, department and
submitted for our approval in Oct., 1902, ‘‘purely as a
matter of form,” we refused to pass the document, hence
the friction that has existed between the Govt, and share-
holders of this mill during the past six months.
A Maorilander was recently charged with
stealing teeth from a shark’s mouth. (The shark
was dead at the time.)
A Syrian vendor of ice-cream and Turkish
flight waited on the Broken Hill customs officer,
and f()r some goods to be
” TT ,
cleared. He was told that the bill had not been
received and the matter must be put off for a few
da y S> He immediately asked “ Are there no other
customs here?” and started for the opposition
. i,-
N.S. W. Judges, anxious to put down per-
jury, might take a wrinkle from a pompous, ver-
hose old Scotch Supreme Court Judge, Lord
Craighill. His formula with youthful witnesses
was this : “My boy, do you know the sanctity of
an oath?” No sir.” “My boy, do you know what
it is to speak the truth ? ” “Yes sir.” “Well, my
boy, if you speak the truth, all will go well with
you. But, if you swerve from the paths of verity,
nigh so to speak impossible to extricate your-
rvuinx-Ax
sell * collapse oi Doy.
Recent (nominal) sacking of Auckland by
.. ,• ' - ° .... • -i
an attacking force at 4 a.m. recalls the similar
experience that Adelaide had some ten years ago
in broad daylight. Local military manoeuvres, on
Easter Monday, were meant to end in the
i nva ders being forced back to the sea. They
unexpectedly, however, got the better of the
proceedings, outflanked the defenders, and got into
the city, where—playing the game right up to the
handle—they took possession of the public build-
ings. The Premier, C. O. Kingston, who used in
th ° Se A^S to ta ke his exercise in volunteering,
was a non.-com. in the attacking force, and the
commanding officer, with much humor, placed
him on duty as a sentry over the captured
Treasury! Dunedin (M.L.) once had a still
worse experience, but it was on a small scale, and
f PW n f tho rmhlio know whnt hnd roallv hannAnod
m, w °} p ie J? UJI ? Knew what nad really happened,
-U 1 ? defending force came back to town flushed
with victory and solid m the belief that they had
routed the enemy (last seen vanishing over the
hills in a southerly direction). When they found
the enemy in Dunedin before them, and on guard
• f , ~ • , -r, i ,i j °.v
ln front of the Colonial Bank, they bribed them
wlth much beer to keep dark about how they got
there.
When Whistler conducted an art class in
Paris, he one day started scraping red paint off
the canvas of one of the pupils and putting in
another background. But the red would show
through. He scraped and worked laboriously
with the class eagerly watching him, but could
get nothing to please him. At length he looked
up, and said, “1 suppose you know what I am
tfOT, to . Ao ■ ” “P h y T es > si ,n” the y all chorused.
Well, it s more than I do, he replied, and left
the room.
United States Supreme Court has brought
the Federal system another step forward in the
recent Railway merger case ; the issue was
whether the State laws legalising a certain railway
trust within the limits of certain States were valid
as they came into conflict with the Federal law
against trusts . The Federal law WQn
wun *


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
Ilmpeiial
■t
chswista & stores
* *
©intment
Adda lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-.
Post 2/2 from Proprietary, Melb^
The miser sat amongst his gold.
“I would not part,” he said,
“With half-a-guinea, thro’ my life
Were to be forfeited.
But influenza got him down,
His breaths grew short and fewer—
“ Take all I’ve got,” he cried, but give
Me Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure.*
A. F.
9
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
GOOD WATCHES
A Man's Fourteen Carat, Gold Filled,
Keyless, Hunting Cased
Lever Watch for
And we guarantee the Cases to wear
and look as well as a Solid Gold Case,
for Twenty-five Years,
IN “AS GOOD AS GOLD” CASES
Our 48=Page
Watch Book
is Sent Free
on Request,
THE HEANINQ OF THE TERM—
“ GOLD=FILLED.”
FEW people correctly understand the meaning of the term “ Gold-filled ” as
applied to our watch cases. Some seem to regard “Gold-filled” as a
form of electro-plating—from which it is entirely different. Gold-filled
Watch Cases are intended as a substitute for solid gold, not only in
appearance, but in wear. A Solid Gold Watch Case is valued for its beauty—•
for the gold look about it. The beauty and the gold-look are entirely on the
surface. The gold hidden away in the thickness of the case adds nothing
to its beauty, but does add greatly to its cost. To make a gold-filled
watch case an ingot of metal is placed between two ingots of solid 14-carat
gold, and the three are then rolled flat, forming a solid sheet with a thick out-
side of solid gold and a centre of metal. This centre adds strength and lessens
cost, but its presence cannot be detected unless the gold is cut away. It will
be seen that gold-filled has nothing in common with gilding or plating; the
former implying a substantial layer of solid gold, the latter meaning gold
deposited on the base metal article after it is made. Men who cannot afford to
buy a solid gold watch, and men who can afford to, but do not care to run the
risk of losing such a valuable article, are recommended to consider the advan-
tages attached to buying one of these Gold-filled Watches.
d
I
THIS IS THE WATCH
The movement (or works) was made specially for us by the
Waltham Watch C 0.,; and is guaranteed to be a correct
timekeeper. It is a f-plate—jewelled in all the required
actions—has a finely-designed and finished compensation
balance wheel—Brequet hair-spring to counteract the effects
of sudden jars caused through riding on horseback or violent
exercise of any description. We send this'Watch free and
safe by post to any part of Australia or New Zealand on
receipt of remittance.
“Bertie Dripping”: It might be my
general views on the sordidness of life that impel
me to draw this comparison between my cat and
human beings collectively. The said cat hasn’t
got a soul above rats, unless it’s a leaning towards
solving the problem of the .sudden decrease in the
cats birth rate, and she is doing all in her power
to push the business part of it along. Got a
family of six (all nearly her own size), and she is
just like the average mother—slaves her poor little
soul out to earn rats for their consumption. And
the children 101 l about the kitchen and catch flies,
and openly defy me—the head of the house. And
mostly the Australian human mother does the
same with her children. “ Such is Life,” as Tom
Collins ably heads his book.
A well-known Australian artist supplies
this:—
A Victorian girl in London, with aspirations for the
Stage, writes me in a discontented strain. She hates the
Big Smoke, and is dying to get away to Rome or Venice,
or some cheerful, happy-go-lucky place. The Tower of
London only impressed her with a sense of disappoint-
ment, and she is rapidly becoming- proud of Australia.
She has joined a small club —mostly Australians —to keep
her from being too lonely.
One of the few things she likes in London is the Tube—•
“ the underground is too dreadful ; you are nearly killed
with smoke and fumes of sulphur.”
She met the Broughs and had tea with them one day.
Ernest Vere (or “ the hat-pin,” as somebody called him in
Australia) was there, invalided back from China, where
he.nearly pegged out through fever. She saw MTntyre
also, that indefatigable member of the B. and B. co., now,
alas, very thin and weary-looking.
London is, in many ways, behind the times. Yale
locks, f’rinstance, are wonderfully rare—most people using
large Bluebeard keys, calculated to open a dungeon. A
small matter, but only one of many.
The only smart people one sees about are Americans,
the usual run of folk being weird in their general ugli-
ness. Bond-street is narrow, dirty and hideous, and in it
are to be seen some of the “awfullest” hats imaginable.
You see far more ugly than pretty clothes. The theatres
are tiny (as a rule), and the mounting not any better
than ours. The chorus girls are mostly very indifferent,
listless in their style and not pretty.
The regatta at Henley was a fraud —the rowing nothing-
much—the crews got badly winded, and showed it ! The
crowd was mixed, and the catering about the worst
possible at ss. a head. She was delighted with the beauty
of the house boats, especially in the night when they were
illuminated ; and the fireworks were worth seeing. She
also enjoyed the picture galleries immensely, but is quite
ready to leave England. The only thing which is any way
in accordance with her temperament is the bustle and
largeness of the city. “ London is alive.”
Ever since her arrival it had rained every day, and the
mud in London streets is disgustingly slushy and sticky.
The great lumbering ’busses are a trial to one’s nerves—
she has now learnt the correct way of jumping off and on
while they are going, and no longer to feel indignant
when the conductor pushes her in the back and hauls
her by the arm. When first “ assisted ” off a moving ’bus
she had a feeling as if she had been taken by the scruff of
the neck and dropped over a precipice.
“D. Harum ” : Experienced a pretty bad
earthquake in the north island of Maoriland some
years ago. At the time it happened I was tramp-
ing a plain of about four miles in width. I heard a
dull booming like thunder away to the north and,
glancing in the direction, observed a cloud of dust
approaching me from the distant hills. Not far
away were half a dozen cows grazing. They lifted
their heads at the noise, gave vent to a few
frightened “moos,” and flopped down on the
ground. My dog (a Maori cur) commenced
whining at my feet. Then I felt myself suddenly
shaken, and thrown violently to the ground.
Slowly raising my head a few seconds later, I
looked round. The whole aspect of the plain
seemed changed ; it appeared to have sunk in
parts and risen in others. I myself lay between
two hillocks. I rose unsteadily to my feet, picked
up my few belongings, and retraced my steps
across the plain, followed by a frightened dog.
Three more letters from the shiftless race
of many occupations :
“ F.H.R.” : Re “ Ku-Klux.” I have been in 14 years
working the following with more or less success: cash boy
'(draper’s), office boy (wool firm), invoice clerk (tea mer-
chant), bookkeeper and collector (printer), dairy hand,
team.driver, fencer, ringbarker and general bushie, har-
vester, swaggie, miner and prospector, navvy, quarry man,
tea and insurance traveller, timekeeper, cook, storeman,
grocer, and am now a fettler west of Hell. lam only 28,
so may have a go at some more yet.
“Zif”: “Ku-Klux’s” record is a mere trifle. I have
been earning my living for about 13 years. I started as a
latherer in a hairdresser’s shop, then, by turns, grocer’s
assistant, bookseller’s assistant, message boy, office boy,
then held a Government billet as telegraph messenger,
next lining cutter, harness maker, house painter, then
swagman. In Melbourne I next earned my living by
drawing George Reid devouring sausages on butchers’
shop windows. I concocted dancing figures of the self-
same George and tried to sell them—a failure. Swagman
again, harvester, poster artist, actor, advertisement can-
vasser, newspaper publisher, cartoonist on a scurrilous,
now defunct rag, police court reporter, proof-reader, as-
sistant secretary, sub-editor of a cycling paper, for six
months lightning sketch advertisement artist, then bill-
poster, theatrical manager in a small way, railway
cariag-e cleaner, private detective, ticket writer. All the
while I was bombarding editors with Drawings of uncertain
merit. Editors are queer creatures.
“ H.” : From 1894 to 1904 —age from 16 to 26,1 have been
—in England, in iron merchant’s office, 3 months ; manu-
facturer’s stores, 3 months ; travelled for straw-envelopes
and sundries, 2 months ; Uncle’s office on Stock Exchange,
London, 1| years ; Dunlop Tyre Co., 6 months ; Chase
Cycle Co., 2 months. Then in Australia, 1897 —edited
Wheelman (Perth) 4 months ; Dunlop Tyre Co., 1 month ;
ran Night Watchman Co., six weeks; Melbourne 1898;
stage, 3 months; journalism and drawing- rest of year.
Sydney, 1899, stage 2 months ; private secretary to Arch-
deacon, 3 months ; published book and magazine : clerk
in soap factory, 2 weeks; superintendant of ‘Labor
Home,’ 3 weeks ; ran provincial Dramatic Co., 2 months ;
published another magazine ; and book ; pantomime 6
weeks. Did advertising work, drawing and journalism
and brought out another magazine. Italian Opera Season,
1901, 9 months ; published 9 books and magazine with
advertising and journalism; then brought patent
medicine to Melbourne ; got out magazine, in Melbourne,
and am to-day travelling for motor-cars.
This third sample seems to about take the bun,
unless some one comes along to prove that he has
been a poet, burglar, paperhanger, missionary,
field-marshal and remover of dead horses.


SAFE AND, SURE.
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS cannot injure the most delicate tissue
of the body, and can be safely taken by a child.
They are the safest medicine for people of feeble
constitution, and are sure and effective in the case
of the most robust.*
Woods’ is the name, a remedy
Of sweet peculiar excellence ;
Gkeat, as the mighty restless sea,
’Tis purchased, too, at small expense,
Peppermint doth form its base,
With Pharmaceutics, pure, of course.
Cure you ? Oh, fool! the hardest case
Cannot withstand its magic force.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, shoe-
lane, London, England.*
>
Trade
KJ<
Mark
above Crabe Mark is a guarantee of sociQboess of Material
ai>b Quality of bye of all . . .
MERINO COATINGS ®> SERGES
ot) wbicb it is stamped.
BEWARE
. OF .
IMITATIONS
As tbe result of mapy years experience FOX’S PURC
IMDIGO DYC is recogpised as tbe best ip tbe
market.
All FOX’S Serges apd Coatipgs are stamped every two
yards op tbe back
PURE INDIGO
apd without tbis stamp are pot <**epuipe.
Jhese
Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the J2eadmg bailors and tDrapers
THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
FOX BROS. (El Co., Ltd,, Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Bengep*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medicai. Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive , and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
tn find. My wife sounds
the praise of 1 Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
Resolved by the N.S.W. Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Association that hotel balconies shouldn’t
be let to candidates opposed to Bung for speeches.
Queensland wisely prohibits any election meetings
or addresses from hotel premises.
S’Africa hasn’t had a Parliamentary Labor
Party so far, but one is hatching. A meeting of
“bricklayers, carpenters, engineers, printers,
plasterers and representatives of other trades ” has
been held at Cape Town, and resolved to form “ a
Labor League whose object shall be to obtain
direct Labor representation on all governing bodies
in the colony.?’ This should make Milner happier
than ever.
T Among the 90 electorates into which
N.S.W. has been cut up, 64 retain names known
in the last Parliament. Of the new names most
are aptly chosen, but No. 28 could surely have
escaped with a better one than Belubula. The
member for the electorate will probably be known
as the member for Blubber. Darling Harbor is
also an unlucky name. “Member for Resump-
tions and Bubonic Germs ” won’t sound nice.
Our “great natural industries” take a
Perfect forest of props. In three days last week,
while the papers were talking about the most
remarkable harvest on record, three requests were
made to the Government—(l) That successful Agri-
cultural College students should be given a bonus
of 160 acres of land ; (2) the usual request for more
water for less, money; and (3) that store stock
should be carried on the railways for less even than
they pay now—which is only a fraction of what
manufactured goods have to pay. If Technical
College students asked for the use of a factory rent
free, the Sydney daily papers would call it a joke.
The Bent Ministry is a friendly crowd—to
itself. Much of the Ministers’ time seems to be
spent heading, as private members, deputations
to other Ministers. Thus Murray leads his con-
stituents to Public Works Cameron, asking that
marram grass be planted in and about Warrnam-
bool’s waste places. Then Cameron, as M.L.A.,
goes to Mines M ‘Leod in an effort to smooth the
rocky track of some of his constituents. Then
M‘Leod helps his farmer constituents to squeeze a
further instalment of Socialism out of Agriculture
Murray. As for Bent, he is a standing and con-
tinuous deputation to himself about the needs of
Brighton, which is the only place on earth worthy
of any consideration whatever.
Vie. Premier Bent has been waddling
around the country districts of his State roaring
mightily. Wherever he goes he declares that he
has not gone there to make promises for the pur-
pose of catching votes for his supporters, which is
an obvious flam. Whilst it is true that Bent
makes no definite promises in regard to specific
matters placed before him, he makes wild,
whirling speeches in which he points out that if
the people of the State will only give him power
to steal the Civil Service pensions he will be able
to supply all their wants without putting on a
penny taxation. The Civil Service pensions are
about the only things in the way of loose cash in
Victoria that Irvine, Shiels and Bent have not yet
stolen. They collared the trust funds and mopped
up as much of various sinking funds as they could
get their hands on. Bent’s constant and con-
tinuous reference to the Civil Service pensions
therefore looks ominous. Only a person like Bent
could offer such an outrageous bribe to the
supporters of his Misgovernment.
The United States authorities have decided
to relax somewhat their Immigration Restriction
laws for the sake of their St. Louis Exhibition.
This is the law relaxed as regards Chinese :
Every Chinese entering to take part in the show shall
furnish to the officer in charge of the Chinese exclusion
laws at the port of entry satisfactory evidence that he is
the holder of a privilege from the officers of the Exposition
engaged to take part therein.
Shall furnish the officer with a photograph of himself in
triplicate.
Shall submit to the physical examination required by
the Bertillon system of identification.
Shall proceed immediately by direct route to the
Exposition.
Shall remain there during his stay in the country, and
engage solely in the occupation for which he was ad-
mitted.
Shall return within 30 days of the close of the Expo-
sition by direct route and continuous travel to the port of
admission, and depart by the first available vessel.
Shall give a bond of 500 dollars with a responsible bond-
ing and surety company as surety that he will comply
with these rules.
That is a specially relaxed and modified Uncle
Sam restriction law, and it is a good deal more
restrictive than the Australian law when the latter
is in full blast, and working overtime, and restrict-
ing all it knows.
The Tory party, which shrieked “Socialis-
tic legislation ” at the moderately-progressive
measures ot Deakin and other Liberals, is quite
lost for a term to describe Premier Watson.
“ Anarchist,” “ revolutionist,” and “ body-
snatcher ” are some of the terms at present under
consideration.
Seeing the general shiftiness of the crowd
advocating religious instruction in Victorian State
schools and now asking for a referendum thereon,
the elector should vote a straight “No” against
any change from the present system. Unless the
majority declares straight out for the Education
Act as it now stands, the tricky parsons will try to
twist any subsidiary or supplementary answer to
suit their own ends.
The Bishop of Mashonaland (South
Africa) on the introduction of Chinese to the
Transvaal:
I am of opinion that if the mines of Johannesburg were
given a longer lease, and fair, dividend-earning work took
the place of share-gamhiing on forced-up capital values,
not only would the industry be spread over a longer term
of existence as an industry, but the economic, social and
moral effect of the community would be sound and
lasting. For all reasonable permanent returns for invest-
ment, with patience, good management and sympathy
(which need not mean maudlin sentiment), sufficient
native labor could be secured from the races indigenous
to the country, who have been placed in our keeping,
and for whom we are primarily responsible. lam further
opposed to the introduction of Asiatics into South Africa
as citizens on economic and social grounds. It is easy to
make laws restricting aliens to certain localities and
certain work, but this is to put the political clock back at
least 500 years. And further, these new laws will have to
be administered, if necessary, by force. With 100,000
Chinese in the country, acknowledged as the quicltest-
witted and most plodding among the colored races, how
is the Transvaal or Rhodesia—unless the other States
combine—to police such a horde, in addition to the
increasing difficulty of looking after the present 2,000,000
natives ? Secondly, the Eastern does not take long before
he is easily able to compete with the white man in all but
technical work, even within the mining areas, and I hold
that, in spite of the most stringent regulations, he will
find his way out of compounds, or back from China as a
quasi-settler, just as the coolie has in Natal. There, in
spite of “labor conditions,” “indentures,” and I know
not what, the coolies have continually returned to com-
pete, not only with the native of the soil, but with the
white man at his ordinary trade, and as an agriculturist.
Tasmanian National Ass. decides that “ wo
got along well enough before the Labor party
came to rob us of our freedom of contract,” and
therefore need no Arbitration Bill for State
employees. J ust stated in Hobart Mercury that
at the State Insane Asylum “ tradesmen” are on
duty 12 hours daily ; ordinary attendants th'e
same; attendants on gate duty, 16 hours daily.
Also, all the above sleep in the asylum every other
.night, and arc* thus sometimes in the institution
at work, or liable to be called on, 36 hours out
of 48.
The latest British Board of Trade returns
contain the following interesting figures with
regard to the cotton trade:—
Average Annual Consumption of Raw Cotton in
Millions of Pounds Weight.
Rest United
England of Europe States
1881-1885.. 1444 .. 1314 .. 856
1886-1890 .. ‘ 1540 .. 1566 .. 1013
1891-1895 .. 1579 .. 1906 .. 1261
1896-1900 .. 3686 .. 2251 1572
1901-1902 .. 1646 .. 2429 .. 1884
Not only has Freetrade Britain lost its old lead,
but it shows a definite decline, while its Protec-
tionist rivals still keep moving ahead.
Delegates from Chambers of Commerce
throughout the Commonwealth were sitting in
Melbourne all through the “crisis” week and
vaporing windily about the Six Blathers, the
Petriana myth, the “white” clauses of the Navi-
gation Act, and other matters that touch the
alleged soul of the importing class. They
demanded a “continuous, regular and rapid mail
service between all parts of the Commonwealth ” ;
that the postage on oversea newspapers should
be reduced to a penny per copy, irrespective of
weight; that the Pacific Islands Laborers Act
should be amended or repealed ; and various other
things not at all likely to occur. Someone should
take these hopelessly out-of-date parasites into a
quiet spot and explain to them that Australia has
now got a genuinely democratic Government, and
means to continue having one ; also that, even if
their friend, George Reid, should get into office
temporarily, the Senate isn’t the House of Fat
Landlords, nor anything like it. These Fat men
ought to get their intellects scraped.


TATTERS A
L’S
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Pive Shilling Ticket issued by Tatcersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, blients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RAOF, Victoria Park, S.A., August 13, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (’ ‘ TATTERS ALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to ac’vise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING a REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA 06 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
’'♦* ——-■<*-
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Popper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Sweep, _6tg.
For aii information regarding Rates, Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMIE33Y FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF* COUGHS 2
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CUKE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and earned
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholin, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of j our
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents. .
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I user! your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
©
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending- for another bottle in case I should want it.— D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.” r
©
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
' e
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochilis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadtord,
Victoria.”
©
“ I have used one bottle of your Rronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.— J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Rronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
•
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko.Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but, I beard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY VVURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIIICLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during: the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronehiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Gkelonq Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
BRA "°» PEPOT Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.


“ C.R. : Curious how cliffs and precipices
come to look like the features of public men. At
one time the North Head of Sydney Harbor,
when seen from the inside of the harbor, had a
striking resemblance to the profile of the late
Henry Parkes. Parkes has gone, and the likeness
has gone. Wind and wave have worn it away.
As a sort of compensation, the side view of South
Head is becoming every day more and more like
the profile of Jack Want, K.C. But it is not
quite so hard-looking.
m
\
*4
If you want really hard
wear on the clothes, com-
mon soap will give it:
Sunlight Soap will not.
Clothing is worn more
in the wash than in use
where common soap is
used; the wash-wear is
saved by Sunlight Soap
A woman ought to be
paid to use common
soap: it destroys the
clothes so. She is paid
to use Sunlight Soap : it
saves the clothes so.
A woman might as well
lose her purse once a
week aswear out clothing
weekly with common
soap. Sunlight Soap will
not harm the clothes.
u
When a person suffers from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
Jaundice
Nature is crying aloud for aid. Pain is really Nature’s voice, and is her only method of communicat-
ing with us, therefore pain is a blessing in disguise. By the infliction of the pains attending the
above group of disorders, Nature is calling our attention to the fact that there is something which is
impeding the action of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER,
and which she is unable, by her own efforts, to correot. She is appealing to us, as intelligent human
beings, to bring Science to assist her in the constant struggle which she is making against her enemy
Death. The kidneys and liver, being the most important organs of the human mechanism, have
many natural ways of indicating their disability to perform their functions, and by causing us to
suffer from the disorders mentioned, we are compelled to bring Science to their relief, or to die aa the
consequence of neglecting Nature’s appeal.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins,
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as
Kheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural
color, or has particles floating about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must
immediately be taken to restore their vigor, or Bright s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many
manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which
is insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys, and that done by the liver,
that where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy and
vice versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital
organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compound-
ing a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure ex-
hibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver,
and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due
to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and
liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures
effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [2O
For Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE voice of the world comes ringing, over
the land and sea :
“ What be the fate of Australia, and what
be her destiny ?
The black ye have sped to the camp out-back
where he doeth a kingly drunk,
The Chow has girded his loins and fled in his
wondrously carven junk.
Ye are steering Australia dawn ward (so ye say),
but the dawn’s white face
Is showing the tears of repentance, and the flush
of a deep disgrace.”
’Tis the voice of Fatman crying, croaking in woe
and pain:
“ What be the fate of Australia, and what be the
Fatman’s gain ?
My mill and my factory are calling for cheap
and servile toil,
A bounteous harvest is waiting for niggers to till
the soil.
I bear the cost and the burden, the chances of
drought and fire,
But who will sweat in the factory, and who shall
the Fatman hire ?
I look o’er my sheep-strewn acres, of Pagan and
black bereft,
Ye have barred your doors on the alien—must I
pay for the labor left ?”
’Tis the voice of the swarthy hawker, the foreign
“merchant” fake :
“We are the friends of Australia, and we live for
the people’s sake,
And we bring for the woes of your women a harm-
less and certain cure—
Send stamps or a P.O. order for our book and
‘ something sure.’
Why bear the toil and the travail, to rear a
hungry brood,
Go clothed in the cheapest garments, and eat of
the coarsest food ?
Ye might wallow in wine and luxury, wear silks
and satins new.
And we and 'our friends the Pagans will people
the land for you.”
’Tis the voice of the whole world crying : “ What
of Australia’s boast
To be a power among nations ! Look on your
empty coast !
Will the Motherland suffice you, when the war-
god sweeps the earth
And a foreign foe doth ravage the pleasant land
of your birth ?
Can she look to you in your peril with the Musco-
vite at her door,
With the brown man’s fleets in her waters and the
black m xn’s hordes on her shore
You, with never a Moslem to aid you, and never
a Buddhist to save,
When Shem in his wrath arises, and Japhet is
shamed and afraid ? ”
Hark ! ’tis the voice of Australia, sons of Aus-
tralia’s sons,
In fertile, rain-blessed coast-lands and out on the
blighted runs ;
They send the message swinging, over the hills
and plain,
From the shearing sheds and the camps out-back
it is echoed once again,
From the men of D.me-For-Ever who blazed the
track of yore,
With grinning Death behind them and little else
before,
From the banks of the Snowy River, from the top
of the mountain track,
They slack the reins and pause a space, to fling
the answer back.
“We stand for a White Australia, let the case be
what it m ly,
What odds (when the price is money), we are the
ones who pay,
And we fight for a race unsullied by the heathen’s
vice and lust,
And we fight for our wives and children, and
freedom to earn a crust.
Ye prate of the ‘empty cradle who 101 l in an
easy chair,
And spend your idle moments in the wanton’s
childless lair;
Not for the Fatman’s profit, or lust of a played-
out rake,
Will we rear a race of people—nay ! for Australia’s
sake !”
Loan-burdened, pilfered and mortgaged, this is
the Day of the Jew,
Yet up from the wrack and the ruin Australia
shall rise anew !
Will rise as the sun ascendeth to banish the long,
long night,
To wake a world to singing and a people to de-
light.
Far out on the distant ranges her armies are
gathering fast,
And the long, long night is dying, and the morn-
ing breaks at last;
And the Hons of Australian Fathers, bright in the
fall of the morn,
March on, and are ever marching, to where the
new day is born.
Mothers of this New Nation—in the lost and
mortgaged slum—
Out on the starved selections, hark to the distant
drum !
To the swell of the thousand voices over the sea
and land !
What is the song they are singing ? Oh, do you
not understand?
They are your own, your children, bright in the
face of the morn—
The armies of your own land, the children yet un-
born, J
And this of their song is the burthen, “Live on
though your hearts may break,
That we may live in the future and fight for
Australia s sake.”
TAS.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.
The Jarrah Industry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
B UNBURY (Westralia) is a rising town.
More ships visit Bunbury than any other
seaport in Australasia, excepting Sydney
and Newcastle. To see the circular bay tilled with
shipping, and the long centipede of a wharf
crowded with shunting trucks, you would suppose
there must be a large town at the back of it. Yet
it is not so. The place is a straggling Y of low-
roofed cottages, which look like men without fore-
heads. The bricks are crumbling to red dust, and
the diamond-paned windows show how long ago
the cottages were built. There are old fig trees
there, planted maybe seventy or more years ago,
and the quiescent spirit of Groperdom sits heavily
on the place. Yet it is a rising town, and jarrah
is its baking powder.
Jarrah is a short-grained wood which won’t
split, and which is supposed to withstand white
ants, the action of water, and the attacks of
the teredo. In fact, like the turpentine logs,
it wears as well in water as out of it. If
you let a jarrah sleeper fall overboard it sinks
like a stone. It is mainly used for girders,
sleepers, and piles for wharves, but it is also
adapted for furniture and shop fixtures, as it takes
a beautiful polish. In reading Perth obituary
notices, you mostly read that the deceased was
interred in a handsome jarrah casket. Jarrah is
recognised as a superior timber all the world over
now.
The peculiarity of Bunbury harbor is that the
ships in port fly the flags of many nations, and you
will hear more languages spoken there than in any
other port in Australia. Half the crews on these
boats appeared to be boys. I counted 32 large
vessels in port, a few large tramps, but mainly
barques and full-rigged ships. Hanes and Nor-
wegians predominated. So far as I could dis-
cover, nothing but jarrah is exported. It is taken
in large quantities to South Africa and the Philip-
pines, where it is used on the railways; and also
to South America for girders, etc. Bunbury is
only one centre, and this port alone sends out
£OOO,OOO worth per annum. In fact, the forests ate
being cut down at such a rate that it is computed
there will not remain a tree fit to be hewn in 15
years. The whole industry is controlled by a
syndicate which first started in a small way at
Jarrah dale in 1804.
Bunbury port is a very poor one, little better
than the open roadstead, and it is rapidly silting
up. In course of time the harbor will only
be a sand-flat, with a few feet of water at high
tide, which doesn’t say much, as there is only one
tide in every twenty-four hours on the southern
end of the Westralian coast, and the tides do not
rise more than four feet. I was never tired of
loitering about the wharf with its busy swarms of
men, to watch the trucks shunting on the quad-
ruple lines, and to listen to the creak of the coir
springs holding the shipping to the wharf when a
thundering wave reverberates among the piles and
girders beneath. The masts are always swaying
or a ship is clumsily bumping against the huge
fenders, causing the wharf to shake, and at one
part the divers are busy at work on a submerged
\. : reek by the side of the jetty.
Large quantities of jarrah are brought in from
Collie, a coal-mining town which seems to get
more wealth from wood than coal. The town is
set in a jarrah forest, some of them mighty trees,
though one never sees the bush giants encountered
in Maoriland among the kauri or rata trees, or in
Gippsland, or Yarramalong Valley in New South
Wales. All the same, trees have been cut down
nine feet in diameter and fifty feet to the first
leaves. When I visited Collie the bush was in
bloom with that wonderful blaze of flowers which
makes W.A. unique. All the colors of the rain-
bow were there, and the beautiful perfume of
boronia pervaded the bush like an incense. It
seemed like a Garden of Eden, and one could
almost envy the jarrah-cutters their free and inde-
pendent life among such marvellously lovely sur-
roundings.
And yet the timber men do not waste much
time in these reflections. They are not the men
to go out gathering wild flowers, but a hard-living,
hard-working set of fellows. They start work
with the dawn, they knock off with the dusk, and
they earn good money and they spend it as they
make it. They live together in townships, but
work in pairs. . There is usually a shanty or two
in these places, where enough spirits of wine is
sold to populate a few lunatic asylums.
Jarrah is a hard wood to work. It is very easy
when squaring it to spoil your log if you do not
know how to take the gram, and it often occurs
that a beam has fallen and broken in two, the
grain is so brittle. I met a one-armed jarrah-
cutter who is said to be very particular about whom
he works with, which is as good as saying that he
is a pretty fast workman.
The combine makes tremendous profits. The
timber-cutter may get 30s. for a beam, and the
contractors in South America will probably pay
£l7 for it.
There is good sport about, but a favorite excur-
sion for young fellows is to spend Sunday looking
for curly jarrah. This wood is like the blackwood
or fiddleback of Gippsland (and is sometimes called
fiddleback jarrah), which is so prized for furni-
ture. The light, playing on the curly jarrah when
it is polished, is strangely shifting in the grain,
reminding one of the mobile light of the opal. This
and the bull-oak are the most expensive timbers
in Westralia, some of them having brought as much
as £lOO a tree. The curly jarrah walking-stick is
a great favorite in the Land of the Black Swan.
A timber man told me that the Government
should take action to prevent the destruction of
jarrah. The mills burn off thousands of feet of
really good planks simply because they have no
present use for them.
Gold, pearls, and jarrah are Westralia’s wealth.
These are about all this patchy land has to hold
to, and the jarrah industry is fast nearing its end.
It will take about sixty years for the young trees
to be fit for felling. Then a second jarrah boom
will set in, unless some other wood effectively
takes its place in the meantime. I have often
wondered why the gidya of Oentralia isn’t utilised
more than it is. Excepting ironwood, it is the
hardest wood in the world, and is superior to the
ironwood (which blunts the sharpest axe when cut
green) in this respect, that it is easily worked
before it is seasoned. Gidya posts, which have
been in the ground at Bourke fifty years, have
been taken up as sound as when they were first
put down. It is the finest fuel known, giving out
a greater heat than the best coal ; in fact, you can
burn down a tree, root and branches as it stands,
green; and it leaves only a fine, flour-like ash,
similar to myall and yarran. Tar got from gidya
is superior to Stockholm, but it cannot be pro-
duced as cheaply. This tree is about the size of
red gum, an average butt about twenty-four
inches in diameter, and there is sufficient growing
back of the Darling, right away to the Gulf of
Carpentaria, to feed the bunkers of the world’s
fleets for a few centuries.
There is a disadvantage in its being so inflam-
mable. If it were used as paving-blocks, a
lighted match might prove the destruction of a
city. But for durability it will outlast any wood
in the world, including jarrah. When rain is
hanging about you can smell a gidya bush ten
miles away, and the perfume is not very pleasant,
causing slight headache. Swagman who are
ignorant of the consequences often make a bed
of the leaves, and contract an unpleasant skin
trouble called gidya itch, which is very difficult to
treat. And when they have . boiled the water
taken from a pool in which a gidya has fallen, the
effect is similar to taking a dose of Epsom salts.
I believe gidya will one day prove as valuable a
source of wealth to Australia as jarrah.
ROBERT BROTHERS.


BACKACHE IS THE
BEGINNING.
Backache is the
beginning of Kid-
ney Complaint and
Bright’s Disease, for, in
reality, the ache comes
not from the back, but
from the kidneys, which
lie just beneath the small
of the back. The pain is
caused by uric acid and
other poisons oppress-
ing and hindering the
kidneys, and, until these*
poisons are removed,
you can never be well.
The Genuine Doan’s
Backache Kidney Bills
give the suffering kid-
neys just the help needed
—they drive out of the
body all the liquid
poisons that cau s e
Bright’s Disease,Dropsy,
Urinary Disorders,
Gravel, Rheumatism,
Stone, Sciatica, Nervous
Ills, Si eeplessness, and
Depression. They coun-
A
Every Picture teds a Story.
teract the harmful effeets of beer, spirits, and tea.
Kidney Disease makes a Weak Heart,
an Aching Back; makes you Lifeless,
Rheumatic, Nervous, Dropsical. It comes
on quietly, hut is Fatal if Neglected.
AND—BEST OF ALL—CUBES ARE LASTING—
SYDNEY PROOF OF IT IS GIVEN HERE:
Mr. J. J. Butler, 42 Ifug-o-.street, Redfern, says : —“ Over twelve
months ago I took Doan’s B ickache Kidney Pills for a pain in my back,
which was caused by weak kidneys. I only used them off and on, but
they cured me effectually, and I am thus enabled, from personal experience,
to speak most highly of these pills. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
put my kidneys into perfect order, and I’ve never had a pain in the back
since I left off using the medicine, which is over six months ago. A
medicine of this kind was badly needed, and I wish Doan’s Pills the
success their merit deserves.
YISARS L\TER.
Mrs. Butler states:—“My husband has been quite well ever since
he made the above statement, over four years ago. He had been free of
backache for about six months when he made the statement which has
appeared from time to time in the papers. The trouble has never re-
turned, AND I THINK FIVE YEARS A GOOD TEST OF THE
PERMANENCY OF THE CURE. He always gives the pills great
praise.”
WARNING!—Our readers are, for their own protec-
tion, advised, when purchasing DoaiTs Backache Kidney
Pills, the advantages of which are made known in this
advertisement, to insist upon always receiving the exact
article asked for
dh
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Are sold by all Chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per
box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of
price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
But be sure they are Doan’s.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
It May Lead to Serious Results.
When people generally understand that
all such fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the
rectum, fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of trouble in this quarter.
Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure every
form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding,
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have
been saved by using this cheap but effective
remedy right at the start, because at such
times a single pot will effect a cure, while in
the old, deep-seated, chronic cases several
pots are sometimes required before a cure is
effected. Here is a case in point
Mr. William Gilliver, of Gilliver and
Curtis, General Contractors, whose private
address is “ Avoca,” Bankstown, writes us,
December 10, 1900 :
“ I wrote you February 14, 1899, advising
you that Doan’s Ointment had cured me of
itching piles, after twenty-two years’ afflic-
tion. I had let six months go by before I
wrote that letter, as I wished to see whether
the cure was a permanent one. I had used
many remedies in these twenty-two years’
trouble, and could scarcely believe that only
half a pot of ointment could work such a
cure. Since I wrote that last letter I have
had more lasting proof of the durability of
the good this preparation has done me. I
have not had occasion to use the ointment
since. It was a permanent cure. Many
people wrote to me about the value of Doan’s
Ointment, and I advised them to give it a
trial, and then let me know the results. In
consequence I have received many letters
telling me of cures effected by Doan’s Oint-
ment.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will
cure them absolutely. But do not take our
word for it. Write to Mr. Gilliver and ask
him. He knows. It is for sale by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d), or will be posted on receipt
of the price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.
Chantey Days.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE days of steam are nearly done,
The airship’s almost here
Propelled direct, by power o’ sun,
Along the atmosphere;
I’m sitting by the waterside
Reflectin’, freights among,
On shipping changes far and wide
Since these old bones were young.
For, out across the Herrin’ Pond,
I’ve heard the chanteys sung ;
Pve heard the music of the seas
When these old bones were young.
The old black clipper’s gone for aye,
She’s dead as Noah now ;
I’d like to live to see her die —
This iron-plated scow,
This floatin’ kitchen, smoking vile,
Pollutin’ God’s pure breeze,
An’ spreading stink an’ bilin’ ile
Around His holy seas.
When I have known brave sailor men,
With honest sailor ways,
That fetched their anchors up again
In ringin’ chantey days.
I ’ve heard ships’ tackle groan and creak ;
I’ve heard the bo’sun call —
“ Turn out, ye lubbers, strong and weak.
Turn out your watches all !
Hey, lay aloft —aloft ye lay ;
And strip her quick and soon ! ”
Aroarin’ down to old Bombay,
Afore a young typhoon !
Aroarin’ out to Baltimore ;
An’ singin’ wholesome lays
Of “Sally Brown’’and “Shanandore”
In ringing chantey days.
They never lift a chantey now,
They don’t know what it means ;
There ain’t none wanted, I’ll allow,
On patent sea-machines,
Whose donkey engines, aft an’ fore,
With neither lungs nor souls,
Has made all seamen “Jacks ashore ”
In this damned age of coals.
But out across the Herrin’ Pond
I’ve heard the chanteys sung ;
I’ve heard the music of the seas,
When these old bones were young.
I’m sitting by the waterside,
An’ thinking, old an’ gray,
Of good sea fashions put aside,
An’ good ships cast away.
I’m lookin’ back on days long dead
On things I loved and knew,
With sixty years upon my head
When all the world is new.
But sailin’ outward from the Nore,
No more, my lads, I’ll be ;
Nor sailin’ in from Baltimore
Across the W estern sea—
It’s sailin’ on a dark lee shore
With Davy Jones for me.
N.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.
Blinker’s Missis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ 'WT"OUS all think yer clever ; but when yez
W are weighed - in, yer know nothink !
See?”
“ That’s right.”
“Now I’ll tell yez the tale.”
Then they completed the circle round Bustler ;
and Puncher borrowed Sparrow’s “bumper” to
light his own.
“ ‘ Wuz ever Blinker morried ter Nell ?’ Course
’e wuz. I wuz in the stable the night ’e arsked ’er
ter settle it. She wuz ’oldin’ the candle outside
while ’e oiled ’is ’arness. They wuz tied up in
Mother Arkess’ front room.
“ Well, after Blinker gets switched, things get
on’y middlin’ at the markets, so ’e sells ’is turn-out,
’n’ he makes fer Newcastle t’ do a bit o’ coal-
trimming.
“So afore’e goes, ’e sez ter Nell, ‘You better
take a room at Mother Arkess’, but,’ ’e sez, ‘if
yer don’t get no brass reg’lar from me, I don’t
know wot ye’ll do.’ Nell takes the room in
Durant’s Alley, an’ Mother Arkess wuz lettin’ out
beds at a tray-bit a night. But somehow or other
she couldn’t ’old enough ter keep ’erself round, so
at larst the old bloke with the nobby stick passes in,
an’ starts enterin’ up. ’E wanted five quid ter
clear out, ’n’ jest then Nell gets a tenner from
Blinker ’n’ she stands to Mother Arkess, ’n’ they
squares the old bloke, ’n’ e left. Jest after that
Mother Arkess left, ’n’ ’ancled the show over ter
Nell, ’n’ she starts runnin’ it on ’er pat.
“ One night, a long slab o’ life, wid one o’ them
Scotch caps on, ’n’ a draught-board suit, strolls in
’n’ takes the attic, ’n’ parts up a month’s doss
money ; blime ’e didn’t look zif ’e wuz worth a
match, but ’e wuz a dead finish. Nell couldn’t get
the strength of ’im f’r a ’ell of a while, ’til one
night’e blows in, in a shine suit o’ clobber ’n’ a
new set o’ trotter cases ’n’ a ’eavy tweed ‘ blanket.’
(Muffins pinched it off ’im after, one night when
’e wuz loaded.) But the nex’ night’e wuz back
again in ’is ole harness, ’n’ paralytic. Nell arsked
’im wot ’e done wid ’is new ’un, ’n’ then it all
comes out.
“’E wuz a Scotch bloke, ’n’ ’is ole man ad
stuff—’e wuz a dook, or a countess or somethun—
you know, like that Lord ’Oopiron wot wuz out
’ere, ’n’ ’e wuz sent here for insultin’ a hearl’s
dorter or somethun, ’n’ ’e ust to get money every
three munce, wot a bloke in Sydney uster pay
’im. Then ’e’d buy a new fit out, ’n’get drunk,
’n’ melt ’is lead, ’n’ then Moscow his new clobber
nex’ day ter buy beer. So Nell took ’im in ’and.
She told ’im one day that ’e married ’er when ’e
wuz drunk—’n’, strike me all the colors o’ the
rainbow, ’e believes ’er. Wot d’yer think ov ’im ?
“Well, Nell ust ter go’n’ collect ’s brass ’n’
leave ’im a few bob f’r beer-money, but she always
kept ’im in the attic. Spare me days! I don’t
know ’ow she’d a done without’s brass, cos Blinker
never sent ’er a bean for eight munce, ’n’ the beds
wuzn’t payin’, so she told ’em. The Scotch bloke
uster go about the alley tellin’ everyone ’e wuz
switched ter Nell, ’n’ the push uster laugh like
’ell at im, cos they knew Nell wuz too cunnin’ to
risk a term f’r ’avin’ two ’usbands.
“Oh, but let me sling yer a tip. Nell wuz
gettin’ serious wid’m, ’n’ if ’e’d ’a’ been a pushin
bloke ’n’ not content wid ’is attic’t’d ’a’ been all
up wid Blinker. Now the bloke wuz alius skitin’
about five thousan’ jim wot ’e ’ad cornin’ to’m,
see ?
“ Well, one night, about 12 o’clock, the Scotch
bloke wuz in’is attic tellin’ ’imself funny yarns an’
laughin’, ’n’ Nell wuz in bed in the front room, ’n’
a knock comes ter th’ door. (It wuz the night the
miner bloke got ’ung up fer all ’e wuz worth at th’
top end o’ th’ alley.) Anyways, Nell opens th’
door. ‘ Hullo ! ’ she says, ‘ wot brings you ’ere ? ’
Strike me green, it wuz Blinker. ‘Y' don’t seem
too proud ter see a bloke ; let us in.’ The Scotch
pebble wuz list’nin’ at th’ top o’ th’ stairs. Jest as
Blinker steps in th’ door, who should bustle in, too,
but the ginger sergeant and Miclc the Demon.
‘Hullo, Blinker,’ says th’ sergeant; ‘where
wuz you t’-night?’ ‘He’s jest come down from
Newcastle,’ sez Nell. ‘No I ’aven’t,’ sez Blinker.
‘ I jest cum from Queensland.’ Then the ginger
sergeant looks suspicious. ‘ Well, anyways,’ ’e
sez, ‘we want ter see you about a robbery’t wuz
done in the alley t’-night.’ ‘ I’ve only jest arrived
’ere t’-night, ’aven’t I, Nell?’ Now what d'ye think
Nell sez 1 She sez, ‘ I don’t know nothink about
yer.’ ”
Puncher called her dreadful names.
“ So ’course they pinches Blinker on that, ’n’ they
puts him on trial f’r doin’ the robbery. ’E ain’t
got no evidence, ’n’ so ’e fetches a brace o’
annuals. Nell gets a divorce from Blinker, ’n’ kids
the Scotch Pebble to splice ’er over again, ’n’
then —unbeknowns to ’im—she writes ’oine to ’is
ole man f’r the five thousand jim. But she gets a
’lectric shock. The ole bloke writes back t’ say
that there was a ’groement atween ’im an’ ’is
son that if ’is son got m irried out here the brass
wuz ter stop, ’n’ that e didn’t want t’ ’ear of 'er or
im again.
“ ‘N’ now she’s up at the court every week f’r
drunk, ’n’ righteous behavior, ’n’ the Scotch
bloke’s up at Oallan Park catehin’ grasshoppers—
but wait till Blinker comes out.”
ROBERT HAP.
A Drought Might.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE usual breathless stillness hung over
everything. The air was a moving mass
of shrieking mosquitoes, and now and
again arose a clatter of hoofs as the horses kicked
each other over their scanty allowance of chaff in
the yard outside. On the verandah three tents
were pitched, anything but insect-proof. “Damn
the mosquitoes ! ” burst out Pater, after a few
minutes’ violent movement. Then he got up and
fell over a bucket and barked his shin, and some
more language floated on the air, and he kicked
the dog, which yelled dismally and fled into the
house. Pater gave chase, and broke a Japanese
vase, and fell over the sofa, while the dog jumped
out of the window.
Pater then went down to the stable and found a
shovel, and we all took turns at running through
the house with it full of burning chaff and sul-
phur. The mosquitoes seemed to like it, but
Mother went outside and gazed at the earth for a
bit. Then we crawled to our tents, and silence
reigned.
Mother moaned about the mosquitoes and sent
me for some ammonia. The bottles must have got
mixed, because I brought methylated spirits, and
it got into her eye. She spoke firmly and plainly
for a few minutes, so I left and Went to the pan-
try. It didn’t hold anything eatable, and hordes
of cockroaches overran everything—very fine ones
too. The biscuit tin held a few pathetic crumbs
in it; the bread box was full of cockroaches, and
ants were running races in the golden syrup.
The clock struck one, and a “ Do-what-you’re-
told ” chirped sleepily in a dead lemon-tree out-
side. I went back sleeplessly to the verandah.
Pater was calculating in his sleep— “ 22, 40, 80,
98, 30 and 27’s 57. Put the lambing ewes in the
back paddock and open the gate on to the water-
course.”
Mother stirred gently. ‘ ‘ The mortgage is due
in six weeks,” she said in her slumbers. Then
she woke up and went into the living-room and
sat down to read “Barabbas” by the light of an
evil-smelling kerosene lamp.
“ The'mosquitoes will eat you,” I said.
“I don’t care,” she moaned, rocking to and fro.
“ What do mosquitoes matter when the sheep are
dying faster than they can be skinned ! Captain
had to be shot yesterday, and God knows when
the next team w.ll pass. The flies got at the
meat last night, and I don’t know what we’re to
do for meals to-day. Day after day it's just the
same—bread, meat, a dry tart sometimes, and
milk and butter as easily got as Heaven. What
does anything matter ? ” and she laughed harshly.
Pater jumped up. “ What on earth are you
doin’ in there ’! When a feller does get to sleep
and forget the infernal shop, you two must kick
up a row. What’s there to laugh at ? I’m out
from daylight to sunset skinning sheep. The
watercourses are nearly dry, and we won’t be able
to feed the saddle horses soon. Bee ! why the
devil don’t you fill this water-bag of an evening—
you might at least do that. We slave all day,
and you do nothing but lie about and grumble.”
Mother sighed feebly. “I do wish you’d try
and remember sometimes. I can’t do everything.
Bee, you naughty girl, you’re not to lie on that
wet sheet; things are bad enough without having
you whining about with toothache.
And over the North-west dawned another piti-
less day.
WENONA.
“D.”: Note the dilapidated look of
some country churches, ancient, and in a bad
way for want of repurs. Did the three corpse
towns of Oampbelitown, Liverpool, and Parra-
matta last week, and the Bethels all seemed to
date back 50 years, when a religious wave was on
the land, and much thanks were offered for big
crops and heavy rainfalls. At Oampbelitown two
newly-erected public-houses stand upright to greet
the visitor, while the Anglican church has a
window boarded up, and two other churches have
a couple of broken panes apiece. All the rest
look moss-grown and paint-perished, and at night
you can see the white spectre of the mortgage
drifting round the premises like some washing
-escaped off the line.


Cured the Children
Fny«fma 1 BiotGhes on the Skin, Severe Itching, Sleep Disturbed,
Health Impaired. Now Healthy and Lively.
Mil
M
.
&
si
Mrs. E. Isaacs,
Caulfield, Vic-
toria, sends the
photograph of
herself and chil-
dren, and says:
w I have used
Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for three of
my children who
were troubled
wit»h eczema,
which, as you
well know, is a
troublesome itch-
ing disease,
breaking out in
blotches on the
skin and causing
no end of trouble
and discomfort to
the children by disturbing their sleep and upsetting their general health.
However, knowing of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to use it, and now the
children are entirely free from any sign whatever of the complaint, and are
as healthy and lively as could be wished.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla cures skin diseases because it removes their cause. It
takes out all impurities from the blood, and then the skin quickly heals.
For sixty years Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been doihg this grand work. There
is no other Sarsaparilla like it. When there are impurities in the blood,
Ayer s Sarsaparilla will promptly remove them, and will also make the blood
rich and red. Only be sure you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind.
AYER’S S arsaparil la
Prejjsrect by DR. J. O AYER COw Dowell. Masa-. U. S. A.
MARCUS CLARK & CO., Ltd.
Combination Couch and Bed*
A Marvellous Invention.
This is a COMBINATION COUCH AND BED—a long
looked-for want —which can now be supplied at our
Newtown Emporium and Branches.
ITS SPECIAL MERITS.
Simplicity and Usefulness.
The Most Comfortable of Couches.
Convertible by a wave of the hand into a Luxuriant
and Substantial Bed.
A piece of Furniture of Highly Artistic Finish and
Design.
An ornament to any room, in addition to the above
useful advantages.
At prices within the reach of all.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
EfiS
OPEN AS DOUBLE BEL
Patent No.
Upholstered in Cretonne, from
In Tapestry and Piush, from
Upholstered in Cretonne, with box, from
In Tapestry and Plush, ~ „
Can be upholstered in any material: Leather, Cretonne,
Tapestry, etc., and invaluable to Hotel and Boarding-
House-keepers in times of extra influx of visitors.
As it is convertible into a double bed at a moment’s
notice, any room can be turned into a Bedroom where
one of these admirable Combinations is placed.
SOLE RIGHT held by and obtainable only at
Marcus Clark & Co*, Ltd*
Universal Distributors
NEWTOWN.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lockyer’s
the real English Hair Restorei Large bottles Is.
everywhere.*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
1,1 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, blotches on tim Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRSI DOSE
WILT, GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WOIwH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to oomplete health, rhey
promptly iemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, an
arousing wit h the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, lnes
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beer.ham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Meaiemei
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and Us Od each.
0
(t
j aai
HA1MERLESS DOUBLE BARREL SHOT-GUNS
Are made at all prices to suit every pur e. ♦ • ♦ * Fach Gun Guaranteed.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO QUOTE YOU PRICE.
R 1M1NGTON ARMS CO., ILION, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
fd
hfd
WATERPROOF
HORSE #i COW RUGS
Rug your Animals with ABERDEEN (Reg.) RUGS*
You will make Money
and save Feed by using
Our Rugs.
Universally Used,
The ‘ABERDEEN’ Brand.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER, OR WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLETS ON “RUGGING STOCK,” TO
►IVIITH, COPELASMD and CO.,
210 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Waterproof Tarpaulins and Tents a Speciality.
hf
A Policy for the Commonwealth
PRICE 6d.; POSTED, Bd.
I
Consults by Letter, £l.
4i Collins street, Melbourne.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWNSEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CARD.
dh
m'd., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P.,E., L,.R.C.5.,E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc. . .
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ILIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases ot IWlen and Women!
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia all the above
Qualifications, tpecialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases Maylbe consulted pgrsona j
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles. Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and \\ omen
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lmnbago, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDJUN J.
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures. .
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, hy post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,’ posted tree throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia. , _ .
ADVICE iiv Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Eree from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with hin\ all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krattt-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing
The cinematograph has been introduced to a Paris
surgical operating' theatre as an aid to the students—-and
through the n, of course, to surgery. Dr. Doyen was the
hold mail who introduced it. “By it,” he says, the
student may, know the methods of the greatest surgeons
of all nations. The operations of the leaders in the medi-
cal world may he again and again reproduced after the
dexterous fingers that achieved successes have been them-
selves long quiet in death.”
From New York : “ The most enthusiastic admirer of
C'alvfehas had to admit that she has lost much of her old
c harm. There is little trace left of that abandon, that
seductive grace which made her Carmen so justly famous.
The dragon Fat has spoiled the sinuous figure ; her
appearance in a tight-fitting' costume was absolutely
mdicrous. Her voice has its old purity ; .but it’s the voice
oi a tired woman, and her lethargic, movements make this
all the more apparent. So Calve was disappointing. She
blames the German element in the orchestra, and there is
certainly something in the excuse. She received .$2OOO
for each performance—which, by the way, are the terms
Melba has accepted for next season here.”
An Adelaide Anglican churchman on churches and
“ charities,” in a printed address to his flock : “ I have no
respect whatever for the man who buys a shilling ticket
for a concert, or a buttonhole at a bazaar, and thinks he
has done something charitable ‘ because it was for a
a hospital.’... Of course, if an artiste is going to give her
services, somebody must buy them. If you think they
are worth the money, go, and enjoy yourself, by all
means ; but to imagine that you are doing something
charitable is pure humbug, and I will not have anyone in
this parish asked to buy ‘ because it is for the church.’ ”
“Cockaigne” : Demise, John Coleman, ot nunuon. He
began young a• an actor and o named the favorable
notice of Macready, whom he supported in the provinces,
rising to be a manager at Leeds and other places. With-
out being in the first line he was i good leading performer,
and d d highly creditably as He iry V. He had the luck
to take up Charles Reade's dra natisation of “ Never, Too
Late t > Mend ” when nobody else would look at it. This
proved a trump card and won him Reade’s friendship. As
a writer, the first thing which brought Coleman into
notice was a sketch of G. V. Brooke. Thereafter he
poured out a good deal, all better than readable. His
“ Life of Charles Reade” is absurdly theatrical, but ex-
tremely well done, for a tag of sketchy bits. Compare it
with Hatton’s balderdash about Toole.
One of Sydney's best-known musicians, Aug. W.
Juncker, composer of much successful music, left
by the Sonoma for St. Louis', .where he intends
to give recitals of his compositions in the exhi-
bition. He takes with him many new works, including a
song which should equal, if not eclipse, ‘‘l was Dream-
ing” in popularity, and a most melodious “ Stabat
Mater.” Juncker, in the ’7o’s, was conductor of Italian
opera at the Khedival Grand Theatre in Cairo, Egypt. He
spent some years in Maoriland, where he eventually joined
Dunning’s opera co., first as a vocalist and afterwards as
musical director. Since then, with brief intervals, he has
been established in Sydney.
Melbourne now'has two quartet parties on the sing—
the “Cathedral” and the “Minster.” The latter is the
choir quartet at Christ Church, Hawthorn —a smart,
vigorous lot of men, who sing with as much taste and
rather more humor and “go” than the “Cathedral’
four. Their gipsy chorus is a very rousing, original
item.
H. L. Campbell, writing from the United States, talks
of the difficulties Australians (mummers and others)
strike against there, and gives an instance: —“ Was in-
vited to witness an out-door performance of ‘ As You Like
It,’ given by a ladies’ school. When the principal learned
I was a native Australian, she reflected. Result —-a polite,
but formal note cancelling my invitation, giving as a cau*-
that it would be unprecedented on the part of school
authorities to allow a ‘ colored ’ person to attend any of
its functions. Usual regrets and hopes that I would not
be offended. I wasn’t.”
On a concert tour recently organised by Mr. John Lem-
mone, the flautist fell upon a quaint incident in a country
town. After the performance a short, bearded gentleman
came “behind” and asked for “Mr. Lemon.” “Good
evening, sir,” said he ; “ allow me to introduce myself as
the musical and dramatic critic of the ——- GuahmaK.
Would you be so kind as to give me the encore numbers ? ”
“Certainly,” said Lemmone; “but before doing so I
might mention that our pianist did not play the selection
set down for him on the programme, as the Erard was
hardly up to expectations.” “ Dear me,” said the jour-
nalist, producing note-book and pencil ; “ I am glad you
told me. And what did he play, sir'r’-’ “Well,” said
Lemmone, grimly, “ his substitutedhumber was the Pabst
Paraphrase on Airs, from Tschaikuiosky’s opera of
‘ Eugene Onegin.’” “Good heavens!” said the little
gentleman, “you don’t say so.” Then the Guardian’s
musical and dramatic critic ran for his life.
“ Melb.”: Marshall-Hall's orchestra, of 40, at Her
Majesty’s matinee, transported us back a century, with
the lovely twittering, mooing, and piping of Mozart’*
overture to “Nozze di Figaro,” after which the red plush
curtain rose for glimpses of Almania, the Countess,
Suzanne, and the page Cherubino, in his blue and silver.
We . have risen to the “Gaiety Girl,” Country Girl,”
“ Circus Girl,” Casino Girl,” “ Shop Girl thank hea. ens
the “ Bohemian Girl ” isn’t quite in this category. Next
Marshall-Hall’s aspirants gave us a stage morsel flipped
out of “ Der Freischiitz,” and the whole opera rose to our
memory, with the overpowering effect of the casting
of the seven magic bullets. “Der Freischiitz” is
crammed with melody, like “ Maritana,” but not more
than two of the “Maritana” songs have such subtle
witchery as Impregnates every bar of “ Der Freischiitz.”
Yet “Euryanthe” is Weber’s best opera, a magnificent
dream of chivalry. All the musical stores will have to be
dragged forth in Australia. Yes, our aviary will be
as greedy as Elijah, when the fire came down
from Heaven, burnt up the sacrifice, with the
stones, and licked up the water in the trench.
Marshall-Hall’s third item in the banquet was the genial
PKson Scene from Beethoven’s “ Fidelio.” Now followed
the gem, the Tomb Scene from Vaccai’s “ Romeo and
Juliet.” There are four, well-known operas on the sub-
ject, but Marshall-Hall’s instinct rightly pitches on Vaccai
for this particular item, superbly given by his lady Romeo
and delightfully by the Juliet, so that there was in my
mind the tradition of Charlotte Cushman’s greatness as
Romeo; with the aid of her sister Susan, the greatest
London hit ever made by that player. A charming per-
formance of the Shadow Scene from “ Dinorah ” led up to
the finale—a bit from “Hansel and Gretel,” with the
lady principals, as boy and girl, refreshingly beautiful in
seemingly bare legs. Melb. has got beyond the stage when
Edith Crane nervously withdrew her feet from her slippers
as Trilby, like a pair of doves peeping. For have we not
Miss Kellermann at the Aquarium ? We have.


A GOOD MACINTOSH..
(8 worth its weight in
gold to you. It’s macin-
tosh time just now.
These are the best
Macs, made - stylish-
full of wear, and abso-
lutely waterproof.
GENTLEMEN’S MACINTOSHES—
-355, 42S| 50s.
LADIES’ MACINTOSHES—
With Cool Ventilations under Cape—
-355.
Perdriau Rubber Co.if
(Lath: Pbkdkiau & Co.)
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George St., Sydney.
HAIR
Td. 1198. -
THE most charming and siylish
Transformations and semi-
TransTormations you ever
saw from 21 - eacii. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
.2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for failing hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
and
- •; mmm 3
PRICE Is. Id.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Compound Jet Condensing Pumping Engine.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
llctlTlveS Simpson & Oo>j Ltdi London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd. London.
Warren WGbStCr SL CO. New Jersey,
ENQUIRIES INVITED FOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters $ Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Every
Length
and Size
stocked.
ENNIE, TEARE & CO
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers.
TDNSY,
EBTI,
MELBOURNE,
COOIaCrARDIE.
Is
.
AUA
ITED.
WIRE
ROPES
fdh
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence S3rc3LjKLo3r.'
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rolls and Grushers.
m
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
fdhfd
X3JJT «T"«-»r-rwr
AH Kinds of Engineers’ Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys Plummer Blocks Drills
Shafting Collars Reamers
Hangers Couplings Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
hfd
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO., hay st., Sydney
HAVE STOCK AWD TO ARRIVE - Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
lrrigation ml Pumping Plants a Specialty. New end Second-Hand Machinery always available.
hf
w 1? i 2i-r-v -"r
*. «T M '* » %
(b-V^-.K'
*
«5
?/.J
ft
®jsm
SIZK, 61" x 3i" x 5".
We are Direct importers
and have
fmr Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sixes
for all
purposss)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLAREKTCE STREET. SYDNEY. *
NOTHING EQUALS,
SOLARINE polish
For GLEANING GOLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL, TIN, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and LESS MATERIAL THAN ANY OTHER POLISH
ON THE MARKET. Sample Tins on application.
METAL
Sole Agents;
N.
Ltd.
3
71 Clarence St
486 Collins St
