

GAELIC WHISKY.
Iteid’s London Draught Stout.
McEWAN’S ALE.
sans
*9
107 Kent
Sydney,
street,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ * '
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS
f
66
THE
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven by steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the jCocomobile Co. of America.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further particulars to
.
t’S "N ‘AoupAg ‘lBO4lB KM 98 C *QQ 3Hl¥f
‘N08913
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WCIiMuERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried ih vest pocket
and blown out to life-size —causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’*
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on rece pt of 2s 6d.
H. L. H JTCHIUSOrj, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket
XNsw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, Cd
sails
Posted
. ■ : /.
Bd.
HOBART.
—— :
Radley s Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowlci & Soil Ltd., 117 York Sf.. Sydney
0
CO
•sen
HIGHEST
ROBEY-DAW AIR COMPRESSOR
WRITE TO OUR ENGINEER ... BRISCOE',
HIGHEST ECONOMY.
Jas. NicEwan & Co., Ltd.
Briscoe & Co., Ltd
Sydney.
Forwood Down * CO., Ltd.
Adelaide-
Saunders & Stuart, 1 Emellie & Co.
Fremantle. Brsbans.
The National Mortgage * Agency Co., Ltd.,
Dunedin.
sdf
hh.hi>h
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Oox/ldestial.
A. G. LUMSDEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD,
AU ’URN, MELBOURNE.
22
■3>
So
o
RA
A
23
n
HERVEY’S
RAGKARGCK.
mrrr.. ■ j-. ■■ ■
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE liADZES.
40 YORK 3T, SYDNEY
opp. CeuDeiuii'v- Hall).
Lonntry Orders by pout from all the colonies pro
- J J to.
KeSerenctt throughout Great Britain anet CtltnUt,
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains -which can
produce an attack. You can
cat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; l/l< od enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
U liefs,or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treat d over 52,000 Asthma and T'lriv Fever patients. Es-
ta s i ned im. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Amie-s: Dll. P. HAROLD HAYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE.
Buffalo, N. Y., 13. S. A.
Wiidfit-,
sd
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
vX iijj e a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kina or
edee that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7*. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Prici
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218*
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country nnd Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
soi.* E .nt.: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654- George-st., Sydney.
GHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
BUSH
BUCCANEER
.
Free.
HARRY MQRANT:
His’ Ventures & Versss
D
*
2NT\\MT
F2RTHIS
%
Capilla
Hair
Tonic
MEfVgO, FOR 8904 : “AUT HELICON AUT NULLUS.”
is a medicinal—curative —refresh-
ing scalp treatment, and possesses
all the elements that go to produce
a good head of hair. Its powerful
stimulating qualities go straight
to the hair roots, giving them a
life and vigor they never knew
before—and life and vigor to the
hair roots mean more hair—
stronger hair—better hair. Re-
member, there is no “ fragrant
aroma” in Capilla: Perfumes
don’t make the hair grow—they
don’t even help.
Capilla Hair Tonic
will do for you what a perfumed
preparation will not do, it will
GIVE YOU BACK YOUR HAIR,
Sold by all Chemists and Stores—
-2/6 a Bottle ; full course,
posted direct, 17/3.
W. O. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
fek 164 Pitt Street, Sydney. a
The Bulletin
Yol 25.—N0. 1253.]
registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Tost as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, February 18, 1904.


Recent Bulletin Publications.
Pbil FUay in Australia.
A handsome volume in demy folio (full Bulletin size)
bound in cloth, decorated, containing artistic repro-
ductions of Two Hundred Selected Drawings by Phil
May, exhibiting the artist’s work in Australia in all
aspects.
Price, ONE GUINEA.
the Bulletin Book Circular
No. VI, 16 pp., illustrated.
Post-free to any address on application.
Che Bulletin Postcards.
In three series of ten subjects each. Series I, Designs
by Phil May. Series 11, Designs by “ Hop.” Series 111,
Designs by Australian Illustrators.
Price Id. each card ; lOd. each series of ten cards ; 2s. 6d
the set of three series. From all Bulletin agents and
booksellers, or posted direct from The Bulletin office.
Thirty comical and interesting pictures. The
best possible Australian cards for friendly greeting.
Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
George Robertson Proprietary Co., Ltd., Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Robt. A. Thompson & Co., Melbourne and Adelaide.
Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth.
Our new Selection
By “STEELE RUDD.”
v
FtFTH THOUSAND.
Cloth, decorated, with 100 Illustrations.
Price, SIX SHILLINGS.
Published on Ist December, four thousand copies were
sold within a week of publication. This record, for an
Australian publication, is the best testimony to the
popularity of the author and the book.
SOME PRESS OPINIONS.
Irresistibly amusing.-— The Argus (Melbourne).
Distinctly and refreshingly humourous.... The illus-
trations are delightful.— The World’s News, Sydney.
We come to have a feeling of warm personal regard for
“ Dad.”— The Baily Telegraph , Sydney,
Dedicated to the wives of Australia’s pioneers.— Lockyer
Start Q.). . . ,
Not a,dull line in it.— Kyneton Guardian (\ ic.).
From cover to cover breezy and interesting.— AUora
Guardian (Q.).
Admirably illustrated and splendidly got up.— Glen
Innes Examiner ( NJS.W.).
None who know the Rudds can afford to drop the
friendship. The Stock and Station Journal (N.S. W.).
A thoroughly true pietdre of bush life.-- Wide Bay
News (Q.). '
Full of good and wholesome humour.— Cobar Leader
(N.S.W.). ; :
Many pleasing and amusing pictures.— Richmond liiyer
Express (N.S.W.). ! .
No diminution in vigour or charm.— Warwick Argus
(Q.) i •
Wholly humourous.— Maitland Mercury (N.S.W.).
Will give thousands-a stitch in the side.-- Wf along
Advocate I N.S.W.).
From beginning to end without a dull moment.— It ar-
rego Watchman (Vic ).
Substantially bound and clearly printed.— Mount Alex-
ander Mail (Vic.).
Truthful delineation of the settler’s life.—Hawses Bay
Herald ( M.L.). . :
Will give many a hearty laugh.— Hastings Standard.
(M. 1..). ■ ■
We cannot too highly recommend it.— Western Cham-
pion (N.S.W.). '
FunJirom cover to cover. — '* estem Poft (N.SsW.)
Capital illustrations.— Bathurst Daily Times (N.S.W.)
The reader is kept on the broad grin:— Cumberland
Argusf N.S.W,) . ,
Every line is full of humour and pathos.— Gladstone
Areas 'Express (Q.) '
Full of incidents of the liveliest interest.— Manawatu
Daily Times (M.L.)
Faithful character sketches The Critic.(S. A:)
Abounds in wit and good humour.— Colac Reformer
(Vic.)
Fresh bursts of laughter. —The Advertiser ( S.A.)
Old Uncle is just delightful.— Quiz (S.A.)
Not a dull line, in the volume.— Kalgoorlie‘ Sun (W.A.)
About as good a New Year’s gift as the Bush has ever
received from the Bush. Australian Star (N.S.W.).
Hosts of illustrations, humourous as the letterpress.—
Brewarrina Times (N.S.W.).
Every page is highly humourous reading.— Newcastle
Morning Herald (N.S.W.'). ,
Well worth the six shillings which is the publishers
price.— The Worker (N.S.W.). .
Extremely humourous and vivid.— Yorke’s Peninsula
Makes a charming gift book .—Ashburton Guardian
(M.L.). , .
Full of humour from beginning to end.—H estem
Grazier (N.S.W.). . ~
Evident knowledge of his subject.— Taranaki Herald
A sequel as good as the original. — The New Idea (Vic.).
A distinct success.— Home and Farm (N.S.W.).
Special Wholesale Agents.
New South Wales : EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
Sydney.
Queensland : EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Brisbane.
South Australia : E. S. WIGG & SON, Adelaide.
Westralia : E. S. WIGG & SON, Perth.
Auckland and District : WILDMAN, LYELL & AREY.
Great Britain EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., London.
South Africa: GORDON & GOTOH, Capetown and
Durban.
Others to be appointed.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson &
Crackenthorpe, Sentimental Studies, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Chronicles of Westerley, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Frankfort Moore, Shipmates in Sunshine,-2/6 & 3/6, p. 6d.
Burnand (F.C.), Reminiscences, 2 Vols., 12s 6d, p. Is Bd.
Capes, Secret in the Hill, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Clodd, Story of Creation, 6d, p. 2d.
Lewes, Science and Speculation, 6d, p. 2d.
“ _ he Law of Evolution, 4s, p. 6d.
Write to us for any JtooTc or Magazine you Want.
We are always pleased to answer inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
pTTo Australian Writers, Artists in Black and White.
“ The Critic
iihihiiiiiii—
is prepared to consider’CONTRIBUTIONS from Writers
of SHORT STORIES, SKETCHES, VERSE, &c., also
DRAWINGS IN BLACK AND WHITE.
Add ress- “THE CRITIC,” GRESHAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
of Great Service in Affections
of the Voice. sThroat’.-
Sotd by Ciiemisie, tina, 1 1), or from the MmiiifaKhurcr,
•taaijvj. Sydney I>f pOt: Ajfttwr-,
r fit* moox I''henu3t 1 i«t> i.-l., A.i«tra1i», C'St tree on [receipt Of
Rej*ent-st.,W\ London.
THE RED PAGE.
DIVAGATIONS
Sayonara ! to the cherry-blossoms fading
With the fading romance of their skies,
To the pools where the storks wander wading,
To the idyl of beauty that flies :
For the dream of Japan in her dies
With the sorrow of a soul'lost in trading —
And an echo of far cannonading
From sad Fmiyama replies
Sayonara !
Methought, at her merry masquerading
The mousmi stood in surprise,
And she wrung little hands of upbraiding
And sobbed ipith the wildest of cries :
— Ah, she knows the grief of good-byes,
Sayonara !
4
Alas for Japan! The volcano of “civiliza-
tion” is in eruption, and the dream-world of beauty
built by centuries of effort is to be destroyed as the “ Pink
Terraces" were destroyed by Tarawera. So passes
Niphon’s glory. It was the Empress Jingo— O name of
ill omen ! —whom Japanese history declares to have con-
quered Corea seventeen hundred years ago. And now
Japan is all Jingo—equipped with the latest shibboleths of
“military prestige,” and “■territorial expansion”— and
panting to celebrate by a new conquest of Corea the obse-
quies of the idyl of the chrysanthemum.
Foreseen, of course. When the Mikado, a
generation ago, admonished his subjects and by formal
proclamation ordered them to eat meat, Charles Dickens
could have told him what would come of it. Remember
Oliver Twist !
“Oh, you know, Mr. Bumble, he must be mad,” said
Mrs. Sowerberry. “No boy in half his senses could
venture to speak so to you.”
“It’s not Madness, ma’am,” replied Mr. Bumble,
after a few moment's of deep meditation, “it’s Meat.”
“What?” exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry.
“Meat, ma’am, meat,’' replied Bumble, with stern
emphasis. “You’ve overfed him, ma’am. You’ve
raised a artificial soul and spirit in him, ma’am,
unbecoming a person in his condition. If you had
kept the boy on gruel, weak, this would never have
happened.
And (the Tsar will agree with us) if Japan had been
kept on a rice and fish diet, “this would never have
happened.” The fathers eat strong meat, and the
children’s bayonets are set on edge. After meat the
deluge.
Jt
And ... Australians consume more meat than
any other race in the world. What will become of them?
The calculation is of the vaguest, of course ; and
“consume,” not “eat,” the wise it call. Two hundred
and sixty-four pounds of meat per inhabitant per annum
is allotted to Australasia by the N.S.W. Statistician.
“It would thus appear that each inhabitant of Aus-
tralasia requires daily nearly three-quarters of a pound
of meat, and that during the year two sheep are killed
for each member.of the community, and one bullock to
every five persons. It is obvious, therefore, that much
meat must be wasted.” In the last sentence lies the
explication of the Australian Gargantua. Thrifty Europe
pays dearly for its meat, and absorbs nourishment nearly
to the last atom : improvident Australia, for want of
cooks, flings half away. Who will endow us with a thou-
sand housewives’ travelling scholarships ?
On the Skirts of Blue Devil Land -
BY A SOJOURNER.
I HAD sought after the spirits at marly
seances;- witnessed materialisations so-
called* heard voices and rappings, felt
kicks, and shakes, and thrills; but always
jone away iialf doubtful and wholly unsatisfied.
If yjqu really desire tp foregather with the spirits,
thesis a sufebway. 1 than; s§*t. Bring yourself
into! that condition wherein they will seek to
encounter you. £ THeyitviß try hard, but you must
notlet them, .get aboard. If you undertake to
watch your arms in the middle world, do not
expect SBy-Oommonplace assailment.
The way of approach is altogether ignoble,
simply through a course of alcoholic poisoning ;
or, rather, its sudden stoppage. Keep right on,
and you will reach oblivion without adventure.
You will rot off ,the face of the earth. comfortably
enough. Pull up, and you will see things which,
like and unlike the peace of God, pass all under-
standing. Thrice I have stopped that way, put
the, cork in the bottle after emptying the cask,
and on each occasion passed through the same
ordeal.
What is it?
A night of soddened sleep, a day of despair, a
restless night, another black day; an increasing
sense of distorted vision towards daylight, like a
sort of malignant gramarye beginning to work.
With darkness, voices. Ido not need to conjure
them up. lam not asleep. lam not insane. It
is no effort of the imagination. The sounds
strike on the tympanum of the ear, and are car-
ried on to the brain in the usual manner. Nothing
offensive about them ; and nothing familiar.
They are unknown voices discussing subjects some
of which at least are unknown to me. I am
amused and amazed, but not alarmed at them.
Alarm, terror, necessity of resistance come
always in precisely the same way. A black dog
of the Russian spaniel breed' —I should know him
amongst a thousand in the streets to-morrow (but
he is never there) —appears in a corner of the
room. He quests round a bit, scrupulously
avoiding me, and passes, I am wide awake all
the time, but getting hot and uncomfortable. In
a little while a short, deformed blackfellow comes
to the foot of the bed. He is desperately usrly and
bad-looking, but does not seem to intend any
active mischief. He will stay as long as ever I
lie still and look at him. He is gone if I get up.
I should know him also in the street, but he does
not belong there, nor is he associated with any
experience of mine in this world. Yet he is real.
Night grows and the company increases. Vision
and perspective are distorted. The interior of
the room is strange. It is big as a fair-sized
chapel. I am lying on the floor, and have to grip
and shake the bedstead frequently to assure
myself of its presence. There is something in
that, for the company want me up and amongst
them, that they may handle me at their will. I
know they would hunt me to Hell. lam resolved
they shall not this time, anyhow.
Three women appear. They are seated on a
stone bench. I think for a moment of Arthur’s
Three Queens, but that thought is choked. I dis-
cover that it is not allowed to think. I must
observe and feel; and so know these three as
vampire creatures who are waiting. For what ?
Trouble and increasing heat come with the ques-
tion, and the answer completed through hours is
sufficiently terrible. Not to be tedious, ten thou-
sand spirits materialise in that room before my
waking eyes, and in form which is perfectly
recognisable and describable. It is not an affair
of red spiders, or snakes, or rats, though doubt-
less all are there, but of an army of all things
monstrous, horrible and terrible gathered to
storm the citadel of my bed.
Wonderfully persistent is that delusion. Surely
there is no bed. Surely I have but to rise and
smite that black pigmy, to cross over there and
escape that hell dog, who comes half across the
floor but never farther, while I bide still and
watch and burn. There are wide gates open.
I have but to get up and away in order to escape
the fire and the constantly increasing menace. I
am saturated with sweat, all the bed-clothes are
clammy. Hideous creatures are close beside
me. They must be real, but my hand passes
through them. A bit of rational thought
would save me. I observe there is no sort of
Devil there, conventional or otherwise, neither is
there any face or form I have ever known,
though there are many I shall never forget.
Curious, this.
J*
Ah, they have discovered the working of the
rational brain cells. There is an onset. I abide
it with chattering teeth, tremors, and subsequent
rigours, which must strain hard at all the threads
knitting body and soul together. But they do
not come right on. There is not—somehow I
know that while I lie still there never will be—
any sense of touch. But they have cut me off
from all my most effective resources. I may not
think. I must bo passive in their hands. It is
their hour. Within certain limitations they have
me at their will. They have many men in the
same way every year, and some they take and
keep. For I, thinking of things seen with
strangely wakeful eyes, and a mind sane, however
degraded and tortured, can but regard that assail-
ment as actually real, as planned and pursued
with definite intent. It is the same in its main
features on every occasion. That is to say, the
same spirits, lemures, larvae—cast-out malignants
from inferior spheres of ordinarily ultra-human
consciousness—effect temporarily the same mate-
rialisations.
They are seen, they are heard plainly as the
people in the street, distinctly as the bells in the
clock tower chiming overhead. Do they ever
touch? I think not unless resistance fails. And
then ? Doctors, nurses, superintendents and at-
tendants in lunatic asylums will answer that
question. In many cases they will refer you
forthwith to the undertaker. For that touch
slays. if Woe unto him whom the Evil One has
touched if it be by but a hair of the head,” says the
good knight in Sintram. And these are evil ones
unmistakably. I marvel that psychologists have
never entered on this subject in earnest, that some
literature has not been evolved from it, which,
thoughtfully read in days of sanity, might save
many a (poor soul in moments of peril.
And there is a physiological side also, strangely
and cruelly neglected. Men die every year, every
week, every day, throughout the world—and as I
sadly fear, both the first and the second death—
who most assuredly might be saved. I can
remember more of my own acquaintances, or of
men of whom I had knowledge, who have gone
that way, than the fingers of both hands will
suffice to tally. I cannot doubt, either, that com-
petent, sympathetic, yet disciplinary treatment
would have pulled most of them out of the fire.
But here, again, we come to a mystery, or, as I
fear it might be written, a proper cause of shame.
Even as our spiritualists, venturers, or hoverers
on the borders of the unknown, so do our
physicians, despite the great opportunities which
such assailments as I have described offer, neglect
the complex conditions which precede, accompany
and follow that assailment.
The ordinary doctor knows nothing about it.
The youthful pedant, practically in charge of a
hospital ward, less than nothing. He is apt to
regard the man whom the Blue Devils want as
very fit to be surrendered unto them. “Let him
dree his ain weird.” But he does not put it in that
way because his mind is not attuned to that form
of expression. Alcohol has brought the man to
that state, therefore he shall have no more alcohol.
He does not know, he does not dream, he cannot
understand anything of the depths to which that
man is brought, or of the companies which are
gathering about him. Only one physician in
Sydney ever grasped the actualities of this
business. It was Dr. Maurice O’Connor, who had
seen much, endeavoured much, and himself en-
dured some. In paper after paper, read before
his brethren of the British Medical Association,
he urged the importance of the matter, and
advocated boldly the only remedy.
He knew the body as at once the home, the
temple, and the fortress of the mind. Safe
enough while the guard was diligent and alert,
but worthless as a paper bulwark if unmanned,
tinder those conditions a new guard must be put
in. No need for anything while alcohol stood
strong. A man may drink himself right into the
grave and never get a glimpse of a Bj,ue Devil’s
tail. But drink stopped, voluntarily or compul-
sorily, it is no common danger which demands
attention. The man out of whom the devil is cast
does not take seven devils each worse than him-
self,’ but seventy times seven do seto about to take
him. Maurice O’Connor knew the only poss-
ible way of warding them off to be by rendering
the man impossible of assailment. Sleep, absolute
inertia of body and mind, secures that necessary
impregnable condition. Unless he surrenders the
man cannot be taken, and in sleep surrender is
impossible. (Hypnotism ought to step in here.)
The doctor had but one drug—bromide of
potassium. “Giving it copiously and frequently,”
he said, “ I have warded off numberless attacks
of delirium tremens.” That is to say, he has in
many instances saved men from death, and hell,
or the madhouse. But the youthful doctor, and
the pedantic doctor, and the pious doctor are
afraid of it. The properly qualified honorary
physician of a great hospital has never any
scruples, and if a patient can get at him promptly
he is safe. But usually he cannot. It may be
two, three, or four days before that doctor comes
round ; and then, to see something huddled up in
a padded cell, to be passed with a shrug of the
shoulders.
#
I think those evil ones must hunt with a good
deal of success in police cells. That they have
wild hunts in the Bush, and often to a dead finish,
I know well. And the horror of it ! Picture the
man who has drunk a big cheque in a house of
bad liquor, who is chucked out into the Bush, with
fire enough to boil a billy in his hea.d, and the
nearest water, a muddy tank, ten miles away !
Often enough he turns into the timber before the
tank is reached, muffles his head in a blanket, and
turns face downward on the hot earth. I have
happened on three thus after the crows had torn
the blanket away. How many have lost their
souls to the Evil Ones in this way, even as their
bodies to the crows ?
M.
CORRESPONDENTS
Opal: Try T. S. Omond’s A Study of Metre,
pub. G. Richards, Lond., ss. net... .W.W. : Agree ? Can
you think it? No, sir, that correspondent’s reference to
“Robber Burns” —the Father of his Nation, first in
poetry, first at thri plough, and first in the...hearts of his
countrywomen—was printed to show to what infamous
depths of turpitude a base Sassenach can descend....
“ Otoko ” declares that the colours of sounds were among
his childish ideas. “ I startled my prosaic elders by
declaring that a young lady had screamed a white
scream. My only colours, however, were black,
white, and the gradations between them. A piccolo
gave forth a white sound; a BB flat brass instru-
ment a black sound. A voice I have since learned
to call baritone was then brown ; a boy’s gray, etc.
On looking back I am inclined to think that my impres-
sions were based on qualities of transparency and pene-
tration. As clear glass gives clear vision, so is a shrill
sound clear cutting. That is why hay colours were merely
black and white. Only by taking thought, it seems to
me, can one differentiate between these fundamental
sound colours and those that are prismatic. Wemight,
by amassing impressions, begin to understand a bricky
sound, a hairy sound, a leathery sound, or even a: perpen-
dicuiarorhorizontalsound. Even.nowwe havea fewallied
terms which convey a meaning— e.g., a wooden sound
Fritz : Thanks ; have twice already reviewed Rubery’s
“ Pleasing Variety.” .. .A.H. thinks that “L. W. Hart’s
praise of local colour-photographers refers to the work of
J. Patterson and R. W. Harvie, who have been experi-
menting for years, and have given exhibitions of
results in Melbourne. They use «,he Ives system. The
difficulty Still is to obtain a pure red for the colour-
screen.”. ..A.G.D. : There are at least 20,000 poets in
Wales called Davies. Thomas is the name of all who are
not named Davy. .. .W.A.H.: That selection is riot yet
published... .H.D. : Out of print at present; try for a
second-hand copy.
MEMORANDA
“Mr. Percy Wad ham, whose drawings are
here illustrated, is an Australian by birth, beiftg the son
of the late Hon. William Wadham, of Adelaide’’—says
Jan. Studio, in reproducing some thin and-delicat e pen -
sketches of architectural “bits” in France. Foliage is
cleverly handled, but the drawings on the whole want
power and depth,
George Moore is contributing to Lippincott’s,
under the title of “ Avowals,” “ a new seriesfof the Con-
fessions of a Young Man.” Everything, lit interesting
that such a man as Moore writes, but at present he seems
a trifle stale. In January he discusses Kipling and Loti,
but is not, as aforetime, “ filled with febrile impressions”
or phrases (“Art is a sublime' excrement !”> or the con-
viction that he is of “ the ten superior persons in the uni-
verse.” Moore is 52 years old.
The, award to Bjornstjerne Bjprnson of the
Nobel prize for imaginative literature emphasises the
dearth of great writers in. England. Foreign apprecia-
tion has some of the value of posterity’s judgment; and
the Swedish academy has now twice passed over Eng.
competitors. For the first award, in 1901. there, was
no Eng. concurrence ; and the prize fabout SOOOZ.) was
awarded to Sully Prudhomme. In 1902, the Eng. Incor-
porated Society of Authors nominated a candidate (said
to be Spencer), but the prize was given to Mommsen.
And though an English name does this year appear on
the list of prize-winners, it is that of W. R. Grenier, a
member of Parliament comparatively obscure, who is
honoured in Europe for his services to the ideal of inter-
national peace.
The Home Queen, Nos. 1, 3 (Syd., W. Brooks;
Id.). A monthly for the ambitious Australian woman : F
edited by Mrs. Aronson. Contents range from intellectual
to domestic : the motto is “ Brains and saucepans polished F
here.”
RECEIVED
The Princess of the Malice, by B. Cozens (jVfelb.,
Montfort Press ; Is.). Presented as “ a typical story of
Australian life.” The author’s matter is lively and
interesting, on the ordinary plane : it is pity that sis
manner is so bad. ‘‘May was a haughty, austere girl,
mingled with a rare suavity and subtly CO€j*tiettishness ”
(p. 11). “ ‘ Have your little cry out, Beatrice, my youngest,
my baby,’ said Thomas Elphington, in a soothing man-
ner ; ‘ you are overdone with to-night’s exertion, and a
slight attack of vertigo has set in”’ (p. 15). And so
throughout. If the young lady (one supposes it is a
young lady) can leayn to use words intelligently, she may
do service.
Thraldom, by Helen Prothero-Lewis (Lend.,
Long ; 2s. Qd.) An agreeable story of the Ugly'duckling
who finds, once adventured on the broad water, that she
is really duck and not swan ; and that the same old
drake (in a new incarnation) is her destiny after all.
Which is a case more commonthan Andersen’s.
The Way to the Kint/dom, by Theo + Gum
(Adelaide ; Co-op. Ptg. Co.) Another revelation from
our prophet—and a more sensible,-better expressed
revelation than is common with prophets, But the
apology is a mistake : prophets should never apologise.
“ The soul that is reincarnated in my body,” says t Gum,
“is the soul of David, the ancient King of Israel. Ido
not make this exclamation in any spirit of egotism.
God, who knows every thought of the human hegyt,
knows that I am meek and humble, and that I would
not make this declaration if it could be avoided Moses
was a meek man, but he had to tell his fellow-men some
extraordinary things about himself: not because he
liked it, but because it was his duty. Christ, the
carpenter of Nazareth, was the meekest man who ever
lived, yet He had tp stand up and tell his fellow-
men that He was the Son of God, not because
He liked it, but as a matter of stern duty.
And I, as a humble disciple of the Great Master,
must do not what is pleasant, but that which is my
duty.” This is convincing, but not diplomatic. Prophet
f Gum will recollect that the good Captain Reece, who
explained to his crew that—
“ By any reasonable plan
I ’ll make you happy if I can ;
My own convenience count as nil:
It is my duty, and I will” —
came to a Bad End. If t Gum continues to explain he may
get into Parliament.
A. G. S.


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH,
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., lm.
AW.T! the best salesmen.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices : 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd,
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTM ENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILG.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
#!j| i|ppi|ipis| gf
TieV iliLilijdLl Uiwil. H iliuJibJf
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, sioz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS-
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7b 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS!- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \
BATS /
No. 0 12 3 4 5 6
6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS,
Cans —
No. 3 4 5 6
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \
All Cane — J
P 9 S SI ‘P9 six ‘P9 «0I ‘P9 s 6
P 9 s 8 ‘P9 ‘P9 s 9 ‘P9 *9
MEN’S CANE'i
and RUBBER \
BATS- J
«SG ‘*OZ ‘P9 *Bl ‘P9 S ZT
P 9 *9l ‘P9SQI ‘SQT ‘P9 m
\ ■■ - . . ■
Send for C .talogue, Post Free—full
list of Buts, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS--
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s Cd, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103* set
Tennis Racquets
FULL SIZE.
Lem
3s 6d
pen
Handicap
5s
stan6am>
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure In
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d. 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players-
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, Jtc.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation ... 4s 6d doz.
Covered Regulation ... 9s 6d ~
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg. ... 10s
SLAZENGER’S Covered 16s
AYRES’ Grey Reg 8s 6d „
AYRES’ Covered ... ... 12s 6d, 15s
AYRES’ Champion 16a ~
.tayuor's
'•mm
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18« 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR'S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including; payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, SYDNEY.
HEALTH and HAPPINESS
DOES not every man wish to be strong, to be able to meet successfully the every-day issues of life that occur ?
This is impossible when the body is weak, the brain weary, and ability to concentrate the mind is missing. IT
IS THE STRONG MAN, THE MAN WHOSE MIND IS ALERT, and who is wide awake, who succeeds
* nowadays. Be at the top, be as good and better than the next man. If you feel that you are run down, that
you are weak ;if you have tried the OLD AND EVER-FAILING DRUG METHOD, give it up. Your body is like
an engine without steam, your nerve force is exhausted, you have no energy, you have no steam. “ELECTRICITY
IS LIFE.” It is the potent factor in the human body. Electricity is the only rational and certain cure for functional
disorders. If your BACK ACHES, if you are NERVOUS, if you have RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, INDIGES-
TION, STOMACH or KIDNEY TROUBLES, ELECTRICITY, properly .applied, will cure you. There is no doubt
about it. It cannot fail. It quickens the pulse, invigorates the blood, puts new life into every nerve.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
Will cure any of these troubles. It is the modern remedy for all chronic ailments. Worn at night while you sleep, it
pours a soothing, invigorating nerve life into your body for hours at a time. WITH EACH APPLICATION YOU
TAKE ON NEW VITALITY ; new energy comes with each night’s wear, until, at the end of three months, the
most stubborn CASES SUCCUMB ENTIRELY, and you can lay the Belt aside a healthy and strong man or woman.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is the production of years of scientific investigation. It is the only adjustable body
Belt that has ever been made to produce a strong' current that could be felt at all times by the wearer, that is
absolutely under control of the patient. The current can be made mild or strong in a instant, and does n’ot burn or
blister the flesh. It is guaranteed to last a year, and, with care, will last a lifetime. Use it, and you will always
bless the day. IT IS AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN. . : -
1
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
From New South Wales.
COOLABAH, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —Since I got your Belt I have been in good health,
with no pains or rheumatism. We have had some very trying
weather lately, and without your Belt I would have been very
bad. Yours truly, J. W. CARNEY.
From Victoria.
394 Cardigan-street, CARLTON, YIC.
Dear Sira,—Five weeks ago I was broken up like an old
concertina, and I was a perfect wreck. My back was fearfully
bad. I suffered from sleeplessness so much that I nearly lost my
mind. I want the public to know that there is only one Electric
Belt, and that is yours. lam not only willing, but anxious to
tell everyone that you are a blessing to the public, and that your
Wonderful Belts are worth their weight in gold.
Thankfully yours, J. TOOHEY.
From West Australia.
Post Office, FREMANTLE. W.A.
Gentlemen,—l am pleased to say your High-Grade Belt is doing'
me immense good. I have been wearing it for the last thirty-fn e
days according to your instructions, and it is working splendidly,
and lam quite satisfied with the good results. The pains in my.
back and stomach have nearly gone, and I believe that in about
two months time I will be cured.
Yours very truly, R. BRUY.
From New South Wales.
Oarara, CURLEWIS, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I am very thankful for the good yom Belt has done
me. After about three weeks use I have not a pain about me, or
the slightest sign of diarrhoea. I have not taken one dose of
medicine since I have been using the Belt, and I consider I am as
well as ever I was in my life. Yours truly, DUNCAN McLEOD.
From Queensland.
IRVINEBANK, QUEENSLAND.
Dear Sirs, —I am very glad to report to you that lam getting
on first rate. Your treatment has, undoubtedly, done me a
world of good. The sound, peaceful sleep I now enjoy would
alone be worthy of thanks to you, but I am gaining greatly in
strength and spirits as well. I remain,
Yours respectfully, R. HEMMY.
From New Zealand.
PORT PIRIE, S.A.
Dear Sirs;—l must tell you how the Belt pleases me. lam
quite delighted with it. I felt benefit from it the first week I
wore it, and I am very pleased to tell you that I have progressed
wonderfully ever since. If I hear of anyone suffering from any
complaint I shall he only too pleased to recommend your Belt.
Yours very truly, G. ORR.
Full information is contained in our Illus-
trated Free Books which will be sent Free
and postage paid to any address on applica-
tion. Everyone should have these Books
for therein lies the secret of good health.
They give Illustrations of our Belts, and
photos, of a great many who have been
cured. We cordially invite all to call and
see this appliance, and, if ailing, Free
Advice and Information will be given.
m
m
[te
These letters prove the gratitude of our patients ; prove that there is more in life than some of U 3
are wont to make out; prove that when we tell men and women that we can cure them we will not
disappoint them. Itead them carefully, and imagine how nice it would seem for you to talk likewise.
Do as they did, and if you are at all curable, we’ll make you strong and vigorous. They read our ad-
vertisement. Some of them called at our office, learned what we said was true, had a free test of our
Belt, and began to get Well. Others'>vrote, being too far away to call. They asked for our beautiful
illustrated book, describing our method. We sent it them. 5 It is free, and we mail it to any address
postpaid. They got it, read it, and testimonials from dozens of other people who had been similarly
afflicted, made up their mind, began’the treatment, and to-day, dear reader, you see the result.
The Dr. McLaughlin Go.
100 W. Market Street, Sydney
MELB. OFFICE—I67E. SWANSTON STREET.
N.Z. OFFICE-54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON.


THE
COLIHTON ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,'
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane River, 5} hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
40,000 Acres
of Rich River Flats, and well-
grassed Ridges, cut into Dairy
Farms,
Zn Areas of 100 to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the HEAD STATION BAX.Ii-
ROOM, on
EASTER MONDAY,
and following Days,
6th to lOth APRIL,
at 11 o’clook eaoh day.
Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., of Kensington Downs, a Director of the Q.N. Bank
and of the Queensland Meat Export Co. reported on Colinton on 7th April, 1900:
“It is impossible to ride over the rich lands of Colinton without coming to the conclusion
that no just or accurate idea of their value oan be. arrived at bv merely treating them as
grazing estates, as the large proportion of arable la d embraced in them justifies the
belief that in the future a very muoh enhanced value imut attach to them for cutting up
purposes."
COLINTON is composed of a variety of sloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid percentage of Luaerne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Runs, as well as one of the best fastening Runs in Southern Queensland.
COLINTON Is magnificently watered by- 18 miles double frontage
to the Brisbane River, as well as by upwards of 48 miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
COLINTON has been kept free from pests such as lantana, thistle, and
bnrrs, and there is no nut grass and, above all, no ticks.
THE MAGNETIC TERMS S
One-Tenth Cash, no payments for 2 years, and the balance
up to 20 years at 4$ per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
profusely illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may ibe
obtained from the office of this paper, or from
ISLES, LOVE & Co., Auctioneers, Brisbane
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING-, served from 12 sharp till 2.30 ;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
W.B. —Visitors oi)ly pay for wljat tbcy actually
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying ■for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SyPNey.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
/
m
m
m
i
w/
w
SPECIAL
TRIAL OFFER
The finest Electric Belt in the world is
what we offer you. Our improved Belt is
superior to any other made. It is not charged
in corroding vinegar. It gives a stronger
current of Electricity than is possible with
any “vinegar belt.”
It is a guaranteed cure for all cases of
Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lum-
a , , i • , tvt , „__ bago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver, and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
We are practically giving this splendid Belt away on trial, as the price has been put at
tlie lowest possible figure, so that it is within the easy reach of everybody.
We send absolutely free to every person writing uS our beautifully Illustrated Medical
Book and the Best Improved Electric Belt on trial. We offer a better article at a lower
price than any other, and all writing us receive immediate attention.
What we offer you is this : Our Medical Treatise Free, together with our best Belt on
fair trial. Remember our Belt is positively guaranteed to be the strongest made and will
cure you. Write to-day. It costs nothing to try it. Address—
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DHPT. M.,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
New Zealand Branch: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
CO you DRUNK LIME JUICE ?
PURE HME-FRUIT JUICE
fs
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agents— Elliott Bros., Ltd., d. Connell i. Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
SpUME/fc
df
PROFESSOR /V\UDD'S
,on lnn r »i
c^INTHOS
y-OPS_MAIH FALLING OUT-
Prevents Baldness
PRICE a/6 —POSTED 3/3-
K RQMO
Gives life c.olohto grey hair
. - CQNfAINS NO ACIDS;
4w"'-' p ß , 7 lt,uniS^M
5/,
*r
mmm
m&m
-?■
mm
1
NOUJ
////t
N
/
//
ii^ERYTHI^
uaded sii/j uo/juMWmm
1 i
m
m
2«SOLLINS ST
ELBO U RN E.
GOOD
KA.IR JF’OIFL ALL!
&
&
og
All Chemists.
Washington B. Soul & Go..
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., is., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR.
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THe HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
m
Absolutely C 111*6
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
1 FURRED TONGUE.
| INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
s
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
fetM
•V.WU
\
/AX*
vV'ii' i
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T IVI**S T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address :
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St., Sydney.
Or BOX 865 i
G.P.O.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Moran
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Fret.
Y By FRANK RBNAR. y Edwards, Dualop & Co., Sydney


Beauty, splendor, elegance! Rich
and heavy braids! Long and flowing
tresses!
Ayer’s Hair Vigor feeds the hair
and makes it grow long and heavy It
stops falling of the hair, completely
cures dandruff, and keeps the scalp
clean and healthy.
As a dressing for the hair you will
certainly be greatly pleased with it.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
You can always rely upon it for
restoring color to your gray hair all
the full, rich color it had in early life.
There is no doubt about this. You
need have no fear of being disap-
pointed. We speak with a knowledge
that covers over fifty years of experi-
ence with this valuable preparation.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the gen line
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., U.S.A.
EVERY WOMAN
df
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Clenses Instantly.
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free—
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MARVEL 60.,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS,BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
XT S IE! —■
SPOONER’S
H H
SPOONERS
0*
4
BOOT
tftTOrr--«ATH£R
CU2XCRIOS
i-■•
«•*** ■* r»«
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
ar-ss
£
«
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models <
<£2.10t0£5*5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres, A ccessories. Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
■Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U.B.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
sd
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
_ cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
IAS-COLLLNS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Shout,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C! ; F. E. Winchcomue, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teeck, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. > ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
/
SMITH
BR^SBAMfi
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value —best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Poslsd Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading" Jeweller.
H. F. SMITH
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
*■.
■M
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
It’s the modern and systematic manner of loading that makes
Winchester Shotgun Cartridges shoot stronger, give better
pattern and penetration and more uniform results generally than
any other makes. No black powder shotgun cartridges compare
with Winchester “ New Rival ”in any way; while Winches-
ter “ Repeater ” Cartridges, loaded with smokeless powder, are
far ahead of all other makes, when the price is considered.
INSIST ON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE.
Miss Ada Grossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
“ Gentlemen, —
“ I want to tell you how delighted I am with the
Pianola. It is altogether wonderful ! In an accom-
paniment to several of my songs it has given me
splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
“ With appreciation and greeting,
“ Very truly yours,
“ ADA CROSSLEY.”
There is hut one Pianola.
Sold Only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola free if you
will write us. Ask for Catalogue B.
Informal Recitals daily, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
You are cordially invited to attend.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000*
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
_ T „ , , _ (Freehold or C. P. and C.L.) or Government Stock of
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a -fixed term, or made repayable by Instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Sweetheart City.
I have had my month or twain of honeycomb,
With the mountains and the supercilious stars:
Now I’m going back to harness, going home,
With the rails roaring welcome to the cars.
Through the darkness faint with fog and keen
with frost,
Through the maiden spacious silences of plain,
To my sweetheart flashing down—
To my love of loves, my town,
To her passions and her pulses once again.
Oh ! the rush and roar of noonday and the whirr
Of the asphalt to the thousand eager feet,
That I left for clover-silence and the stir
Of a lazy, loafing wind among the wheat!
In the violet-scented velvet veil of night
My dreams were all desire and half despair
For my city of delight,
And the glitter of the bright
Purple arc-lamps blurred and blazing in the
square.
I felt old hot heart-tempests in the wind
Stealing slow and soft and saintly from the snows,
And an aching for the old sins that I sinned
In the cold Platonic comfort of the rese ;
Ah, my city’s myriad moods of smiles and weeping
Sway my heart into a storm, and there is ease
And contentment in her keeping,
As, the storm-winds seaward sweeping,
Petrel pinions in the thunder are at peace.
In the tinkle of the soft melodic river
In long grey shingle beds on dozing days,
In the rata’s crimson rustle and the quiver
Of the lyric lilies flashing in the haze,
In the slow, soft-breathing growth of height and
hollow,
I have heard my city’s subtle symphony ;
And I haste my heart and follow
With the sweep of swift and swallow,
When Summer sings her summons oversea.
Oh ! to mix with life and labor once again !
And to feel my fingers tingle on the strings
Of my lute of love and women, work and men,
In the orchestra of urgent happenings !
Days of doing, nights of love that laughs at woe,
With my brilliant sweetheart city by the sea —
Fierce hot sighs and breathings low,
Lips of carmine, breasts of snow,
They are coming with their color back to me.
M.L.
M. CORMAO.
Flowers.
Of old ’twas said
That flowers were the spirits of the dead.
Hearts that have burned with love can ne’er
forget,
And minds wherein life’s thought and hope were
wed
Remember yet.
Immortal pain
Throbs in the perfume breathed to sun and rain ;
The hope forlorn, the broken, lonely heart
Still glamor bring across the years’ wide main
And grief impart.
The maiden pale,
Who bends above a bowl of blossoms frail,
Garners new wisdom from their touching breath,
And innocently lives the sweet old tale, .
As sad as death.
There is regret
And longing in a knot of mignonette ;
Passion wakes above a languorous rose
And melancholy veils a violet
Where’er it blows.
A tranquil spray
Of stephanotis thrills the pulse alway.
Nestling in faery mesh of fresh fern tips
A benediction ’tis for love to lay
On silent lips.
And clematis
(The name falls gently as a lover’s kiss)—
O’er ruins old its frank star-blossoms shine.
What better fate ? what magic more than this
Could hope divine ?
Sweet scents caress
The mind and heart to happy tenderness,
Exultant rapture, or delicious pain,
Or the rich peace that those dead souls possess
Who live again.
When wanes the light
Melodious fragrance floats into the night
To human kin endeared by vanished fire—
The sacred thrall, the all-compelling might
Of lost desire.
Some hearts too deep
Have bled; and now, dream-haunted, can but
sleep.
The poppies palpitant on curving stems
Are only fair; their memories they keep
As diadems.
■ Q.
LALA FISHER.
Lullaby.
Close pretty eyes, oh, close—
The flowers in the garden sleep—
White lily and red rose !
White lily and red rose
Within the garden sleep.
. . . Hushed is the garden close,
My baby, closer creep.
The thrush has sought his nest
And nestles to his mate,
So thou upon my breast!
So thou upon my breast,
The mother-breast elate;
Night’s curtain in the West
Rolls down—why dost thou wait ?
The stars their lamps have lit,
The wind sings to the bough.
Heart’s Dear, why linger now ?
Heart’s Dear, why linger now ?
The twilight moments flee . . .
Come, gain the rocking prow
And sail the Dreamland Sea !
VIC.
DOROTHY M'CRAE.


GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Cheniist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT.^s~
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
anv address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
•ither Bell. Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, Ruaranteed
tlie same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
Addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Coles
Bool; Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
f'.
s
Which we send FREE
TO ALL explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STRONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explains their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CURED by
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TROUBLES, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
I CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WEAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
f
“ ACTS MKB A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD everywhere
2s. 9d. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes*
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalled head; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as m milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, —all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin, ;
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore bands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many (
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well aa,
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PIUS.
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brate’d'llquid CiXTictTRA Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Ccticuba Remedies are sold throughout the . Rue'ltelaTaU: cS
Depot; 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot; 5 Kue de la raix, irariß. ru iajbk
floßp. f Sole Props.. Boston. U. S. A. , . -—— - - ■"
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
Tli Healthiest and most Comfortable Underwear tor Men, Woaeo anJ
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as “just as good as Aertex.'*
SOLE AQEKTB
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 King: Street.
k
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA]
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
Wk'
f iry*
WILL ANDRADE’S » - BOOKS
sdf
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
is each bell’s Standard Elocutionist latest
i-f?™ 'Qa fid Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
3 «»««»u™ book «d ~h.
Nigger Stgmp Speeches, Is , post, Is al. AH Nat
Barmaids, Baldhead , y lg 3c j. My Neighbor
Papering, Is 3d. D Amateur House Builder,
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Cuckold, Is ;
Is 3d Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. IHB uuckold, ,
post Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., 3s 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner s
Guide 3s 6d. Maria Monk, 3s 9d. Minstrel Show,
iokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, 3s.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie s Hearts of Gold
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, is 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s od.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’S Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. W ANNAN s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :-No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No 2 * Coniuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3.
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
s EXPECTORANT
tES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
CHOICE TIPS
From the famous
farms of South Africa
Black, White, or
Cream.
51-
The Bunch.
Post Free.
Worth 15/-
We make this special offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips.
Write Now. Send Postal Notes.
sd
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Molbourn*
Mention Tns Bulletin.
VANISHED VIGOR
From any cause Speedily
and Permanently
RESTORED.
TOD WRITE. 1 CORK.
SURGEON LANGSTON’S
IMPROVED
I
Has completely
Cured Thousands of
SUFFERING MEN.
IT IS NOT A BELT.
IT WILL NOT BURN YOU.
Here is Nothing to Wear
It is Sure, Safe,
Speedy, Secret, and Simple.
For All Forms of
NERVE BLOOD, AND
SKIN DISEASES
Consult the Only Qualified
Specialist who has no Record
of Failure.
Let me give you back your
Manliness.
VARICOCELE CURED
Without Operation or Pain.
SURGEON KINGSTON,
) M.R.C.S , ENG.,
129 COLLINS ST.,MELBOURNE
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY a “ d
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain « V ®*Y
advertised remedy, and at la, t dis-
covered a SIMPLH MEANS of BELF
CURB, -will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY^
w
Free for Asking.
fRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
- J book, which will show you how to cure disease ami
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you wi i
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the ad ™ e lt c !j
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mindl and bodjl «■
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energ ,
strength and ambition once more. Posted irt*. vir
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne. _
CEB
DEAF
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
REGULARLY at BEDTIME
USE
CALVERTS
20 per cent
CARBOLIC
SOAP
to prevent Mosquito bites. It is an excellent
antiseptic soap, refreshing and beneficial
to the skin, and a useful remedy for insect
bites, itch, and other skin irritation.
Each tablet In metal box.
CALVERT’S
\n CARBOLIC POWDER
offers a safe and simple precaution against
the spread of infection and disease.
Cheap to use, as it is so strong.
£ lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England.


rlonfh After Month.
Year After Year
BIT B-A-^T
WE PUBLISH EVIDENCE LIKE THIS*
The Case of Mr. A. LYES.
(for the “standard.”)
The requirement! of the Australian popu-
lace can only be arrived at by reference to
the statistics which are compiled at various
periods, and as evidence is necessary for the
purpose of gauging popular opinion, it may
here be interesting to listen to Mr. Albert
Lyes, of No. 7 Frazer-street, Leichhardt.
“ When living in the North Coast dis-
trict,” said Mr. Lyes, “ I experienced a
vast amount of trouble with my liver and
kidneys, the consequence being that I was
put to a lot of inconvenience owing to the
acute pains across the small of my back.
As I had heavy work to do at the time, my
afflictions came as a great hardship, more so
if there was any lifting to be done, when my
back pains were intensified to a degree that
I could scarcely endure.”
Reporter: “ Were you much affected in
any other part ? ”
Mr. Lyes : “It would bfi 'quicker for me
to tell you where I was not affected, for I
had aches and pains all over me. There
was a cdd, painful sensation in the spine
which felt as if somebody had shot a ball of
ice along my back, and that horrible shoot-
ing pain extended right to my eyes, which
also gave me the impression of being
swollen, I was sluggish, drowsy, and had
no energy whatever, the only thing I felt
fit for being to lie down—it did not matter
where. It is a serious matter for a married
man to get into that condition, but I held
out as long as I could, and then I had
to give in, for all the grit was taken out
of me. Being without any appetite, which
had been on the wane for a long time, the
chances of stopping a further leakage of my
vitality were very remote, and as I could not
sleep at all well at nights, there was no
doubt that I was in a very grave state. With
my tongue covered with a nasty substance
and a vile taste in my mouth, there is
nothing remarkable in the fact that I could
not enjoy any food, and in the natural
course of events I got a long way thinner
than I ought to have done. I was tor-
mented with very severe headaches which
made me feel so gloomy and wretched that
there seemed to be nothing in the world
worth living for, and with my weakness
daily increasing, my limbs ached so persis-
tently that I could not even take a walk in
comfort. Palpitation of the heart and dizzi-
ness always follow ed any exertion, my
heart being particularly bad. It used to
make a thumping sound like the noi3e from
a horse’s hoof heard in the distance, and
many an anxious hour have I passed in
thinking what might be wrong with that
organ. Like most people who suffer like
this for the first time, I consulted a
doctor, who said that my liver and kidneys
were diseased. He wrote a prescription,
which I had made up, and said I would
have to keep as quiet as possible, and not
exert myself any more than was absolutely
necessary.” q
Reporter: “How did you feel after
taking his medicine? ”
Mr. Lyes : “ Just about the same as
before, and when I saw it was only so much
waste to take any more I dropped it off.
The oppression in my chest and the flatu-
lence in my stomach were still there, and
the urine remained of a cloudy and scanty
nature, so what was the use of throwing
any more money away I thought ? Besides,
my nervous system was completely out of
order, as any kind of noise had a startling
effect which kept my nerves at extreme
tension, as if they had been suddenly un-
hinged, and then, again, I felt agitated and
irritable at the slightest provocation. The
long-continuance of these sufferings had
made me very morose and low-spirited, for
there were others to think of besides my-
self ; but, thank goodness! that trying
ordeal is all over now, and it is not likely
to be repeated, because I discovered a
remedy which cured my ailments then, and
I am sure it could do so again if ever I
needed it.”
Reporter: '* May I learn what the remedy
was ? ”
Mr. Lyes 2 “ I have no desire to keep the
matter secret, because I might do other
poor sufferers a good turn by letting you
know. It was Clements Tonic—% medicine
that I had been reading about—that made
a new man of me, and I always regard it as
my only friend amongst all medicines. I
had only taken a couple of bottles of
Clements Tonic when I felt ever so much
better. In fact, the change was so great
that I could scarcely believe it myself,
especially as I had lost confidence in
physics generally. But Clements Tonic
asserted itself as something uncommonly
good by rapidly giving me a desire for food,
and in the matter of making me sleep well
I thought it a most marvellous medicine.
The health-giving properties of Clements
Tonic were not confined to those improve-
ments, as it amended the defects in my
internal organs which had gone against the
digestion of my food, and by those means
the pains in my chest and shoulders were
relieved. The fermentation of my food
was done away with in like manner, so that
I was getting the full benefit of my meals,
and how well I knew it! for the return of
my strength was quite noticeable. I no
longer desired to lie about in a state of
careless languor, for Clements Tonic gave
me the energy and ambition to do some
work, which was becoming easier to per-
form each day, because the pains in my
back were less troublesome as time moved
on. My heart gave me no occasion to
worry myself, as it was beating with a
regular pulsation, and with the departure
of my headaches my sight became so clear
that I could sit down and read for hours
without the least inconvenience. I was
greatly pleased with Clements Tonic for
the effect it had on my nervous system,
for it invigorated my nerves so thoroughly
that they became perfectly steady, while
such a thing as becoming excited or annoyed
over trifling incidents did not happen. A
good indication to go by as to the efficacy of
Clements Tonic was the entire removal of
my deranged kidney symptoms, and it was
then that I was altogether free from pain.”
Reporter : “ Did you stop taking your
medicine immediately that happened ? ”
Mr. Lyes: “Not exactly, for I wanted
to be quite sure that all disease was effaced,
so I took another couple of bottles of
Tonic, and when they were
finished it was not necessary to take any
more, as I was as strong and thoroughly
restored as I could wish to be. It is several
years ago since Clements Tonic put ah end
to my sufferings, yet my work has never
since interfered with my health—a fact
which shows that Clements Tonic made me
as sound as a bell; and if these statements
are likely to be perused by others, you may
publish them as you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
* LB “? T 7 Eraser-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
*' n .°. declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting ol
five folios and consecutively numbered from
*’ an ? t !? at and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements - which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of the pro-
visions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and deolared at Leichhardt, this
fifteenth day of Mareh, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
H. R. STEWARD, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMIPETITIOWr.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Kent Brewery} SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Od.; Posted, S«3U
JJOTICBt TO MffitBOUHNB VISITORS!,
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10US. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
eelected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Partlee
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
“EPPS'S EPPS’S“
THE COCOA
_JEPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRISCUIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, nelbourne.
if or S.u.iaLlliylx fcs
TRY
JBest-
FOOD
Refuse a//f/n/faf/ons ,
Satisfying, Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGfflfS FOR SYD/ffY
sAYffis A/iPo/tr & porrto
RIDGE’S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. E nc.
DEBILITATED
TP’EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
’ ' trial course ot our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED, Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Viotoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS ~
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
6tamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS 'TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYZDIN'IEY'-
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
Si- Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Disease:
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourrc
Sub-Agents
J Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne
| Faulding & Co.. Rvdn«*v A rtolpiHe. Perth
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, i/6 and It 1.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Aarents :
SAYKRB, AIJUPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepataii te I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
street, Belfast. Ireland.
fs
Engineman’s Master K ef
Second Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latMfe
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’3, I*l sK
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Bookseller^
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising front
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for——v
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble.. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the besfi
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Root. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
■l'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarins
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATOR,?.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway Do
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonweal I b
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use.- —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
to hBUM*
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some mi
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withou
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved bv testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemist*
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstre & Truman,.
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold b/ all i
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


9
t, • - - - ■
The Standard
of Purity
throughout
the World.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC,
w
A
B
A
S
H
B
U
S
I
N
E
S
S
s
Y
S
T
E
M
S
MS
net*
vm
m
srrn
MOJ
PROGRESSIVE OFFICE METHODS.
Catalogues, Prices and all particulars
sent free on request
JOHN SANDS,
374 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agent for Australia.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
'sMP
H 3?
oqußH »
-wSU,—
The “Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “ Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on
‘ INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
HAVE YOU FOUND
ANYTHING BETTER THAN
Cameo” Cigarettes
BETTER IN FLAVOR, or
BETTER IN QUALITY ?
1
I
ft
ft
t §«
GIANT
PAPER
Merit is the
keystone of
the success of
RUBEROID.
• •
• o
tt :
df
On Sale everywhere throughout Australasia
Wholesale Agents:
& CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane
. •T . -


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission' as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1253.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18. 1904.
Paid?, 6n.
ABOUT IMMIGRATION.
“Seeing as how you’d been writing on this immigration question, Mr. Deakin, and happening to be a British mechanic just landed
here, I thought I’d drop in and tell you it’s not Socialistic legislation as keeps us away from Australia. We don’t object to that ; in fact
we’re trying to get it on our own account in England. But what do you offer us 1 You haven't got any sort of big manufactures and no
decent land open. It’s no good coming out here to be unemployed or to half-starve out in the dry country. Give us a factory, or a bit of
good land to go to, and we’ll come quick enough.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Australiana. ,f
Printed and Published by William Maclhod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Offifce of the Co.',
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK V
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £ l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICK.
Tty sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Nix Shillings sterling -you can have Tiib..Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to -William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable.), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are notresponsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— x.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and. Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
lihodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong. Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Breiver and Co.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1904.
Exit Irvine.
Premier Irvine has decided to drop out of his
place in Victorian polities, and to hand down his
battered crown and his torn robe to Bent. It is
a horrible commentary on Irvine that Bent
should be regarded as a fit person to fill his place
and take up l.is policy, and it is a dismal com-
mentary on Bent that he should be regarded as
[r\ ine’s fit successor. And the fact that each
was associated with the other is about as bad a
thing as could be said of either of them. Still,
there is a depth for Bent that Irvine didn’t
reach. Shiels was ready to serve under the
latter, while be is bitterly reluctant to serve under
Thomas of Brighton; and to be the man that
even Shiels has doubts about is to achieve a
certain amount of extra notoriety. Irvine’s
departure is said to be caused by utter break-
down —the sudden breakdown of a man, just
back from a holiday, who, only a day or
two ago was whooping up his party, and talking
of programmes and organisation for next election.
A common opinion is that it is breakdown in his
policy that is wrong with Irvine, and that he
loft because the Ministry of All the Fragments
had already virtually gone to pieces. Certainly it
was difficult to see where Irvine could have got a
workable policy with which to appeal to the
people at another election. His position was so
difficult that there was nothing better to do than
drop out and leave the deluge to fall on the broad
shoulders and infuriated countenance of Bent.
I kvine’s career was a curious example of how an
icy manner and a glassy stare may pass for
wisdom, and how a carefully-selected silence and
an aspect of blank indifference may pose as
strength. It was his luck, also, to pose among
weak men, at a time when the departure of the
principal Victorian politicians for the Federal
arena had left State politics in the hands
of the small fry of the profession. And
even with all these advantages Irvine never
looked much more than a lath painted to seem
like iron. Also the paint wore off sadly in recent
times.
* * * »
Irvine, by a wonderful combination of circum-
stances, was allowed to figure* for a time as a
great financier who had' saved tho country. Ilis
claim to be such rested on the shoddiest: possible
foundation. When Peacock drifted out of, the
Premiership he had just had a deficit of £4oo,oot‘
—the first shortage in four years—and Irvine,
Bent, and Shiels into office to face this
emergency. Turner, in 1594, came into office to
face a deficit of £600,000, at "a time when the
finances hadn’t been within gunshot of sol-
vency for six years. The lugubrious Irvine
Government declared wildly that the next
year’s deficit would be £600,000, £BOO,OOO,
£9oo,ooo—the figures kept rising in its
imagination, but it gave no evidence in sup-
port of them. In other words,- it said “ Under-
our unspeakably bad management there is going
to be a shortage of £900,000,” and when it pro-
duced an alleged stir; ’ns of £194,000 it took
credit, not for avoiding another £400,000 shortage,
like that of the previous year, but for avoiding the
£900,000 shortage which it said it was going, to
have but didn’t. If there was at any time any
prospect of the alleged £900,000 deficit, then the
Irvine Government was a fool, and if there was
no such prospect it was a liar; anyhow, it posed
as a financial genius on the ground that it wasn’t
such a fool as it had intended to be. As.a matter
of fact, however, it didn’t even remedy Peacock’s
£400,000 shortage. Its bogus surplus was made
up by the careful Turner’s sinking fund
and using it as revenue; by annexing trust funds
as revenue; and by postponing payment Of
liabilities. Its" financial success was a lie, a fraud,
a swindle, a delusion and a sham. And the
Government itself was all these things almost all
the time.
* * » *
The Irvine Government's greatest pose
a 'Government v -of financial reform.- Its next
greatest pose was as. a Government of railway
reform. In that capacity its record was pitiable.
It alleged that the railways were disgracefully
over-manned, and it sacked a large number of
experienced employees on that account. And it
appointed such vast hordes of inexperienced
“ temporary ” hands—mostly the friends, rela-
tives, and hangers-on of its supporters or its sup-
porters’ friends—that it actually increased the
number of employeesyand brought about chaos at
the same time. It added nearly £200,000 to the
annual railway deficit, and it made Victoria’s
broken engines, and its stranded trains that arrived
half a day late, a world’s joke. Its railway-strike
policy was a crime, and, if the railway men had
only held out, it would have been worse than
a crime—it would have been a failure. The
Irvine combination started the strike by ordering
the men to give up a right that was contrary to no
law and that had been allowed and admitted for
more than a dozen years—that of belonging to the
Trades Hall combination. It refused, in its
coarse and savage bumptiousness, even to pass a
law making the men’s connection with the Trades
Hall illegal, but demanded that they should give
up a perfectly legal right that Irvine and Bent
might pose as persons who were themselves a law.
They attempted to suppress the strike by an
insane Bill which professed to give Irvine power
to arrest the Federal Postmaster-General if he
carried in the mails papers that Irvine disap-
proved of, and which professed to make the
Speaker and the Chief Justice and David Syme,
and every other citizen, liable to heavy fine and
long imprisonment if they spoke disparagingly
about the blackleg’s small boy when he threw
a clod at them in the street. If the strikers had
held out, and left Irvine the alternative of either
backing down, or else passing his frantic measure
and being denounced as a maniac when its full
inwardness became apparent, his fall might have
come much earlier than it did. Fortunately for
him they caved in, and gave him a chance to with-
draw his loony scheme with some pretence of
dignity.
*•• ■ *
These things, together with his cruel and
merciless cutting down and cancelling of old-age
pensions and his shameful starving of hospitals
and charities, about make up the record of
Irvine’s achievements. The latter half of his
short career was a pitiable series of bungles. He
undertook a large measure of Parliamentary
reform, and in a great degree he failed—the one
bright spot in his career was that he didn’t fail
altogether. He bragged about a great scheme of
land resumption for closer settlement, and failed
wholly and utterly. His Parliamentary'manage-
ment became a paralysis, and even his former
reliable toady, the Age, once broadly hinted that
he was in a state of mental decay. He saw, the
revenue decreasing heavily under , his awful
management, and as he couldn’t steal Turner’s
sinking fund.a second time, or annex again the
tru3t funds that were already annexed, or make a
bogus surplus of £400,000 by postponing the same
payment of £200,000 twice in one. year, there was
little prospect save a serious deficit. One of bis -
colleagues had retired under disgraceful eifeum- -
stances. Another had been kicked by question-
able means into a higher sphere after his firm had
been guilty of .shameful customs ' frauds. A
third posed as a chronic invalid and wore the hag-
gard expression of a man who was composing a
poem. A fourth was the howling and utterly un-
pleasant Bent. The Government was hated by
most people, and only Supported for the sake
of the dirty work it did—and did badly.
It had no definite policy, and ahead of it were
many problems that were utterly: beyond its
ability. So William Hill Irvine crawled out
after a muddle of 18 months. Peace go with him.
Such men have their uses. As an essay on what a
politician should not be—as a proof that the whited
sepulchre shall not prosper, and that the painted
lath can’t look like iron for eyer, and that a pallid
aspect of Chinese impassiveness isn’t a reliable
asset — Irvine served a purpose. He was useful
also as an introduction to Bent —such a Premier
as Bent should be broken to the public gently.
He served as a species of frame for the political
pictures of M’Kenzie and Robert Reid— such
pictures should not come on the public in
an unframed condition, but should be led
up to gently by a fringe of something or
other, and Irvine was the fringe. He still
fills a purpose as an explanation of the
present awful state of the Victorian railways, and
a subject of conversation when the. train stops
because the blackleg in charge has let the water
go off the boil. He was uf all times a cold and
ghostly person, and even the door-knob froze a
little harder as he turned it tp make his final
exit. Irvine missed his destiny, though that is a
thing that many better men have done. He
apparently thought he was a statesman. Pro-
vidence apparently- intended him for a refri-
gerator, and the sudden increase of the frozen
rabbit business in his time was plainly a finger
pointing him towards his true sphere in life.
Patching- the Old Leak.
The unemployed trouble, which is always with
us, recently broke out in Sydney into the usual
eruption of meetings, the object of which was to
demand that the ever : useful Owe’Sullivan should
invent work for the workless on Government jobs
paid for, of course, out of the usual and inevit-
able loan. And the ever : useful Owe’Sullivan
promised, as a matter of course, to do his best
at supplying work on Government jobs out of the
usual and; imperishable loan. There is a great
.leak in/the public ship, and the lOU is to be
temporarily stuffed therein, just as it has been
;emporarily and uselessly stuffed for 40 years or
more. But though the previous lOU, after 40
years’ trial, can’t be said to have produced any effect
as stopping material, it has left behind it a
lasting bad effect in the shape of a huge debt,
a national dry-rot, a habit of uselessness and
helplessness, and the creation of an Owe’Suxlivan
frame of mind which, if it lasts, will pre-
vent Australia ever being anything-worth.speaking
of in the shape of a nation. The hollow pretence
that the unemploved trouble is only a temporary
one, and that the borrowing of money in order tp
employ men at erecting one more silly statue, or
at digging one more useless hole, or at shifting
one more heap of sand from here to yonder, will
see the end of it, has been going on for. 40 years,
and every year the disease grows worse. There-
fore the first plank of The Bulletin’s platform is
that it is time to put an end to Owe’Sullivan
and try some new device, and this plank is so
distinctly first that if it ever became a choice
between it and the rest of the platform it is a
question whether the test of the platform wouldn t
go.
• * Q - •
The condition of Australia will never be any
better than it is now unless a new policy is
adopted, and it will certainly be a great deal
worse. It will be worsS because of the extra debt
and the extra moral dry-rot, and the increased
helplessness of the people, and the further
growth of the Owe’Sullivan curse. Mere
growth'-of population Will probably make,
things worse instead of better. At present
in New South Wales there are 160
acres for every inhabitant to make a living
out of, and every inhabitant owes about £55 of
public debt, and the land is full of unemployed.
When the .population quadruples there will be
only 40 acres for each inhabitant to make a living
upon, and by that time it seems probable that
each inhabitant will owe £llO of public debt, and
between the two sets of circumstances the mere
quadrupling of the population seems only likely to
make the unemployed eight times more numerous
than they are now. At present there are in New
South Wales 1,400,000 consumers to supply work
for 1,400,000 possible producers, and if the work
isn’t forthcoming there isn’t likely to be any im-
provement when there are 14,000,000 consumers
to supply work for 14,000,000 possible producers.
Rather, as the area available for each inhabitant
will then be only one-tenth what it is now,
the chances are that what is bad now will
then be very many times worse. And the situa-
tion of New South Wales is more or less that of
Australia in general.
• • • *
There is enough honest, legitimate, remunera-
tive work in Australia for everybody, if the work
were only done. If in Australia 4,000,000 con-
sumers can’t employ 4,000,000 producers, then,
in the world at large, 1,400,000,000 consumers
can’t support 1,400,000,000 producers, and the
world is going to be a dead failure for ever and
ever. This paper declines to regard the world as
necessarily a failure. The trouble in Australia is
that so much of the honest, legitimate, remunera-
tive work isn’t done. Australia imports for its
own use more per head than any other country in
the world, and every article imported means an
article less to be locally manufactured, and a job
less for the local worker, and an increase in the
unemployed curse. Australia' imports far more
than it can pay for with its own earnings, and
pays for the surplus out of foreign loans, public
and private. Therefore every time £1,000,000 is
borrowed abroad and arrives here (as it always
does) in the shape of goods, it means not only
£1,000,000 more debt, but also £1,000,000 less
work for our OWN people. The curse works
both ways at once. It i 3 a serpent with a bite at
each end. If a new Owe’Sullivan would arise
who would promise the unemployed, not to add
£1,000,000 to the public debt in order to find them
work, but to pay off £1,000,000 of the public debt
in order to find them work, it would be the begin-
ning of a new and vastly improved era in Aus-
tralia, and a great deal more work would be found.
This is not a paradox or a jest, but a solemn,
serious, irrefutable truth, and only a country
which is sodden with Owe’Sullivanism can fail
to seeii
t- • t >
Let it be imagined for a moment that in New
South Wales borrowing was stopped, importation
was checked by very heavy duties, and public
works were all paid for out of revenue. Then
New South Wales would have to make its own
locomotives, its own steel rails, its own railway
carriages'and trucks, and many other things of its
own. Itwould need to do so for the sufficient reason
that if it imported on the same scale as of old,
and didn’t borrow the money as of old to help pay
for its imports, its stock of money would run out.
And with all the resources of human cussedness it
would be impossible to prevent the local manu-
facture of all these extra things providing extra
local employment. Also, it would be impossible
to prevent the making of them creating, by slow
degrees, a race of skilled artisans in Australia
(the present system of importing skilled
artisans’ work, and employing our own peoqle on
public works paid for out of loans, only raises a
race of pick-and-3hovel men and human beasts of
burden). And if New South Wales went further
than this and commenced to repay every year
£500,000 of its old debt, that would make, as soon
as the country had adjusted itself to its new con-
ditions, another large amount of employment
annually. To repay such an amount it would
either be necessary to produce £500,000 worth of
materid tor export, which would mean so much
extra employment, or to import £500,000 worth
less and supply the local market with local
products instead, which would also mean so much
extra employment. As regards the fund where-
with to pay all these extra wages, it is here
already—it has always been here. It is only a
question of circulation. Three sovereigns kept
in constant local circulation—not sent out of
the country to pay for foreign imports—will pay
£3 wages every week, or oftener, all the year
round; they go to the workman as wages on
Saturday afternoon, and have mostly gone .to pay
his tradespeople and others by Monday, and are
paying someone else’s wages by Tuesday; and so
the process goes on. But three sovereigns lying
idle m a bank’s cellars for lack of local industries
to employ them pay nobody half-a-crown of
wages in a century. And three sovereigns sent
abroad to pay for the goods which we ought to
produce, but don’t, may travel round paying
wages in other countries till the end of time, but
they pay no wages here.
• * * » .
Australia deserves its unemployed—no country
deserves them more. There have been small and
inefficient attempts at Protection, but in a general
way all these States have suffered more or less
from these five delusions :
■ (1) That the way to grow rich is by getting into debt and
becoming more and more embarrassed.
(2) That the measure of a country’s prosperity is the
great amount of things it imports and, consequently, the
small amount it produces by its own industry.
(3) That the “influx of foreign capital for investment,”
which capital, whether publicly or privately borrowed,
always comes here in the form of goods, and thereby
deprives the local man of the jobof making these goods,
will somehow supply the local man with work.
(4) That the way to attract population is by importing
goods instead of making them locally, so as to have as
few local manufactures as possible in which the immi-
grant artisan can find employment, and as few city
workers- as . possible to whom the immigrant agricul-
turist can sell his produce ; and to build up as large a
debt as possible so that the immigrant will want to rush
here and shoulder his share of it—tne biggest liability and
the least work being naturally, according to the borrow-
ing and. importing gospel, the greatest attractions.
(5) That the cure for lack of work lies in giving the
unemployed of to-day a bit of land or a useless job paid
for out of loans, and doing the same for the unemployed
of to-morrew and the day after, till the available land is
gone, and the available loans are gone, and the invention
of useless jobs is run out, while all the time the accursed
system is manufacturing new unemployed as fast as, or
faster than, the old ones are disposed of.
And the moral of all this may be condensed into
two propositions. Every Australian who votes
for encouraging imports, so that our own people
may- not have the work of making the goods,
deserves to be unemployed. Also, every Austra-
lian who votfes for the policy qf foreign Govern-
ment loans, and encourages the “influx of foreign
capital” in the shape of private loans, all of
which come here in the guise of foreign goods
and leave so much the less depiand for local
goods, deserves to be unemployed likewise.
The trouble is that the, fate he deserves falls on
others as-.well as himself, or on others instead of
himself. In New South Wales especially, where
the bulk of theKpeople listen so credulously to the
glozing lies of the importer—the man whose
interests are all directed towards destroying local
industries to make room for foreign goods—and
vote so persistently for the encouragement of
imports so that there may be as little room as
possible for local production, the community only
reaps what it has sown. If the harvest of disaster
is not so thick as it might be, it must be remem-
bered that, providentially, something went wrong
with the sowing. New South Wales has voted
Freetrade for 40 years, but never took the trouble
to see that the article it ordered was delivered.
If its politicians had ever given it Freetrade, its
condition to-day would be a warning to all men
for all time.
The Bear and Monkey War—from an
Australian View-point.
The daily newspapers—whose only claim to be
called Australian is that they are published on
this continent, and which are, in truth, so very
un-Australian that they can’t even take an
Australian view of the points of the compass, and
call the China Sea “the Far Eastshowed some
little hesitation at the outset in “taking sides” in
the matter of the Russo-Japanese war. There was
so clear and logical a certainty as to the interests
of Australia being bound up with the defeat of
Japan, that there was some slight inclination to
take, this time, an Australian attitude. But, true
to their traditions, to out-Jingo the English Jingo
and out-do the wildest of wild British Imperial-
ists, the Australian-published journals are now
ranged unanimously on the side of the Yellow
Man, as he makes the first move in the race-
struggle against the European. All the old lying
epithets which were used against the Boers have
been furbished up again to be launched against
the Russians, who are now the most treacherous,
cowardly, and barbarous race of the earth, whilst
the Japanese supplant the British in having a
corner on such adjectives as “honorable,”
“brave,” and “intelligent.” In England there
are newspapers with sufficient knowledge
and courage to see and to comment
on the dangers of a Japanese victory—
especially to Australia; but no Australian
daily paper dares to speak for Australia; the
attitude of all is a blind following of the
traditions of the most truculent British jingoism.
It was so during the S’African war. It is so in
regard to this momentous campaign. Public
opinion is thus being swayed towards a sympathy
with the Japanese cause, a sympathy which, in
the course of events, might lead to the monstrous
wickedness and absurdity of Australia aiding
Japan in the effort to secure the supremacy of the
Pacific.
* * * *
In England it is natural that the majority
should lean towards Japan, for England is still
obsessed by that crazy Imperialism with which
the brilliantined Jew DisRAELi tickled the
vanity of an old lady and of a foolish mob. For
two generations the voices of such men as Glad-
stone, Mo rley, Spencer, Ruskin, and Meredith
—of all, in fact, who make the name of England
truly great —have been raised on the other side,
in vain. Jingo-Imperialism still rules. And that
Jingo-Imperialism, incapable of looking forward,
can see nothing but good in the humiliation of
Russia, even if that is won at the price of exalting
an Asiatic Power as the mistress of the Pacific.
For Russia is a bit of a maniac on Im-
perialism herself. Her foreign policy is,
in almost every detail, patterned on that
of England, directed ever towards aggression
and extension of territory. It is impossible for
two nations in that trade to agree. Every mile
gained by Russia is looked upon as a blow to
Britain, just as every province seized by Britain
increases the hate and suspicion of Russia. When
two peoples want the whole earth —and each can
produce a direct title to it from the Almighty -
conflict between them is one day certain. The
only way out is for either, or both, to come to a
knowledge that the earth is not the heritage of
one nation. The British hatred of Russia is there-
fore natural enough, and will continue whilst the
Jingo-Imperial spirit predominates in British
politics.
* * * *
But the Australian position is entirely different.
Australia has no aggressive Imperial notions to
bring it into conflict with any European power.
All that it asks of the world is to be left in peace
to hold this great continent as a citadel for the
white races. That demand is never likely to be
questioned by a European power, not even by
Russia; and in the extremely improbable event of
a challenge from that or any other white nation,
the mutual jealousies of the European, people
would probably provide us with some friends.
Even at the worst—presuming Russia to be a
hostile Power with direct des : gns on Australia—
her preponderance in the Pacific would but
expose us to the threat of 12,000,000 Russian
enemies in Asia, whilst in Japan there are
45,000,000 possible enemies nearer to our door
than the Russians, and much more Anxious
to find space for their surplus population.
And whilst a Russian attack on Australia is
a wild improbability—for Russia, has so steadilv
kept clear of the policy of annexing dqtached
fragments of territory only defensible by sea that
it even sold Alaska for a song to get rid of it—a
Japanese campaign is a quite likely contingency.
Already Japan imagines it , has a good cause of
quarrel in our Alien Restriction Act, and many a
visitor from that country comes back with the
news that Japan is resolved, when it has settled
other, matters, “to turn its attention to Aus-
tralia.” And Japan, as a naval State, is a far
greater danger to this sea-girt land than Russia,
which depends mainly on its military strength
and has never posed as a sea power. In the im-
probable contingency of an ultimate Japanese
victory in the Far North, it is, humanly speak-
ing, certain that Japan, flushed with victory,
filled with contempt for the “ white trash ” of the
earth, will, in the near future, demand that
Australia should treat its subjects_ on the
same footing as those of European nations ; and
it is not at all certain that Britain would not.
more or less openly, support the demand. 1°
Australia, then, the alternative would be war ora
humiliating surrender which would destroy the


ideal of a White Australian nation on this con-
tinent. It is, indeed, not exaggeration to say
that, to an extent, Australia’s future is.now being
decided on the coast of China. A Russian victory
would clear from the horizon the only war-cloud
that threatens this continent. A victorious Japan
would bring within measurable distance the choice
to Australia of abandoning its national aspira-
tions or fighting for its very existence. .
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Triangular Situation in Politics.
Last week a few tons of infuriated humanity
gathered in Sydney to denounce Labor politics,
and to hear Jack Want throw himself into violent
concussion with.things in general. The meeting
was mostly Jack Want, and mostly incoherent
and indignant. The speakers, in a large red
shriek with green stripes, denounced the domina-
tion of State and Federal politics by. a Labor
minority, and pledged themselves, with much
angry blither, to form an “ anti-Socialistic ” party
to tight the next N.S.W. State election. And
there they stopped. The whole show was a
pitiable evidence of the futility of the crowd of
has-beens who periodically erupt on the
“anti-Socialist ” platform. So far as can be
gathered, the party which it is proposed
to organise has no policy, except to be
against the Labor party and to take a trip to
Japan as often as possible, and it doesn’t seem to
realise that a constructive programme is necessary,
and that no party can last long by being merely
anti-something—anti-fat, anti-bilious, anti-Social-
istic, antiquated, antediluvian, or any other
“ant.” And it hasn’t even begun to know where it
is in other respects ; it hasn’t the faintest idea of
its own present address. The Labor minority to
a considerable extent runs the Australian Parlia-
ment, simply because the J. Want crowd, in its
frantic desire to destroy Australian industry for
the benefit of the importers, stands aloof from the
Deakin Government; and the Deakin Govern-
ment, being left, by the soreheaded ness of the
J. Want crowd, with no direct majority of
its own, ha 3 to rely on the Labor support.
The Labor minority to a considerable extent
runs the N.S.W. State Parliament because
the Want crowd, led by Tweedledee Carruthers,
refused to coalesce with Tweedledum See, and
See, having thus no majority of his own, has also
to depend on Labor support. The influence of
the Labor men arises, in each case, through there
being three parties, and Jack Want’s friends
form one. of the parties. There wouldn’t be three
parties if Jack Want’s friends hadn’t all the
stubbornness and stupidity of the mule without
that animal’s redeeming feature of having a hide
that is saleable at 7s. 6d. after death. Politics in
both Parliaments form an equilateral triangle, and
the Labor party derives its importance from that
fact. There would be no triangle if the Want
crowd didn’t insist on being one of the angles.
Meanwhile, the spectacle of one angle denouncing
the other two angles for being angles is interest-
ing. The Bulletin hasn’t the slightest hesita-
tion in explaining to the gang with which Mr.
Want is associated exactly how it can get over
its difficulty. That mob is so densely stupid that
anything can be explained to it with impunity.
4.
Sack.
The cold, grey spectre of Retrenchment is laying
its hand again on the N.S.W. Public Service, and
the pallid ghost of Sack stalks behind it. This is
where the cruelty of Owe’Sullivanism comes in.
The Owe’ person’s policy consists of occasional
shrieks of expenditure—shrieks that are run on so
vast a scale that they must needs be only tempo-
rary. While they last it is necessary to employ
many extra men. These unfortunates don’t
realise the precariousness of the situation. They
marry. They buy the time-payment cottage and
furnish it with the time-payment linoleum, and
they have the cash infant—he is about the only
thing that can’t be run on the instalment plan.
T hen the Owe’Sullivan boom is followed by the
Owe’Sulmvan burst, and in the general stoppage
the infant’s rash young fatheris cast into thestreet,
and the poor little home that he started to build
up, solely because he didn’t realise what a purely
temporary .ass his Owe’Sullivan was, goes to
pieces. As for the poor young wife and the
infant, their situation won’t bear thinking over.
And until three retrenched civil servants cut their
throats in a row on Owe’Sullivan’s doorstep, and
their dead bodies fall on him as he opens the door
in the morning to go out and make a grand speech
about the magnificent natural resources of this
great country, it probably won’t begin to dawn On
Owe’Sullivan what a cruel heart-break, mirage,
will-o’-the-wisp and false promise his policy is.
This is a bitterly cold world for the retrenched
civil servant—made a civil servant by Owe’-
Sullivan’s loans, and fired out in the day of
Owe’Sullivan’s leanness, when he is getting
beyond the time at which a man takes easily to a
new trade.
♦
Premier Deakin’s Immigration Scheme.
The Australian Premier has been talking in a
sorrowful strain about the need for encouraging
immigration to this country, and his remarks
have naturally given the Tory press an oppor-
tunity to blither some more about that good old
stand-by, the “Six Hatters.” Also, the Tory
press has made the usual observations about
“socialistic legislation” which, being apparently
a^ mental affliction, may be passed over in silence.
The great influx of immigrants into Australia
stopped short in 1892, when the huge bank
collapse began, and long before there were any
Six Hatters or any socialistic legislation worth
mentioning—so these two well-worn myths
can be left out of consideration. Premier
Deakin appears to have some shadowy ideas
about encouraging immigration by “advertising
the country ” or by granting assisted pas-
siges to immigrants, neither of which is a
very brilliant proposition. The Commonwealth
has already brought in about 650,000 assisted
immigrants, and the results, as shown in the pre-
sent state of the country, are none too cheering.
Queensland, between 1881 and 1901, gained about
122,000 people by excess of immigration over emi-
gration, but it “ assisted ” no less than 116,000 of
these, and the cost of the proceeding was appal-
ling. The whole immigration problem may be
summed up in two propositions:—
Agricultural immigrants don’t come here, mainly
because there is hardly any good land available to offer
them, and they aren t going out to perish on the drought
area, and partly because there isn’t a sufficient local
manufacturing population to buy their produce, and
because the European market is very remote.
Artisans don t come here because so many things are
imported and so few manufactured locally that there is
very little work to offer a skilled artisan.
No amount of mere advertising will get over these
difficulties, and any man who proposes to import
assisted immigrants at a time when we are unable
to find work for the handful of people already
here deserves to be hanged. If Premier Deakin
will encourage manufactures more vigorously the
immigrant artisan will come. And if he will
break up the big estates by a heavy graduated
Federal land-tax, and thus make land avail-
able in the good country that we have, agri-
cultural immigrants will come. Or, if they don’t
come, they can be sent for when there are open-
ings for them. But to bring them while the
country is full of distracted politicians struggling
with the unemployed problem is only filling the
benevolent asylums and making Sydney Domain
more impassable at night than it is now.
Federal Politics.
The news from Maoriland as to Mr. Kingston’s
health—on which point so much of the future of
Federal politics depends—is not at all re-assuring.
The Radical leader has benefited somewhat by rest
and treatment, but not to such an extent as to give
any sure ground for hoping that he will be able to
take up the burden of a great battle. Meanwhile,
the Progressives of the Federal Parliament are
casting around for a possible substitute in case
Mr. Kingston is not able to assume command,
and have now some hope of . George
Turner. With a wisdom which is proof
of the maturity of their political education, the
representative Labor members insist on the
necessity of a magnetic name at the head of any
Radical combination. For that reason they scout
the idea of various proposed leaders who have
either too small or too speckled reputations. They
want a man to lead them who is a big man and a
clean man in the public eye. Turner, it is said,
agrees with the present Deakin view of the
Arbitration Bill, but probably, in his stern
devotion to finance, has not given it any very
serious consideration. Now, through the
hanging up by the Treasurers’ Conference of
the Federal proposals to consolidate the debts,
a crisis has arisen in which a great
finance Minister—-as Turner is—might well sink
some points of difference for the support, of a
party which would go the whole way with him in
a policy of financial reform and of progressive
Federalism. If Mr. Kingston cannot volunteer
for the task of leadership, and Mr. Turner is
willing to undertake it, there is every reason to
believe that the Labor members and the other
Progressives of the Federal Legislature would
gladly follow him to carry out a radical and
honest programme in financial and other legisla-
tion. An appeal to the Australian people, if made
by a man of Turner’s reputation with a strong party
behind him, would very quickly give to the
Federation power to overcome the obstacles set in
the way of debt consolidation by the State
Treasurers. There is, by the way, one notable
feature in all the negotiations, and proposals
arising out of the present complicated Federal
political position— George Reid is always ignored
as a possible factor in any combination.
♦
The Proposal of Queensland Treasurer
Kidston.
Unless Queensland Treasurer Kidston was
greatly misreported (and the report professed to
be a verbatim one), he supplied a well-meant but
wholly insufficient proposition to the conference
of Treasurers recently held at Melbourne, and
the fact that it was about the best pro-
posal submitted by any State Treasurer only
shows how bad the others were. The con-
ference was called to consider how the Com-
monwealth could best take over the State debts.
Also, George Turner sought to devise some
guarantee against extravagant State borrowing,
so that, when the Commonwealth had to renew
the debts taken over from the States, it might not
have to do so in a market which had been cleaned
out by fresh State loans, and in which new State
bort owing had knocked Australian credit end-
ways. And this is published as Q. Treasurer
Kidston’s proposal:
We might constitute the Federal authority the only
borrowing authority. I will put my suggestion formally
in this way: In future the States should only borrow
through the Federal Government on the following con-
ditions : The States must, one year before they require
money, advise the Federal Government of the amount
they agree to raise in that year, including conversion
loans and loans for new works ; and the Federal Govern-
ment shall raise a loan or loans of such amount, and at
such times, as will enable the several States to carry out
their engagements, and shall r: ' an to each of the States
the required amount at such pr.ce and rate of interest as
the Commonwealth paid for the loan, plus 1 per cent., to
be placed to a sinking fund to be used for the redemption
of the debt of the State from time to time as the state
of the money market may afford an opportunity for
the profitable recovery of such State securities.
The result of that would be that each State would bear
the burden of its own indebtedness, and yet there would
be only one Australian borrower in the market. The
Australian States would come to have only one creditor,
and if there were any substantial limitation of borrowing,
would probably,in about a century, become free from debt
altogether. lam aware that it may be difficult, and even
impossible, to persuade the Parliaments and peoples of
the various Australian States to agree to any such limita-
tion of their borrowing powers, but I confess that I
cannot see any way of materially improving the credit of
Australia in the money market by any other means than
the stoppage or the drastic limitation of borrowing. It
seems to me that the federalisation of State debts upon
any general plan is impossible, and that the next best
thing we can do is to proceed along such lines as I have
indicated, so that gradually, as loans fall due, they can be
dealt with by the Federal Government.
The scheme of the Q. State Treasurer, if it is
accurately reported, would be most excellent but
for one or two leaks. If the States pledged them-
selves to greatly reduce their borrowings—say if
it was agreed that the Commonwealth as a whole
should borrow only £3,000,000 a year at the out-
side, the amount each State could raise being
decided by the Federal Statistician according to
its population—and that even this should cease
not later than 1954, then the device would work,
through at a pitiably slow pace. The Federal
Treasurer would, by 1954, have taken over
the last of the separate State debts. All the
Australian debts would then be a Federal liability.
They would all carry a sinking fund. The
State debts would all, probably, have been
renewed on fair terms, for they would have
been renewed in a market which wasn’t
being utterly swamped by new loans. The sinking
fund would already have paid off part of
the old liability, and after 1954, with no
additions to the debt, the process of reduction
would goon steadily and a century from now
would see the Commonwealth free of all liability—
provided any tree could be found strong enough
to moor the State Governments to as a guarantee
that they wouldn’t break loose and tear the agree-
ment into flinders. Also each State would meet
its own liabilities, which would save all manner
of complications. But the mere limitation of
borrowing would not enable the sinking fund to
overtake the debt in 100 years, or even 10,000
years. There must be an absolute stoppage in 50
years if the 1 per cent, sinking fund is to clear
off the whole debt in a century, and no definite
mention of any such stoppage appears in the
Kidston programme. Even if it was mentioned,
what good would a resolution to really reform
half a century hence amount to ? There is no men-
tion, either, of the obvious faot that if the whole
Australian debt is to be extinguished at any
fixed date the Australian Government must also
pledge itself definitely to a non-borrowing policy.
There is no mention of any tree strong enough to
moor the State Governments to. And there is a
sorrowful streak of procrastination about the
whole business. The present debt would, appar-
ently, on Kidston’s programme, only carry a
sinking fund from the date when the present
loans matured and were taken over by the Com-
monwealth—in other words, as regards its present
debt, Kidston’s own State would only begin to
pay a trifle of £15,000 a year to the sinking fund
in 1913, and even in 1923 less than a third of its
debt would carry a sinking fund. Westralia, in
like manner, would hardly begin reforming till
1927. A resolution to start a sinking fund so very
many years ahead, and only to reduce new bor-
rowing—possibly to reduce it by a very little— in
the present, and with no definite suggestion about
fixing a date at which new loans would cease, is a
dreadfully slow reform. Something a little more
sudden is needed.
The Art-union Scandal.
That the persons charged criminally in connec-
tion with the Mount Kembla (N.S.W.) art union
should have been discharged was quite proper.
There was nothing of a criminal nature proved
against them. They had acted under the license
of the law as very many other persons had done,
but suffered from poorer luck ; and the law can-
not very well send a man to gaol for hard luck.
Nevertheless, whilst fully agreeing with the
verdict of acquittal in this particular case, the
Bulletin insists that there should be a sufficient
change, either in the Statute book or in the
administration of the law, to close down, once and
for all, on the shady art union business. At the
present time any enterprising organiser out of
a billet, or any tradesman with some utterly
unsaleable stock on hand, or a combination of
both, may organise an “art union” for some
alleged charitable object. The ostensible purpose
is to raise money for the Motley Gatherers who
embroider handkerchiefs for needy Kanakas, or
for the Hospital for the Incurably Dead ; the real
motive is to find a billet for the promoter or
a sale for goods otherwise unmarketable. An
unlimited supply of tickets is printed, generous
advertisements are circulated, and the public is
induced to subscribe, perhaps, £lOOO on the chance
of getting <£loo worth of prizes. Of the other
£9OO sometimes the charities get nothing ; some-
times they get as much as 25 per cent. ; practically
always the lion’s share goes in promotion expenses.
The business is a bad one ; it diverts money from
more legitimate channels of charity and it
encourages a system of gambling compared with
which pony racing is an honest and honorable sport.
Under the existing law it would seem that the
Attorney-General has the power to put an end to
such art-unions by refusing their licences; if he
does not choose to take such action, Parliament
should pass an Act abolishing a permissive power
which is now seriously abused. Then, if it is
thought well to levy on the gambling instinct of
the community for the support of charities,
honest methods could be found in a legalised tote
with a percentage deduction for the hospitals, or a
State lottery with the profits applied to the same
purpose.
♦
The Treasurers’ Conference.
Australian Treasurer Turner got comparatively
little satisfaction out of his conference of State
Treasurers. He desired to arrange for taking over
and consolidating the State debts and otherwise
putting Australia’s financial house in order, and
what he got was a series of suggestions which
would have been of some value if they had been
unanimous, but they weren’t. The suggestions
may be summarised thus :
(1) That it would not be advisable that only part of
the State debts should be taken over, though the Consti-
tution, as it stands at present, only authorises taking
over those that existed at the beginning of the Common-
wealth. Butler, of S.A., thought a portion of the debt
should be taken over to begin with. Gardiner,; of Wes-
tralia, objected to any Federal interference at all. (Wes-
tralia has a gold boom just now and is bumptious).
(2) That the whole State debts should be taken over.
Waddell, of N.S.W., dissented, and proposed to hang
things up indefinitely. Gardiner, of Westralia, still
objected in the background.
(3) That the clause providing for the repayment of
the Commonwealth to the States of three-fourths of the
customs and excise revenue should be made permanent
instead of lasting only for ten years—or at least
should be considerably extended. The Treasurers of
Tasmania and S.A., however, demanded that the said
money should be distributed according to the population
of the States, and the others wanted it divided according
to the amount of revenue each State contributed, so this
was rather a cat-fight than a resolution.
(4) That all new State and Federal loans should carry •
£ per cent, sinking fund, and that the Commonwealth
might raise loans for the States ; also that it might,
if it deemed the amounts applied for excessive, raise less
than asked for, and apportion the amount to
the population of the applicant States. This idea, appa-
leaves the States to borrow on their own as much
as they please in addition to what they borrow through
the Commonwealth. Kidston, of Queensland, protested
on the ground that it would hamper the credit of
the States. Gardiner, of Westralia, objected in the rear,
as formerly.
(5) Also it was agreed that the State properties taken
over by the Commonwealth should be paid for by the
issue of 3£ per cent. Federal bonds to the States. As the
properties in question (worth perhaps £12,000,000) have
been, to great extent, erected with loan moneys, this would
mean double-banking the mortgage. The properties would
be mortgaged to the extent of about £10,000,000 of State
debt and £12,000,000 of Federal debt, though something
was said about averting the calamity by using the
Federal bonds solely for the repayment of State lia-
bilities.
Having handled all these confused disagreements
to George Turner in a heap, that financier suc-
ceeded in getting some slight amendments and in
evolving some order out of the chaos. But nothing
definite was done beyond a resolve to hold
another conference. It isn’t all beer and skittles
to be a Commonwealth Treasurer—not that it can
be honestly said that George Turner ever showed
a desire for either skittles or malt liquor. Appa-
rently, if the next conference comes to no definite
arrangement, the best thing that remains is for the
Federal Parliament to set to work at gradually
taking over the State debts, and to put a severe
curb on State borrowing, by its own act, and
without any further reference to the State Govern-
ments. It can do this. As to the method, The
Bulletin proposes to explain that fully in next
issue.
—*
The Public Servant Pays.
As is usual when misgovernment and extrava-
gance have brought the finances to a desperate
condition, the public servant in N.S.W. is now-
called upon to foot the bill. A. scheme, of
“retrenchment” has been formulated, by which
some civil servants will be dismissed, others will
be heavily reduced, and yet others will be retired
on allowances —this last a most extravagant
form of “economy,” being, essentially, tho
payment to a man of a smaller sum in
wages on condition that he does nothing
instead of something. The official explanation
for all the retirements, dismissals, and reductions
is, not that they have been found necessary in a
re-organisation of the public service, not that this
is a preliminary to a wholesome reform setting the
service once and for all on a sound basis, but that
loan funds are short. (The idea of trying to keep
public works going without loan funds never
enters into N.S.W. official calculations.) In
at least some cases it is not that the men
are not needed, but that the State is needy.
So, presumably, the loss to the State of these
men’s services will cause a certain amount of
work to fall into arrears, or to remain undone,
and will result in no real economy at
all. If you have an iron bridge which
needs £3OO worth of paint to keep it in
order, and you cut down' the maintenance bill to
£2OO, that’s not economy ; it is, in effect, bor-
rowing money, which the future will have to
repay, at usurious rates of interest. Nevertheless,
it is the sort of economy which always follows in
the track of the Owe’Suujvan policy. In a Bible
legend the Prodigal may turn from the husks to a
clean life; in politics he never does. He owes
first at low rates of interest, then at high rates,
finally at the 50 per cent, rates which the cutting
down of the public works maintenance fund really
represents—but owes always. His “economy”
is only , another and more than ordinarily
devious way of passing on the bill to
posterity. Since, when the inevitable era
of thriftless impecuniosity follows that of
thriftless extravagance, the public employee is
always the chief victim, it is surprising that civil
servants do not make a stand for honest finance.
There is no section of the community to which
Whole Hog reform could bring more benefit.
True, it would root out some unnecessary officers
and it would shear a good deal of the frill off the
Eublic office accommodation, but, on the other
and, it would work for better, and more
secure, salaries. At present the civil servant has
to foot the bill for Owe’Sullivanism when hard
times come ; from him, therefore, should come the
strongest resolution to put an end to Owe’-
Sullivanism.
_ +
Victoria will presently be a State of un-
occupied hospitals. Plans for the new Kron-
heimer Consumptive Wing at Austin Hospital are
now being put before tenderers. Yet the under-
standing with the founder is that it is not to be
opened till arrangements have been made for its
maintenance, and the Government —through
Health Minister Bent— absolutely refuses to pay
a farthing. The Fever Hospital still remains the
decaying haunt of birds, rats, and other vermin.
Warragul has a fine hospital building which has
never been used because the contributors could not
raise enough cash to furnish it. Another idle
skeleton of a ward is the Queen’s Memorial
(Jubilee ’97) Ward of Maryborough Hospital.
That also wants furnishing, and the four contri-
buting municipalities demand that the Govern-
ment shall give it £1 for £1 in buying the beds
and the doormat, and Mr. Bent says “ No ! ”
4
A song is being made in a section of the Victorian
daily press about the economies effected in the
permanent staff of the Public Service by the
Iceberg Ministry. The whole thing is a sham and
a lie, but of course that would not necessarily
preclude the press, as it is run now, from foisting
it off on the unsuspecting public. A published
table shows that, comparing 1902 with 1903, the
permanent staff has been reduced by 161 persons.
In the Chief Secretary’s Department, where there
has been a decrease of 70 employees, the men are
working until midnight to keep things going.
Also the unfortunates in the lunatic asylums and
hospitals have suffered by having a large number
of attendants cut off. In the Education Depart-
ment children are going without education because
of want of teachers. In the Lands the Secretary
has just sent a memo, to the Minister demanding
further assistance, and showing that his officers
are working thousands of hours overtime every
month. The result of the reductions in the Law
Department is great delay in important business.
The decrease in the Public Works Department
has been accomplished by stopping work and
leaving valuable buildings to fall into disrepair,
which will cost a great deal to remedy in the near
future. Essential work in the Mines Department
is left undone for lack of men to do it. In the
Health Department Dr. Gresswell has been
calling for additional inspectors and officers for
months past. He has declared that it is quite
impossible for the Department to carry out its
functions under the law in regard to the inspec-
tion of places of amusement. There has been a
reduction of 38 officers in the Agricultural De-
partment, with the result that the fruit pests and
dirty farmers and fruit-growers are having a high
old time. Black spot and codlin moth have
already increased in every part of the State, and
thousands of pounds will some day have to be
spent to clean up the mess now being made ( in this
respect.
Fitchett m his new Priggery, and a good many
others in their old prints (most of them also more
or less priggeries), say that the sympathies of the
people must be with the “brave little Japs’’
because they are a tiny people struggling against
a huge Power. And yet when a tinier people
in S’Africa the other day was struggling against
another huge Power, that argument didn’t occur
to Fitchett and the others. Also, Fitchett and
the rest, who now sympathise with Japan because
it is small and Russia is big, were at that time
very wild with Russians because they expressed
the same sort of sympathy for Kruger’s farmers.
Moreover, it is straining the truth pretty badly to
moan over 45,000,000 Japs as a tiny people.
Russia certainly musters 130,000,000, but Japan’s
45,000,000 are close to the seat of war; while
118,000,000 of the Russians are 6000 miles away,
and it is so utterly impossible to bring them to
the spot over a single line of railway, which is
almost fully occupied in carrying food, that most
of them might as well be dead for all the connec-
tion they have with the present disturbance.
Both at sea and on land the available numbers
are in Japan’s favor.
4
South Australia’s new Attorney-General Von
Doussa has come to a decision which, unless it is
less heavily loaded than appears, seems calculated
to make the Jenkins Government totter on its
basis. In S.A. an Assembly electoral district is
also a district for the holding of local option polls,
and when the people elect John Smith as their
member they are also authorised to decide that
the sale of drink shall be abolished or discouraged
in the. whole of John Smith’s electorate. The
recent reduction of members, however, has caused
a complete alteration and general enlargement of
electorates, therefore, even if the people abolished
the sale of drink in member Smith’s old
electorate, that only means that the sale of
drink is prohibited in part of Member Smith’s
present electorate. So Von Doussa has
decided that, though the local option polls
were quite legal when taken, they became
illegal afterwards through the enlargement of the
constituency. If this decision holds good, then
everything that the teetotallers have gained at
local option polls goes overboard and the row


The equitable life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. „ t i
ASSETS .
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. M _
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 bt ...
£265.597,775
£19,915,124
£73.855,783
£4,889,175
£15.418,151
£620,434
£6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. 0. K. MAOKELLAR, M.B, M.L 0.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Highfield Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
HOBART.
Newly erected; Commodious; Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
begins afresh. Of course, the next question
may be—if the subsequent enlargement of an
Assembly and local option district nullifies
all the local option polls previously taken
in that district, doesn’t it also nullify all the
Assembly polls previously held in that district ?
And if it nullifies the elections it must nullify all
the old Parliaments created by these elections,
and the loans they floated, and practically wipe
out the entire caboodle. Von Doussa seems to
be stirring up a hornets’ nest with great energy.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Florodora.”
Her Majesty’s “Resurrection.”
Lyceum “ The Best Must Win.”
Criterion “ Lady of Ostend.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Brown’s in Town.”
Steynb Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl."
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Oi'era House Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
Elijah Dowie’s failure at Sydney Town
Hall was not the ordinary failure which falls to
the lot of most prophets in their own country. It
was something worse. The crowd which swarmed
in on Sunday night was certainly mostly hostile
and irreverent, but it was good-humored, and had
the vast fat man with the bleak, bald head
and theatrical-looking beard any of the mag-
netism with which the American papers credit
him, he could have won it over to a genuine
respect for him as an orator and a leader of men.
There are two things which the Yankee seems
liable to go off the handle at—a new religion and
a new patent medicine, especially if the medicine
is for drinking first thing in the morning. Dowie
failed to strike Sydney as even a good organiser;
his choir was weak numerically and wretchedly
inefficient, his voice was a metallic bleat which
was irritating and hard to understand, and
there was about him an arrogance which
was repellent. The only bright gleam in the
miserable show was the gold lace on the
coat-and pants of his “guard” who carried a Bible
which would have made a good weapon. That
guard scintillated, he glittered and flashed, and
was reminiscent of old man Bronson in “The
Belle of New York.” The service was not one
scrap different from that held in any ordinary
Nonconformist chapel. Gladstone Dowie was
turned loose in prayer. He addressed the
Almighty at great length, and informed Him of
many things of which He doubtless knew much
more than Gladstone Dowie. The audience grew
uneasy, but its feelings were relieved by Gladstone
stopping suddenly as though lie had gone off
the boil, and then Elijah himself burst into an
unlovely intonation of the Lord’s Prayer, with
improvements of his own. Then he arose and
shook himself, and said they would now take up
the collection. Hundreds sprang to their feet.
They streamed out like the cataract going down
at Lodore, the tramping of their feet was like the
tramping of Behemoth, and the voice of Dowie
was drowned in the noise of it.
* * * *
Dowie, wearing purple wings and pouring
out picturesque abuse on bis enemies in far away
Zion City, loomed large. He was a man of parts
anyhow, who bad builded a city of a sort and
invented many new phrases. Dowie on the plat-
form of Sydney Town Hall, with his deacons, his
local adherents in the body of the hall gazing
devoutly with quiet cow-like expression, his
gorgeous “ Belle of New York ” sentinel in gold
lace humping a heavy tome, is merely a gross,
bald-headed old man with an irritating manner
and a voice that is hard to understand, and there
is no profit in him.
*# * &
The revival of “Florodora,” at Sydney-
Royal, last Saturday, served to show the form of
some theatrical colts over a very difficult course.
“Florodora” is an airy trifle which altogether
depends for success on the way it is served up;
the second act in particular is mere variety busi-
ness with a string of plot running tln-ough it, and
the string is as thin as Dowie’s prophecies. The
whole piece, indeed, with the exception of a few
notably good lyrics, is weak, and requires
good acting to drag it through. It is cer-
tainly not a production that can drag it-
self through. The fact that Saturday night’s
audience greeted the revival cordially is a
compliment to the musical comedy co. As
Dolores, Miss De Loitte was successful in singing,
hardly' so much so in acting : a share of the
responsibility in this latter regard was taken from
her shoulders by the substitution of Miss Olive
Lenton in a section of the second act, and, with
this expedient, the part was kept up to something
like the Carrie Moore standard. Miss De Loitte
has a voice well-fitted for light opera, a good share
of vivacity and the acting instinct. With more
experience she will do much better. It was a
serious task for Miss May Beatty to follow
that miracle of grace—Miss Grace Palotta—
as Lady Holyrood. She followed the best course
available by giving a new reading—a more
racketty one—to the part, and made it at least
bright and lively. As Angela, Miss Elsie Moore
made a charming figure but danced indifferently.
The male half of the cast could safely challenge
comparison with that of the original production,
except that Kenningham was sadly missed. Fred
Graham made an excellent Tweedlepunch, invest-
ing the part with much sly humor; Arthur Crane
as Frank Abercoed had a role which suited him
well, and sang and acted with spirit and feeling.
Finally Fred Leslie gave a lively reading of Cyrus
Gilfain; as a humorous dancer he is a worthy
successor to the departed Hugh Ward. The work
of the chorus and ballet was unexceptionable.
This is the last week of “The Eternal
City,” at Her Majesty’s, Sidney. The statement
sounds paradoxical, but it is a fact. “Resurrec-
tion,” a play by Tolstoy, will arise on the site of
the “City” on Saturday, and the posters show
“ Resurrection ” to be a drama full of crime, and
grief, and grand uniforms. Julius Knight will
act the part of a Russian officer-prince, and just
at this juncture the smallest contribution of know-
ledge concerning Russian military tactics will be
favorably received. As the stage Russian officer
mostly loathes the civilian, Julius may be trusted
never to appear without his uniform—except per-
haps at thepoint where he startstomake a stepping
stone of his dead self and rise to higher things.
Then, no doubt, potsherds will take the place of
epaulettes, and sackcloth do duty for the sable
overcoat. This habit the hero has of standing,
in the language of the poet, on his own corpse
will doubtless, with practice, lead to a further
development, when he will seize himself by the
hair and throw himself over the fence. Miss
Maud Jeffries will also resurrect, and show as
a beautiful Russian damsel sunk into the Pit;
then, after a suitable dramatic interval, ascend, as
on a golden ladder, to be the angel of the prison.
She also will stand on her dead self, and, in
a manner of speaking, bound on her own remains.
* * *
An attractive photo, which appears in this
issue (if the compositor hasn’t left it out) repre-
sents Miss Maud Dalrymple, a well-known and
deservedly-popular Sydney contralto. She is
understood to be a daughter of the gods, being
divinely tall, though she isn’t fair—the gods spilt
ink over her tresses in infancy. Having said that
much, it is hardly necessary to add that Miss
Dalrymple is going to England; that sort of
thing always happens to this country. It can
lose almost anybody it values, and it can’t
lose Pumpkin Smith. The procession to England
has become so vast, and the announcement
so monotonous, that if The Bulletin was a girl
with a voice it would prefer to leave for some less
crowded sphere ; an announcement of a final con-
cert, prior to the singer’s departure for Arabia,
where she hoped to appear before crowded audi-
ences, would be novel, and it would probably
cause a much larger rush to the concert. Miss
Dalrymple does her farewell at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday, and shortly after that the
British fog will swallow her up.
** # #
Stephenson’s American Comedy Co. is
hanging a fresh lot of songs and dances on to the
troubles of Brown, who is only Brown for the pur-
pose of hiding from Stine the fact that he is mar-
ried ; Stine will continue to forgive the deception
for 10 days longer. After that it is uncertain
what will happen at Sydney Palace. It would be
difficult for a brighter little performance to
happen, anyhow.
** # *
W. F. Hawtrey and his co.—mostly the
same co., and precisely the same Hawtrey—come
back to the Criterion after over two years’ wander-
ings in Maoriland and other parts, with a piece
new to Sydney, “ The Lady of Ostend.” F. C.
Burnand, of London Punch, wrote it; it is alleged
that he put into it all the humor and the smart
things that he had kept out of his respectable old
paper for many, many years. The season starts on
Saturday.
** * *
At the Lyceum next Saturday “ The Best
Must Win ” will be staged “ for the first time in
Sydney.” There hasn’t been much horse at the
Lyceum lately, and the concern around the corner
which supplies mokes for marriage, mortuary and
melodrama purposes without prejudice—the same
steed wearing a glad expression at the morning
bridal, a broken heart at the afternoon inter-
ment, and a mad leer at the evening phantasy
—is understood to have issued a remonstrance.
At any rate, “The Best Must Win,’’ judg-
ing by its name, promises some horse, and
many will be seriously disappointed if the
stage does not again sound to the tramp
of the charger’s hoofs. Until Saturday “The
10.30 Down Express” will continue to refuse to
run over the hero—from motives of discretion,
the hero being a very solid lump of a man, and
the express being a comparatively weak and
unsubstantial concern, like an engine which has
suffered from a long course of Bent.
** * *
Miss Clare Scarr, at Sydney Centenary
Hall, last week, failed to create an impres-
sion that her concert was the first of a
brilliant series which should lead to wealth and
fame and critics’ praise. Not that critics’ praise
is worth consideration in comparison with the
other two. The singer’s upper register seems
to be slightly defective, to lack power, or in some
way to be devoid of the golden roundness
which leads to much business at the ticket
window. The Bulletin regrets that it is so, for
Miss Scarr is a very charming lady, a lady pos-
sessed of a pleasant platform manner, and she
walks in an atmosphere of dignity and refinement,
and her symmetrical features are lit up with the
most delightful brown eyes that ever smiled at an
audience. Miss Scarr’s voice is essentially a
drawing-room ornament, and in a land where
drawing-room entertainments are the vogue the
lady should be a valuable acquisition.
** * *
The Sydney Tivoli bill is much as it was a
week ago. Vulcana’s back still carries most of
the applause, in addition to several hundred-
weight of polished metal; and Dewar’s dramatic
dog licks his master’s plate, and blames the cat,
as he did before the bloom wore off the perfor-
mance. These clever-animal tricks get a little
monotonous after you have seen them about 10
times, and observed that the intelligent animal
winks at precisely the same moment every evening.
The Dumonds, eccentric musicians, fire off a num-
ber of new things from their battery of musical
weapons, and bring down the house every time—
especially the versatile Dumond who plays the
clown and the mandolin simultaneously. Clarke
and Hamilton, comedians, are just showing above
the horizon. Meantime manager Rickards is sin-
fully plotting a cake-walk competition, which will
be in full blast during the coming week unless
Providence intervenes.
sfc # # #
“Riding to Win,” the most intensely
Melbourne drama on Bland Holt’s books, was
revived at the Royal with great vigor last Satur-
day. Perhaps it was an English drama in its
original form, and then the harmless young nau-
tical person who lends stolen notes to the hero at
the instance of his wicked cousin was probably
attached to the British navy. In Bland’s localised
production the young man is described as “of the
Australian Squadron,” and he departs on foreign
service from Port Phillip Heads in a small vessel,
which puffs real smoke from its amusing funnel,
and traverses the ocean with an elastic stride.
Meanwhile, Walter Baker has accepted
the loan of the stolen notes, whereby hangs
the trouble. Baker is a doctor of medicine and a
distinguished cyclist when suspicion falls upon his
uprightness, but as soon as his borrowing resources
fail he becomes a handy man at a boat-shed on the
Yarra, and incidentally wins the heart of Harne
Ireland. She is blind, poor girl! so she forms a
hopeless attachment to Baker’s voice—a very
natural thing for her to do—and contributes
touches of irrelevant pathos to the subsequent
proceedings. The other girls are Frances Ross,
who believes in Baker’s innocence before all the
world, and Frances Ruttledge, a frail victim of
circumstances. Mrs. Bland Holt is the comic relief
girl, united to Bland after he returns from
S’Africa. There would be a chance for Baker to
grow rich by marrying Miss Ross, if the
wicked cousin didn’t murder her wealthy father
for his property. This act of treachery leaves
Baker with only one hope in life. He has to win
a Bicycle Race or perish among the unemployed.
He can’t get work. His sole remaining assets are
his innocence and an irresistible sprint. Bland
Holt pays the entrance fee for Baker, nourishes
the champion’s wasted body with steak and
Carlton ale, defeats the enemy, who plots to
puncture his tyre, and pushes him off to victory.
The bike race at Melbourne Exhibition was a
stirring illusion two years ago. It is even better
managed now. The scenery by Brunton is beauti-
fully full of local significance, and the all-round
performance of the co. abounds in merit—Baker,
Styan, the improving Brown and Miss Ireland
being specially successful. There is also a hand-
some dog in the cast, but this picturesque animal
was a sad dog on Saturday night.
** * *
The eighth week of “ A Country Girl ” at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, brought an unexpected
girl into the name part, Florence Young having
fallen ill, or fallen out. Miss Olive Godwin is the
new candidate for fame, and her efforts are fairly
successful. She has a good voice, to begin with,
and a slim amateurish style of making herself
pleasant. At the outset she is even preferable to
Miss Young, inasmuch as she is not well known
to have outlived the growing age. A
prima-donna who has to say, “Well, Nursey,
do you think I’ve grown?” should seem
to put the question more seriously than the
other lady did. All the same Melbourne will
be glad to see its Florence Young back at the
dear old home in Devonshire where the native
spinsters talk a weird dialect of their own, and
the oldest inhabitant is never too old to marry.
Florence on her re-appearance might bring down
the house by calling Nursey to witness that she
is paler than she was, and Nursey might take her
indoors to give her some beef tea. Nothing is
more attractive in a leading lady than a recovery
from a more or less alleged illness.
** * *
Miss Sylvia Blackstone, the Sydney con-
tralto and composer of sweet music, will give a
song recital in Melbourne before she flits to
Europe.
#* # *
At Melbourne Opera House, the Empire
Girls still appear as half-a-dozen Gabriella
Browns, and six Little Burglars ; also most of the
other people are repeating themselves, including a
quite unnecessary damsel, named Malvena. An
Amateur Cake-Walk Competition was started at
a late hour on Saturday night. Four couples of
amateurs displayed a good knowledge of dancing,
but their ideas about cake-walk were vague and
uncertain, and their plans of campaign were
probably affected by nervousness. The audi-
ence in general took an unsympathetic, not to
say a scornful, view of the rival gambols.
Manager Rickards made some desperate attempts
to get popular verdicts re the respective merits of
the combatants, but he merely succeeded in getting
a silent opinion that the verdicts should have been
different. All things considered, the result was
unfavorable to the development of this new
Australian industry. Unsupported by public
enthusiasm, a dancing tournament is as dull as
the ministrations of Elijah D. In place of Clarke
and Hamilton, departed, Fred Russell and Coster
Joe are to make a first appearance to-night
(Thursday). Russell is said to be a ventriloquist
above the ordinary, and Coster Joe is the figure
he converses with.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has just gob fairly going
again with “Little Red Riding Hood,” which the
Penmans and Harry Shine have brought over
bodily from Melbourne. Adelaide has to take
its pantomime whenever the article can be got,
and is grateful when it doesn’t have to wait till
Easter. Miss Beatrice Esmond has got together
again her broken-up company, and has resumed
touring. The Exhibition (building and grounds)
are kept pretty busy with a Saturday evening
continental, a Sunday afternoon brass-band per-
formance, and a Sunday evening “sacred con-
cert ’’—which last is fiercely denounced in various
quarters for not being sacred enough.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria (Mel-
bourne) :
Apparent
Loss by
Loss on Discount Apparent Total De-
Business. on Loss on Loss. ficit.
Prepaid Property
Calls. Sold.
Dec., 1900 £2263 £459 — £2722 £2722
June, 1901 1049 565 — 1614 4336
Dec., 1901 1792 169 — 1961 6297
June, 1902 1023 36 £772 1831 \
£7957 profit on repurchase of bank’s debentures J
Dec., 1902 1217 — 3426 4643 4814
Profit.
June, 1903 60 — 700 640 5454
Dec., 1903 277 — 6190 5913 11,367
As a matter of fact, the loss on the sale of property was
most likely more than £6190, as £10,960 of debentures
(face value) were bought during the half-year, no doubt
at considerable profit; and the £6190 loss is the net result
of this trading in debentures and property. The report
would gain considerably in value if it distinguished
between these transactions. Nothing very definite can
be dug out of the figures. At present the bank has
£333,992 of foreclosed properties ; and, apparently, if
it can dispose of these at the same average loss as
during the past term, when properties representing
£12,673 were sold, and if it can make the same
proportion of profit out of the purchase of debentures,
the £333,992 is worth about £171,000. By that time, at
the same rate, it would have had to buy up all but
£266,000 of the debentures ; there are now £570,060 out-
standing. In other words, if it can go on buying in
debentures as it has been doing lately, and realise on
foreclosed properties in the same way, it will have to
write off in the end about £163,000 from the item of
foreclosed properties alone. In addition to that there is
an item of £289,388 advances secured by mortgage and an
amount of £40,288 represented by mortgages in posses-
sion, and it is quite possible that these are worth hardly
20s in the £. The paid capital is £273,310 : and in all the
circumstances it doesn’t seem as though there was much
of it left. But at the present rate of realisation the
shareholders will not know for certain how things stand
for another 14 years, and much improvement in values
may happen before then. Also, it may not happen.
* * * »
The syndicate, alluded to last week, that looked
so much like a wild-cat, climbed down almost before
The Bulletin had time to shoot. A circular has
now been issued, dated on the day when this paper
started to make its inquiries, intimating that the offer to
take care of deposits and pay 60 per cent, interest is
“off.” The syndicate says: “As we have received as
much capital as can be conveniently handled, we wish to
entirely withdraw our offer from the public for the time
being.” The Bulletin quite believes it—the syndicate has
got all the money for which it could find a “ safe invest -
ment” that would give a return of 60 per cent, and
expenses. Meantime, however, as the offer has only bei n
withdrawn “ for the time being,” the syndicate will still
need watching.
» * * *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne): —
Dividends on Added
Profits. Preference to Re- Re-
Shaies. serves. serves.
Dec., 1897 .. £1051 — £1051 £2,941
June, 1898 .. 1207 — .- 1207 4,148
Dec., 1898.. 1400 — 1400 5,548
June. l'S99 .. 1257 — 1257 6,805
Dec. ,1899.. 1575 — 1575 8,380
June, 1900 .. 1521 — 1521 9,901
Dec., 1900 .. 1640 — 1640 11,541
June, 1901 .. 1222 — 1222 12,763
Taken from
Reserves.
Dec.. 1901 .. 1634 1 p.c. = £2793 1159 11,604
June, 1902 .. 1522 1 „ „ 2793 1271 10,333
Dec., 1902 .. 1959 1 „ „ 2793 834 9,499
June, 1903 .. 2199 1 „ „ 2793 694 8,905
Dec., 1903 .. 2606 1 ,, „ 2793 187 8,718
The preference share capital is £558,655, and the ordinary
paid capital now stands at £367,492, a total of £926,147. On
this and reserves as at the commencement of the year the
profits were at the rate of 11s. 3d. per cent, per annum.
The last two years’ figures have been : —
June, 1902 .. 6s. 7d. p.c. I June, 1903 .. 9s. 5d. p.c.
Dec., 1902 .. 8s. 5d. „ | Dec., 1903 .. 11s. 3d. „
This is progress ; if it keeps on for another 18 years or so
the bank will be earning 4J per cent. Still, a good part
of the little extra profit which has been made during the
past six months has arisen from working upon a con-
siderably lower cash balance, and that movement cannot
continue indefinitely'. Twelve months ago theA.D. and
M. had £435,824 of deposits and only' £31,154 of new
advances ; now it has £404,718 of deposits (£31,106 less),
but £37,977 new advances (£6823 more); and cash
balances have been reduced from £51,504 to
£37,107. Still, the position is certainly no weaker
than it was 12 months back. As the mortgages and
other assets taken over from the old bank are realised, a
fair proportion of the money is being put into Board of
Works debentures, which now stand at £22,684 (cost
price). As a result of this, whereas 12 months ago the
liquid assets represented slightly under 15 per cent, of
liabilities to the public, they now represent slightly oyer
15 per cent. But all this doesn’t affect the old contention
that the concern is ridiculously over-capitalised. A con-
cern which, in an unusually good time for banks, can’t
make even 1 per cent, on its preference capital, not to
mention its ordinary' capital, and which hasn’t been able
to do it as far back as the eye will carry, yet persistently
refuses to write down capital and goes on steadily
reducing its reserves, can’t easily be regarded as a serious
banking institution.
* • * *
The Equity Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Co. (Melbourne)
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1897 .. £759 6 p.c. = £625 £134 £2168
Dec., 1897 .. 486 6 „ „ 625 — 2029
June, 1898 .. 1006 5 „ „ 625 381 2410
Dec., 1898 .. 2769 7$ „ „ 937 1832 4242
June, 1899 .. 1175 7£ „ „ 937 238 4480
Dec., 1899 .. 997 7£ „ „ 937 60 4540
June, 1900 .. 832 7i „ „ 937 — 4435
Dec., 1900 .. 1090 7\ „ „ 937 153 4588
June, 1901 .. 2087 7| „ „ 937 1150 5738
Dec., 1901 .. 1488 7£ „ „ 937 551 6289
June, 1902 .. 2977 8 „ „ 1000 1977 8266
Dec., 1902 .. 1517 8 „ ,, 1000 517 8783
June, 1903 .. 1349 8 ,, „ 1000 349 9132
Dec., 1903 .. 1744 8 „ ,, 1000 744 9876


tramways for mines.
IN HAULAGE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
is‘still la,nwa . v : "'tli suitable rolling- stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
stnr»'ic<rnf < oi? e ™"° mica . 1 alK * expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
iNncuro Mininjf Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
ucHTS. —Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives i.e., EVERYTHING.
_ ’ Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. “ffJi
CENTRAL. AIMING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
1 " 1D > 40 Hu.viek Sr., SYDNEY A. E. LEPL.AS TRIER, Manager,
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns *** ***”
r
S 3?
as*©**
m
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903:
“ When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
* » * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Company of
South Melbourne, were the successful tenderers for the
two new pumps required by the Melbourne and Metro-
politan Board of Works. Each of these pumps weighs
about 60 tons, and the contract is of some magnitude.
The Austral Otis Company were successful in their
tender for similar pump ends some time ago, and their
experience will enable them to rapidly turn out the work.
Five out of the six pumps that handle Melbourne’s
sewerage will have been turned out of this foundry, which
also built the majority of the motive power plants
operating the Melbourne Tramways.*
* * * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * J>t
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to36inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
Garland Abel], Begistered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
. sharebroker and mining secre-
£fnM^ ha n erS T ° wer ® (member of the Charter! Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
nnnes of that field, also a private code, to intending
Correspondence invited.* .®
a „^ a ? ide ' Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged red
now r readv US F ated catalo K ue of all mining requisites
postage * F 0,1 a PP ,lcatl °" on receipt of 4d.
Charters Towers figures for January : Gold
63220 Z 17 Total fco 9!’mQ 6 ’ 2960 i- ’ oyarlide - l4 > 50 « tons,
T n ’ 22,6180 z. Divs., £29,450 (Jan., 1903,
£-.6,400) , calls, £B433 (Jan., 1903, £13,871). Year reported
tor^devXpmentt.’’ PiCioUS ' V ’ " ith a number of satisf *<>
CYANIDE
GUA’ tANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soria,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. SVSarkwald.
174 William-streetj
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eaj’le-st.
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
The reserves consist of £5500 reserve fund and £4376
undivided profit; the investments consist chiefly of Mel-
bourne Board of Works and other public securities and
?o.’s premises, the latter included at cost, £16,962.
" oat the investments are yielding it is impossible to say,
as the co. pursues the bad plan of lumping all its revenue
together. On capital (£25,000) and reserves as at the
commencement of the half-year the profits were equal to
£10 4s. per cent., which is nearly 2i per cent, better than
the previous half-year’s figure.
* * • •
Last year 3530 buildings of one sort and another
were put up in Sydney’s 46 suburban municipalities. The
largest number were on the red-tiled and panama-hatted
of the harbor ; North Sydney had 358 and Mosman
309, these two standing first and second in the list. Tiny
Darlington, the smallest of the municipalities, was the
only one that didn’t give the builders a job. Every
seventh new place put up within the whole suburban
area was of wood-
* * * *
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent
Building and Investment Association, Ltd. (Sydney):—
Loss on Loss on Total
Dec., Business. Properties Loss. Reserves.
.. £3,659 _ £3,659 £7,501
1896 .. 3,683 £462 4145 3 356
1897 .. 2,946 898 3,343 13
Deficit.
1898 .. 2,264 133 2,387 2,374
1899 .. 938 878 1,816 4,190
T 1,890 1,854 3,744 7,934
1900 .. J Depreciation of Assets 75,250 83,184
I Reserves.
(£103,898 capital written off 20,714
Profit on Loss on Total
Business. Properties. Profit.
1901 .. 1,597 500 1,097 21,811
1902 .. 638 385 153) 21 9g2
(Forfeited share capital 18 f 41,982
1903 .. 2,223 591 1,632 23,614
But it is doubtful whether the position is as good even
as it looks here. The business profit shown seems to
include profit expected to be realised from the sale of
property on long terms, but not j r et realised. Apart
from what was realised, or is to be realised, on sales of
properties if contracts are fulfilled, the profits were
£1587 in 1903, as against £173 in 1902 and £1262 in 1901.
But as it is mentioned that fewer repairs, &c., have been
effected to properties, this improvement is also probably
Sjoioo al seems to be. The co. has a paid capital of
£42,138; the net return on this (£1632) was equal to
about £3 17s. 6d. percent. Nominally, in addition to
capital there are £23,614 of reserves ; but as in this ex-
ceptional year the net return did not reach 4 per cent, on
capital alone, the reserves may be, for the present, re-
garded as most probably a pleasant fiction.
* * * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co., Ltd. (Sydney):
Deficit
(“ Good-
will, lease,
. . _ Applied &c.,” not
D Divi- Written to reckoned
Profits. dends. off. Reduce as an
, Deficit. Asset).
June, 1901 — _ £141573
Dec., 1901 £588 5 p.c. =£437 £227 — 14 649
£ ,ne .«S* 573 5 „ ,. 437 107 £29 14)620
D?c., 1902 518 o „ „ 437 44 37 14,583
June, 1903 344 5 „ 437 — _ 14 676
Dec., 1903 410 5 „ „ 437 - _ 14,703
“Goodwill, lease, &c., in Aarons’ Exchange,” a paper
item, is down in the balance-sheet for £15,000, as it was
in the beginning, but is disregarded in the foregoing.
Nothing hug been written off either improvement or fur-
niture account for some time now ; yet, even without
such charges, the dividend has not been earned for a
year past. On paid capital (17,500) profits (without any
nednotion for wear and tear) amounted in 1903 to only
£4 os. per cent. Generally, the position must be regarded
as unsatisfactory. 6
* ' * * *
. Melbourne is getting insistent warnings that it
w living on the edge of a volcano, so to speak. Twice
n n .u taken the whole available fire-fighting force
find all the—fortunately high-pressure of water to keep
rea from spreading—they had to burn themselves out.
G/ven snnu taneous outbreaks in two or three high
suburbs, with a strong wind, and the brigade and the
vater-pressure wouid be utterly inadequate to prevent
ti.; ..umes swallowing a whole suburb.
* * * *
The Savings Bank of N.S. Wales for two
others'with and S ° me figures for 1898, to cora P a re the
T . 1898 1902 1903
Deposits .. ..£4,454,875 £5,325,356 £5,326,198
Reserve Funds .. .. 217,608 295,410 316,835
Interest Paid .. .. 120,932 166,146 167,819
Fronts on Business.. 19,714 16,798 19,995
Unexplained Additions
to Reserves.. .. — 2 550 1 ava
Written Off 72,73b Nil Nil
Loans to Government 2,314,258 2,706,879 871 025
v i\v°'L M 5 rt K asre " 883,880 795,071 889,478
in.’VNv. State Securi-
ntUNsii w 5 > 059 522,446 2,375,731
Other N.S. VV. Stock 162,204 185,842 243,680
Loans to Banks.. . 1,258,269 1,362,197 1,191,072
About the most striking thing disclosed by these figures
m « w ra n lncrease i'* the more or less fixed debt to the
... v. i Government. In former times, when it was not
r, de8 P e r ate, y hard work to raise money from the
London Cohen as it is now, the N.S.W. Treasurer had
tne temporary use of th* Savings Bank’s surplus cash;
but in five years £2,370,672 of this has been made a
more or less fixed debt by converting the Government’s
•u.u into funded stock and Treasury Bills. By far the
■ rgest operations of this kind have taken place during
(W P « 8t Y ea !\ *t>853,2 8 5 having been obtained by the
V? tbls way- Of course the State’s total indebt-
ir nhLfl ° the hank has not been increased to that extent;
l that > instead of treating the bank as a
“ temporary accommodation, the Government
\ b as a source of loans of at least a few years’
the uT'Yi • tb , e former ease a Government had to meet
OweN’l U , f ltself : as a rule 1 hy this new scheme, the
unebee lets somebody else face the trouble by-and-bye.
ofN n sw tal f , Llnds , at dis PosaJ, the Savings Bank
8s\d ne ma e 6 ln 7898 business profits at the rate of
nlVm P i Cenfc " Day’"? depositors 3 per cent. ; in 1902
and m 1903° °- S 3 if er ce,lt ” if made 6s - 3d - Per cent. ;
In 1898 Gc 3, payinfr 3 * P? r cent -. it made 7s. 6d. per cent,
ness of tu re , ser Y es > « se d, of course, in the ordinary busi-
total liihn ’ ank ; equalIeti £4 17s - 7d. per cent, of the
1518s id ltleS t0 tbe „ public; on Dec. 31st last,
0 i»s. lid.—a very satisfactory advance indeed.
* * *
Tlie Sydney Meat Preserving Co. (Sydney)
Pastor- Added
Loss 0.1 alists’ to
Busi- Subsidy Written Re- R e
Dec., 1898 "I* 8- Rec^ ved - . selves. serves.
June, 1899 £2136 £2346 _ tZm
Dec-, 1899 .. 2714 3726 - lo}° $*22
June, 1900 .. 5526 4074 _ _ I.’® 9 ®
Dec., 19C0 .. 8011 6514 _
June, 1901 .. 766 0 5518 _ _
ec., 1901 .. 4749 _ 1205 63,810
June, 1902 . 260’ 4827 _ 5107 68,917
n -Loss.
June ‘ • 3732 3222 £5C0 ° - 63 407
June, 1903 4366 97ia shoo oo.iur
Dec., 1903 .: 9494 Z ® 7 ’ 759
rnnd ey P? tted hullock is fetching a higher price in
of Mm ton'll ° r 2 ? years past; but there isn’tenough
chief h,*” low . of any P rofit being made. The eo%
chief business, in fact, seems to be to keen im nZ
jss** it
1 resent, prices run up prettv we 1 without it Ua aC
comparatively little business. For t ds d .°i? S
Paetorahsts subsidise it. And quite a totVlhe^e
who don’t see any wrong in subsidising a co. to keep up
the price of meat declare that it is not much short of
a crime for the Arbitration Court to put up cooks’
wages. The co.’s paid capital is £20,315 ; so, notwith-
standing the bad time it has been having lately, its re-
serves are still equal to about £2 13s. for every £1
invested
* • * •
Depositor: Of the two the Union....Zeehan:
They’re pretty bad thieves. Write the Transvaal
Chamber of Mines for particulars.
*
The Industrial and Provident Permanent
Benefit Building and Investment Society (Sydney):
Added
Net _ to Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1896 .. — .. — .. — .. £8766
1897 .. £5148 .. About 6 p.C.= £5519 .. — .. 8395
1898 .. 3457 .. „ „ „ 4248 .. — .. 7604
1899 .. 3627 .. „ „ „ 3857 .. — .. 7374
1900 .. 4271 .. „ „ „ 3695 .. £576 .. 7950
1901.. 3211 .. „ „ „ 3400 .. — .. 7761
1902 .. 2994 „ 2975 .. 19 .. 7780
1903.. 4447.. „ „ „ 2800-.. 1647 .. 9427
The trading profit appears to have been £4486, but £39
has gone from the contingent reserve fund, which now
stands at £3933 ; the balance of reserves (£5494) consists
of undivided profit. The large increase in profits has
been mainly due to the purchase of the Civil Service
Building Society as a going concern ; £14,007 was paid on
that account, and profit and loss shows receipts of £1916
from the society’s business. The management expenses
have been hardly affected by the transfer. The deposits
have, however, been increased from £4694 to £15,715, in-
volving an increase in interest from £149 to £534. The
taking over of the other society’s business seems, there-
fore, to have so far turned out satisfactorily ; and, on
account of the saving in salaries and wear-and-tear of
furniture, it ought to be a good thing for the Civil Ser-
vice Society as well. Several other institutions might
take the same track with advantage.
* * » *
Concerning the expense rate of the I.O.F.
alleged insurance order (Bulletin, Feb. 11), the just-
issued “ Insurance Blue Book ” throws some light on the
dubious business. In Australia the Red Indian issues
only two sheets as a rule ; one purports to be the revenue
account of the Insurance Department, the other the
general balance sheet. This revenue account shows an
expense rate of £10 18s. 3d. per cent of total revenue, in-
clusive of about £6 per cent, described as “ reserved for
contingencies.” According to the Red Indian’s own
statement, management expenses, “including salaries of
officers, actuaries and auditors,” amount to about 5 per
cent, of income, nonotice being taken of theitem “reserved
for contingencies.” The Blue Book, however, publishes,
in addition to the revenue account of the insurance
department and balance sheet, an account of what is
called the “General Section.” To this account is charged
no less than £115,952 for rent, salaries, office expenses,
extension of order, publications, supplies, and office
furniture. “ Extension of order ” expenses alone amount
to £86,348. As practically the whole amount ought to be
charged to the revenue account of the insurance depart-
ment (which is, for all practical purposes, the I.O.F.’8
only department), the management expenses for 1901,
instead of being, as the Red Indian management says,
£24,727, really amounted to £140,679. In other
words, instead of being 5 per cent of the income, as
represented, they reach no less than 29 percent. In-
stead, then, of being, as cheekily claimed, the most
cheaply-managed concern in Australia, on account of its
“ fraternalism,” it is one of the most extravagantly-run
among all those that ask for business in this country.
And it has about 13 other bad features in addition to the
shockingly bad one of having a special account for no
other or better reason, so far as can be seen, than to hide
the expenses in.
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney)
Net _ Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1898.. £1372 10 per cent. = £648 £724 £2201
June, 1899.. 1355 10 „ „ 648 707 2908
Dec., 1899.. 1687 10 ,, ,,648 1039 3947
June, 1900.. 773 10 „ „ 648 125 4072
Dec., 1900.. 975 10 ,, ,, 648 327 4399
June, 1901.. 990 10 ,, „ 648 342 4741
Dec., 1901.. 494 10 „ „ 648 — 4587
June, 1902.. 1031 10 „ ,, 648 383 4970
£367 Profit made on Sale of Forfeited Shares 5337
Dec., 1902.. 272 7£ per cent. = 616 — 4993
£247 Profit made on Sale of Forfeited Shares 5240
June, 1903.. 309 5 percent. = 410 — 5139
Dec., 1903.. 643 5 „ „ 410 233 5372
The same charge for depreciation (£713) is made as in the
previous half-year; before that it was usually a good deal
more. Things, nevertheless, seem to be improving with
this co. Traffic receipts are a little better :—
June, 1901 .. £9745 Dec., 1902 .. £8763
Dec., 1901 .. 9105 June, 1903 .. 8579
June, 1902 .. 9028 Dec., 1903 .. 8663
Charter receipts (£1055) are also better—the best, in fact,
for years. General expenses (coal, stores, wages, &c.)
have, on the other hand, come down a little :—
June, 1901 .. £6903 I Dec., 1902 .. £6837
Dec., 1901 ' .. 6807 June, 1903 .. 7532
June, 1902 .. 6774 | Dec., 1903 .. 7311
The saving has been in coal. The movement isn’t much
to talk about so far, but what there is of it is in the right
direction.
* * * *
Sydney breweries are going much the same way
as those of Melbourne. A co-operative co. got to work a
few weeks ago, backed by a few of the stronger Bungs of
the city. The move was met by what was announced as
a change in the manner of distributing “ travelling
money.” Instead of the brewer’s traveller passing over
the counter as much as he thought was necessary to
keep the sign over the door, a regular 10 and afterwards
15 per cent, discount was fixed upon. The little co-
operative concern had been allowing 5 per cent, discount to
customers, in addition to a half-yearly bonus of 5 per cent •
it replied with a rise also to 10 per cent., and hinted that
it could go to 15. Now Marshall’s Paddington brewery,
which for years has not made much progress, having
apparently some hidden hole of great size which it has
been filling up out of earnings, has proposed a reconstruc-
tion on a semi-co-operative basis, which provides that no
dividends on capital shall be payable until the customer-
shareholder has drawn a SO per cent, discount on his
bulk-beer bill. Further, the present co. guarantees the
20 per cent, for the first year. What certain
big concerns, with their very heavy load of “goodwill"
capital, are going to reply to that isn’t known
at time of writing; bilt shareholders, looking on
at the fight and remembering what happened in Mel-
bourne under somewhat similar conditions, probably feel
as though a blast out of their ice-house was striking
them. Certainly, Sydney isn’t quite as over-breweried as
Melbourne became in the boom-time, but what it wants
in numbers it partly makes up for in size.
» » * *
The Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne): —
Profits on
Property Written Re-
Profits Sold Dividends Off serves
July, 1897 ..£885 — — £1711 £13,541
Jan., 1898 .. 476 — — 1190 12,827
July, 1898 .. 657 — — 2250 11,234
Jan., 1899 .. 904 — — — 12,138
July, 1899 .. 1011 — — 692 12,457
Jan., 1900 .. 739 — — 73 13,123
July, 1900 .. 1269 — —- 660 13,732
(£49,600, being one-half paid-up capital, written off.)
Jan., 1901 .. 1451 £1208 — 6942 9,449
July, 1901 .. 1541 609 10p.c.=£2401 474 8,724
Jan., 1902 .. 1952 1277 6 „ „ 1434 — 10,519
July, 1902 .. 1803 793 6 „ „ 1434 485 11,196
Jan., 1903 .. 2072 412 6 „ ,, 1434 — 12,246
July, 1903 .. 2041 339 6 „ ,, 1434 200 12,992
Jan., 1904 .. 2230 612 6 ,, ,, 1434 — 14,400
The profits include an unexplained addition of £331 to
the contingency fund, which forms part of the reserves,
some of which the society has wisely heonn to keen
apart from its more-or-less risky advance business.
Progress is satisfactory, even though, apart from the
contingency-fund addition alluded to, ordinary profits
fell short of those of the two previous half-years.
If, as the cables say, Cohen supports Japan, he
isn’t supporting Japanese stocks, anyhow. A year ago
“ Japanese Fives” were at 102j ; a month ago they had
crept down to 88, and were still creeping Oohen rarely
translates his “ moral ” support into cash.
The Pekth Benefit Building, Investment,
and Loan Society (Permanent)
Added to Re-
Profits Dividends. Reserves, serves
1899.. .. — _ £91
1900.. .. £1025 7£ p.c. = £1041 — 75
1901.. .. 1273 7 i „ „ 1181 £92 167
1902.. .. 1378 7i „ „ 1487 — 58
1903.. .. 1632 7* „ „ 1569 63 121
It calls itself Permanent ; but this isn’t the way to
make it so. In the past four years there have been
two in which the dividend has exceeded the profits.
The society has lent £40,473, presumably on freehold
security, and apparently it has never occurred to
it that freehold securities have a habit of shrinking
sometimes. While it has been busy getting rid of
about every penny of profits, it has been increasing
its liability to depositors—the people who are likely to
pay a pretty early call when the securities do start to
shrink, and things begin to wear a less pleasant look than
usual. At the end of 1899 these deposits totalled £8074 ;
end of 1903, £13,634 —an increase of £5560 in four years.
There seems to be a lot of trouble brewing for this
society if it isn’t careful, or if it isn’t blessed with much
more luck than most building societies have had.
* * * *
“C.” writes: “There is one item in your other-
wise fair review of the position of the Q.N. Bank (B.,
28/l/’04) which strikes me as somewhat misleading to the
public and unjust to the management. You say : ‘ Private
deposits were dealt with in much the same way, except
that, for the 3-4ths, inscribed interminable 3J per.cent,
stock was issued ; the amount was £3,116,621, the other
l-4th (£1,038,874) being payable out of profits. But the
last-mentioned item does not appear on the balance-
sheet.’ Why should it? Under the re-arrangement of
1897 the bank accepted no liability whatever in regard to
the £1,038,874, except that it may be paid out of profits—
at any time or never. If the bank went into liquidation
to-morrow the l-4th would not count as a brass farthing.
It is not, therefore, a liability as against the assets, and
to place it in the balance-sheet as such would be unpar-
donable.” [Certainlj', if the Q.N. Bank doesn’t intend
to pay its former depositors the million odd, then
the item has no right anywhere in the balance-sheet.
But if the bank intends, as it evidently does, that deposi-
tors shall be paid out of profits when they are available,
then the amount ought to appear, if only as a contingent
liability. A liability which ranks not against assets but
against profits is a novel thing, which, of course, leaves
some room for argument. But the decisive point seems
to be that a balance-sheet w’hich, under these circum-
stances, doesn’t clearly set forth that the future profits
are pawned, doesn’t fully and clearly explain the bank’s
position.—Ed. B.]
The Bkoken Hill Water Supply, Ltd.
Carried
Profits. Dividends. to Deficit.
Reserves.
June, 1897 £13,365 {} ~ £10 * 607
Dec., 1897 15,705 10 p.c.= 9,325 £6380 4,127
June, 1898 11,779 10 „ „ 9,325 2454 1,673
Nominal
Dec., 1898 15,760 10 „ „ 9,325 6435 4,762
June, 1899 16,161 15 „ „ 13,987 2174 6,936
Dec., 1899 16,845 12£ „ „ 11,656 5189 12,125
June, 1900 19,557 12| „ „ 11,656 7901 20,026
Dec., 1900 17,923 15 „ „ 13,987 39361
Premiums on 13,500 new shares issued 3379/
June, 1901 14,116 15 p.c.= 15,000 — 26,457
Dec., 1901 10,250 10 „ ,, in,000 250 26,707
June, 1902 11,386 10 ,, ,, 10,000 1386 28,093
Dec., 1902 13,200 10 ,, ,, 10,000 3200 31,293
June, 1903 12,893 10 ,, „ 10,000 2893 34,186
Deo., 1903 1,421 5 „ ,, 5,000 — 30,607
“Water rights, Parliamentary Bills, &c.,” are not
reckoned as an asset in the foregoing ; they stand in the
co.’s balance-sheet for £25,194. This co. suffered in the
early part of the half-year from a drought, when it had
no water to sell, and in the later part by a flood (2in. or
so make a flood up there), when nobody wanted to buy.
Bven now most of the mining co.’s have a good supply,
and the current half-year, if better than the last, isn’t
likely to give anything like as good results as most of its
predecessors. Meantime, the Broken Hill people have
taken a vote, and decided by an overwhelming majority
that they are just as dissatisfied with the co. as ever, and
declare their willingness to be rated to bear the cost of a
State scheme. All danger of opposition to the co. isn’t
therefore over, in spite of tire flood. In any case, the
co.’s rights run out in about 14 years. The capital is
£200,000; the co. has about £44,400 of its reserves and
capital in a liquid form, so that they won’t be swallowed
up when the fixed portion of the business has to be
handed over ; so £155,600 has therefore tovbe recovered
in the next 14 years. It will take a sinking fund of about
£8500 a year invested at 4 per cent, to do this. In other-
words, to make 5 per cent, and a sinking fund capable of
extinguishing the capital debt in the co.’s lifetime, it
must average £18,500 profit per annum, and only £10,000
of that must be distributed. Whether 5 per cent, is a
good enough return considering the risk is another
matter.
The Darling Downs Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Toowoomba, Q.), from its
birth :—
Dividend and Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1897 .. £8 4 per cent. = £7 £1 £i
1898 .. 87 4 „ ,, 76 11 12
1899 .. 220 5 ,, ,, 175 45 57
1900 .. 485 5 „ „ 339 146 203
1901 ..778 5 „ „ 481 297 500
1902 .. 1223 6 „ „ 935 288 788
1903 .. 1657 6 „ „ 1220 437 1225
The infant is doing very well; about the only bad trait
which has so far developed, apart from the feverish
anxiety to increase dividtnds, is a rapid growth of over-
draft. At the end of 1901 it amounted to £1873 ; within
two years it had reached £6773. And overdrafts cost too
much money just now to be trifled with. Still, choosing
between two evils, it is probably better to work on an
overdraft than on deposits ; and this society is keeping
the latter down, anyhow—they amount to only £350.
9 * * *
After its late burst of prosperity Newcastle
coal-mining is so sick that last fortnight only one mine,
the Stockton, worked full time.
* * * •
The Theatre Royal Proprietary Oo. (Mel-
bourne) :—
Added
Net to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901 .. £848 2J per cent. =£600 £248 £2469
Dec., 1901 .. 1090 27 „ ,, 600 490 2959
June, 1902 .. 1210 2£ „ ,, 600 610 3569
Dec., 1902 .. 1365 3| „ „ 800 565 4134
June, 1903 .. 1188 3i „ ,, 800 388 4522
Dec., 1903 .. 1254 3$ „ ,, 800 454 4976
During the half-year £163 has been written off electric-
light plant. The net profit is equal to £5 2s. 6d. per-
cent. on the capital (£48,000). The reserves are on fixed
deposit.
* * * *
N.S. Wales’ coal output for a few years past:—
1899 .. 4,597,028 tons I 1902 .. 5,942,011 tons
1900 .. 5,507,497 „ 1903 .. 6,354,846 ,,
1901 .. 5,968,011 ,, I
In 1893 the State’s total yield was 3,333,987 tons. There
has thus been an increase of 90 per cent, in 10 years.
Taking the principal coal districts separately the output
in tons in the past three years has been
1901. 1902. 1903
Northern .. 3,999,252 3,900,297 4,410,565
Southern .. 1,544,454 1,588,473 1,476,005
Western .. 424,720 453,241 468,276
Last year’s great activity was, however, the most marked
in the early part, and this year’s outlook isn’t so good.
Australian shale-mining makes no progress at
all. Away back in the early nineties the output of N.S
Wales alone got up to 74,197 tons, worth £1 16s. 8d. per
ton. In 1900 it got down to 22,862 tons, worth 18s. Id.
per ton ; and since then the price has been lower even
than that. The output reached 62,880 tons in 1902 but
fell to 34,776 tons last year. Both Hartley Vale and Jo’adja
have been idle. Also there has heen a great silence about
the remarkable discoveries of shale alleged to have been
made in Tasmania a couple of years ago, and which set
Adelaide on one of its occasional bursts.
* * * *
Here, in the figures relating to imports and
N.S.W. production of coke, is a fine record of progress
Imports Production
to N.S.W. of N.S.W,
Tons. Tons.
1892 61,852 7,899
1893 .. ... .. 61,874 17,858
1894 47,586 34,458
1895 .. ... .. 42,526 27,630
1896 43,134 26,352
1897 .. ... ... 32,451 64,602
1898 .. „ .. 4,000 82,222
1899 .. „ .. 426 96,530
1900 607 126,213
1901 432 128,882
1902 .. .. .. 126,872
1903 160,592
For years N.S.W. believed that it was a poor, miserable
sort of a country, with not enough intelligence even
to burn coal into coke; and so it imported all its
coke from Wales, or Germany, or Belgium, just as it is
still importing all its iron, although it possesses remark-
ably fine iron ores. When it did make an effort, it was a
poor little thing, hardly worth the name ; it took no
trouble to either wash or otherwise clean the coal, and
so a heavy percentage of ash ruled it out. All that,
has, however, been changed, and a coke which could hold
its own in any market is being produced. But, when you
come to think of it, it is a shocking reflection upon Aus-
tralians, and the foreign-trading disease which afflicts so
many of them, that the men who are mainly responsible
for the remarkable increase in the N.S.W. coke-produc-
tion are new chum foreigners almost to a man—Delprat,
of the B.H. Prop. ; Sticht, of Mt. Lyell; Courtney, of the
Sulphide Corporation—the last-named the only English-
man of the three, and none of them Australian.
* * * *
How does the output of the present day N.S.W.
coal-miner compare with that of others and of past times?
Last year the State’s coal industry absorbed 14,117 work-
men, of whom about 350 were in shale mines and works,
leaving 13,767 winning coal, as against 10,356 in 1893.
Each workman’s average was then 322 tons of mineral;
last year it was 461 tons, or an increase of nearly 44 per
cent, on the record of 10 years back. In Great Britain
the average (for 1901, latest available) was 287 tons per
man ; so that the N. S. Wales miner’s average output
per annum is just upon 60 per cent, more than the
Britisher’s. In Maoriland, where coal-cutting machines
are much more largely employed, the average in 1902 was
472 tons—not so great an increase upon the N.S.W.
figures as might be expected.
And we still go on importing car iron mainly
from a country which can only turn out 287 tons of coal
per man (coal being the most costly thing in connection
with iron-production), while our own country can turn
out 461 tons per man ! The iron industry only wants a
protecting hand for a few years, and it will show figures
greater even than the coke industry can do ; and they
are remarkable enough.
(Continued on. page, 30.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY’S
Great Midsummer Sale
Gentlemen's
Fitted
Travelling
Bags.
16 inch Black Morocco, lined dark green leather, lift-out
fittings, Ivory Brush ware, Silver Fittings.
Usual Price, 28 guineas ... Sale Price, 19 guineas
18 inch Brown Hide, lined leather, lift-out fittings, Ebony
Brushware, Silver Fittings.
Usual Price, 16 guineas ... Sale Price, 12 guineas
16 inch Brown Hide, lined dark green leather, Satinwood
Brushware, Nickel Fittings.
Usual Price, 10 guineas ... Sale Price, 8 guineas
18 inch Dark Green Russia, combination Dressing Case and
Despatch Box, Satinwood Brushware and E.P. Fittings.
Usual Price, 12 guineas ... Sale Price, 90/-
REDUCTIONS in All Departments.
CARRIAGE FREE (except Carpets and Furniture) to any P.O. in the States.
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
*
!
\
From Fashion’s Domain
THE mew f*.
P-D
• ©
• 9
The Leading Shapes
In Straight=Fronted Corsets.
AVQJD INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on
band inside, as illustrated.
Obtainable from leading Drapers everywhere.
Society
[?]
[?]
[?]
A DEAD CERT.
FRIEND : “ There's a rumor that your old patient ,
Jabby, wasn’t dead when they buried him.”
DOCTOR: “ Impossible! I always make sure that
my patients are dead! ”
So far as the Bear-and-Monke.y war has
gone at time of writing it has been rather a bad
thing for the Bear, and the Monkey is an ex-
uberant animal in his tree-top. He threw his
cocoa-nut first, and threw it hard, and it struck
the other animal on the ear before he was fairly
awake. The Russian commander Alexieff (who
seems to be “general and admiral at sea,” like
Blake and Monk in the time of Charles II,) is said
to be related to royalty, and he has behaved like
it. Europe hasn’t produced a brilliant commander
related to royalty since the time of the Archduke
Charles of Austria, and he has been in his grave
the best part of a century. The Bear was taken
by surprise everywhere. He had two ships in one
place, and while he was sleepily scratching a fly
off his ear they were left to fight a whole Jap
squadron single-handed. They sank fighting,
as the Bear mostly does. Then three more
ships were fooling by themselves outside a harbor
and the rest of the fleet was inside, and while
the Bear was looking round to see if there was a
mosquito on his tail, the three were mobbed by
night, and badly mauled. Now the Russian fleet
is cut in two, and the Monkey has invaded Corea,
and is sitting proudly on the walls of Seoul with his
caudal appendage hanging down.
The Bear mostly begins his campaigns that way.
In his large overweening conceit, he always under-
rates his enemy, and is licked in the early stages
of a campaign. Charles XII. wiped up the
steppes with him. Napoleon I. wiped up Europe
with him. Osman Pasha, in Europe, and
Mukhtar, in Asia, made a fearsome hash of him
in 1877. But the staying power of the thick
animal put them all down in the end. It may nob
be so this time —the present campaign may be an
exception, like the one in the Crimea. But, all the
same, the Monkey would do well not to let his
caudal end hang down too proudly from the walls
of Seoul, lest he finds something large and des-
perate hanging on to the end of it when he least
expects it. It was just through Mukhtar Pasha
letting his tail wave too proudly after his first
great victories that he fell and lost everything.
The proceedings were so sudden that Mukhtar
only knew that he was being whirled', round by
something that had hold of him behindhand tin n
his head struck against a fortification and all was
over.
* ♦ * *
According to the cablegrams, when tho
Japs destroyed a couple of Russian gunboats
“the Russian nobility and gentry exhibited much
self-sacrifice.” The "self-sacrifice” consisted of
putting off “all balls and public entertainments.”
The Peruvians made a better show when their
warship, Huascar, was battered and captured by
Chili in October, 1879. Admiral Grau, the Peru-
vian hero, died fighting on board his ship. The
bravery of Grau and his officers was so much
admired that within a few days the money was
subscribed in Lima for the purchase of a new
ironclad. Men gave their money, their houses,
their horses, their watches, and even their sleeve-
links. Women came along with gold ornaments,
diamonds, and silver plate. One Peruvian lady
gave diamond jewellery to the value of £2OOO. If
the Russian nobles had put up even one tallow
candle apiece for the troops to eat it would have
been, something.
* * * *
The Japanese war has extended as far
south as Gerald ton (Q.), though there it seems to
be rather a civil commotion than a row with a
foreign enemy. So far the casualties consist of
Yamamoto killed and Yoshimura taken prisoner.
Yosh, it seems, was drunk, and broke up Yam’s
furniture, and then he broke Yam’s head ; conse-
quently Yam is dead and Yosh is locked up,
and the Monkey army is two possible warriors
short.
* * * *
Emphatically, Dowie has not lost his old
Australian gift of language. Extracts from the
official report of his New York speeches (in Leaves
of Healing, Dowie’s humorously-named organ):
I would rather keep my intellectual corpulency than to
be like the razor-backed literary swine I see around me
at these press tables to-night, who are wallowing in the
mire of their own mendacity and malignity. You are
not even fat pigs ; you are razor-backed pigs; wolfish
pigs, with the ferocity of wild boars. You smoke, drink,
and sin so much that you are intellectual rakes, and j our
sneering faces and self-satisfied piggishness as you sit
there for the last time, make you loathsome in the
extreme to me and to this vast audience. . . . When did I
become afraid of a swarm of mosquitoes and flesh-flies
and literary lice ?
Now, couldn’t Elijah be matched at one of the
sporting clubs for a 20-rounds Cuss, one to win,
with John Snortin"?
• • • •
Faith-healing as practised by preacher
Dow>e, the Prophet with the Purple Wings, is a
beautiful science. This is the story of his first
performance in Australia as related in the cold
print of the daily press :
Some spoke of ailments. One, perhaps, had a blind
eye ; another was deaf ; a third had club feet; another
had something wrong with his lungs, while a boy whose
intellect and body were, weak was presented to the
patriarch. He touched the ear, eye, and chest of each,
and blessed the little boy. He advised him of the club
feet to have faith and pray. All went away satisfied that
a cure would be effected in good time. If they be not
cured, then, the prophet says, their faith is not strong
enough.
That arrangement lets the prophet out easily.
He didn’t cure anybody, his own faith or healing
power being apparently insufficient, but he sent
the patients away to cure themselves by faith, and
if they don’t succeed it is their own fault. The
Bulletin office boy is ready to cure 200 incurable
diseases a day on that basis at 6d. a disease, and
to raise the dead for 9d. eaoh—it beiilg understood
that if the dead don’t rise the responsibility rests
solely on themselves
* * * *
A Sydney paper reports that the annual
death-rate in Faith-healer Dowie’s city of Zion is
20 per 1000. That is higher than the rate for
the great, dirty, worldly city of Chicago, and not
far short of twice the Australasian death-rate.
Apparently the only thing that is wrong about
faith-healing is that it doesn’t heal. In fact, it
seems to be about twice as murderous as the old
pill-box and the brown slush in the bottle with
fc'ie Latin name outside.
SOURED.
BOXER: “Mamin’, Bill; close mornin ', ain’t it?”
BILL (a misanthrope): “ W’y don’t yer push it away , then?"
“Bon”: Jaunty Johnny Clayton, town
clerk of Melbourne, has appeared in a new
character. During the record storm that struck
TV/T 1L .L c.L • 4. . t
Melbourne on the 6th instant, some of the statues
in the Fitzroy Gardens were overthrown, and
numerous ornamental trees were uprooted. A
day or two later advts. bearing the Town Clerk’s
signature appeared in the Melbourne dailies
offering reward for the conviction of the
person responsible for the overthrow on Saturday
night of ‘lnnocence’ in the Fitzroy Gardens.”
As there seems little doubt that the storm was
responsible, this looks like a case of offering £5
for the apprehension of Providence or the capture
and conviction of the weather.
The other day, when a starving girl-wife
was charged with stealing (by pawning) some time-
payment furniture, Sydney stipendiary-magistrate
Isaacs gave the time-payment man just about as
bad a few minutes as lie gave the prisoner; it
was monstrous, said the. sensible S.M., that men
should encourage people to dive in beyond their
depth. That S.M. ought somehow to get the
Owe’See in front of him and use the same sort of
language; for the Owe’See borrow-and-boom
policy has encouraged more people to dive beyond
their depth during the past three years or so than
all the time-payment men put together.
Decided in an Adelaide court
that the local Early Closing Act does
not allow a big shopkeeper to keep
open under any circumstances on the
■afternoon (Wednesday or Saturday)
lie has selected for holiday. The
• original Act, in 1900, required cTos-
,i:ig at (s.every day and at 1 on one
day. .This cuusedsuch aprotestfroni
the small dealers (particularly in the
suburbs) that an amending Act in
1002 allowed anyone to keep open in
the evening so long as only his own
family was employed. It lias always
been an open question whether this
referred to the weekly half holiday
as well, -so a test-case was taken.
The. police magistrate fined the
offender £1 without hesitation.
* * *
Way College, for years the
third largest boys’ school in Ade-
laide, has just been formally hauded
over to Vulcana’s sex, as a Meth-
odist Ladies’ College. Built over 20
years ago as an eye and ear hospital,
it was secured by the Rev. Janies
Way (fattier of the Chief Justice)
as a school. A wing of the building
will still commemorate his name.
“Alba'’ : The design for the
Commonwealth Seal is a poor far-
rago of symbols. The crown of
British heraldry, the lion, the spotted
dogs and the poodles of Norman
and Flemish origin crowd the top
and centre of the inartistic gaud.
Erase the Australian quarters from
the present Seal and there is left but
the trade-marks of numberless butter
merchants, tanners and soapmakers.
Most of the Commonwealth Seal has
done service to them or to persons in
the pig and poultry business, or has
been stamped on decayed egg boxes
as a guarantee that the eggs did not
contain meat. Why not an allegori-
cal picture of Australian unity as a seal 1
o *** . * . ,
Some strange person suggests in a Sydney
paper that swagmen should be made to carry
passportS) and t jf at B q ua tters and cookies should
wr ite their opinions of the men on the backs
thereof. His own trouble, it seems, arises out of
t ke truculent suburban larrikin who isn’t a swag-
as would be a toothpick in battle. As for the real
buslimen in search of work, when the outback
J.P. had laboriously written and blotted his
opinion on the back of the passport, the spelling
would bring such discredit on the commission of
the peace that the whole business would explode
in ridicule.
DEAD SLOW.
1ST: “ Didn't I tell yer that there Bill wuz too
slow ter live."
2ND : “ Why, what’s ’e bin and done now?”
1ST : “ He's yarn and got run over be a hearse! ”
“ Petramos ” : I was always anti Sunday
School, and as a kid “ wagged” mostly. A few
statistics tosliow that Sunday schools don’t influence
for good. Before me'are two group photos—one
of my day school, and one of my Sunday school.
In former I cannot find the face of one school-
mate whom I know for certain has go y to the
devil, though eight of them are dead. In the
Sunday school group I find one forger, three hard
drinkers and loafers, one who did three months
for petty theft, and an M.L.A.
THE CALL FOR KIPLING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The smoke of battle fills the air ;
Pale is each statesman’s brow ;
The dogs of war are loose—but where,
Oh, where is Kipling now ?
’Tig strange that, ere the war-cloud burst
In bloody rain of hate,
The Fighting Nations did not first
With Kip communicate.
But Kip is Britain’s Battle Bard ;
Perhaps he rose betimes,
And now is working extra hard
On Anti-Russian rhymes.
Sing requiems for the Russian Bear I
Mourn for the Muscovite !
For Rudyard’g rhymes are deadlier
• Than any dynamite.
The Czar, as Xerxes did, may scan
His myriads with pride ;
They are dead Cossacks—if Japan
Has Kipling on her side.
Alas ! the Public is bereaved,
For Kip keeps silence grim ;
The daily papers have received
No shamble songs from him.
No lurid lyric of the war
Has come our hearts to fire ;
No ballad of the abattoir
Has bled along the wire.
Can he be dead—or just asleep ?
What ails him, anyhow ?
The war-god wades in blood chin-deep,
And where is Kipling now ?
CREEVE ROE.
ONE OF THESE DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ One of these days,” the painter said,
“ A masterpiece I’ll do,
I’ll make Raphael turn in his bed,
And shake up Titian, too.
One of these days I’ll paint this thing—
This Picture Beautiful,
By Jove, this smoke’s a perfect king ;
By Jove, this beer is cool.”
“ One of these days,” the poet said,
“ An epic I will write,
And Jlilton will be.glad he’s dead,
And Dante will turn white.
One of these days I’ll show the world
The wonders I can do.
O love, your mouth is pleasure-pearled
Faith, love, your eyes are blue !”
One of these days the painter died,
And left a canvas bare,
His rooms were chiefly occupied
With fans and locks of hair.
One of these days the poet left
This world of pleasure, too.
His assets were a sonnet deft
To a girl with eyes of blue.
One of these days both were forgot;
A busy world went on ;
And no one cared the slightest jot
Where either man had gone.
Two ghosts by the poet’s tomb do stand,
And by the painter’s, too ;
One the day when he didn’t do it and
One the thing he didn’t do.
GRANT HERVEY.


»At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 3d Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from'George-street to King-st.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
• • -i .
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
k
USNESS
w
dfs
df
Women’s
Pol itical
Educational
League,
through its
sec., Miss
Rose Scott,
circularises the
newspapers to
support a proposal
for additional police ma-
tronsto attend at locks-up
to which female arrests
are brought. A while
ago, at the same insti-
gation, police matrons
were provided at the
Central station, so that
women brought there
might be attended to by
one of their own sex; hut
all female offenders can-
not be hauled to the
one station, and in out-
lying districts there is
still lack of matron at-
tendance for the she-
drunk. The reform should
be extended, if not for the
sake of the female offender then
or that of the police ( fficers.
In September a .Gippsland woman, sum-
moned to attend the Sale (Vic.) Assizes, did
not appear, having just given birth to a child.
The court, in ignorance of the circumstances,
fined her £2. Attempts to get the penalty
remitted have, so far, only resulted in its reduc-
tion to £1 by the Governor-in-Council. That
woman would have saved 20s. by being dead or
by not having a child—yet Australia is said to be
anxious to help along the birth-rate.
» * * •
Joseph Symes, of Melbourne, the man who
is anti-everything, from God down to the Labor
party, brings out the last number of the Liberator
in reduced size, and threatens to stop it altogether.
Symes has played the very difficult role of an evan-
gelical atheist; he preached “no-God” with as
much intemperate earnestness as a Salvation Army
fanatic yelling “ Blood-and-fire.” For the man
who believes in some form of religion, proselytis-
ing is natural enough ; he thinks he has valuable
knowledge as to the future, and wishes to impart
it toothers. But the man who doesn’t believe,
and professes not to know, becomes rather absurd
when he mounts the pulpit to preach toothers,
and urges them to come in and share.his ignorance.
Symes has pushed atheism along now for 20 years
with intemperate zeal, but with evident earnest-
ness ; and in some quarters a good deal of regret
would follow the old man in his fall if want of
funds puts an end to his paper. Independence,
even cranky independence, compels respect.
• * • *
One good service is expected of the Ade-
laide electric trams—when tlrey arrive ; they, are
expected to materially waken up the people.
Adelaide folks, long accustomed to the old match-
box tram with the hearse-horses in front, stroll
along in the sleepiest fashion possible. A Sydney
electric-car or a Melbourne cable ditto would
maim a few to begin with, but it would teaoh the
rest to step out with some velocity, and
velocity might, in course of time, become a habit
and a fixed mental condition. The caterpillar
tram sets a bad example, and its product is a
caterpillar people.
HIS ONLY CHANCE, IN FACT.
AFFLUENT CITIZEN: “ You must think Tm an
awful ass if you imagine I’m yoing to lend
money to you, a man I don’t know ."
THE OTHER: “ Not at all, sir. I wouldn’t so
insult your intelligence as to ask you if you
did know me.”
Letters a.nd paragraphs re the precious
Lilydale and Warburton railway crop up in the
columns of Melbourne Age with monotonous
regularity. Local residents are continually
aggrieved about something or other appertaining
to this small branch line—the time-table, or the
freights, or the “local rate,” or the “trust rate”
which are “ burdens ” imposed upon proputty
owners on account of the non-paying spec. The
proputty owners and residents are mostly David
feyme and relatives. Seemingly, they arranged a
railway on their own terms, in the sanguine
belief that the district was going to boom. It
hasn’t boomed.as yet. Hence these advertising
moans in the Age. If Warburton can’t attract
attention to its natural beauties, marvellous fer-
tility, &e., itrmust be made notorious for its
grievances.
ERGO.
“Seen much of Miss High fly lately?"
“Well, yes, I have; she’s been wearing those
transparent blouses all the summer.”
Twenty-odd Maoriland tourists, amongst
them several cute barristers, from. Melbourne and
elsewhere, were badly “left” during the holidays.
Members of the Australasian Society for the
Advancement of Science, who journeyed to attend
the congress held in Dunedin at Christmas, were
granted concessions of 10 per cent, off usual boat-
fare, also a free pass over all the Maoriland rail-
ways for one month. The wily (?) ones-paid their
guinea-fee and joined the society before leaving,
and duly collected the free passes. Instead of
attending the dry-as-dust lectures of the congress
they toured the “ beauty spots,” went on fishing
excursions, etc. The society, the M.L. railway
officials or someone, “tumbled.” Result, free
passes were peremptorily cancelled, and all the
back railway fares collected. Most of the comic
deadheads had done a lot of railway travelling
too—much more than they would have done if
they had dreamt of paying for it. ' Then they
struck against the smallpox scare; which was- the
last straw, and were quarantined along with
people who knew about the exploded game, and
would insist on talking loudly about the Advance-
ment of Science.
* •• * * V * *
“ J.E.” about quarantine :
Quarantine as practised in Melbourne is a great institu-
tion. I dropped in there recently on board the Manuka
from Maoriland. We were all Vaccinated—about 150 of
us—just because one man in Christchurch had a
pimple and another a beer-flush on the nose.- We
all talked vaccination, and swapped, vaccination
marks, and showed each other our certificates—it was a
disease. No matter if you started a, conversation about
astroiiomy or geology it always drifted round to vaccina-
tion in the end. The thing became a curse as well as a
disease. We reached Sorrento at 5 a.m. on a Saturday
morning, and a venerable medico had put us through' by
about 11, and sentenced 69 people to imprisonment in a
large building among the scrub. Then somebody in-
Melbourne fell asleep and didn’t issue some necessary,
order or other, and the clock of eveiits ran down. We
just lay there and mouldered for two days. A green
moss began to grow on the ship, and Old Age
crawled all over the premises. - Nobody knew whether we
would be there for a week or for ever. The passengers
grew demoralised and rushed the bar, and smoked nine
than was good for them, and fierce gambling set in in tiie
smoking room. One man lost 3s. 6d. The captain
(a religious man, and reputed to b« a Plymouth
Rock or an Orpington, or some such sectarian) at
last shut himself up in his cabin ; every passenger had
asked him twice when he thought we would get away,
and he had probably got into such a state of mind that
he would have been liable to kill the next passenger who
put the question. We had put the same problem to the
mates so,often that they fled at the sight of us. : In fact,
we became accursed, and even the genial purser climbed
up the funnel with his bare hands and took refuge <,n top
of the whistle when he saw us coining. Service was
thinly attended on Sunday, and somebody went out to
swear in the middle of hymn 1827 J. The collet tion
Was nil. On Sunday barnacles began to accumu-
late on the vessel, and due ,of the officers was
reported to be dying of premature old age. A committee
met behind the garboard strake, or the Plimsoll mark, or
some such place of concealment, -and considered • the
advisability of seizing the.vessel, doubling the wages of
all the stewards, and -turning pirates. At 5,p.m. on
Sunday we got some telegrams sent ashore; they were
addressed to important politicians inland, and urged them
to boil GresswelK Then quite unexpectedly we were re-
leased. So Gresswell wasn’t boiled,, for which I will
always be sorry. The whole system wan,ts boiling, or
dropping down a crater, or something.
* * * * '
■About a species of legal paralysis
The Wine Adulteration Act,, which N.S.W. Parliament
discharged at the heads of fraudulent traders, turns out
to be a blank cartridge. This is unfortunately the way
a lot of recent reform laws turn out—that relating to
shearers’ huts, for instance. Where are the pro-
secutions the Wine Adulteration Act authorised ? The
Minister, out for samples, admits, he caught 25 illegally
loaded with forhidden acids, but no proceedings followed,
and not even the vendors’names were disclosed. Before
the Act, it was currently reported that wines excluded from
the market in other States (because a reasonably sound
law, reasonably administered, was in operation there)
were passed over the border into N.S.W. There is
equally good authority for saying that the same class of
wines is still on the move. It was to stop this, as well as
adulteration within N.S.W. that, the Wine Adulteration
Act was passed. The Minister now talks of bringing in
an amendment of the- Act which will enable him to
destroy adulterated wines wherever found'within the
State. That amendment will, if carried, very probably
work out as defectively as the present Act is doing. The
law now provides for prosecution, and nobody prosecutes.
The proposed law will provide for destruction of adul-
terated wines, but presumably no one will destroy. Why
not apply the present Act and see wbat it can do before
worrying about anew one ?
* * * *
Two Victorian councils—Rodney and
Romsey—have lately been' grossly insulted by
officers of the Central Health Board. Rodney,
being told that its beautiful Tatura lake was in
effect a cesspool and a sink of iniquity, promptly
sent the report back ; while Romsey was favored
with such a drastic epistle, “containing allega-
tions of a sweeping reflecting even upon
the councillors themselves” with regard to its
dairies, that the smug .council resolved that “the
report be not read”’ soothing itself with the reflec-
tion that if no one knew of its dirty habits they
necessarily wouldn’t exist,' The councillor person
gets more like the ostrich every day, and in time
he’ll meet with that senseless bird’s fate, without
even having the satisfaction of knowing that M-is
tail feathers are saleable after death.
After a month’s cessation of hostilities,
the comio case of the Iceberg (government v.
Wren’s tote has advanced .another step. , Last
week the Law arrested two of the alleged masked
villains .who ran the constable out of the tote-yard
and heaved at them this paralysing indictment
from chapter 2 of the Acts of Richard 11., the
king whose dog deserted him—viz : “That they,
on the 7th day of January, A.D. 1904, at or adja-
cent to 134 and 136. Johnston-stre.et, Collingwood,
with force and arms, -into a certain yard and
messuage there situate, unlawfully, violently, and
injuriously and with a strong hand, did enter,
and then and there, with force and arms, and
with a strong hand, unlawfully, violently,
forcibly, and injuriously did expel, amove and
put out the informant, etc., etc., against the peace
of our Lprd the King, his crown and dignity.” It
is a fearsome charge, and the notion of Edward
Vll.’s crown and dignity being outraged by a
common’constable being run out of another per-
son’s yard is a joyous joke; but the accused
merely yawned a’nd'said they took little interest
in the matter —•“ their lawyer would attend to it ”
—so they were remanded for a week to give the
police a chance to capture the rest Of' the alleged
•rioters, and throw some. Richard It. at them
likewise. Summonses have since been issued
•against John Wren and- Frank Chesswass,
the comic individual ’ with the allegedly
bogus wood-yard, who are desired to attend
court to explain their breach of Richard ll’s. law
as aforestated. By the way, it is further pro-
vided in this quaint enactment that if judgment
goes against defendant he is “ to be waited on
by the sheriff accompanied by 12 good men
of the comity. If he fails to leave the premises
forthwith he is to-be put in the stocks.” The
spectacle of tote-man Wren being waited on by
Sheriff Alacfarlane, and subsequently inserted
into the stocks, would fittingly round: off the
farce. ■ 1
* * * *
Broken Hill folk are the most grateful
on record. The local papers almost invariably
contain' advertisements expressing thanks to medi-
cal men for their kind, considerate and skilful
treatment of patients: Now, it is against the
etiquette of the medical profession to advertise,
hence these “thanks ads.” must be genuine ex-
pressions of gratitude—or, possibly, of astonish-
ment. Some doctors out back object to the
admiration and appreciation advertisement.
They say that they are paid for their services,
and that payment should end the transactions.
M.L. Premier Seddon now thinks that
prisoners engaged in tree-planting, road-
making, for other pursuits of a profitable
nature, shouldreceive wages, drawing the
accumulation on leaving gaol (if single), or
devoting the proceeds to their J families.
Regulations to that effect are promised.
A VISION.
OLD LADY: “ Corsets, indeed! I never wore
corsets, and look at me!"
Rosa Scholtz, who disappeared from her
home in North Carlton (Vic.) a year ago, is still
a mystery. She was the wife of an ironmonger,
and had been married 12 months. The union was
not a happy one, and Mrs. Scholtz reversed the
ordinary ending of such marriages. Usually the
man walks casually out of the house one bright
morning, and nothing further is ever heard of him
—this is assuming that he wouldn’t be deserting a
valuable stock of ironmongery by so doing. Mrs.
Scholtz chose midnight for her disappearance,
which is about the only difference in other
respects. The Government and her husband, have
offered rewards for her recovery. Why a man
who has lost a woman with whom he was con-
stantly quarrelling should want to recover her is
somewhat inexplicable.
Among the, first applications for patents
under the neiy Federal regulations will be one
from N.S.W. executioner, Nosey Bob, for an im-
provement in machinery for carrying on the
hanging industry.
**. * *
Fatherly old Dr. Lloyd, of North Mel-
bourne, lately struck the-problem that has so
often defied solution by the British race (though
the Germans settled it long > ago). The
mother of nine children proceeded against her
husband, who had assaulted her so strenuously
with a kerosene-tin that she was taken a way. to
the hospital with her face streaming with blood.
This was the culmination of a series of cruelties.
“ If,” said the magistrate, “we send von to‘gaol
your wife and children will starve. Fined 10s.”.
feven that will come out of the children’s stomachs.
Is Australia too obstinate to learn from the
foreigner,, or is it merely lazy incompetence? Tn
Germany the wife-beater is made a prisoner, and
forced to workedr the benefit of his family.
* * ■ * 1 ii T ■, *
Brisbane’s Public Library is open daily
from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (bar Sundays), and closed
on most holidays. This conserves the use df
the institution to those for whom it isn’t
intended-Mdie very rich (who don’t read), the
deadbeats, and the unemployed. •
* - * * *
The “ mug ” carried an aroma of hay and
bluegum and said he was
“in teown for a holiday.”
The confidence man
scented him and over-
whelmed.him with hand-
shakes' and beer. Then
the jewelled and starched.
“ stranger h aippened
along and .took a hand.
More beer, harbor trip,’
and a lot more beer—at
the ‘.‘stranger’s’,’ expense.
Then the unfeie . in Eiji"
was m e n t i o n ed —the
“stranger’s-”' uncle who
died leaving his wealth to
be distributed . among
worthy men who could
show £50. So the kind
nephew waited while the
other two ' got their
money: Both handed
over a roll of notes,
and the “stranger"”
was suddenly called
away, taking the
money with him.
The H rst confidence
man went forth
" to find him. The
man 'from'' the
country'alsp went
forth —to change
his 'hotel.; Ten
minutes after*
wards two dis-
gus t e d m e n
opened up Way*
back’s roll and
found it similar to
Bunco’s except for
a pencilled note r
.“Was .took down
by a dead. uncle
last trip. Thanks
for. h 1 o w -,o ut.”
“’Stre.wth!” said the
“stranger,” “a n d
couldn’t he chew beer ! ’’
From all accounts the Westralian State
pub. at Gvvalia is a conspicuous success in every
way, and particularly in regard to encouraging
temperance ; the miners’ wives, at any rafe,
swear to it as a blessing. That State pub. is
blazing' a track for all Australia. By the way,
in Russia'the sale of spirits is now a State mono-
poly, and in addition to the fact that drunkenness
has been greatly reduced and adulteration abol-
ished, the Government obtained from the business
a'revenue.of about .£17,000,000 in 1901 (when the
system was only in partial operation), of about
£47,000,000 iu 1902, and of something like
£50,000,000- in 1903. In these last two years
Russia managed to do aIL its railway building out
of revenue—largely by reason of the State liquor
monopoly. '
THE LATEST NUISANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You mefet him-in tram and in train and in bar ;
He swears by Hadsuma (the Jap. god of war).
He’s met the Mikado some hundreds of times,
Had drinks with him ; read him The Bulletin rhymes !
He beat him at billiards (played two hundred up)
And told him Lord Cardigan must win the Gup !
You cannot avoid him—l’m blest if you can—
The sickening person who’s been in Japan 1
You go to the bather’s and wait for a chair;
The Japanese Oracle’s bound to be there ! 1
He’ll talk about Yesso and Noso—indeed 1
You’ll wonder Japan hasn’t sent for George Reid !’
In truth what he knows of the snuff-colored .Trip
Is probably gleaned from a glance at the map.'
But you cannot escape him, tips pestilent man,
This wearisome person who’s been in Japan !
He’ll tell you the Shogun is boss of the show,
“ The same as Chris Watson runs Deakin and Co.”
A mighty official akin to, perchance,
The Mayor of the Palace they had in old France !
The Shogpn is this, and the Shogun is that, ; .
The Shogun alone never takes off his hat!
And in war-time (he Shogun whoops loud in the van ;
He heard him whoop often o’er there in Japan.
N.B.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
Finding the need of more commodious
premises, we desire to intimate that, from
Monday, 15tb inst., our business will be
carried on at
32 O’Connell St., Sydney,
formerly occupied by Messrs. J. I. Falk &
Co., Ltd., and immediately opposite the
Australian Drug Co., Ltd.
SWIFT & COMPANY.
Sayre, an American, lately went round the
world in 54 days, ending a month or two ago. He
went west from Seattle, and the cost was only
£125. Previous best record was CO days.
Miss Nellie Stewart writes: “ ‘ Valaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourislier and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.’’ “Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Trice 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Sand 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
| FACILE PRIIMCEPS. | J SEMPER iDEM.~j
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
•SJVODN!\£d
V|Sl]
M
“GRAV , E:^jETTE;S ,,
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 16,1904.
My Dear Arini.—
In common with hundreds of others I am much
disappointed in Elijah Dowie. He looks too
ordinary. I can’t help thinking that he would be
more of a Profit if he had gotten himself up some-
what in the style of the person of whom he pro-
fesses to be the reincarnation—the goat-skinned
individual who ran in front of Ahab’s buggy
when that monarch drove furiously to Jezreel
to get out of the wet. “He was an hairy man
girt with a girdle of leather about the loins,”
was how Elijah the Tishbite looked to the
messengers of the king. Elsewhere in the
Scriptures one learns that he had an extra
garment, a mantle; and if Mr. Dowie had dressed
the part properly he could have put on the
mantle when demanding admittance to the Aus-
tralia. That is if the hotel declined to receive
him in prophetic undress. Mr. Dowie looks well
nourished. He has not had to depend for bread
and flesh on the ravens, and his white surplice
curves over his very oonvexed, advance-Zion
figure with a fine sweep, suggestive of good
capon foundation. He has an eye for
effect. The purple lining of his black gown,
his full, white sleeves and long, grey beard
(which he brushed this side or that with
well-formed, white hands during his addresses)
gave his short-bodied, short-necked person a
specious dignity. The prophetic countenance,
too, is occasionally threatened with benevolence,
but the voice is the voice of a very minor prophet.
Even Obadiah, who spoke only one chapter, was
louder. It is almost as thin a voice as our Dry
Dog Reid’s without the latter’s carrying power,
and it has a peculiar hissing, lisping defect
suggestive of the loss of upper front teeth.
The Restorer’s address —that of Sunday night
at least—was a mild, non-committal discourse on
“ Repentance,” and a most awful choir of (mostly)
small girls harrowed the service. There was a
crowded hall (Town Hall), and a big section of
the crowd looked rather insanitary. Old age
pensioners, and the Water Police Court, and
domain dossers were well represented. But
curiosity, or some other motive, had brought
along several medical men. The two doctors who
are foremost in Sydney in the study of psychic
phenomena were present, but not for long. And
I don’t think it was the announcement of “collec-
tion ” that left their chairs empty.
Dowie gives you the impression of being a
first-rate, if showy, man of business. Not a man
of God. One better suited to raise land values
than to bring down fire from heaven. In his
opening remarks he spoke of his wife’s health
having suffered through the shock of their
daughter’s death. (Considering that Dowie tried
to heal that daughter by faith and failed, the
subject would have been better left alone.) But
she—Mrs. Dowie —was now happy among her
own people, her father and mother, and he had
that afternoon got a telegram from her telling
that she had spoken at Adelaide Town Hall to an
overflowing audience. His son, Gladstone Dowie,
was, it seems, born at Newtown, Sydney. Of his
Elijahness, or of his coroneted rights, the speaker
spake nothing. Neither did he say where he had
left his purple wings. Hence half of an unre-
generate congregation took an untimely departure,
and finished its evening’s amusement “down the
y arbor.”
Cardinal Moran and his home, illustrated, make
an interesting page in a recent Australasian.
The picture that gives the longest pause is that of
the Cardinal “at prayer in his private chapel.”
He kneels in solitary state on an elegantly carved,
cushioned “ prieu dieu ” chair, placed on a great
square of what looks like oriental rug, in front of
a most dandy altar. The artist could scarcely
have “sneaked” the picture—it is too good in
reproduction for a snapshot—so the gentleman
must have posed for it. It is very good posing,
but one wonders if his Eminence really said a
prayer while being ’graphed, or was he just
wondering if his train was well down over the
out-turned soles of his shoes? And in view of
certain Biblical remarks about “praying on the
housetops,” what is the exact theological standing
in regard to posing at prayer for photographic
reproduction?
Talking about photographs: A young woman
friend of mine recently had her first story
accepted by a weekly. Her next move was to
have herself photographed at a roll-top desk with
a revolving book-case on the off-side. She is in
evening dress, with a cabbage in her hair, and her
left hand, covered with rings (borrowed), rests
on a volume of Shakspeare, whilst the right
holds a pen the top of which leans meditatively on
the dimple in her chin. There is a palpable effort
to look three things—pretty, intellectual, and
bored—all ab onoe. After this you’ll not be
surprised to hear that the story was about a Cyril
who met a beautiful dark Ethel at a grammar school
ball and made love to her that wouldn’t scorch
the white petal of a jessamine bloom. Curious
how soon tne would-be litterateuse wants to be a
poseuse— to advertise herself as being ‘ ‘ righ t there. ”
Now if you ever see a photograph of a real hard-
shell editor, it will mostly be a snapshot of a
huddled-up man reading in the smoking compart-
ment of a tram, or slouching on to a golf links in
old, ill-fitting clothes. He hasn’t the artistic taste
to be “taken” at a desk, in evening dress, with
crimped hair, and holding the proof of a leading
article between two manicured, ringed fingers.
“Mrs. T. Roberts, wife of theartist, is laid-up with
neuritis at Kenilworth Court,” says the British
Australasian. Well, that address is compensation
for much suffering. B. A. also mentions that our
N.S.W. Mrs. Justice Innes and her daughter have
been greatly fussed over by the Austral Club. An
entertainment on a big scale took place last month
in aid of a hospital, and among the assisting
artistes were Florence Schmidt, Eva Mylott,
Alice Hollander, and Inez Bensusan. Said that
Inez has given up dramatic longings in favor of
literary leanings. Her little sister, Ora Bensusan,
who has a pretty voice, and is a bright little
amateur actress, is leaving Sydney soon to study
for the comic opera stage in the Cold Country.
Awhile ago a young Sydney professional man
(lawyer or doctor, no matter) was remonstrated
with by a good-natured woman friend for spend-
ing so much money on his approaching wedding,
which he was going to make as gay as a December
sunrise. “But look here, you know,” he
argued, “it’s a matter of cold business. The
newspaper reports of this wedding of mine will be
about the only good advertisement I can expect
to get for a long while. My great regret is that
I cannot have a wedding feast every six months —
in honor of the same lady, of course. If
the newspapers had any desire to help a
young dog up the treadmill, they’d make an
opportunity to mention quite frequently that
I and other worthy struggling professors
were still married.” That sort of notion
is rather likeable, I think-—a “married”
and a “still married” column in the news-
papers. “Mr. and Mrs. Goilly, whose mar-
riage last year was such a brilliant ceremony, are
still enjoying the wedded estate,” and so on. In
view of the fact that many people tire of each
other sooner now than they used to do, it would
really be interesting to everybody to be reminded
occasionally of the ties which have survived.
It is among the waitresses in a certain Pitt-st.
restaurant you may see the best-dressed heads of
hair. Such glossy, waved tresses dressed up to
the fashion of the day after morrow—sometimes
to that of next week ! No “ transformations ” are
seen, either. Curiously enough there isn’t among
them a really blonde head, either dyed-in-the-
wool or bleached. They are mostly mezzos in
coloring. After a journey under a hat such well-
coiffed effects would be spoiled, so one isn’t sur-
prised to hear the girls have a half-hour earljr in
the forenoon to dress their heads afresh. Talking
of hair: Soon a new preparation to renew and
promote hair-growth will be out here. That is
nothing wonderful; the surprise is that the new
remedy is to be used internally. The proprietors
of this invention issue a challenge to proprietors
of external hair preparations. They argue that
the roots of the hair are too deep to be reached
from the outside, so you must swallow your hair-
restorer —if you are bald or thinly-thatched. But
how is the beneficent effect of the internal remedy
to be confined to the scalp? What if the pre-
paration were to bring out hair all over your face ?
Imagine a crop like a fly-whisk depending from
your ear !
Announced that Mrs. “ Banjo ” Paterson has
an infant daughter.
_ An engagement of interest in Sydney University
cireles is that of Miss Ethel Maynard, B. A., to
Barrister “Jack”Peden. Bride elect has a reputa-
tion of having been the prettiest girl of the Uni-
versity for many a long year. Fianee Pedan had
a distinguished career there also, and took high
honors in classics.
Another engagement is that of Mr. Aubrey
Halloran—an irrepressible young solicitor and
great ladies’ man, strong in the mild sports of
dancing, amateur-acting, and tennis—to Miss
Violet Marshall, a daughter of the Marshalls, of
Waverley. They have a brewery elsewhere.
Tram travellers through Waverley always poke
their heads out of the car when opposite the Mar-
sha 1 home in Bondi Road, and exclaim, “Oh,
my ! ” at the beautiful statuary.
A rich crank who spends six days of the week
fishing about Sydney harbor wants to know why
hospital nurses are so attractive to captains of the
liners that come into our port. He evidently
keeps an eye on other things besides his lines, for
he says, “As sure as an Orient or a P. and 0.
liner is berthed—so surely will my little launch be
running up against another little launch with the
liner’s commander and a couple of hospital nurses
in uniform aboard. There are sometimes other
men, and often other women than nurses of the
party, but I’ve come to the conclusion that the
gilded seaman likes the wide-collared, cloaked
female that takes your temperature and from
whom you take your dose. Likes her for a lunch
and launch down the harbor, just as the city
Balbus likes to have his midday meal with a smil-
ing waitress making staccato visits to his table.”
All the same the mariner’s compass and the
clinical thermometer don’t take one another for
better or for worse. Commanders of liners mostly
marry money. They don’t marry for it, but it is
usually their _ luck to fall passionately in love
with a rich girl and to worship her for herself
alone. The amount of money which is reluctantly
accepted in this manner by high-grade skippers
must be very considerable, and sometimes they
are so torn by reluctance to accept the cash that
in their abstraction they let the ship go ashore.
‘‘ A marriage has been arranged, and will
shortly take place in India, between” Now,
wouldn’t you expect the rest to concern, at least,
a Rajah ? Well, it doesn’t. The notice, from a Lon-
don society chronicle, goes on to say that Captain
C. R. Gaunt, eldest son of Judge Gaunt, of Bal-
larat (Vic.), is to wed a daughter of a Major-
General Moorsom. An ordinary civilian profes-
sional person has his “engagement announced.”
A man wearing military or naval gold-lace has his
“ marriage arranged.” Just as if he and Helen
Maud hadn’t fixed matters themselves on the
verandah, after the tennis-club dance.
Interesting fact in connection with the recently-
made Knights of St. Gregory. The three moneyed
knights (Freehill, Dalton and Day) are childless.
So Holy Church ought to get something when the
time come.:, to read the wills of the decorated ones.
The plague has broken out again in Brisbane,
but nobody worries much about plague now. The
episode creates just about as much excitement as
'-rf a dog had broken out in Greenland. It is
wonderful how the thrill wears off.
I came across this abbreviated ad. in the S.M.
Herald, and have been wondering ever since
TVTATRIMONY. --Yg. man would like make ac-
A quaintance tgh. dom. y. woman, sit together
J. C., G.P.O.
In his efforts to keep inside a shilling, the young
man has become obscure. He wants a tough,
domineering yellow woman, plainly enough, but
surely “sit together ” is waste of space.
Isn’t it a joy, an amazement, to come on a
household where the latest and finest in the
literature of modern thought is read and discussed ?
Where you may handle books whose names you
would otherwise see only in literary catalogues
mailed from the old world, a household which is at
the same time free from even a tingeof the pedantry
or conceit that is so often part of the make-up of
the Superior Person. Quite lately I came on one
such. Its mistress I had met a few times (a fair-
haired, gentle, quiet young woman with two
small children and a big, cynically-humorous
Scotch husband), not knowing that I was meeting
the possessor of one of the choicest small private
collection of books, old and new, in Australia ; or,
for that matter, that I was meeting one whose
reading had been as eclectic as her collection, and
who is herself the author of a novel and several
short stories published by Longmans some 10
years ago, before she left England She did not
strike twelve the first time I met her. Some
great writer has said the English never strike
twelve when they meet a stranger. She
hasn’t struck it yet for that matter. Her
novel I have just read. A story full of human
interest, told with reverence, directness, sim-
plicity and considerable style.
My discovery’s home takes up all her time in
these Australian days, and she manages it with
rare skill. Whichever way you went to it you
would be glad you went. But even in the day-
time you’d want a chart and a magnet, and at
night a guide with a lantern. Yet it is barely
more than an hour from the G.P.O. It lies in an
up-and-down-and-elbow country all green and
still save for the tangle of bird-voices and the
never-ceasing froufrou of the gums.
You’ll look in vain for one like this woman
among the noisy, dressy, pushing crowd that
screams over “at homes,” teas at our grand
hotels, and oalls itself “society.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Either the unclouded sky or the guaranteed
presence of the Vice-Regal people—or both—took
the crowd to Caulfield on Saturday. The Social
forces were out on parade. The most consider-
able feature of the little Gov.-General’s appear-
ance was the pair of large, white-flecked
cloth spats topping his little patent-leathers.
Lady Northcote turned out in a rich cream with
frequent chenille bobs and tassels. The cream hat
had one long plume on one side. Pearls were her
only gems. The muscatel ear-drops paralysed
the feminine regard. Lady Knowles wore bereave-
ment violet and a hopeful furbishing of joyous
white furbelows. One hue memorised the pathetic
past; the other hinted gently at the nuptials
ahead. (They are due at Easter.)
“Mr. Northcote, a relation of the first Lord
Iddesleigh (the Gov.-General’s father), was at one
time a well-known N.S.W. identity. He wore a
glass eye, and, being a bustling, active person,
often damaged or lost the tiresome fixture. Then
he would write from up-country to Sydney for a
new one, supplying the measurements originally
prescribed by his oculist, but not bothering to
mention any color details. The opticians, not
liking to keep their customer waiting (mails
travelled slowly then), while they asked him for
further information, habitually sent along an orb,
correct as to measurement, and beautiful as to
tint, selecting the most decorative and novel
shade in the season’s stock. The first of
Mr. Northcote’s store optics was invoiced as
‘pansy-blue,’ the next ‘chestnut-brown,’ the
third ‘green, flecked with gold.’ Fourth time he
was goaded to details, and ordered a ‘ plain, grey,
soap-sud shade eye, to match a human eye ! ’
“The testimony of Northcote aides to the effect
that our pretty Miss Madden was one of the
belles of India recalls the rumors, rife in
Durbar times, of her conquest of Kitchener Pasha.
Latter personage is now generally understood to
be engaged to Lady Curzon’s sister.
“ According to old cronies, the ladies of a prom-
inent local clan, especially the younger ones, have
suffered from chronic swelled-dignity ever since Pa
became subject to periodical attacks of gubernator-
ial grandeur. A daughter, who married and went
to live in a sister-State, has been habitually
referred to as “Royalty” by hubby’s pastoralist
neighbors and sometime chums. When pay-
ing wedding-calls, they were made to feel not
like equals, welcoming matie and his new wife,
but rather as faithful subjects, doing homage to a
monarch.
“Interest is raging as to the identity of a stately
tailor-fashioned Grace, who is squired everywhere
by Melbourne’s leading sport at present. She
wears an impregnable gossamer (the densest
woven), and defies recognition.
“Three naughty dazzlers of a certain co.
are going to be given a long holiday, owing to
their indiscreet overtures of affection across the
footlights to the front stalls.
“ An attack of pneumonia affecting Florence
Young all last week (a fact carefully kept out of
the papers) gave an understudy—Miss Godwin
the chance of stepping into the No. 4 shoes of the
Country Girl. She carried out the part in a quiet
and rather sweet fashion. She didn’t storm the
boards and the baritone in the method of the
older star—she just gently appropriated them.
By Friday night she had quite secured the
affection of the audience.
“Justice Hood confessed to the Full Court the
other day, when the confectionery case anent
‘milk kisses ’ was under way, that he recollected
a feminine fashion called a ‘ kiss-me-quick,’ ‘ but
was hazy as to whether the term referred to a
curl or a ribbon.’ Where was the Waxellency ?
and where skittish Judge Johnston, who beats all
the Solomons of the day on matters of sentiment
and questions of dimples or dress ?
“When ex-Gov. Clarke left Victoria, he pro-
mised to find Private Secretary Fitzpatrick
a snug billet somewhere. He did. The
N.S.W. man resumes his post at ‘ Stonington,’
and prepares to guide the state’s new Governor.
Fitzpatrick is very popular with She society, but
doesn’t get on so well with the men.
“The recent picture by ‘ Hop, ’ having reference
to the ‘ new man—bound to come,’ wasn’t so far-
fetched, perhaps. An immaculate, married sort
of man, with pretty hair and a straw-decker, came
under my notice in Melbourne lately. The un-
usual thing about the man was that he had a
noticeable little-girl’s white elastic ribbon running
round under the back of his head. It was windy
weather, and the idea was sensible enough ; but it
was the idea of a ‘ new man,’ all right. And
later, in Collins-street, there was a 50-year-old
toddling along in a pair of high-heeled shoes—
built expressly to show off his particularly small
feet.
“An appointment watch is the latest gew-gaw
favored of fashionables. A memo, tablet used to
suffice, but now the time is pointed in a threaten-
ing manner on the jewelled dial. I saw a Sweet-
and-Twenty meet a chappie in Collins-street the
other afternoon, and immediately after the ex-
change of smiles she twirled her turquoise appoint-
ment watch on to the next hour. That spelt
another meeting, and reminded the sorry-looking
youth of the general will-o’-the-wisp character of
the Sweet-and-Twenty raised hereabouts.
“ The Polo Tournament got under the weather
and came to an abrupt stop last week. Kooyong
was flooded. The woolly clans quartered here-
abouts for the matches were in despair. The
Chirnside Cup had given a fillip to the sport, and
on the first auspicious day the smart women of
the Western district barracked till they were
bruised in the throat, and snap-shotted the
struggling teams till the last film gave out. But
that was only the opening day. Three great
gatherings were to follow at Kooyong; the G.-G.
Northcotes were to head their impressive suite,
and Toorak’s naicest were to switch on choice
teas. Alas! the Tournament, drowned out of
Kooyong, came to a tame conclusion before a small
set of social mediocrities in Geelong.
“ Like Judith, on great occasions Lady North-
oote clothes herself in the garments of her gladness
and the g;ems of her possession, so that there is
no one within compare. At a dinner party, the
other night, she helped to host it in an ivory satin
toilette, whereon a pattern in rose point lace
motifs waspiekedout. It was gorgeously illumined
by strings and full stops of uncut sapphires
mounted in diamond chips. And bedazzled by
her gems, or in real sober earnest, her guests hail
Lady Northcote as a linguist, a musician and a
diplomatist.
“English papers, 'referring to a deatlr from
starvation, allude to the victim as a ‘surgical
wonder.’ His throat-passages, having been de-
stroyed through drinking, by mistake, a strong
caustic lotion, he had subsisted for two years upon
liquids supplied through a tube in his side. Aus-
tralian doctors are evidently quite up-to-date, for
I know of two boys (and there are probably
others) in the Commonwealth, who for many
years have frisked about like other children
with nothing more solid to sustain them
than tube-diet. One, the son of well-to-do
parents, has an attendant to administer concen-
trated nutriment at stated times. The other,
who has to look after himself, comes to the
family meals, loots soup, gravy, or milk, and
then retires with his long-spouted cup to feed
himself in private. If there’s nothing more
satisfying on hand than tea or water, the chirpy,
thin-legged nipper rubs his side and asks in
serio-comic tones, ‘ What about poor old Tubey ? ’
“ Sylvia Blackstone—the Harborville contralto
—has been warbling to Melbourne’s elect during
the last week or two. The warbles were rich and
velvety. Miss Blackstone assisted the digestion
of a Northcote dinner-party, last Tuesday, by
singing in the big drawing-room of the Glass
House. The artist had six songs for the hostess’
choice, and her Ex. asked for this and that and
the other one till the whole lot were served in
turn. ‘ Summer Rain,’ in which the contralto’s
warmest notes and best art are displayed, secured
the place of favorite. Dame Forrest, Mrs. Robert
Power, and various other people have been giving
at-homes for the hearing of the bright little star.
“ They tell sorry tales in the chiffon shops of a
terribly bad season, of thousands of pounds
wasted on stuff for which there has been no de-
mand, and of many idle hands about the hill
departments. The hand-painted gauzes, the
French cloud-like laces, and all the fine cobweb
yokes and collars novel to this summer have to be
put away for the heavier appointments of the cold
season. To be put away is virtually to be cast
aside, for such expensive trifles are only for the
hot and passing hour. The summer of "1904 will
bring novelties of its own. Hence the drapers’
tears. Furs are on show, heavy snowflake tweeds,
blankety cloths, friezes, &c. Green—genuine
Paddy green—prevails on all sides. Women will
have to get a make-up to match. I should
recommend a creamy hue with just a trace of
bloom flushing the cheeks.
“ A comic opera star is flourishing the largest
single diamond bought in this city of cable
bangles and brummagen pearls for years.
“ The ‘ Babes of_ the Week ’ column in one or
two Loudon weeklies is steadily lengthening. Of
course, the arrival of plain Tom Pinch is not
chronicled, but the Hon. Fitz-William Mont-
morency, and others in crested swaddling-clothes,
are accorded announcements of a length to match
the list of their honored forefathers. The result
of such heraldings is a brisker competition in
multiplying among the ladies of the marrystoeraey.
Feminine eyes rejoice to see the domestic events
glorified in a special column of congratulation and
gush.
“ An American idea in the matter of minia-
tures gains currency here. It is that of
enamelling the picture of wife and child on the
watch-face. One just back from the States shows
a family group painted inside his timekeeper s
back lid. But it doesn’t follow that he always
makes a point of raising the back lid when he
travels without encumbrances and other ladies
begin to take an interest in him.
“ Governor Chermside (Bananaland), according
to those who ran up against him on his Maoriland
travels, is hearty, downright and soldierlike, un-
tainted by haw-haw, military mannerisms. Up
north, he manages to assign the names of the
debutantes, presented to him at balls, to their
rightful owners, and when complimented on his
‘wonderful memory,’ says: ‘Pooh! That’s
nothing ! I like to earn my pay.’ On tour, he
jibs at reserved vice regal hotel-suites, preferring
to. feed in the public meal-room, and devour there
primitive viands such as mere ordinary mortals
eat.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


ATTACKED AT NIGHT.
A most remarkable report has just come from West Australia, telling how Dr. W illi;ims’ Pink Pills
for Pale People cured Nurse Annie Evans, one of the best known nurses in Coolgardie. Nurs;
Evans is just past 45 years of age, and last June she was struck down by the vital change that
comes upon all women in middle life.
“ I was suddenly attacked at night,” says Nurse Evans,
<’ with a terrible fit of flooding, afid I thought I should
die before morning. "I was so weakened by the loss of
blood that I could scarcely stand. After it was over, I had
a dull, gnawing pain at the bottom of my stomach, and I
felt as if something there had been torn away. Day and
night I suffered from a heavy, sickening backache, and
from sharp, stitching pains in my side. Hot flannels and
liniments only eased my sufferings for a time. For the
next six months I had these attacks of flooding every week
or so—and each one left me weaker than the last. 1 could
hardly raise a cup of brandy and water to my lips. My
strength poured out from me in heavy night sweats, and
my heart did not seem able to keep my pulse going.
I had to live on porridge and soft foods like that. A
mouthful of meat would upset my stomach and cause me
hours of agony. My hlond seemed to he all drained away,
and I was as thin and white as a ghost. Of course, I
knew how good Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills were for gr living
girls and younger married \vom°n—and at last 1 decided
to try them for myself. The first two boxes made me feel
a little stronger. After another week I could eat a lit fie
grilled steak. Soon the backaches and sideaches dis-
appeared and my disturbances stopped. Six boxes
put me in perfect health, and made me look five
years younger. I knew now that there is nothing like
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for the peculiar sufferings of
women at all times of life.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Get the Genuine, 2s. 9d. a box.
Medical Advice given Free.
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The irreverent call him The Pony—the
tiny Gov.-General.
Tom Bent reaches the Victorian Premier-
ship at the age of 66.
“ B.” : The late Graham Berry lived to a
greater age than any other Victorian Parliamen-
tarian, with the exception of Archibald Michie.
Thomas Bent is a choice specimen of what
passes for intellect and administrative capacity in
municipal life—he has been 41 years in Brighton
Council.
Barr Smith, the richest, or second richest,
man in S.A., completed his 80th year early in
February, and squatter-millionaire Angas passed
that same mile-post on Oct. 5, 1903.
Victoria’s Thomas Bent voted against
payment of members in ’74, and against pro-
tective duties and Graham Berry’s land tax in ’75.
He has been the same old Tory Tommy ever since.
Sydney Mayor Lees is a printer, and has
represented the Nepean in the N.S.W. State
Legislature. He is announced to contest Bligh
(Sydney) at the next “redistributed” general
elections.
Dr. Bernstein, of Lismore (N.S.W.), per-
secuted by Jingo fools for having a mind of his
own on the Boer war business, has been magis-
terially re-instated, was elected alderman the other
day, and is being pressed to seek a seat in Par-
liament.
Wanted to know date of departure of.
John Murray, Queensland Tory, who stated in
Charters Towers (at a public meeting) that “ Old
as he was, he would certainly leave Australia and
seek a new home if the people of Queensland
returned Socialists for the Senate.”
Ex-Senator Charleston, of S.A., it is said,
has offered his services to the Japanese Govern-
ment as an engineer, to which useful calling he
belonged before he took to politics. He was a
greater success as an engineer than as a legislator,
which, however, is not necessarily high praise.
Veteran Methodist minister John Wats-
ford and his wife celebrated their diamond wed-
ding on Feb. 8, at Kew (Vic.). They were
married at Windsor (N.S.W.) in ’44, and a few
days later sailed for the Wesleyan mission in
Fiji. Mr. Watsford is now 84, and his wife four
years younger.
Legislative Councillor Thompson (S.A.),
an old sailor, is more than ever convinced that
“soft” drinks are dangerous. He was enjoying
a glass of whisky the other day when a spa
bottle, which a waiter was opening close by,
burst, and a portion of the glass lodged in the
politician’s ear.
Rev. Dr. Marshall, of Scots Church, Mel-
bourne, has gone with his wife and daughter on a
long holiday trip to Scotland and elsewhere, his
congregation making liberal financial arrange-
ments to that end. The life of these popular par-
sons seems to be full of the clerical equivalent for
beer and skittles.
THE BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT.
“Pm sure he married her because she had money.”
“Let us be charitable and say he married her
because he hadn’t any."
“ Father ” Watsford, Wesleyan parson,
now in his 84th year, attended Samuel Wilcox on
the gallows at Darlinghurst, the first person
executed under the_ Private Executions Act in
N.S.W. Wilcox was defended by Lutwyche,
afterwards Queensland Judge, and Meymott,
afterwards District Court Judge.
The Ha wkesbury (N.S.W.) still holds the
State record for longevity. At Bigga (N.S.W.)
on January 29, died in her 90th year, Mrs. Thomas
M‘Guinness, who was a Hawkesbury native, and
had resided at Bigga for 70 years. Also, Mrs.
Cornwell, another Hawkesbury native, died at
Thornlea, Bathurst, last week, aged 83 years.
Thus Rev. Professor Gosman, a Minister
at Hawthorn (Melb ) Congregational Church, in
cutting his connection with the Vic. Bible in
State Schools League:—“The Bible now stands
in a new relation altogether to education. The
old fetish of an infallible book has passed away ;
and the Bible’s value now is in its historic and
literary character.”
“ J.F.” ; Judge Robinson, of Papua, has
rather an enviable billet at present. In addition
to his own salary, he draws the salary of the
Administrator, the entertaining allowance (for
entertaining nobody but himself), the travelling
allowance (for finding blue-eyed albinos and long-
legged dwarfs), and has comfortable board and
ludging on the Merrie England yacht.
“ E.” writes from Melbourne :
Premier Irvine’s breakdown is another warning to pro-
fessional and commercial men of weak physique who take
up important political work in their middle age without
having been through a course of training in minor public
positions. Irvine had five years of inactive Parliamentary
life before he became an Attorney-General, but otherwise
he had never faced the music outsjde of the law courts.
Irvine’s nervous system was not educated to withstand
the strain of a railway strike, much less the shock of an
angry demonstration by the mob which befell him outside
Flinders-street station when he was hurrying to catch
his train on the night the engine-drivers “ went out."
Lnder that trying ordeal the unseasoned Premier was
not even able to look cool.
Victoria’s ex-Governor Clarke, by cable,
recommends to the State “ careful consideration ”
of some electric-lighting private enterprise pro-
ject ; and should be promptly censured by the
British authorities for so doing. Governors who
are bagmen for the Admiralty and War Office we
have to put up with ; if, in addition, they are to
act as bagmen for syndicates it will be intolerable.
The late William Edward Hilliard, of
Potts Point, Sydney, was king of Gladstone (Q.)
about thirty years ago. He was the friend of the
immigrants, and held at'one time sheaves of land-
grant orders. He was also a savings bank and
general Providence. He was originally a sea
captain, and through his career as magistrate,
go’d commissioner aiid Acting-Governor, he still
often suggested the old skipper hailing the main-
top in a gale.
In connection with the recent buttering of
parson Marsden as “ the sower of the mustard
seed of present day Church of Englandism in
Australia,” it is right to add that his ferocity was
at least equal to his piety. He ordered one of his
hired men to be flogged. The man, in a spirit of
rebellion, bolted into the bush after the flogging,
and there committed another offence. He was
captured and sentenced to be hanged. Marsden
insisted on his official right as chaplain to stand
beside the culprit on the gallows.
Barrister Starke, who has been making a
rumpus at the expense of the Vic. Health authori-
ties for their alleged favoritism in the case of a
quarantined passenger from small-pox-stricken
M.L., is the most youthful-looking pr. cti.tioner at
the Melb. Bar, and about the most pertinacious.
A few years ago, when Starke first showed up in
t'>e courts, the Judges always seemed to say,
“ Now then, sonny, you mustn’t come here inter-
rupting business. Go away home, and be a good
boy.” He is as boyish in appearance as ever,
especially when wigged, but has overridden _pre-
judice, and is now regarded as the most promising
colt at the Vic. Bar.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wise was in the
witness box the other day (before the Shearers’
Union Royal Commission) for the first time in hia
life, and was examined as a friendly witness by
G. H. Reid. The legal expert, by the way, often
makes a very poor witness. Present Chief Justice
of N.S.W. was once called as a witness in a case,
and was sternly reproved by Justice G. B.
Simpson for “ obtruding opinions which were not
evidence.”
Mr. A. C. Gregory, who was presented with
his K.C.M.G. hobbles the other day at Brisbane,
is in his 85th year, and might have been left to
finish his life in untitled honor. He landed in
Westralia in 1829. He designed the first revolving
light on Rottnest Island, which did service for 35
years. His activity as an explorer began in 1846,
when he entered the salt lakes region of W. A. In
1848 he explored the Gascoyne, di covering a
galena lode on the Murchison. His greatest
journey was with the North Australian expe-
dition of 1855. Associated with him was the late
von Mueller, the celebrated botanist; and George
Dibbs was supercargo of the barque Monarch, m
which they set out. In a 16 months’ journey
Gregory covered 5000 miles.
Professor Watson, of Adelaide University,
recently performed a
successful operation
on 80-year-old mil-
lionaire J. H. Angas
for appendicitis.
Subsequently the
squatter met the sur-
geon and asked what
his fee was. “Oh,
nothing,” was the
reply. “Nonsense,”
said the millionaire,
“you must take some
honorarium. ” “ Oh,
well, if I must,”
retorted “Watty,”
“give me a bull.
My brother has a
dairy herd, and he
wants to improve the
breed of his cattle.”
Angas replied,
“ Come up to Angas-
ton and pick out the
best bull I’ve got.”
And so the transaction
was completed with satis-
faction to both parties.
Mr. Daniel Green, a limb of the law
(though not a registered limb), who used
to be very prominently mentioned in con-
nection with the Coningham case, is going to
be a Labor candidate, ’tis said, at the N.S.W.
general elections. The Labor party is becoming
unwholesomely popular among lawyers.
Died, at Adelaide, on February 7th,
William Hugo, who was superintendent of the
Bushman’s Club during the whole of its existence.
He suggested the founding of the Belair Ine-
briates’ Retreat to Geo. Fife Angas (who founded
nearly everything those days), and Angas and
others supplied the money.
VICTORIAN PREMIER BENT.
The history of Tom Bent is a catalogue of
surprises. From a market gardener he became
the Bent who put George Higinbotham out of
the Vic-. Legislature. In Parliament he was a
deplorable joke, and from a joke he grew to be
Speaker. From the Speakership he was hurled
into oblivion, and remained there for years. His
return to Parliament was another awful surprise,
and just now he is the nominal Premier of his
Cabbage Garden. Nobody can guess what the
future may have in store for a bull-necked man
who defies all the laws of probability.
“0.K.” : Great is the power of Hair—in
Holiness. The Dowie whom I heard maunder
and thunder to the faithful at a Melbourne hall,
some 20 years ago, was an unprepossessing
bounder with a hard, commercial beard just begin-
ning to be iron-grey. There was nothing to
soften and sanctify the effect of his bumpy,
aggressive brow and pushful, thickset figure.
When he propounded his precious doctrine of
“ apostolic succession,” claiming—as he then did
—that his “ power ” was the same that the Lord
imparted to certain disciples (vide New Testa-
ment), Dowie had the appearance of a Yankee
street-corner preacher who concludes his discourse
by puffing a cure for kidney complaint. A stodgy,
combative, brassy bagman, utterly unable to look
the character of faith-healer, was Dowie in 1883.
The photo in last week’s Bulletin explains how
Dowie, the apostolic successor, came to strike an
Elijah attitude in later years. He was inspired
by his prophetic beard, moustache and other hairy
trimmings. Nature has lent herself to the fraud,
as in the case of the oily old Patriarch in “Little
Dorrit,” who employed Mr. Paticks to squeeze the
rents from the tenants of his slum rookeries. The
patriarch’s face was clean-shaven, but his head-
hair hung around ,his shoulders. Nobody ques-
tioned the old cormorant’s pretensions to benevo-
lence until Panclts cut his hair off. Now, if a
Philistine were to come to Dowie by night and
shave him, the prophet would have to borrow the
necessary disguise from an Ancient Druid. Viewed
from a reasonable distance in a dim light a white-
bearded Druid is a lovely fraud.
About Victoria’s new Premier :
Bent cannot last in the position of Premier, but the
fact that he holds it for a day should be sufficient
humiliation and disgrace for the most shameless. Bent’s
entry into politics was founded on crookedness, and there
has never since been any material change in the founda-
tions of his political career. He has always been a time-
server; always on the look-out for whatever tended to
push him to the front. With him the end—the glorifica-
tion and advancement of Tommy Bent —always justified
the means. He is ponderously fat, with a bluff, hearty
manner and deportment; so that Nature seems to have
entered into the conspiracy to help him hoodwink his
fellow-men. At one time his supporters called him
“ Plain, honest Tom Bent.” He has continually posed as
a Liberal, and has just as continually practised as a Tory.
It wasaTory combination, headed by the Melbourne Club,
that first put him into Parliament. George Higinbotham
then sat for Brighton. The Tories hated him with the
unrelenting, unscrupulous hatred of their class. At the
general election of 1871, the combination, having obtained
votes for Brighton by the purchase of pieces of land,
selected Bent, then 33 years of age, and rate-collector for
the municipal council, to run against Higinbotham.
Higinbotham was defeated, and Bent began his chequered
political career. Previous to being a rate-collector, he
had been a market-gardener. He pushed his way into
two Ministries, and gained a doubtful reputation as a
wire-puller. Then he got mixed up in the boom smash.
He became Speaker, and his behavior in the chair com-
pletely routed his supporters. They were compelled to
run from the smell to prevent it clinging about their
clothing. As Speaker he gave many extraordinary
rulings, and whenever these were pointed out to him by
some member not cowed by his abuse, he. was accus-
tomed to say, “ Well, that’s my ruling for to-night
at any rate.” At the election of 1891 . Bent’s
Tory friends determined to drop him, and the lady-like
Billy Moule was elected over his head. His : defeat and
the cropper he came over the boom brought out-in Bent
the one redeeming feature of his public life. He immedi-
ately set about paying off his debts, and used to wander
round the country in a faded black coat with deeds,
titles and contracts sticking out of his pockets. He went
on the land in the Port Fairy district, and worked hard,
keeping his accounts on a bit of deal board. Still
he hankered to get back into Parliament, and once
tried to help in his old friend Bryan O’Loghlen by stand-
ing to split the votes in his favor. In 1896 he contested
the South Melbourne bye-election, and received 49 votes
out of a total of 1498 cast. That would have been enough
to finish any man with less brassy effrontery than Bent.
In 1900 he came out for his old seat at Brighton and
turned the tables on Moule. He pn tended, to. support
the Turner-Peacock party, but was Only Waiting his
ooportunity, and it was Bent who really brought about
the defeat of the Peacock crowd. He got the portfol'o
of Minister for Railways as a reward, and the use he
made of it will ever stand as one of the most brutish and
cruel things in the history of Victoria. Bent and Irvine,
but primarily Bent, caused the railway strike, and all the
evidence suggests that they did it with malice afore-
thought in order to enhance their political position in
the country. Bent’s conduct in the House since he
joined Irvine has been arrogant, aggressively vulgar,
and the cause of several disgraceful scenes.


1
\ v>
sd
The Leading House for
Cameras, Phonographs,
Gramaphones,
Magic Lanterns.
Up-to-date Selections of Phonograph Records
and Gramaphone Discs.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
375 George St., Sydney
260 Collins Street, Melbourne
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide
90 & 92 Queen Street, Brisbane.
\ «.
m
9
OEM MERCHANTS, JEWELLERS.
Hill: I;I.Ill I 11111
a
ri’» | lH t >'i !,!|!|l lHHH | B!i!l || 'Hli|i|HHH ! milH/HiIHHHil !l iiirrft
iimimniim
Sterling Silver-
Handled Shoe
Horn and Hook,
in leather case,
£1 Bs.
Shoe Horns,
out of Case,
from
4s 6d to 23s
Button Hocks,
from
3s 6d to 20s
Write for Illits-
trat-ed Catalogue
for 190lf.
STREET .SYDNEY, & AT BRISBANE & LONDON.
Aboriginalities.
GOOD BUSINESS.
“A Pretty Half-Caste Maori Girl”—a sample of the artistic
wares issued by that most business-like institution , the
Maoriland Government Department of Tourist and
Health Resorts.
“ Quidan ” : Present price of bear skins
and cheapness of ammunition would have meant
big money in many localities 10 years ago ; now
the bear appears to be almost as extinct as the
moa. Have seen skin warehouses in Rock-
hampton (Q.) last year packed to the roof with
bales of bearskins ; but where once bears were
plentiful you can travel hundreds of miles without
seeing one. The bear is a harmless, quaint little
animal, with a sagacious look and very little
brains, and eats nothing but eucalyptus leaves ;
but he is worth a shilling, and that kills him. Two
of his characteristics are that he doesn’t require
anything to drink, and that he always descends
trees backwards, unlike the ’possum, which runs
down head first.
“P. B.” : It doesn’t require a wound to
make the koala cry and sob (“ H.F.,” B. 4/2/ 04).
When a child, I used to make him sob by hammer-
ing the trunk of the tree he was on or pointing a
stick at him. Also, he will sob if he can’t get
down a tree when he wants to. Have often got
out of bed and shut the dogs up to let the “ booby ”
bear down from a tree that spread its branches
over mv room. The koala’s face is typical of
honesty, and, like the magpie, he is a good
unionist, and hates the blackleg who lives on
friendly terms with the enemy. A pet baby bear
of mine that used to roost on the aforesaid tree
received many a thrashing from his fellows, when
they interviewed him there.
* * * *
“ Bunny ” : Very line fish are being caught
in the Darling at Wilcannia and Menindie. The
outback fishing is the laziest I ever saw The cod
just hooks himself, rings a bell or two at the top
of the sapling to which the fishing-line is attached
—and passively submits to be hauled ashore at
leisure.
In Westralii frantic efforts are being
made to get people to take up land for farming
purposes, but as most of the real soil has already
been parted with, and chiefly sand and rock
remain, the work of selection progresses slowly.
Minister for Lands Hopkins spends most of his
time travelling through the alleged agricultural
areas, accompanied by a small army of reporters,
who are particularly well looked after. The best
traps, the coolest bottles of liquor, and the most’
comfortable shakedowns are reserved for the
metropolitan press representatives, who in turn
write things like this (extract from the West
Austkalian)
Through the many-hued hush foliage the horizontal
sun-rays cast their shadow-making- shafts, mellowing the
soft, tieece-like peppermint, hardening the giant tuart,
and limning in gold every leaf and tendril of one-half the
forest.
Then a small township is reached, and the poetic
spirit of the reporter soars aloft again
An air of sacred convalescence permeates everything,
and the telegraph and railway are strange incongruities
snatched ba-k from a distant posterity. The very glare
of the white streets is softened by umbrageous avenues
of spreading shade trees, tempting the drowsy pedestrian
with their cool retreats. The surroundings conspire to
suggest recline, and once you are down on a grassy bank,
the soporific atmosphere does the rest.
Probably in years to come many an angry and
haggard agriculturist, trying to grow potatoes on
a rock, will curse Minister Hopkins’ reporter,
whose shriek about the horizontal sunbeam and
the umbrageous avenues of convalescence brought
him West.
“ H.S.R.” : Be answer to
correspondent in B. of recent date.
Perhaps the simplest cure for
snake bite is this copied from the
Field, and which might be tried
on the dog or G. Humbug Reid to
prove its efficacy : Pulverised alum,
one teaspoonful, moistened with
turpentine and applied to the
wound ; also take a teaspoonful of
pulverised alum. Repeat applica-
tion and take half a teaspoonful
every half hour. The third appli-
cation will cure any snake bite.
The application is easy, and the
alum is easily got. Probably for
these reasons it won’t be tried.
It is like the fly nuisance for horses
when a bottle of castor oil, or 6d.
worth of empyresmatie oil of
juniper mixed with a shilling tin of
vaseline would save much suffering,
and may be used on man or beast.
I knew a man who advertised this
remedy and got two orders in a
month, both from women. Females
cannot be so cruel as is alleged
when there were two to be found
on the continent so recklessly ex-
travagant.
* * * *
“White A.”: “Elmore’s”
statement (8., 21/l/’O4) that the
iguana rushes in and bolts his food
will be news to many bushmen. In
my experience of over 30 years in
iguana country I have often seen
the reptile killing and swallowing
his prey. He will rarely tackle a
full-grown animal; and when he
catches his prey he holds it by the
throat until it is dead. Before pro-
ceeding to. swallow it he ejects a
lot of saliva over the head and
body. In all cases I have ob-
served, unless the animal is very
small, the “go” is compelled to
force it down bis throat by pushing the pro-
truding part against a tree or stump. Instead
of the process taking a few seconds it usually
takes hours.
* * » *
“W. W.” : Not generally known that
snakes will eat phosphorised pollard, and that
their numbers are therefore diminishing in every
locality where phosphorised baits have been dis-
tributed. Strange, by the way, that there’s no
encouragement given for inventions for destroying
ants. Millions of acres in Australia are almost
grassless on account of the quantities of grass-seed
ants consume. Recently I took Go/., of clover and
trefoil seed out of, and from around, one ant nest,
and there were thousands of nests on each acre of
the same paddock.
A DOG ARGUMENT.
“ Look here! I’ll lack that dory o' mine to round
up a paddock o’ grasshoppers into a frying
pan!”
“ That's nuthin'! I’ll back my dory to drive
a centipede round a grindstone till it wears
its legs off!”
In one very dead mining town of N.S.W.
the only prosperous man is the second-hand dealer
and jolmny-all-sorts. He is also the undertaker,
and owns most of the tumble-down shanties,
which he bought for a pound or two from depart-
ing miners. If a stranger comes to the place,
Johnny lets him a shanty and sells him some
furniture dear. If l.e goes away, Johnny sees
him off and buys back the furnituie cheap. If he
dies, Johnny buries him, and sort of absorbs or
inherits the furnituie. The only chances that he
misses are through not selling baby linen.
Taming seagulls is one of the amusements
of Mr. C. Hertslett, superintendent of the Doubt-
less Bay (M.L.) cable station. A loud whistle
calls the birds from all parts of the Bay, and the
spectacle of 000 gulls lining up on the path in
front of the house at feeding time was recently
observed by a party of excursionists.
• * * *
“F.S. Be platypus eggs (“Croyez, ’
B. 28/l/’O4). About 30 years ago a Tas. F.L.F,
opened a platypus and discovered two eggs. 1 e
and the other local savants considered that ti e
problem had been solved, and the press had
learned letters from them. Resolved, however,
to despatch a specimen of the important discovery
to Prof. Owen. He replied, but what he wrote
was never, never published. The facts leaked out,
and a disconsolate and much chaffed F.L.S. had
to m ■ 1 ::j considerable detours to avoid his friends.
White ants form an important article of
diet among the aborigines of North-Western
Australia. They taste something like boiled
rice, but are not especially filling. It would take
several families of white ants (and families run to
some thousands) to make a square meal for an
alderman.
* * * *
“Druff”: Somebushmen assert that every
soldier-ant’s nest conceals one or more snakes. I
have seen three “bullies’” nests dug up, when
sinking post-holes, and in each case a snake some
18in. long, about the thickness of the little finger,
and evenly ringed with cream and black, was
unearthed. As I respect t'.e “soldiers ” and keep
them at a distance I did not investigate further.
What the snake was doing there remains a
mystery to me.
MISS MAUD DADRYMULE, a rising
Sydney contralto.
Photo, by L. W. Appleby, Sydney.
“ W.W.” : A curious instance of canine
cannibalism : A quiet old sheep-dog on Wariah
station once ate two dogs and a half in less than
a week. He had been put on short rations to re-
duce his flesh, three other dogs being in the
same kennel. The cannibal killed two and ate
part of them, and also ate a few lbs. out of the
other dog’s neck and rump, though he did not kill
this victim. Altogether the brute ate £l5 worth,
though he was not a vicious animal otherwise.
• * *
“ Snipe ” : Meanest man I ever heard of
is in the S.A. Civil Service. Has been known to
give his children a penny each, afterwards sneak
it from them, and then give them a hiding for
losing it ! Also, sometimes he’ll ask, “ Who’ll go
without tea for a penny ? ” and when several of
his children agree, he gives them the penny ; but
next morning he says, “ Who’ll give me a penny
for their breakfast,” and the kiddies, now very
hungry, eagerly part-up, the old man thus saving
one meal. Fact!
RILEY’S SLIDE TROMBONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Riley went to see the circus down at Bourke the other
{Jn
. ... , , . ~ . .
And his soul was filled with gladness when the band
began to play.
But the thing that took his fancy, both for volume and
for tone,
Was that lanky, brazen instrument, the Slide Trombone,
, , . . . ,
Riley never rested then until he made a trip to town,
Where he bought—on the instalment plan, with thirty
shillings down— '
Just the longest, loudest instrument a man could wish to
own .
And he hurried back to Bilbv with his Slide Trombone.
Then he used to wander out and practise daily by the
creek,
Till his face grew red and bulgy—but he couldn’t raise a
squeak.
So he sat about the house, or pondered silent and alone ;
And his missus cursed the day he bought the Slide
Trombone.
But one morning he got desperate,and he blew a mighty
blast ;
And the cranky, twisted instrument was wakened up at
last.
For it started with a bellow, and it ended with a groan,
And it frightened even Riley, did the Slide Trombone.
Then Mrs. Patrick Riley fell upon her knees and prayed,
While Riley’s cows a track across the big selection made,
And his horses kicked the stajile down, and setoff on
their own
u-Kot. fu„.. u’„ j ... .. , ;,, _ 01 . ,
t ej heard that dreadful blast upon the Slide
Trombone.
The neighbors all, for miles around, were scared, but
couldn’t tell
«")'"«»•»«■ c ““ d by *- ** *—
from Ilell ,
But they promptly all agreed to send a bobby down—
alone—
To investigate the row from Riley’s Slide Trombone.
° J
But the bobby wasn’t needed-Mrs. Riley’s scattered wits
Had returned, and with an axe she’d knocked the instru-
ment to bits
~.. . . . .
And the constable arrived just as from out the door were
'°" n , , , . ,
All the mangled, bent remains of Riley s Slide Trombone.
vie.
FRANK RADCLFFE.
WAITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hungry kite, with a hovering flight, sweeps low o’er
the desert sand,
With sanguine eyes
On a human head
That thirst-parched lies
On the desert bed
Upraised on a gaunt, clenched hand.
While the sun sets dim o’er the desert’s rim,
submerged in a reddened flood,
With its savage ray,
In the western sky,
Fixed on his prey.
Like a demon’s eye
Dilated and gorged with blood.
There’s a sound behind, like a gust of wind,
spent out on the deathsome air,
Where a tussock shifts
In the gathering gloom,
While through th rifts
Of its wisps doth loom
Two eyes—there’s a dingo there !
And hidden round in the grassless ground,
beneath the shrubs and stones,
Lurk hideous things
That watch and wait,
For the hissing wings
Of the flying Fate
That scattereth dead men’s bones.
And the desert silt that is red with guilt
will their evil deed conceal ;
While through the sand,
Lifted Heavenward,
A fleshless hand
To a silent God
Will stretch in a vain appeal.
Till the last lone speck of that human wreck sinks down
in the desert sea,
Whose surge is sand,
That sweeps and swells
To a foamless strand,
Where skulls, like shells,
Drone dirges of mystery.
VIC.
A. E. BRIDGES.
THE BUSH-GIRL’S CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m heart-siok of the pavement view,
And weighted with the hateful vows,
I’m baffled in the brick purlieu,
And ache to smell the anthemed boughs.
Soft red lips sue for loveless hire,
And yield a tarnished, wan-eyed joy ;
The dark earth seems a glaring pyre
Where wine-stained jests and kisses cloy.
I'll break tfie weird of lewd dark eyes,
And dare the scorn of scowling walls ;
I’ll leave who list to sacrifice,
For, low and sweet, the Bush-girl calls !
Her eyes are large with undawned powers,
And soft with dreams of dulcet bliss,
Hjr smooth arms glow like blue-veined flowers,
Athirst to feel the brown arms kiss.
Where sunlight scatters river-gems,
And gum-boughs breathe soft songs of love,
And moonlight braids with diadems
Brows smooth as the cream-breasted dove,
I’ll chant the runes of boscage wild,
Enframed with amaranth and pearl,
And cleanse my spirit, sin-defiled,
Till fit to woo the brown bush girl.
I’m weary of the cumbered mew
Of women, wine, and sordid aims,
I’d live the life the brown men do,
Though heavy press a hundred claims.
We’ll roam the viny glade, we twain,
While roving winds waft pungent scent,
And I will be a man again,
Her love-lit eyes my firmament.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.—
If anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased”
it is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “ cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which
weighs upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of
therapeutics, being speedy, sure and gentle.*
4
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY
ADAMS’ HOTEL
PITT STREET.
HEET HE AT THE HARBLE BAR.
,-V-l
m
Ski
"tfe”
1
Gent’s Silver
Hunting
Chronograph
£6 18s.
Gent’s Silver
Open=face
Chronograph
£6 6s.
“Absolutely Reliable,"
is the reputation of these Watches,
which include special strength and
accuracy during- rough riding.
We have never had a complaint
about the celebrated
“Fx. & R.” CHRONOS.
The movements are on the Lever
principle. They have Brequet
Overcoil Balance Springs.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They hav e compensated and adjusted
Balances.
They have jewel Ruby rollers.
They are self-registering to one-fifth
part of a second.
They are guaranteed for 15 years and
kept in order(breakagesexcepted)
for 2 years.
They are a marvel of value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 HUNTER STREET.
“ Eicldal ” : “ Bobrid’s ” remarks ie arti-
ficial manures (8., 24/12/’O3) are interesting, but
his conclusions are entirely erroneous. The fact
is that, without the use of some artificial stimu-
lant, however vaporous, lar ;e areas of Victoria,
N. S. W., S. A., and nandgroperdom would
lie unbearable. If rested for long periods, or
stocked with sheep, or flooded frequently with
water —irrigation is a stimulant without one-half
the virtues attributed to it—a fair crop might lie
got occasionally, but the pocket-depleting
fact remains that artificial manuring is a
necessary evil. The fault has been in over-
manuring, especially with thechemically-prepared
superphosphates, which have been largely respon-
sible for the prevalence of rust. Most cookies
use 751 b. of superphosphate in the drills to the
acre, when 351 b. would be ample. Up this way
—Droughtvilleon the Skeleton-heaps—the heavily
manured crops look the best, but yield the worst,
with pinched grain at that. Like our Australian
bipeds of the third and fourth generations, they
have sprung up so quickly that there is
no sap left to fill the heads, hence they lean
on something when a puff of wind or trouble
comes along. Next season, I note by the trade
advts., Japan is going to have a cut into the
profitable monopoly that exists in the Common-
wealth manure line, with some superphosphate
fertilisers fixed up in the land of the Chrysan-
themum. If these are just one degree more
honest than some of the local fakes, which consist
largely of sand, for which 80s. a ton, with freight
extra, is charged, the little yellow man’s enter-
prise will be well rewarded. The fact is, the soil
of this Great Loan Continent wants a rest.
»** • *
“Jungle”: Once saw a Minyip (Vic.)
settler cure an exceptionally bad case of sand-in-
horses quite simply. He first administered the
usual purgative, then threw the beast on a
manure heap, and rolled it on its back repeatedly.
The oil couldn't fail to penetrate the sand, because
the latter was itself disturbed. He said that, in
dry seasons, when horses can’t, avoid eating sand —
the grass being so short and loose —graziers should
dose their stock regularly. [Bulletin doesn’t
like to cast doubts on a valued correspondent, but
the agriculturist up its way isn’t big enough to
throw horses about in this off-hand manner.]
* * * *
A slant-eyed dealer in opium in a W.Q.
township thus summed up the risks: “Me no
’fluid catchee ; sellum opium evely day. But
s’pose p’liceeman want tlip (trip) longa coach,
then me ’flaid. Sellum—no sellum—catchee allee
same. Suppose laces long Loma (Roma) —my
cli! ”
* * • *
“Gadabout”: “ H.” (8., 7/l/’O4) is
wrong. The Bulletin does depict a plough occa-
sionally, but mostly with the mould-board on
wrong side and ope horse walking in the furrow
and the other on the ploughed land, and turning
the soil on to the unploughed land. Only once
have I seen a harrow in The 8., and that was a
fork of a tree, drawn by the family cow with the
old man and the missus sitting on it.
• • * *
“A.P.R.”: It is a mistake to suppose
that eagle-hawks can raise a heavy weight from
the ground while getting on the
wing. So handicapped is it indeed
by its own weight that I have seen
a cattle-dog surprise and catch
one before it could escape.
Have seen them, though, while
on the wing, raise a wallaby
several inches from the ground.
By frequent onslaughts a hawk
can stupefy and kill a scrub-
wallaby in a few minutes. To
gain the big sticks on which
they found their nests, the male
bird will smash a branch from
a dead tree by force of collision,
and the female, swooping down
like a flash, will secure it before
it reaches the ground.
* * *
In a N.S.W. back-coun-
try town, recently, two resi-
dents went into a pub. for a
drink. The landlord was a
new man from the “bush.”
The two had whisky, and, later
on, one felt sick. The publican
came to him and said, “Did
yez foind anythin’ wrong wid
that whisky?” “You bet,”
replied the victim. “Well,”
said Bung, “come over, now, an’
have another. I gev ye that wan
out o’ the drunks’ bottle be mish-
take.” Poor drunks !
* * *
lie par. (8., 21/l/’O4) as to
carpet snakes being employed to
keep down rats on sugar plantations.
A storekeeper on the Tweed (N.S.W.)
river for years kept a large carpet
snake in his store, and it dealt with the
rats splendidly. The snake used to be caged in
the daytime and liberated at night.
* * * *
Between Casino and Lawrence (N.S.W.)
a fox-terrier follows the coach regularly, two trips
each way weekly, 200 miles. It sleeps in horses’
manger, and objects to a lift.
* * *
“ 8.M.” : Do cats voluntarily take to
water? In ’Bl-’B2 Government Agent Scott,
Corinna (Tas.), possessed a kitten. Left it one
day on the wrong side of the Pieman River (four
chains wide). Kitten took to the water and swam
across to its home. Another time puss was taken
away in a boat by visitors. When the boat was
two chains distant, puss broke loose and swam to
her master.
“ Petramos ” writes :
Ah Ponp; had a garden a little
further up the creek than Cassidy 3
house. Ah Pong owned two dogs—
horrible man-eaters. One day, think-
ing Ah Pong wasn’t at home, Cassidy
went towards the garden, and h : s
heart stood still, though his legs
been n to move, as he heard the buy
of Ah Pong’s bloodhounds. The dogs
that he thought weren’t at home
were after him. In terror Cassidy
scaled a gum tree and reached a high
branch. An excited dog tried to
eiimb up to him. A little way off
Ah Pong was calmly gardening. Cas-
sidy called to him to pull his dog
off, and Ah Pong was obliging. Cas-
sidy began to descend, when, of a
sudden, he caught sight of another
animal crouching near the foot of
the gum. “Ye yellow shpalpeen,”
he yelled ; “ there’s another of ’em.
Call ’im orf, ye son of a Boxer.” Ah
Pong looked towards him in righteous
indignation. “ Call ’im away, (loin
ye,” swore Cassidy, hut Ah Pong
gardened on. “Can’t ye see there’s
another of ’em ? ” yelled Cassidy. Ali
Pong grinned. “Oh, him allight,”
he said, “ don’t he tightened.” Cas-
sidy- swore some more, but didn’t
venture down. For half-an-hour he
assailed Ah Pong and the crouching
dog with the worst Wayback Aus-
tralian. Then Ah Pong called the
dog that had chased Cassidy and said
he was going to dinner. “Take yer
other dog wid ve,” Cassidy suggested,
hue Ah Pong laughed long and
heartily. “ Oh, him not hungly,” he
said. So long. Don’t be flightened.”
Cassidy’ cursed all dogs and Chows.
He made himself as comfortable as
a thin, rough branch would permit.
An hour later when Ah Pong returned
he was stiff and sore. The Chinaman
came to the tree and looked up.
“Wha’l” he said, “still there?
Gloodness me!” “Oh, .you damn
’eathen idol,” Cassidy said between
clenched teeth, “ come up ’ere, ye
Boxer thief, an’ I’ll knock yer head
orf.” “ Wha’ for yon stay there?”
asked John aggravatingly, “ I call
dog off.” “ Yes, but there’s another
down there,” growled Cassidy’. “ Oh,
him allight,” said Ah Pong, “him
poisoned. Dead allee same Li Hung
Chang. Don’t be flightened.” And
then a bruised, stiff-kneed, scratched
Cassidy' climbed slowly , down and
kicked the dead cur at the bottom of
the tree with a hard, hobnailed, No.
16 boot.
“ Ny.” ; Was milking one morning when
a big eaglehawk swooped down suddenly to
within 50 yards of where I was sitting behind
Strawberry. Then I saw a tussle, for the bird
had just snatched a rabbit from a full-grown dog-
fox. Up the hill the eaglehawk fluttered, with
bunny in his talons (he seemed unable to rise) and
Reynard followed, but without venturing to
attack the robber. Reaching a fence with an
effort, the eaglehawk rose to the top rail and pro-
ceeded to eat his loot. Reynard sat below,
watching, until I got a gun, and sneaking up
through a thistle patch, shot him.
A RUN OF BAD LUCK.
SWAGGIE : “ Could tier give us a bit of a start,
boss, to get a feed? I’ve just got out of
Stewart Creek jail.”
BOSS : “ Why, hang it, man, only yesterday you
‘bit me lug,’ and sail you’d just left the
hospital!"
SWAGGLE: “Yes, I’m havin’ a run o’ bad luck,
ain’t I?”
~ I'RAVI-JK FOR PEACB,
h Jn ’ of Sydney Suggests and sana-
fj*m& the use <»f (>:“ lofto’.yiiig prayer for peace
daring ihe present crisis iu the Far East:
“O Cod Almighty, .-who const make wars to
e‘-aae unto the ends of the earth, and caueest
cYftr thj.ASrath of nian to praise Tuee, wo bo-
toeeh Thee in this time of perplexity rmotia
m nat one solo guide the winds of tlfoes who
hold rule in dtrOra lauds that there may he an
increase e£ toimiai forbearance, and that a
aosiro to promots peace antf harujoay may be
spread athOßg an peoples. Bring this war, we
gS* Thoc r speedily, to an end, and overrule nil
Sirife and discord unto the ihoroais of righteou*.
ness and good government among own. Lot the
hpim of the Frlnce of Peace prevail and let
Wfgtloin come for Thine own Kamo’s sake.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA AT HIS DEVOTIONS.
TIRED YOUNG AUSTRALIA (holding up a post): “O, Lord,
them’s my sentiments. Now then, 1 wonder what’s the
score!”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must apnear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (oj any
State) accompany
Ben Kay : Good enough stuff, but you will have
to leave more space for interlineation... .Cheeky : Stodgy
verse Manton H. : Hardly interest enough.... Harry
S. :We couldn’t undertake to say... .M.G.S.: Promising,
in a small way... .Ardent: It has since been returned.
W.H. : Not in that form Bobo : Nothing in it to
reward struggle with your abominable fist P. Mac. :
The point is that what that angry contributor regarded
as his brightest points were threadbare literary devices.
....J.K. : Two of the pars are stolen from Bulletin. As
regards the rest, we have very little use for reprint
matter....C. : “Night of Storm” doesn’t storm to
any extent worth mentioning YVaihoa : Interest-
ing theory to hand R.A.E. (Vic.) : Straggly rhymes,
though there is some humor in them A.M. :
The humor of ants-in-the-pants is very stale now.
.... Maraquita: Not good enough. Pen-name too like
that of another contributor —“ Mariquita.” F.H. :
Will be duly considered. We pay for everything we
accept ; and, as for the other Sydney papei s you
mention, bill them for the stuff they' use.... Helen I). :
Nearly hits the poetic mark Norah I). : Faintly
meritorious... .Jimmie Pan : Too didactic for Bulletin.. .
Caro : A scenery' poem which follows a well-beaten track
without putting up any' new records... R.O. : Aphoi isms
not up... Long Jack : Ambles over familiar ground
W.F.O. : Too trifling R.C. : Echoes with no vigor in
them E.R.G. : Not so cricket-mad as all that
Jan. : Original in one sense, doubtless, but same idea
has been used over and again.... J.T.J. : The Bulletin
will, one day, take up that branch of fraud when it’s not
so busy dealing' with political and financial quackery....
Hiphen : A wail in which the agony is forced and unreal.
....F.W. : “Mate Bill” is a pretty cheeky sort of thing
to send to The B W.J.S. : You make of Bohemia a
rather dull country... .Jeff : You don’t lie brightly
enough....D.T.D. : We don’t acknowledge pars, in
corres'. column ; want of space forbids....D.H.R. : In
“ The Bend ’• figures are too strained... .Jones : “ Waif”
knows more about it than y ou. As a matter of fact,
there are scores of bi-weeklies in Australia which pay
journalists fair wages for work which is not unreasonably
heavy... .Ty ro : Yes, that rather describes you in
poetry-making: some skill, but idea too hackneyed ....
Sydney M. : Funny’, but too crude Henry W. : Not
good enough—try again.... The Myrtle : Still below the
mark. Take another pen-name ; we have already a par.-
contributor signing “Myrtle.” Jeff: Pigeon yarn
funny, but has no apropos Joseph W. : You have
pathos, but no skill... .G.M.R. : Billiard take-down yarns
are stale.... Wills : One verse piece is weak and t’other
clumsy. Prose sketch very nearly up.... 1,. VV. : More or
less apocryphal sea-fight yarns have got nothing to do
with the present case....L. : With a mournful conscious-
ness of long debates in its columns as to whether iguanas
spit or rabbits climb ropes, Tiie Bulletin won’t touch on
that subject.... P.K. : Jingle doesn’t tickle our ear....
Erhami: “Kiss” hardly up E.S.O. : New version of
very old yarn.... Arthur W. : Painfully illegible....
Alice G.J. : Not quite good enough... .Constance A.:
Almost thou persuad'd us! Mulwa: Hardly' d 0....
J.G. : Rather mechanical humor.... Fox : You pro-
ceed at great length to prove a statement which, at the
outset, you condemn as stupid.... Eilli-Pilli : A short
par would have got in ; a column stuck in the
door Arthur D. : Yes; but better still than
growing apple trees in the dry interior would be to
breed herds of reindeer there : they’ would bring down
the moisture, sure C.C.R. : You evidently struck a
bad patch of liver (after Xmas, livers are apt to be
erratic). Just one more “insult” —don’t economise
paper at the expense of making the reading of your
verses a sort of pigs-in-clover puzzle. “Tears” and
“Steed o’ Dreams” probably acceptable H. Lev :
Before you forecast the future you ought to keep a
better eye on the present. “ State of Victoria couldn t
sell obsolete gunboats in 1910. Federation has put all
naval matters into the hands of the Commonwealth....
H.P. : S gnal-box yarn not bright enough X.X.X. :
This has been a dull snake season ; but yet we can t
let your perjury through. You should have given
name, age, appearance, and so on of the old man who
had made himself immune to snake-poison, and then
have airily mentioned half a dozen (fictitious) people
who also knew him. Bush lying is losing its old-time
noble sincerity and earnestness of purpose... .IV iremit :
Both just miss the mark... .VV.H. : “Parritch and
Poetry” has only a gleam of merit, and not a bloated
gleam either... .C.G.H. : Well-w itten, and the theory
may he correct, hut the child-murder idea is gruesome....
F.H. : “ Morley” rather a crude yarn.... Womboyn
ventional thing about “ heaven ” and “ moonbeams” and
“memory” and such-like garden-truck.... Wilga : Not
Australian. You’ve been reading some of the San Francisco
crimping tales... F.O.S. : Nicely written, but practically
no story in it.... Septic Tank: Declined with vigor....
Ida H. : “To-night” not up to mark, yet has streaks
of promise. You might improve with practice....
Erhami : “Heart is Dead” is a dirge built on
rather commonplace lines.... Bon : Don’t care to give
people points how to shoot our unhappy Australian
“bear.” He is a sufficiently shot animal already
M.C. : Sketch weak; verses pretty good, but subject un-
suitable. .. .Gildford A.: Too tamely t01d... J. Holland ;
Couldn’t do anything with it. . .Seaspray: Materials
too meagre to give an opinion upon.... Allan B. : Put
it in next issue.” No; nor in any issue ! M.P.: Sugges-
tion to call the Australian capital “ Australholme’ declined
as too clumsy. Would almost as soon call it “ Gamp.
Little Miss Anonymous : Declined. If you are only a
beginner, try again. If you are a hardened poet, give it
up. ...One of the Ancient: Seems true, but it isnt
poetrv Millieent: Nothing suitable in hatch
Eiddal: For Heaven’s sake don’t write in dim red ink. ..
Xux: “ Harbor Fancies ” amounts to little more
than a statement that there is water in the harbor
and lighted steamers go about there at night......
Unsuitable : W.S., Advertisement, Loom. L.8.1L, E.A.8.,
FCS BMW., H.E.C., Crauev, N.E.D., Clankopis,
D. Byrne. Non Est, S.G., Ken, Bogan, V.T., Young Mac.,
Spook, 8.W.F., Silas.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
P.J. : Photo too hazy to reproduce well and joke
been used before... .C.a! (Tas.) : Drawing very moderate ;
joke rehash of aged chestnut.... M. A. S. : Phil May s
drawings are certainly valuable ; hut a mere copy of one
cut from an old paper has no value at a 1 1..... Bert R. :
Drawing not much good, and gag should get somebody
three months for profanity. ..Moonstruck : Not much
hope for any of them... .C.F.S.: Three two
held for further consideration F.E.P. : Y ill probably
use one.. .. J.C. : Drawing just respectable and gag very
dreary Rov B. : You may do as suggested.... Mite
Bee,: None very bright... .Robo : Your wares not up to
the mark Show : Your drawings are not nearly good
enough, and “ gags,” as a rule, are also weak... .Tv.li.N. :
Only 1 one any good ml that had been used before , we
pay liberally for accepted pictures and suggestions tor
pictures.
“ YV.S.T.” : Observations made recently
at Lucerne, Switzerland, show that the beech-
tree has never been known to be struck by light-
ning, whereas trees of the oak family seem
peculiarly attractive to .the electric h ilt. In
Australia, dead trees, or trees with dead limbs on
top, seem to be the favorite marks. Ihe blood-
wood (Eucalyptus coryrnbosa) is popularly held to
be immune from lightning stroke, but the rending
in pieces of a fine tree of this species, when I was
making for its shelter during a thunderstorm,
effectually dispelled that deiusion so far as I was
concerned.
“Ess.”; Bush remedies for snake-bite
are short and effective. Two brothers named
Kirk were each bitten on a finger while splitting
timber at Riverton (S.A.). One blew the finger
off with a gun; the other hacked it off with an
axe. They are so used to the axe remedy in the
bush that when a man is bitten bn the head the
first idea is to cut his head off to save his life.
FULL VALUE.
BOY : " Dad scs ter fill thet jug with sixpennith
of beer, and ter put ther froth in this ’ere
can, and not ter bother now about the money,
’cause he’ll sure to be in on Saturday before
he hasn’t got any."


•>. *• Yus,” be said. ** I ham heard of Bob-Cab
Smith. You might tell your readers, by the-bye.
that 1 have brought my own trap with me, and
shall thftffore I*' independent of cabs. I
am fond of driving. ’
£
'■>. “ You have been rightly informed. There in
o wtill-dofimid disease called Dftwieit*’* Kw*.'
There arc. many cases of it in Zion City, J may
add that it mostly attacks those of little faith.”
I. On Elijah Howie’s arrival in Sydney last |
•Saturday our Religious Editor was told off to
interview him. Tho Prophet was visibly
affected, and teemed inclined at tint to “ lay
hands” on our representative; but ho etui
drolled himself, arid talked freely.
4. “It might be beneficial, as you suggest; but I’m afraid “bands " t»*«
Ixrert “laid on ”it all too often already, It would be worth trying. It all depends
upon the degree of faith of your treasurer —and your creditors.”
.. ■ v**;
v.t>
,\A ..A'-'. ,x\> 1
■ .V*
•SCENK:
The Domain..
* f Arm! is lie ap thy
bed and «a.tk .
> Thepiopbet 'lirvrd out lift ft,' <1 mi tit rtf titili It)
limbs,, false teeth, glass eyes, and eye-shields, corn-
v. Vplwfews, wigs, <fcc., representing ailments, cured by
Vy’V;-' * faith-, in Alec. Elijah Dowie.
/e
/; x >4
Ys, y A,
%\ \ *, X. V' -V
%• <v 4 4 y,
v>*&*
A V,- '
*A *
> C-
f/ •
j2 L Jp'S'cnui
J
7. “ You are noticing my halo. 1 &«e. Well, that comes in'handy as a plate
to lakh up collect iona with. (You know l never charge any Tens.) It is perfectly
true t find it riecesaary to k«»-p a Wax about BM» to eat up bad little boys of the
press who poke Iwrak at. me and ea.il tuo < Rtld-heivdod old Alex. Doaie.’ Elisha
W two bears. John See. ought to have one. No, (do not keep anything to
drink handy. .If you are thirsty, join me in a prayer-and your thirst -oil! leave
>’<m. Ny! Welt. good. bye
THE COMING OF ELIJAH.—THE PROPHET INTERVIEWED.


Ttye sfafc
Gt-OtyV 'tttrrje.K 'flftj' A n J fedjfyl r
cUw % Mle r*ilw A / re«.pK foaW
„rfV enterfAmed f° r
?,.-tie < st :? “r ]'
•JI „us+ KoV.de mr^t^Si»K,n^f U rjd
our 0 [ A own revenue
StA* on.
oive you cuf ro ,
ViJr^b ? /V ~ 7h
Rev JL A Do wit tyA*
U IRV been
.'freaking'lhe sicK by
"liah+lY Hie.
V pita he didn't
) )jff>K \ r y ' Ve Sooner
MlfKtor M^rvuHupl
/Hm s * K * ‘" M
) lei' {jo ElijAh!
Elijah ktg°. |
PfS'tyt&S serious
p| r rt-I'MjomSon ,
y member ojlfc,
Count'* of
vver^
. [owed to |e*vequ W W
« f to M<lkU<.• k«*nC
WW* J
\«l PK
.
' sur
\ Ido a. > blue H 0.4
SUSC*ff*t>J«
M K Irvine
RESIGNS
M" BENT
TO BE
PRIMER
' /
VICTORIA
<
|
ALL OUT
i|S ; RUN^P
iff i
re m
■hhhebi mh
1 ;«e
'3 tY i*
ou^it
"% Aft?'
°H\c^
fol,ce W - " E,e K n
H iHHe
AiSeH \V* n ■ 1h«
SecnA ihooK l|« U«l w tf"»
we&K
•• He ftffcmrf) do« ijrf (.ercorfe M\ *>"/
wjfi-o k is >«"« j^vr
o[ (KerivU)
Irtfe fers ou :—\
/ollC?n72yn.
ijfzf l?oy in 4
cWee-' . ,1^23
3otty Wots e d°ne .
I- P'r- My .' he caj led.
me b, Vl^diVoifo K '
T /'
tSU^i
Hie nrieenn^of-H)f eric tl<f
ttol dI!7J?
'tife &
jLjtter.
Blowed if I '"T
% whole bl<ss«J lot- % t'S^i
Wfjxf. notoivc. \ little
*|ivter ics'fin^om*l , , —-p
No ■ |{ | £v h 'f*f) |r 7g 'fo give Id OiVe i 1"" "fo tfj-e poor Oj ' V ' / A'Y
h 7*r» -tsi\+\ no Wo»-K Sirrce SfnKc."
MELBOURNE SHOCKS OF THE WEEK.


A. SAUNDERS’ BRILLIANT DISPLAY OF CHRISTMAS
PRESENTS.
/
r=m
/
A. SAU.N DEWS
Ladies’ High-ffrade Solid Silver
WATCHES. Eull-jewelled, if-plate,
£2 10s. £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s •
Solid Gold, £o 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s.
£s 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed, 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
15ct.
tr:.-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
f>ct. Gold Ivy Deaf BROOCH, 7s 6d ■
15cfc. Gold, 15s.
IS
-V,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heait Amethvst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Ribbon BROOCH, with Ruby or Pearl,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Amethyst Gold Bar BROOCH, 8s 6d.
A. S4.UNDEKS.
15ct. (oil Ivy Leaf and
Knot Diamond and Opal
BiiOOCH, £2 10s ;
Laiger Diamond, £:i
A. SACNDT3KS.
loot. Hold BROOCH, Hearts
and Turquoise with Ribbon,
£'2 10s
A. SAUiVDEIiS.
Gold Bird BROOCH, with Raised Flowers, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH 20s
15ct. Gold, 35s ; 18ct. Gold, £2
r
h.
A. SAUNDERS.
old Diamond Cluster an 1 Sapphire BRACELET,
£l2 10s.
Smaller Diamonds, £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Name BROOCH, with Raised Flowers, 7s
6d : loot. Gold, 15s. Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pearl, Red and Green Stone Set Butterfly
Gold BROOCH, 15s 6d ; Large Size, 20s".
A. SAUNTJEBS.
Gold Pin Chain and Bell,
5s 6d.
SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, 3 Puie Double-cut Dia-
monds, with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
eEBBKSt
Ht’.LORO™ */*£*.:«£>
f*TCH • >?
In m v
•octw
O/Vfel FROM 1‘:
HiNiOiT’HSL
yVvA--- r - J i
, . A. SAUNDERS.
Mizpah Gold BROOCH, 12.$ 6d. Very Neat and Effective.
A. SAUNDEHS
very Neat and Pretty Opal and Peail BRACELET, £2 15s.
The Latest Style
v , a. saun: dum.
<?° m< lP ouble Crescent Pure D.i.immd nimble out, £GO
wan bappliires and Diamonds, £35 ; Ojiils and Diamonds, £27 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
I! 5
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond-cut Amethyst £4 10s ; Amethyst Heart
A. SAUNDERS.
Good Wish Gold BROOCH, 13s 6d ; isct.,
Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
lire
limn:;
A. SAUNDERS.
15el. Dold JRUOUC'H, Diamond, 2 Bed or
blue stones, 25 •.
9ct. Gold Heart Shaped LINKS, 12s Gd
lflet Gold, 25$
N.Z Greenstone, 2'Js.
A. SATTN7)'P! T>
Oct Gull] held m rid
bell I.IN'KS, l hn.m d.
b.ew Z< tihnrt Ctk*i ii
22s 6d.
I'miili-
v’2s (id ;
Stone,
A. SATIN* OKI'S
Onli Pin Chain anl
Vjshbono OHAtiM.
7s 6<l.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' Solid Oold Waltham Watches,
£i ids £B, £8 10s, £9. £10; Other
Styles, £4 4s. £5 ss, £6 6s ; guaranteed
4,5, and 0 years.
S A UNBARS.
3-Bur Amethyst Gold BROOCH, 25s ; loot.
Gold, 455,
A. SAIi'ND'RIiS.
‘2 Hiiv Onyx Stone HIM MX TT, 3 Pearls in
Centie, 15et. (told Mounts, £2; Similar,
3 Bats, £‘2 10s.
A. SAUNDKIiS.
Gold Phea ant and Cie.-oent Li (’GOGH, set
wi'li Turquoise, l’eaiis, and Kuby, 30s.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold RROOCH, Kuby and
Diamond Heart. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDEHS.
Gold Dog and
Kennel OHAIiAI,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Candlestick
and Mouse
CHARM, 73 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Aitist’s
Palette and Easel
CHARM, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Artist's
Palette CHARM,
10s.
HR
Ladies' Curb Chain
Gold Snap PAD-
LOCK, 255. 30s, 35a,
40s, 455, £3 ; loot.
Gold, £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s,
£B, £lO.
10s Hxt’ a for key
padlock, all witli
safety chain.
loot. Gold Pearl-sel
A. SAUNTERS.
2-Heart BRACELET svith Love Knot and
Wings, £5 10s.
1 Pet. Gold Holt-hoop
Five Double-cut Dia
luowrl LUNG, £5 ;
Larye l)i .miuiUs,
£G Ks, £7 It s. £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
18ct. Solid Gold Dia-
mond und 2 Unties or
Sapphires, JL2 10s, 3
Diamonds, £3.
4^
18ct. Gold 5 Opal
KING, £2 10s ; Size
Larger, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDKRS.
2-B'ir Gold Diiirnond-cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 25s • loot. Geld, £-1.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. GoJd, 2-ba.i: Peurl-sel Suioll BROOCH, £2.
PSIfPIS
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Secret Name BROi iCEf, 25s ; toct. Gold, £2 ;
any name free.
Ai
ssi
A. SAtTNDKRS.
loot. 2-Bar Gold BR< Peml. Ruby,
and Sapphire Set, 22s tid.
loot. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds and 3 Rubies,
255.
18ct. Ruie Double-
cut Diamond RING,
£2 10s, £3.
Very Neat Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire and
Peail BROOCH, £8 10s.
Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 12s 6d ; 15ct. Gold
Stone Set, 30s ; Diamonds, £2.
IBct. Gold Marquise
RING, 12 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, or Sapphires,
£10; all Diamonds
or 3 Emeralds £l2 10 ;
Larger, £l5, £l7 10s,
£2O, to £3O.
A. SATJJN IJJAIf.
Hand-made "Wedding RINGS and Keepers, 9ct
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7« 6d, 10s 6d ; loot. Gold, 15s
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy
80s, 355, 40s ; best quality and I’inish.
SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold Half-hoop 5
Pure White Double-cut
Diamonds, £l5; Size
Smaller, £l2 10s.
» A. SAUNDERS,
t Ladies’ Long- Gold Muff ( HAINS, in Every Style and
> Pattern made, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4. £4 10s, £5, £5
10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Key,
£3 10s.
Keyless
£5.
m
m
wmm
m
m
3§C’
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cup. Hand Finished, Exlra.
Jewelled Winks, Perfect Tin t keeper, with
Pute Silver Cases, Dust and Watertight. £ i
10s. Extia duality, with Chi ononieter
Balance. £4 10s. £5, £5 10s, £O, £7, £B. Solid
• fold, £lO, £l5, £2O. A wiitten ceitifleule for
3, 4. and 5 yearn. Try one, you will not
t egret it.
Free-
trade
Prices.
Cl?
N
No
Ad-
vance.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong 1 Reliable
WATERBURY WATCHES.
Bong Wind, 8s (id ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, 13s 6d ;
Extra Quality, g-plate, 18s 6d and£l;
Silver, 35s ; Gold, £'i 15s.
The reputation of these watches is a sufficient
uarantee of the reliability.
20s.
s
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled Non-magnet LEVER,
Perfect '1 imekeeper, Screw Cases, Dust
and Watertight, 20s ;
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2,
A written suaiantee given with each
watch.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s.
m'm
i
Silver,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS’'
Fly-back only. In solid Nickel or Black. Extra
Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, same as
above, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5,
£O. £7, £B. and £lO ; Solid Hold, £l5, £ 0, £25, and
£3O. A wrilten certificate for 2, 3 4,5, and 6 vears.
TRY ONE. ’
Solid
Silver,
<£2 10s.
m
m
m
mi
m
m
WWw
■
St
'
Mi
Gold
Cases,
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers. Pure Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Qualitv Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ; Gold Patent
Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s ; Solid Gold, £7
10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, and 5 Years’ Guarantee.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST., OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


QUEENSLAND,
the nearest portion of which is situated 20 miles from Esk,
On the UNFAILING FRESH WATERS of the Upper Brisbane River, within 56 miles in a direct
line from Brisbane, 90 miles by rail, or five and a-half hours’ train journey.
40,000
ACRES SUBDIVIDED INTO DAIRY FARMS
of 100 to 3648 ACRES.
40,000
!;#&***
S™ 4
<:'M
*3sk
ag
«
38
m&.
#4^
m
itXl;
Wm, \
Chinaman’s Flat Showing Washaway, with 30ft. of Rich Alluvia! Soil.
■mm
m
Yx-m
imf.
-i •
->,*. V
-' -*• 'MfiifiSSHSl B «-*
-V ;**3S3h->v%«i
3 »
m
Lucerne Flats at the Junction of Wallaby Creek and the Brisbane River
THE COLINTON ESTATE, the property of W. J. H. MOORE, Esq., lias for many years been known as the
Best Battening, the Best Watered, and the Warmest Winter Country within a radius of several hundred miles from
Brisbane. The BRISBANE RIVER flows right through the centre of the property, which has a frontage of over 18
miles to each bank, or upwards of 36 miles in all. The Balance of the Estate is watered by Seventeen Creeks with
frontages to same of over 111 miles.
The Terms are up to 20 years at per cent. Interest
10 per cent. Deposit and no other payment for 2 years.
'!■ 111,1 Bl|,M ' i.iuiuLLLunm iiiimmim i n
with Non-Forfeiture Clause.
Large Areas and Liberal Options. No Residential Restrictions.
NO FEES will be charged for Surveys.
PC ’
mmm
r '%#
«
-
? Z : M
H:-
7 -an. -.'l?’- -<3
SSu*.
v.
! ; ■--•
m?m
spp^
Ite
-:v
y
isii,
r*
Lucerne Flats at Jimmy’s Oully.
Looking Down the Main Reach of the Brisbane River.
The Sale by Auction wi!l take place at the
Colinton Head Station on EASTER MONDAY, April 4,
and following days, till Friday, 3th April, 19C4, at Eleven o’clock each day.
ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers,
Post Office Auction Mart, Queen Street, Brisbane.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most gra-eful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cahinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. GENNERT, BSG Fauby, St. Martin, Faris, France
SPECTACLES
df
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, ro
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously -accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George*St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
sd
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
fs
GrO TO ECELL-
IHOLAMi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real stood stamps, send to
Fred. Hageij,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO..
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”) will contest
C unbooya at the next Queensland State elections.
Last Brisbane municipal elections resulted
in a big victory for Boodle. All the progressive
candidates were beaten.
The resignation of Vic. Premier Irvine
bears an aspect of wisdom. By resigning, begets
a cash testimonial; by doing otherwise he would
have got a violent ejection on his ear at the elec-
tions now almost due.
Many Melbournites believe that the real
reason for Irvine’s resignation of the Victorian
Premiership was the derision with which his
Cabinet c olleagues received the proposal of their
chief to introduce a progressive land tax. It
would be curious if it was really the return of the
political renegade to the principles he avowed at
his first electioneering campaign that proved his
undoing.
It took Labor-member Page three months
to canvass his huge electorate of
Maranoa(Q.), itself larger than
all New South Wales. He ,
travelled 3000 miles in
vehicles and over 1000 on
his bike ; yet his whole
expenses total less
than £3O !
TOMMY ON TOP.
“’Twas blue beneath and Bent above.”— Kipling’s
Rhyme of True Thomas” reversed.
The shocking accident that has befallen poor
Victoria gives the Rescue Party a dead weight to
lift at the General Election.
“Mr. Irvine Testimonial Fund: £5OO
subscribed in an hour.” What a shocking epi-
taph for a political tombstone. “ Flinders-lane
was so satisfied with his administration that it
subscribed £5OO for him in an hour.”
“0.K.”: Seemed to me last week that
Tommy Bent’s new Vic. Ministry was being
arranged on the Tommy Dodd principle. The old
Ministry met together and all of them, bar burly
Tommy, were going to drop out of it in turn.
The Anglican Bishop of New Guinea has
come out in favor of a State liquor monopoly for
Papua. He would, he says, sooner trust the
Government, “even though dominated by the
Labor party,” than leave the traffic in the hands
of private enterprise.
The conspiracy to flood S’Africa with
Chinese labor has met two unexpected obstacles.
There is a healthy sentiment of opposition among
English Liberals to the scheme, and the Russo-
Japanese war necessarily delays any immediate
action. The next elections in Britain will almost
certainly dispossess the Chamberlain-Balfour
party, and, possibly, will thus definitely kill the
Chinese labor scheme.
Britain, the other day, nearly lost his
Majesty’s 18-year-old warship Lizard, of 6715
tons. This vessel, which can do 13 knots when it
is rushed, started to fill peacefully in Wellington
harbor, and when the inward dampness was dis-
covered it had risen to within 18 inches of the
port-holes. Only the most vigorous pumping
saved his Majesty’s old and corroded vessel for a
future career of usefulness.
The cabled remark of British Colonial
Secretary Lyttelton that, so far, not a single
British workman has been shut out of Australia
by the operation of the law prohibiting the impor-
tation of persons under contract, should silence
these rabid Tory papers which howl so dismally
about the alleged “exclusion of the Six Hatters.”
But it probably won’t. Even if it is necessary to
imply that the British Minister is a liar in order to
keep up the old fiction, the well-worn yarn will
still remain above ground.
Queensland Full Court, with only two
Judges, the Chief and Real, differed in opinion,
and the verdict went according to the Chief’s
view, leaving Real nursing his wrath. A like
situation lies in wait for the Federal Court.
With only three Judges two will some day occupy
the High Court Bench and a difference arise.
If the verdict of the senior official carries in such
cases the junior is unnecessary.
M. K. M’Kenzie, who as Minister for
Lands in the strong Irvine Government, granted
himself valuable grazing concessions when every-
body else was doing what they could to find grass
for starving stock, and who had to retire from
the Ministry and from Parliament in consequence,
has announced his candidature for the Upper
Goulburn electorate, which includes most of the
district for which he previously sat.
England talks of an Immigration Restric-
tion Act, but it also badly needs a British Navi-
gation law, to meet the case of such British ships
as the Isle of Arran, now lying at Port Melbourne.
Captain and mates are Scottish —the rest of the
crew being Neils Hansen, Carl Ormundsen, Hans
Hokinsen, Christian Sverson, Tonnis Nicolaisen,
August Christianson, Octoo Olsen, Gustav Neilson,
Carl Stark, Hans Pedersen, and Olaf Olsson. Soon
the only British thing about Britain’s ships will
be the name and the flag.
In N.S.W., nowadays, the Government
never decides anything for itself, but always
appoints a Board of Inquiry or a Parliamentary
Committee, after the fashion of the incompetent
commander, who always calls a Council of War.
Even in the matter of accepting a tender for the
manufacture of new locomotives it has appointed
a Board, including men borrowed from Victoria,
S. A. and Queensland. A Government that would
go its own way, and split up the miserable old
Board for firewood, would be a pleasant change.
The parsimony of the S.A. Government
towards its best officers has again been proved by
the fact that it has allowed Dairy-Expert Thom-
son to be lured away to Queensland rather than
pay him £l3 in increased salary. He wanted 10s.
a week extra as from Jan. 1, and Treasurer Butler
would not begin the increase until July 1.
A couple of years ago, when Melb.
Leader was publishing a series of cartoons of
“representative men,” an unwise artist pre-
pared a life-like drawing of Bent and
submitted it to David Syme for approval.
The Dictator glared at it a
few moments, and then
handed it back, smiling
his grimmest.
“ Let the
dead past
bury its
dead,” he
growled.
Now, largely
through the
bolstering
up of his
gutter nofiVv
at; he
railways
by Syme’s
Age, the
allegedly
dead Thomas becomes
Premier of Victoria.
And a glance round
the Ministerial side of
the “Reform ’ Parlia-
ment reveals the melan-
choly fact that there
was nobody else avail-
able among the Kya-
bram creations who would
have even as good a chance of
keeping the brigade together
as the resuscitated boomster.
Surely the time is ripe for
James Munro to come back
and take the helm of the Kya-
bram ship ! Old James would
’do a lot to make Kyabram look
respectable.
“ H. P.,” from Wellington (M.L.) :
The flag, ministerially, has not been waving too
vigorously of late. Thosfe who know him thought that
Premier Seddon would have rushed Nav.v League Wyatt
(from London) and made him a pedestal for a ruddy
imperialistic outburst. As a matter of fact he dropped
in casually, like an actor for a drink, between the acts,
said he had to catch a steamer, caught it on the first
bounce, and disappeared down the harbor. And now
people are wondering if King Dick is tired of
Imperialism.
The works of the Queensland Philp Minis-
try seem to be going fast to the public scrap-heap.
Said now that the Morgan Government will
shortly lay aside those famous tank-engines, over
which Philp-Leahy spilt such a lot of eloquence.
It was a great business stroke of a “Business”
Government to spend a lot of money in building
engines too heavy for the lines, and then propose
to spend a lot more in making the lines strong
enough to stand the engines.
If the See Government had proposed to
do murder, the grief and indignation of the
foreign-trade papers could not have been greater
than when the suggestion was made that locomo-
tives required for the N.S.W. railways should be
made in N.S.W., even though the cost might be
slightly greater. It is not plain that the daily
newspapers would make any direct profit out of
the importing of locomotives ; but, in Australia,
importing things has come to be looked upon by
them as a virtue, and manufacturing things as a
crime.
Sydney Alderman J. D. Fitzgerald gives
this very ladylike reason why Australia should
back up Japan in the present war :
No one who has been in a position to contrast the
“ courtesy without servility ” for which the Japanese of
all classes are remarkable, with the bumptious boorish-
ness of the Russian, can fail to offer their sympathies to
the former, and to wish them success in what is to them
a most momentous step, taken, after enduring great
provocation, for their own self-preservation.
In short, the Jap can smirk well and the Russian
hasn’t learned to do so yet. That’s hardly an
argument on which to decide national issues.
It is hard to forecast what the May elec-
tions for Victoria’s reduced House may bring, but
the political outlook in that State seems to be
that thereafter Bent will coalesce with “mode-
rate ” Liberals and throw democrats and Laborites
into direct opposition. Under decent leadership
that should presently mean a Radical-Labor
Ministry for the State, for Bent’s inborn and
matchless capacity for blundering will infallibly
bring about his early downfall.
“ The British and Indian Empire League
of Australia” is presumably a dead and buried
suggestion. About this time last year a few dusky
citizens of Melbourne, interested in the Empire
and the Indian-hawker trade, began “to take steps
to put a stop to certain legislative practices which
are hostile to the welfare of British Indians in
Australia.” The first and last step was a circular
inviting subscriptions. The League sent round
the hat and died of shock at the result.
Premier Deakin’s recent remarks about
the inconvenience of running a Parliament with
three almost equally-balanced parties led to an
indecent rush on the part of the Reid crowd to
point out that the difficulty could be removed by
taking them into coalition, and a cordial
assurance that they were ready to coalesce on
almost any terms. No one took any notice. The
wild desire of the Reid crowd to coalesce on
almost any terms has become a weariness.
G. H. Reid, addressing the N.S.W. Royal
Commission on the shearing squabble, expressed
surprise that the class (i.e., the pastoralists) who
always stood for law’n’order in the past, now
flouted the law. But the reason is not hard to
find. The law was, not so very long ago, the
work of theFatman and his henchman, the lawyer.
Now that Labor takes a hand in making laws; it
is very likely that there will be a good deal more
of what the Shearing Commission had to contend
with. A.nd the Fatman is a much rougher law-
breaker than the worker. He is richer, can get
better information, and knows when to hold his
tongue.
“Demos”: Australia is Japan’s ally.
Suppose you put the question to the Australian
Parliament whether this should be so. It is
probable that M‘Eaeharn would be the
only aye, and that the rest would give
an emphatic and stentorian no. There is
an Australian instinct that Japan, in the
future, will be more dangerous to this continent
than Russia will. However, Australia is chained
to the alliance. We had no voice in it. Mean-
while. where is Australia’s affection for Japan?
How do we show it ? How are we going’to show
it ? Surely there will be monster public meetings
of sympathy for Japan, our ally.
The faithful dog is mostly known by the
way he howls on the door-mat when his master is
sick inside, and Private Enterprise is very much
like that. In Queensland it has been seized with
a desire to build a cheap tramway from Chillagoe
to Georgetown, and while the public finances are
very sick in bed the faithful animal on the door-
mat howls lugubriously for a State guarantee of
£7500 a year. In other words, it proposes that
when there is a loss the State should pay £7500 of
it, and when there is a profit Private Enterprise
should get all of it. That is why it is called
enterprise—because of its desire to enter the
Treasury and prise open the State cash-box.
Those Sydney tramway men who deputa-
tionised Premier See, with an M.L.A. to back
them up, on the ground that they were not paid
the increases to which they were entitled, made a
tactical blunder. Other workers have no Premier
to appeal to and have simply to notify their
bosses, without the aid of any M.L.A., that the
matter will be referred to the Arbitration Court.
The Government employees should do likewise.
There is more satisfaction to be gained that way,
and it keeps the matter on a plain business footing
without any appearance of political pressure. The
appearance of political pressure always furnishes
a handle to the opponents of State enterprise.
“ C.H.” on
a Westralian
railway matter:
Me proposal for
the Fed. Govt, to
build the Esper-
ance railway. I
look forward to
the Federating
of Australian rail*
ways, but oppose
the Common-
wealth merely
taking over a sec-
tion of any par-
ticular State’s
railway (barring,
of course, the
Trans-Australian,
which is a national
affair). The Es-
perance line would
throw about 200
miles of line idle
—2OO miles that
haven’t had a frac-
tion of debt paid
off. Also if the
Federation built
the Esperance
section, and
didn’t take over
the existing West-
ralian lines, it
would be com-
peting against
the State’s coastal
goldfields line.
The Esperance
line will come ;
but if the Federa-
tion builds it, let
it take over the
rest of W.A. lines.
Vic. Premier
Irvine gets out
in time to de-
prive Victoria
of the chance to
say exactly
what it thinks
of h i m next
May. And
what’s the good
of telling Bent exactly what it thinks of him?
What purpose is served by throwing mud at a
rhinoceros ?
“ Red Tape ” : The delays of the law are
nearly approached by those of N.S.W. Public
Service Board ; that inquiry started into the Chief
Secretary’s Branch some six months ago seems
nowhere near completion, and the caterpillar of
investigation has almost given up even pretending
to crawl on his way. In cases where criminal
prosecutions were ordered the charges have been
heard. The Law, no doubt, demanded it. The
cases which, while not running into criminal pro-
ceedings, nevertheless threaten ruin to those con-
cerned, should also be promptly settled. A sus-
pended officer is practically committed for trial,
and a six months’ suspension is in itself a severe
punishment.
The inclusion of Bent, now Vic. Premier,
nearly wrecked the foundation of the original
Iceberg Ministry. The tricky Shiels recognised
a superior trickster in Bent, and urged that if the
fat ex-boomster were left out, he might do irrepar-
able mischief among the class of politicians who
go with the wind, and there are a good many of
that kind in the Kyabram crew. M‘Kenzie, who
was one of the original three approached by
Irvine, piously deprecated the inclusion of Bent,
but succumbed when he saw his own chances
fading. And it was M'Kenzie who had to be
pitched overboard within six months. He is now
seeking to get back to the Legislative Assembly,
and presumably will do so as a supporter of the
detested Bent.
In all the weary debate about the taking
over of the State debts, the payment for properties
transferred to the Commonwealth, the Braddon
clause, the book-keeping clause, and so on, it is
worth remembering that there is always one way
out. Let the Commonwealth Constitution be
amended by the abolition of the Senate, leaving
only one House, and that elected on a population
basis. Then let the State Parliaments obliterate
themselves and leave the Commonwealth to run
all Australia. Under this policy all the debts,
railways, properties, deficits, borrowing powers
and the other troubles would fall into its hands,
there would be no Braddon clause, no book-keeping
clause, no surplus to be returned to the States, no
States to return it to—in fact the whole trouble
would disappear. Then let the Australian Parlia-
ment subdivide Australia into Local Government
districts, on a uniform plan ; define the duties of
the local bodies; endow them out of the available
public lands where necessary, and give the whole
machine a fresh start on a sound and sensible
basis.
About Victoria’s late Premier:—
Irvine, the “great, strong, calm man” of Victoriaa
politics, has caved in. He has collapsed in such a
miserable manner that not even his creators, the daily
newspapers, are able to conceal his weakness. It is given
out that he has resigned the Premiership because of ill-
health, and a medical certificate is issued as a guaranti e
of good faith. The certificate is a remarkable document,
setting out that Irvine “ shows definite physical signs of
ill-health, the direct result of continuous and prolonged
overwork.” There is no straight-out mention of what he
is suffering from, although it is so easy for doctors to in vent
a name that something definite should have been forth-
coming. Irvine recently returned from a month’s holiday
in Tasmania, and looked as fit as one could desire to be.
He stated that he was feeling well and able to undertal e-
the work of organising his party for the coming elections.
Indeed, he made all the preparations for doing so, and
had called a meeting of the party, and then threw' up
the sponge the day before the meeting. Despite the
medical certificate, the fact seems to be that Irvine failed
to come to terms with his colleagues on a programme to
be submitted to the party and the country. During the
last week there had been frequent Cabinet meetings, and
it was an open secret that the Ministry was not a hap] y
family. Irvine has no stomach for a fight. His reputa-
tion for strength is purely a newspaper-manufactured
one. In reality he is a weakling, and when he could not
get the members of his Ministry to stand to a policy it.
seems he threw' in the towel, instead of turning out those-
of his colleagues who did not agree with him and taking
in other men who did. It was only the other day that
he was sticking out his chest at the A.N.A. luncheon and'
talking big things. To-day he has slunk away into his.
miserable icy shell.
THE BURNING QUESTION
chancerf to die // «, |
itj (iflaFj yfanje 50 <l j |
/soto be judged he n/entbp high J j|j
v | 1 !
Hl5 oianjcnnitjhf J. 1,
v fof each rfay rnentfoned byilj namQ I
j bpeually nlfien aulay lfoiWorl( '!j
\He bled Iht treasury just lfi( -same 1 \
IHo uje (or hiirj to there ffotef ||
/ fhe there he cfu«Kljs>f \
\ Hi) you perhaps
) felony ho^V/4u
lhoM I V/ien be fi&chcd'tlw tropic S
|l p/a,c<i J
IHe fell’quite prW ana full of rim
I for /fiert he noticed er'iy fece, /
life slating af hi^' j (j
Jlje Hi'aUfed alon| 1
Wnd to ttfe |e/fand boifa//
Qsf Rjl musL be We- 1 ,
M/Jhafi idiy' I m horned by Huy c(bM 1
if'/ou puffed-up fool shrlelfed ou r' Old 6cfsA
fje draped, him in and slarnmed
H^ £ \\W9
Of fHE M ft MAtcK
tfANf 6 tfWlfa ‘)COl(C l


THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
FOR
MEN
RIGHT AWAY!
X:
a
: '
EilMiSk'J
v 1
\ , &L-
-31
■■
ML I
■
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
EXCEPT W.A.
FOR
23/6
IN TAN
24/6
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
IT IS ALWAYS GRATIFYING
and encouraging to those who are
engaged in a good work to hear that
their labors are not in vain. Patients
who have been cured by. . .
VITADATIO
and gracefully acknowledged it are
most heartily thanked. They have
in turn benefited others by their
influence. Cured ones are earnestly
asked to spread the news of their re-
covery, and by so doing assist those
wbo are distressed.
VITADATIO
CURES ECZEMA.
Remuera, Auckland, N.Z.
o- u • November 2nd, 1902.
suffered froni for two years
without any relief from any of the many cures tri'ed, I
ou vinnAnnf after taking- three large bottles of
•' 01,1 VITADATIO two and a half years ago.
Yours gratefully,
MRS. A. OAMLRON.
For further particulars,
S. A. JPALMEIi,
Head Office ; Clarendon Street N.
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
All Sol e Agents N.S.W. J * 9
All Chemists and Storekeepers
Fine French Calf
Stylish Appearance,
Very Jong wear, and
We can fit you to a nicety.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS,
Through our Mail Order System, can have a pair of
these boots sent to them, closely examine them,
FIT THEM ON. They can exchange them, or we
can refund their money.
Our Mail Orders always go right.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY.
Mr. A. H. MASSEY, Shieldsville, Minn
writes: ’ ’*
“ ? ur on'y daughter had A SEVERE COUGH which
continued to grow worse tor over a year. We thought
she was going into consumption. Jayne’s ExnectorTnl
BROUGHT HER BACK TO HEALTH.’’* P torant
RHEUMATIC SUFFERERS.
Many sufferers from rheumatism have been
surprised and delighted at the prompt relief
obtained by applying Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.
A permanent cure may also be effected by con-
tinuing to use it for a short time.*
This Elastic Truss
m
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SVDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
TYPEWRITERS
The Life and the Liver
The life we lead—pleasant and joyous, morose
or sad—depends to a great extent upon that im-
portant organ, the liver. Liver disorder is re-
sponsible for more illness and unhappiness than
any other ailment, and it is really amazing how
many hundreds of people are'sufferers without
being aware of the real cause of their trouble.
Indigestion, constipation, biliousness, headache,
and many other painful symptoms arise primarily
from liver disorder. An eminent chemist spent
many years investigating the medicinal properties
of roots and vegetables supplied by Nature, and
after careful research discovered a vegetable
substance which has the power of acting upon the
liver and digestive organs in a superior manner to
any known medicine. This substance does not
merely purge, leaving the organs worse than they
were before. It tones up the weakened organs to
do then- own work, and when they have been
sufficiently restored it can be left off. Com-
pounded with other beneficial substances, this
medicine is now obtainable under the name of
“Bile Beans.’.’ In order to allow all readers a
free trial of this great vegetable remedy, a sample
box will be sent to all readers who write for same,
enclosing this paragraph, and a penny stamp to
cover return postage. All applications should be
addressed to the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt-street, Sydney. Don’t confuse Bile Beans
with ordinary medicines of the “ in-use-fifty-
years ” style. They are the product of modern
science, NOT the dim, indistinct science of fifty
or sixty years ago.*
“J.A.C.” : A friend who has just re-
turned from Kathleen Valley, 700 miles in the
interior of Westralia, tells me that though in
summer 114° in the shade is a fair average tem-
perature, yet the excessive dryness of the air
makes this easily bearable. There are no
mosquitoes, nor fleas, but the ordinary household
fly is very self-assertive. Population 150. About
five dozen Bulletins arrive weekly.
f
3 of the World’s Best
my
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HbdIby Button.
p &
MALTHOID ROOFING.
I!iS never eeil {l time, since the manufacture of P& B
H Roofing was commenced (over 20 years ago) when that Roofing
was as popular and so generally used as to-day.
For 20 years the makers of P & B Roofing have been the recognised
exponents of portable Roofing, improving year after year in their method
of manufacture, but always using as abase that “one only” mineral
(100 / Pure Hydro Carbon) which has given to P& B Roofing such
wonderful endurance under the most severe conditions.
Imitations of P&B” Roofing are everywhere, fair to see, but
lacking in the “one only” essential mineral, which comes from the
Refineries of The Paraffine Paint Company. This “one only ” essential
feature:
IS WHAT MADE “P&B” ROOFING A GOOD ROOFING;
IS WHAT KEEPS “P&B” ROOFING THE BEST ROOFING;
It is that which makers of other Roofings want very much ;
It is that which makers of other Roofings can’t possibly get ;
“P&B” lias always been G-30D
(Hence our imitators).
We have recently added to our well-known line of P & B materials
a new roofing which we make from the same mineral, but by an improved
method. This
P&B HALTHOID ROOFING
is guaranteed to be the latest and best 20th century roofing. You can
l.a\ u a sample from
JOHN KEEP & SONS, Ltd., SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
or from the Manufacturers as under.
The Paraffine
Paint Company.
William Baldwin
Australasian Representative.
117 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
“Bunny” : The Barrier climate chops
and changes wonderfully. Friday, 100° in the
shade ; Saturday, 70° in the shade ; Sunday
morning colder still. The B. Hill dust-storm is
the local substitute for Sydney’s southerly buster
—the cool-change carrier. Also, it carries along
nearly everything that isn’t nailed down.
The Vic. Iceberg Government precipitated
a railway strike last year in order to crush out
unionism among its employees, and the only tan-
gible result, outside the general Bentism and up-
setting of things, has been the addition of one
more union to those already in existence. There
is a beautiful touch of irony in the formation, a
week or so ago, of a “Scabs’” association “on
similar lines to those in other branches of the
department.” The principal grievance discussed
was the Government’s failure to keep faith with
the men in defining their positions as drivers and
firemen in the department. There is also another
bit of iron}’ in the fact that the “scab ” employees
are now suffering some of the inconsiderate and
contemptuous treatment that the men they dis-
placed were fighting against at the beginning of
last year.
Queensland Treasurer Kidston puts the
question of Federal arbitration as applied to State
servants in a nutshell:
He could see no reason why a State should not be
bound to have the rates of wages which it paid sub-
mittea t° an independent and competent tribunal
When the Arbitration Court was established the assunm-
tiou was that the Judges would -live equitable verdicts.
What justification was there for a State Treasurer to
assume that he could not trust a Judge of the court?
It was urged that the Government would be seriously
embarrassed if its financial arrangements were subject to
renew by the Arbitration Court, but the private
employer could just as legitimately advance that plea
The one had no greater right than the other to make
financial arrangements which involved injustice to
employees. If the Judge could be trusted to give
impartial judgments, the State Treasurer had nothing to
fear. If the Judge could not be trusted, then the
ordinary employer and employee had a great deal to fear
One reason why men don't go .to church
is the frequent and lamentable moaning in the
Sydney papers of Parson Mervyn Archdall about
‘ illegal vestments.” Australia is full of troubles,
full of new and old wrongs and grievances, full of
things that want doing ; and this constant weep-
ing of the tabernacle about the proper hang of its
togs makes the men who actuallv want to do
things look upon it as a side issue and a back
e i*i* All sorts of oat ties are being fought
while the church is in the background with its
gusset preying on its mind, and rent with doubts
and misgivings about its guipure and its passemen-
terie and its frill, and no real live man can take it
so seriously as he might wish till it gives up these
things, and ceases to intrude on the public its
piivate and personal anguish about the correct
angle of its skirt. The average man cares not
twopence whether its skirt dangles one wav or
another, and is only moved to pity by the news
that the “alb and chasuble ” were abandoned in
1559, and that the “surplice and hood” weren’t,
and that previous to the second year of Edward
VI. the clerical millinery was fixed by canon law,
and that it was only in later years that the
‘ ‘ clobber ” was defined by Act of Parliament.
“F.C.”: Came across a really thrifty
gentleman the other day. The parties to the
case live within a mile of each other, and consist
of Hans Schmidt, Mrs. Schmidt, and Christian
Anderson, from Scandinavia. Some 15 years ago,
when Hans made a local girl Mrs. Schmidt, they
started a boarding-house, and Anderson was one
of the boarders. Hans had original notions of a
wife’s duties, and when, a day after their first
child was born, he gave her a pair of black eyes
for not getting up to do the boarders’ washing,
Christian got annoyed and hit him hard. Much
argument ensued thereon, and, Mrs. Hans being
consulted, the upshot was that thereafter she
became nominally Mrs. Christian Anderson,
while Hans received from Christian the sum of
£lO for goods and chattels delivered in good
order and condition—to wit, one young and
pleasing woman and one baby. Probably Hans
reckoned the £lO as compensation for breaking up
his happy home, but the small rips thereabouts
persisted in yelling after him that he sold his
wife for a tenner. Anyhow, for 14 years
all parties lived handy to each other
and dwelt in peace; but a few months
back the lady, who has preserved much of her
youthful beauty, suddenly departed with a person
named Bill. Perhaps the fact of seeing her two
husbands so often engaged in friendly converse
got on her nerves; perhaps she thought she had
worked out the full value of the blessed tenner ;
anyhow, she went —and stayed away. Now
Christian wears out his boots and the path to
Hans’ door demanding of that stolid German the
return of his tenner. Hans repudiates all re-
sponsibility ; he says Christian should have fol-
lowed his example and sold the lady to Bill before
letting-her go ; anyhow, he says, she wouldn’t be
worth more than a fiver after 14 years wear.
Hans and Christian argue quite peaceably, how-
ever, and are still friends.


Mr. George Black writes :
Had The Bulletin no readers save those who subscribe
to Tiie Worker, I should not now—in utter disregard of
ordinary journalistic custom—demand space in your
columns to contradict over my signature the reckless
and untruthful charges made by the former paper on
December 17th, 1903, concerning the latter, under the
malicious and misleading caption of “ The N.S.W. Labor
Party’s Cheap Labor Paper.”
Detached from the apparently' always standing phrases
in which they are enveloped, these were : That in elec-
tion matters, where there are no Labor candidates, The
Worker either undisguisedly supported Freetrade candi-
dates or at least threw its angry sneer and half-brick of
scorn at Protectionist candidates.
I have no hesitation in saying that there is not only
no word of truth in these bold assertions, I would also
add that nothing appeared in The Worker’s election
issues of November 14, 21 and 23, Decemher 5 and 12
which could give the slightest excuse for them. Through-
out, The Worker agreed with The Bulletin that, “ to a
great extent, Laborites and Ministerialists faced Aus-
tralia together,” and it never imagined that fiscalism was
a live question. It was, therefore, impossible that a
championship of the Opposition such as you describe
should have taken place, and it is difficult to understand
how such a random farrago of absurdities found
entrance to. your columns. I now assert, without
the slightest reservation, that during the whole Federal
election campaign The Worker did not contain one
paragraph which either disguisedlv or undisguisedly
supported a Freetrade candidate, and that, on the other
htnd, there were only three Ministerialists mentioned,-
for either good or ill, who were not opposed by Labor
men.
One of the three was Deakin. The Worker laughed,
in a brief par., at one of his flowery and marrowless
speeches. The Worker, prior to the retirement of
Johnson, published a few of the many paragraphs con-
cmiing Lyne sent in from the Hume , but when Plain
Bill retired, it let Sir Bill alone. The Worker was no
doubt severe on the candidature of J. B. Dailey for
Wentworth. I venture to suggest that it was this cir-
cumstance alone which prompted the silly article of
which I complain. Nightly or wrongly, Dailey was ,
regarded by Laborites as one of those society dudes whose
lack of voice happily concealed a want of ideas, and his
selection was looked on as a lawn-tennis, aw’fTy-jolly bid
for woman’s support. Therefore, The Worker jeered at
him. Even here, however, there was no atom of partisan-
ship, for Kelly was placed in exactly the same category.
Instance the following paragraph :
“ Kelly asked the votes of Wentworth on the grounds
that he drove the only-British-made motor-car in Sydney 1
Dailey’s sole claim was the paternity of his father. If
women be wise, they will protest in future against, the
thrusting into politics of the gentleman with the six-inch
collar and the two-inch forehead.”
So much for the half-brick assertion ; now for the even
more barefacedly untruthful allegation concerning the
undisguised support given to members of the Opposition.
I have no fear of being contradicted when I say that, on
the contrary, the Worker deliberately and continually
attacked the Opposition. It had no other course. * Reid
had abandoned direct taxation and had declared his
animosity to the Labor party. The Opposition press of
this State, especially the Daily Telegraph, never let a
day go without making charges against the Labor party.
We were compelled to fight Reid and his press supporters
and we did. Among other things, the Worker said
of the Opposition leader that 11 Reid has been on
both sides of every Federal question. He seems to
be sure only of one thing—that he desires office.”
Week by week, the Worker fought the Daily Telegraph
and the sectarians rallied round it. It stated that the
Opposition had to fall back for candidates on Labor rats
in Johnson and Acton. When the Daily Telegraph
staled Rae a carpet-bagger, the Worker retorted that
much more representative carpet-baggers were to be
found in Acton, Atkinson, Blackwood, Lee, Longmuir,
and Onslow—all Opposition candidates. In an editorial
of December I2th, the Worker used these words : “ The
alleged Freetrade, supposititious Reform party ... is
going to be the most parson-ridden, narrow-minded con-
glomerate of mental slaves that ever' bellowed from a
balcony—mainly because G. Hi Reid vvas not man enough
to stamp out sectarian interference at the outset.”
I could quote dozens of paragraphs in support of these
assertions, but enough has been said to convince anyone
who has an open mind. I have taken this unusual
journalistic course because The Bulletin ha§ done a
grave wrong to the paper with which I am connected,
and, inferentially, to the Labor party, and because the
Worker’s contradiction of December 26th could not
reach all The Bulletin’s readers.
Shipping-
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Calling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON '.. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) • ••• £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
REYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Vigobous Articles.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
3
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
ft* COR Os
i €S StH c£ o?x\ f e; |
The only Infallible Remedy for W£AK.\ESa, D-UUT7,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shuttered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 128., or four ouistities in one, 36s Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. -
A<rents for Australasia— PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; iV-S.lK.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Bydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Shipping.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 2nd MARCH.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities —Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIO, to Sail on or about 16th MARCH,
AERIO, SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, (fee.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables, and- all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Bensonsfleld Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
A the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i;hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
f-)C£!i3L]Nrxq STEIAMSSIP COME'A.KTX.
A. AND a 7 LINE.
■ . ' . •' • ' • -5 ;•;
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including' St. Uouis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., rtanagihg Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
•#
&>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
sxr.a.'W.
(Slant deplete o.# |. Go., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
EUSTACE BF.NNETT, General Manager.
S/PIIR—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
' out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Robirtb
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruok Smith, Esq., M.H.lt.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305- assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses - eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amouu tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
The Rank of llorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS. Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... *.700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 100 ... £350.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : lion. A. \V. Mkkks, iI.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Shh, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, I). Ci.vnk; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlanb ; Brisbane, K. Wii.son ; Perth, A. \V.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt. St., SITD.NEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, aud the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY I*EN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
eeparate’y examined ,by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
car* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “WB
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAft.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LIME
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MOANA, FEBRUARY 29.
The Most Popular Steamer on the
Pacific.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
MARCH 21, APRIL 18.
The Route to St. Louis or to England
via St. Louis.
Full Particulars Furnished & Itineraries Prepared.
lUuitrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J II MIT Jill. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP ..£467,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,463
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gsn. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. ALFORD
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
IS Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel oi the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROfIOHITU
DIAEKHCEA, *a. >»“» *"*
the Government Stamp the nauiO
ol the Inventor
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
liji. ILLUSTKA'IIii) LONDON NEWS A
Sept. 28 lotto, says:
“If I were- asked which single medicine t slioul 1
piefer to take abroad with me, as likeiy to bj
most generally uselul, Lo the exclusion of all
others, 1 slmuUl say Ciii.uUoiA >K. 1 never travel
without it, and its general apimcaiiility to Luo
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation. "
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(El MIT Ml >).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippirifrab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,-Feb. 19,
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne).
S.S. Yongala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Ooast), Saturday, Feb. 27,
at 10 a.m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
AndPortsNorth to Cairns
S.S. Konoovvarra, Feb. 20,
at Noon.
S.S. Allinga, Feb. 26, 5 p.m.
S.S. Gabo, Mar. 5, at Noon.'
Jiest and Cheapest llonte to Uold/lelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are int.erohan reable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office. t
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Governmeno, calling at'MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOM BAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : •'
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISIi
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meeli
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
• . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fails.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe ria Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. Lt).
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, Opiate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s* (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckle/ A Nunn’e).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Save*
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches <fc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
"As a specific for 'Lopi-h ache it lias no equal. I have
need it successfully for years." —Prof. W, Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILYJVIEDICINE
KAYE’SwoRSDJiis PILLS
/re a certain Cure for Indlieatimi. Biliousness, Head ache,
Conatlpat-ion, I,iser and Kidney Compiainta, &o.
Of all bioRES.


A New York parson has made the humane
suggestion that a law should be passed empower-
ing medical men to summarily put to death any
incurable who so desires it, when the relatives of
the patient offer no objection.
HOW TO AVOID STOMACH TROUBLES.
A disordered stomach may cause no end of
trouble. When the stomach fails to perform its
functions, the bowels become deranged, the liver
and kidneys congested, causing numerous diseases,
the most fatal of which are painless and therefore
the more to be dreaded. The important thing is
-torestore the stomach and liver to a healthy con-
dition, and for this purpose no better preparation
can be used tlian Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets. Sold everywhere. Is. Od.*
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE SECRET CELLAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Goods-Agknt Laurence was perturbed. The con-
stant worry of his life was the stream of com-
plaints from the mercantile community that goods
which passed through the Romahapa Shipping
Shed (known officially as “B” shed) were in-
variably ullaged if they happened to consist of
fruit, spirits, ales, wines, Chinese ginger or
sweets. He had shifted the clerk in charge till
he was tired, and the only result seemed to be the
demoralisation of men against whom previously
there had been no breath of suspicion.
He burst into the office of his private secretary,
officially known as the Correspondence Clerk, and
throwing himself into a chair in front of the fire,
said in his high, squeaky voice :
“What does Mr. Wagpole mean when he rings
up “B” shed and asks, ‘ls the sun over the
yard-arm yet, old man?”’
“I don’t know,” said the Correspondence
Clerk, “but I’ll wager my reputation it means
nothing any good.”
“Exactly what occurled to me. I wish you’d
find out as soon as possible. We must put this
ullaging down, and I’ve a strong suspicion this
yard-arm business is in some way connected with
it.”
“ Right you are, sir,” said the clerk, and dived
an inch or two deeper into the mass of corres-
pondence in front of him.
When he went down the shunting-yard an hour
or so later and presented himself at the little
office at the end of the Shipping Shed, Merley,
the clerk in charge, greeted liim stiffly; for the
Correspondence Clerk was recoguised as the
Goods-Agent’s watch dog, and in Romahapa one
could not bark with the watch-dog and steal
apples with the boys.
“ I just called down to see if the sun is over the
yard-arm yet, old man,” said Mr. Knutsford,
a ffably.
A cunning expression, with spots of fear shining
through it, came into Merley’s eyes:
“ I don’t understand you—you’re the second
fool that, has asked that ridiculous question this
morning.”
“Who was the other fool?” inquired Mr.
Knutsford.
“ Wagpole-*he rang up and asked on the tele-
phone,” said Mr. Merley, guessing that Wag-
pole’s indiscretion had been overheard.
Mr. Knutsford smiled admiringly. >
“What time did you come on this morning,
Merley ?”
“The same time as usual—6.3o, of course.
Why do you ask ? ”
“You are a darned smart fellow, Merley, in
some ways,” said the C.C. as he turned to go.
“Sorry I can’t return the compli-
ment, sir,” retorted Merley,
The watch-dog turned
back again.
“You dropped to
Wagpole's connec-
tion with the busi-
ness very well. But
you’re not smart
enough, after all.
You came at 6.30.
I suppose you had
a ruin-hot over at
the Shunt e r s’
Anns. You’ve not
been relieved since,
and it is now 11.30.
The odor of that
rum-hot would not
be hanging about
you yet, and still
1 find you simp.y
reeking of nixed
spirits. Alw a y s
keep something on
hand to take away
the smell of co k-
tails—your breath
puts you right
away ; the sun is
over the yard-arm
when you’ve
broached a bottle
of grog.”
The Shipping
Clerk flung his keys
on the desk in front
of the other,
“You ’vc said
either too much or
too little. You
must either prove
your words, or re-
tract —apologise in
writing, by G !
Please search the
place, and find
either grog or bottle.”
“ I don’t want to
find grog in the office.
You’ve been driuking
while on duty, and if
you have been drinking
you either bought it or
stole it. Now, where
did you buy it ? ”
“Search the office,”
demanded the Shipping
Clerk, l
“ I won’t,” said Mr. Knutsford.
The lean, skinny figure of the Goods-Agent
glided into the office.
“ I think it would be as well, Mr. Knutsford, if
the office was searched—the place smells like a
public bar. Phew ! ”
It was nearly lunch-time when Mr. Knutsford
gave up that search in despair. He had tried
floor, ceiling, walls, waste-paper baskets; and
every nook and cranny in the great building that
it seemed possible to stow a bottle into ; and all
the while Merley grinned sardonically, and went
so far as to turn his own pockets out.
The Goods-Agent went off to his club disgustedly,
and Knutsford walked up the shunting-yard
alone. Passing “A” shed, where general mer-
chandise was received and dispatched, Wilks, the
head shunter, touched his cap and paused :
‘‘ Well, Wilks ; what is it ? ”
“ I’ve bin goin’ to ask you for some time now,
Mr. Knutsford. That there boy o’ ourn’s gettin’
up now, sir ; and the missus has bin worryin’ of
me to ask you to get him on here as a number-
snatcher. We both knows as how if you speaks
to Mr. Laurence about him it’s as good as fixed,
sir—if you would be so kind ? ”
• ' e Vi' V C ilks - don’t lijte this'number-snatch-
ing at. all. Let'it stand over'till he’s fifteen, and
I 11 try and get him in as a cadet.”
ell, if you please, sir, the missus ’ud like
him to start as soon as possible, as he’s turned
fourteen two months now, and it ’ud be a lot o’
lost time to wait till he was fifteen. I was earnin’
me own livin’ at eleven, sir. ”
“Well, it was darned bad that you should have
been. I’ll speak to Mr. Laurence about getting
him on as a cadet; that’ll be best.”
“There’sso many of them there cadets doin’
number-snatching now, sir, we’re afraid as how
there might be no show for him later on, and if
you was to be shifted out o’ the Goods, Mr.
Knutsford, we’d never have a chance of gettin’
him took. Mr. Laurence’s a very hard man to all
cf ’em but you—they’re afeard of him, and
wouldn’t ask him anything. But if you was to
speak to him I know it’s as good as fixed.”
The subtle flattery of the remark knocked
Knutsford right over. He wavered, and then
slipped down.
“ All right, Wilks, I’ll do my best.”
* • » *
When Mr. Laurence returned from the club he
had quite got over his pre-prandial disappoint-
ment, and was positively gay. He joked with his
watch-dog in his heavy, cumbrous fashion, and
devised a system of searching the shed offices after
hours with a dark lantern with a view to finding
any traces of where the ullaged grog was stored.
Mr. Knutsford thought it a waste of time, and
was quite certain that no stolen grog was left in
the shed at nights. The Goods-Agent thought he
would go upstairs and talk it over with Kluter,
the Traffic-Clerk, if there was nothing his Corres-
pondence Clerk wanted him for for an hour or so.
“Before you go I wanted to ask you if you
could give that boy of Wilks’ a show ; he’s very
anxious to get him started at number-snatching.”
“ Hump ! I don’t know. All the cadets are
number-snatching now—do we want any more? ”
“No, not that I know of; but Wilks is a very
old servant and a darned good one, too; and I
know your policy about building up a staff with
hereditary railway instincts.”
Mr. Laurence didn’t remember ever having had
such a policy, but it struck him as being a parti-
cularly good one, and therefore he must have
mentioned it to his secretary in one of his frequent
bursts of brilliance.
“Mind you,”continued Mr. K., “I don’t like
the idea of these babies number-snatching; but
Wilks seems so anxious to get him started I
thought he might be put on licking envelopes.”
“All right, all right; if you want a boy put
him on, by all means. Advise the Old Man,
though. I’ll go now.”
Next morning the whole Wilks family stood in
reverential awe in a line in that awful place where
the great Goods-Agent was the deity, and the
Correspondence Clerk his archangel.
After a humorous interview, in which Mrs.
Wilks wept three times, Wilks dragged his wife
out of the office, put his numbered cap on his
head, and the good woman wrapped her shawl
round her shoulders and walked home, the
proudest matron in the wide British empire.
But Billy was grievously disappointed. He had
dreamed of being a number-snatcher. He had
revelled in visions of himself standing on the
brake-handle of a line of trucks being whirled .
A TRAGEDY OF DRINK.
SAM THE SOAK : “Me bloomin' friends ’as all
deserted me (sob). Then me dory (sob). An'
now this 'eve bloomin’ lamp-post’s yarn crook
on me.” (Breaks down.)
down the big shunting yard by a pretty green
Avonside engine with her brass work all shining
like gold ; and he yearned for the night-shift,
when he would stalk round the lines and sidings
with a lamp—a real railway lamp of his own, with
red and green slides, taking his numbers, dodging
in and out between the trucks taking particulars
of their destinations and contents. Now. that
glorious dream was shattered. “He was to be a
envelope-licker in a bloomin’ orfice with a green
roof and pink cornices. Lickin’ envelopes—faugh !
It made him sick.”
Half-an-hour later, Knutsford, going down to
make the daily raid on “B” shed, swung himself
on to a row of trucks funning past, and asked
Wilks if he was satisfied.
Wilks shifted the cutty round to the other side
of his face. “ I’d ha’ sooner he wus outside, Mr,
Knutsford ; but I’m domned thankful to you fer
gettin’ ’im a start. P’r’aps, later on, when he
grows a bit bigger, ye might promote him to
number-snatchin’.”
They had reached “B” shed, and Knutsford
swung himself off with a laugh.
* * * *
It was six months before Billy got “promoted,”
but when the grain season came round the traffic
was unusually heavy, and Knutsford softened his
heart to Wilks’s entreaties and let him go into
the yard. Before doing so, however, ,he ad-
monished Billy severely, and Laurence threatened,
him with instant sack if lie were caught riding on
side chains or brake handles. There were so many
new number-snatcliers at work that a special
circular was issued to shunters, that they
would;be suspended and their dismissals
TO TEE CUSTOMER FROM HONGKONG.
“Well, sir, you was a-calling out ‘ Boy,’ and I
didn’t think you meant me —I being a grown-
up man with a family, sir.”
recommended if they allowed number-snatchers
to take any risks.
But it was quite useless: every kid of them
rode on the hand brakes if he could get the
slightest excuse for doing so; and.if they were
kicked off the brakes by the shunters they did a
more dangerous thing—stood on the coupling
chains with one leg each side the central buffer
and coupling hook, with their grimy little paws
holding on to the top of the truck in front of them;
and, somehow, all the threats and punishment
failed to make them desist.
Billy was certainly a very smart number-
snatcher. He was as good as any two of the other
boys, which simply meant that he took greater
risks ; but in the rush of business' Knutsford had
forgotten all about him, and he had merely become
one of the regiment of boys who day and
night risked their lives that the Traffic Inspector
might tell at a glance where all his different class
Waggons be found. *
* .» *• *
It was blowing chilly from the Sou’-West.
Merley’s face shone like the sun, which only
showed a red ball through the spindrift and winter
haze. A row of trucks and aroadside (closed in)
van from the Port were shunted down into “B”
shed. The unloaders started on the northern end,
and, as no shipping goods ever came in roadside
vans, no notice was taken of the presence of that
truck. The shed was nearly full of goods. There
was a clinking of glass and a sudden shout of
laughter; Down in a hollow square formed by
piles of cases an unloader and a checker were
inserting a thin steel point into the seam of a
case of whisky. When the bottle was located
there was a slight tap with a hammer, and the
whisky was- caught in a billy with a hand-
kerchief over the top to intercept any fragments
of glass.
“ Take that up to Mr. Merley,”said the voice of
the unloader. When the messenger had gone he
inserted the steel point into another case, broached
another bottle, and turned round to leave—and met
the Goods-Agent and Mr. Knutsford face to face.
The billy fell to the floor with a clang. Mr.
Knutsford picked it up and smelt it.
“Whisky!” he said. Then to the trembling
uuloader : “ My man, you just go right out at that
door and walk up the centre track to the office and.
wait there till-Mr. Laurence and I return. If
you say a word to anyone it will be worse for
you.”
The man went out at the door furthest removed
from the office at the end of the shed, and Mr.
Knutsford and the Goods-Agent swooped down on
Merley. They walked into the office, and Mr.
Laurence leaned over as close to Merley’s face as
he could and sniffed with all his might.
“I’m sure he’s been drinking, Mr. Knutsford—
he simply reeks of it.”
“ Pass over your keys, Merley ; there was some
ullaged whisky sent up here five minutes ago by
Loader Macpherson; we’re going to find it.”
“ Pm afraid he has drunk it, Knutsford. ’’
The face of Merley glowed redder and he passed
over his keys without a word, and turning went
on with his wOrk as though nothing had ’ haj>
pened.
Once more the office was searched through and
through without avail. The odor of whisky was
all around, but no trace of the liquid joy itself.
And Merley worked on with a rubicund smirk
that irritated Knutsford beyond measure.
“Do you deny that whisky was sent up here
just now by a checker, Mr. Merley?”
“ I do, most emphatically 1 ” said the Shipping-
Clerk, resuming his work.
“I think we’ll chuck it,” said Mr. Knutsford.
“ Yes, I think it would be as well if we desisted
and interrogated the unloader and the checkers,”
said Mr. Laurence in his most pompous fashion.
The checkers were all interrogated separately,
but all denied having been associated with Mac-
pherson. In the office Macpherson said, that he
gave the liquor in a billy to the first boy alongside
him, but didn’t know his name. He offered, if
his billet was spared, to point out the youth. He
denied all knowledge of where Mr. Merley con-
cealed grog, but admitted that if he left a flask in
the office it would be filled with any spirit he
mentioned when he returned for it in five minutes.
The Traffic - Manager, interviewed hurriedly
by Mr. Knutsford, came downstairs and took a
hand at bouncing the man ; but the miserable
wretch had told all he knew, and, on condition
that he pointed out the boy who took the whisky
to Mr. Merley, he was'promised a billet cleaning
points. .
Laureuce and Knutsford took him down to
“B ” shed, and the man,
looking along the
line of checkers
and irum her
snatchers, swore
positively that
the boy was not
there, although
all . the bqys
who bad a
right to be in
the shed were
present.
The Goods-
Agent lost his
temper and
threatened
t’h‘6 man
with crimi-
nal prosecu-
tion, ordered
him off the
pre mi ses,
arid then he
and his clerk,
left theshed. .
As they
passed the
office t h e
rubicund face
of Merley
glowed deri-
sively. They
tramped a cross-
the water-soak -
ed shingle of
th e 'shunting-
yard. A row of
trucks went flying
past, and oii the
brake handle of one
of them was young Billy Walks.
As he saw the Goods-Agent
and Mr. Knutsjford he ducked
down. On the next line of rails,
another row of loaded trucks was
flying past, and suddenly .from
the centre of it a quantity of badly
loaded bags of grain fell, • and
rolled on to the rails right in front of
the Avonside engine that drew the
trucks on which’Billy Wilks was riding.
The Avonsider stopped with a tremendous
jerk, and the shock of the trucks behind drove
the light engine on again, abouftvvo yards.
Young Billy had been hurled off the brake,
down between the trucks, across the rail; and was
lying crushed by the wheel of the empty truck.
They got him out, and one glance told that his
injuries were fatal. Knutsford picked him up in
his arms apd ran with him to “B” shed,' and
placing him on the office table proceeded to
administer first aid. ’ .
The shunter had run to telephone for the
surgeon; the Goods-Agent walked up and down
the shed tugging at his hair and beard. The
rubicund face of Merley turned white and ashen,
and he washed his hands to give some assistance.
Knutsford had picked up the arteries and tied
them, but the child was dying, and as he sobbed
out his life Knutsford reeled against the desk.
Merley pulled down the big manifest book, and
right in the face of Goods-Agent and all, pulled
from between the back and the binding a gauge-
glass, corked at both ends and filled with whisky.
“ Take a pull at that,'old man • the poor little,
chap s dead,” he said, producing another glass
filled with rum and taking a long pull at it.
* * * *
There was no more ullaging of liquor in “ B ”
shed as long as Merley remained in charge of it,
which was two years and some odd months.
And, somehow, Goods-Agent Laurence said
nothing about the gauge-glass and its contents.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
A Crocodile-Hunt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In December, 1902, just before the “wet”
started, the niggers of the Moot-Burra tribe
assembled at the Victoria River, -on the western
border of theN.T. The “river” was then merely
a succession of waterholes, of which the blacks
chose one about 350 yards long, 20 wide, and up
to 10ft. deep, and containing an abundance of the
ordinary yellow-brown crocodile, which reaches
9ft. and 10ft. in length. The niggers numbered
about 150, and all set to work collecting logs,
tree-branches, and rock, and dumping them into
hole. This went on incessantly for two days.
Now and again a crocodile would make a frantic
rush up the bank, only to be promptly speared and
battered to death. At the end of the two days the
crocodiles left in the hole were desperate. They
struggled and bit and roared, and clambered
over each other, the niggers, with spears and
throwing-sticks, losing no opportunity to kill.
On the third morning at daylight a phalanx of
blacks entered the water, while other niggers on
the opposite side pelted sticks and stones and
made an incredibly .hideous outcry. The main
body, when opportunity offered, would seize a
crocodile, batter it to insensibility and lug it
ashore. One old croc, fully 10ft. long, infuriated
by a spear-wound, got hold of a nigger’s leg and
bit it'.clean off, the man dying shortly afterwards.
The attack was then concentrated on this big
croc, and he was soon slain. Nearly every black
was by this time more or less wounded ; but they
didn’t seem to mind, and never stopped till every
crocodile was killed: Then began the feast !
Crocodile, boiled, burned and raw was devoured,
until even aboriginal stomachs could hold no
more. Soon there were only fragments left, and
the stench was overpowering ; but, happy and
contented, the blacks were soon all sleeping the
sleep of the satiated.
WARRAMUNGA.


Martyr to Kidney Trouble.
Mb. Edmund Quinlan, 39 Oxfokd Strebt,
Paddington, tells what Dk. Moese’s Indian-
Root Pills did fob him.
What disorder causes such mental and physical
agony as when the kidneys are diseased ? They
act as a filter for the blood, and when they are
stopped up, the entire system becomes affected.
The liver —so intimately associated with the
kidneys—also fails to perform its proper duties.
No better testimony as to the great medicinal
value of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills could be
offered than that of Mr. Quinlan, who, as he says,
was a “martyr to kidney trouble.” We use his
own words: —
“For many years I was a martyr to kidney
trouble; my back was so bad that my work
became a misery to me, in fact I had to give it up
for months. I was recommended to try Indian
Root Pills by a friend of mine who had derived
great benefit from them, and I must bless that
friend for drawing my notice to them. To say
that I only derived benefit from them would not
be enough, for I can faithfully and honestly say
that they effected a perfect cure. I can vouch for
this, and am very glad to be able to give this
testimonial, with the hope that others may be
cured as I was. I cannot too highly praise them,
for they are a wonderful medicine, and you may
use this testimonial in any way you please.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills act on the kidneys
and liver direct as no other remedy does. They
unstop the kidneys, put life in the liver, and a
move in the bowels. For all diseases arising from
a disordered condition of these organs and a weak
stomach, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are an
infallible cure. They cure constipation, indiges-
tion, and biliousness so that they stay cured.
Packed in amber bottles, and sold throughout
Australasia. *
“P. & B.” means excellence and honesty.
Over a score of years ago Pearce and Beadsley gave
their initial letters to a variety of roofing, building
paper, paint and dampcourse. These materials caught
on, and Messrs. ,4 P. & B.” took a big profit and sold out.
The purchasers were the Paraffine Paint Co. of San
Francisco, which co. at once set out to roof the world
with genuine “P. & B.” Mr. William Baldwin, the local
representative, who is well-known in Sydney coimm roial
circles, has undertaken to paint, roof in, and keep out
the damp in Australasia, South Africa, and South
America. He has just returned from the United States,
where he went to learn the details of manufacturing
“P. & P.” Till “P. and B.” covers the Southern
hemisphere like one vast canopy, Baldwin will keep
moving like the man who took Bunker’s Hill or Bill
Adams at Waterloo.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE»LACEI
Absolutely Pure, No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
In addition to dispensing beer, alleged whisky
and free-counter lunches, the grog palaces of Melbourne
have commenced to display huge cards, on which are
pasted the tips of every sporting writer in Victoria for
the day’s racing. Unless the practice is suppressed, it
will bring the sporting press into terrible disrepute. No
two infallible tipsters seem to agree as to what is going to
win, and to back all the dead-sure things means betting
on the whole field ; and yet people, evidently “ educated
beyond their intelligence,” laboriously copy down the
“ information ” and rush off to the tote-shops and book-
makers, studying it as they run. The tips didn’t look so
bad till they were hung up together ; now the horrible
discrepancies land the public in the eye all at once.
«** * •
There is more swindling done in connection
with trumpery little novel races than in all the other
events on a programme lumped together. A very fishy
piece of running in one of these delightful “ contests ” at
Palmerston South (M.L.) caused a lot of comment, and
when the stewards disqualified the jockeys and let the
owners go scot' free, the metropolitan club stepped in
and pointed its finger to the plain line of duty in the
matter Then the officials tackled the problem again,
and passed one jockey out for 10 years, and fined him £5
for training without a license. Two owners were dis-
qualified for five years, two other jockeys for two years
and 12 months respectively, three horses for five years,
and a former owner of one of the neddies was fined £5 for
neglecting to notify a change of ownership. Then the
stewards rested from their labors.
• • • •
“Running Rein M writes: W. T. Goodge (8.,
13/2/’O4) errs when he says his tale of how Hardmouth
won the Anniversary Handicap at Bobalong is the first
on record to show that the cashier who embezzled money
to bet with came out all right by means of a lucky coup.
The thing actually happened at Bathurst many
years ago, but, thanks to the devilry of a local practical
joker, it had a terribly tragic ending. In order to get
straight, this cashier gathered up all the ready he could
and put it on The Quack for the Melbourne Oup of 1872,
and the pile was landed for him by two lengths. But a
bosom friend, who was never at rest except When working
mischief, wired him from the course, “Ace won by a
length ; better luck next time,” by way, of giving the
cashier a start and heightening his joy later on by send-
ing the correct account. The cashier’was so crushed by
the first wire that he went over to the nearest pub.,
called for a beer, shook a whitish powder into it, and was
dead inside of three minutes. The second wire, inform-
ing him he had won a pile, arrived at his private residence
just as his dead body was being carried through the front
gate. The “ friend ” was “ very sorry,” of course.
* * • «
At last Hobart Oup meeting a couple of book-
makers gained admission and began to bet—refusing to
leave when ordered to go. The police declined to lend a
hand to expel them, acting on the advice of the Attorney-
General. The Noses next race-day simply swarmed into
the ground. Maoriland is in a similar fix as to dealing
with the illegal bookie. The Wellington R.C. declined
to register the bookmakers, yet they assembled in
swarms at the recent Oup meeting and carried on
business. Evidently a Totalisator Act needs to make
definite provision for the suppression of Moses.
* * * *
The only jockey who does the Tod Sloan style
thoroughly is the Sydney rider Hood, still in his appren-
ticeship. He got home on Orry in the Kooyong High-
weight Handicap, at Caulfield last Saturday, perched up
on the horse’s withers, with apparently little grip of the
saddle or reins. Orry’s showing at Caulfield was remark-
able compared with his displays at Randwick a week or
two ago, when he was supposed to be trying.
* * * *
The V.A.T.O. must make a heavy loss on its
so-called Autumn meeting, even though the weather be
favorable next Saturday. Big racing at Caulfield and
Flemington in February-March (seven days in all) is not
expected to pay expenses, but it is bad luck for either
club to run against floods and hurricanes at a time when
the general public want a lot of coaxing to a racecourse.
On February 6th—Oakleigh Plate day—when the Autumn
Horse Carnival was supposed to open at Caulfield, nobody
attended the stormy function, except bookmakers,
owners, trainers, jockeys, stable boys, and a few slaves
of the betting habit. It was such an awful day that the
loafers in town couldn’t stand outside the pub windows
waiting for results to be posted.
• * * *
Rupert Clarke’s horses are cutting a rather con-
temptible figure at Caulfield this meeting. On the first
Saturday, when F.J.A. started at odds-on for a w.f.a.
race, and was beaten by Scottish King and others, the
excuse made for the Derby winner was inability to “act”
on the heavy course. Last Saturday the going was very
fair, nevertheless when Scottish King and F.J.A. met at
level weights in the St. Helier Stakes, the big colt was a
better favorite than the little Derby winner, and the mar-
ket this time indicated the result, for Scottish King, at 2
to 1, won again, whilst F.J.A., at 3 to 1, again failed badly.
In another event, Sweet Nell, winner of the Caulfield
Guineas, V.R.C. Oaks, and Caulfield Cup, went out at 15
to 1, and finished nowhere. Public respect for classic
“ form ” often gets a severe shaking, but it is not often
that a pair of “ crack ’’ stable companions are seen per-
forming like commoners within three months of their
hard-earned celebrity. In the case of Sweet Nell, a
simple excuse suggests itself. The mare can’t carry
weight to advantage—not even the moderate weight of
8.11. Then why start her for a race in which she is asked
to give a couple of stone to older horses of fair quality ?
* * * *
Marmont’s victory in the Bond Cup last Satur-
day (winner disqualified because the jockey was 21b.
under weight) seems to give him a splendid chance of
capturing the Australian Cup next Tuesday week. Carry-
ing 7.7—ca1l it 7.s—Marmont came right away from
the field at the end of a mile and a half. He is
handicapped at 6.12 for the Australian Cup (2J miles),
he has proved his staying powers over the hurdles, and
if the going is nearly as heavy as when Great Scot
did the trick last year, none of the light-barrelled top-
weights will be good enough for the old gelding. In
which case he will not be the first hurdle-racer to take
an Australian Cup. Ringwood, a jumper belonging to
Scobie, carried 7.13 to the fore in 1885, and Ringwood
was probably a slow-coach compared with Marmont. Of
course, there is Scottish King to be reckoned with. The
King’s weight is only 7.l2—as against Lord Cardigan 8.8
and F.J.A. B.lo—and he’s big enough to carry twice the
burden. But one wouldn’t pick an exceptionally tall and
strapping 3-year-old to win a long-distance race.
* • * •
Flattites who go punting with the hope of
winning untold gold from the unregistered “books"
will be interested in a case that cropped up at Fitzroy
(Melb.) court last week. Isaac Aarons, pawnbroker,
stated he had been in the habit of advancing small loans
to one Edward Gorry on the security of his betting bags,
which were part of his stook-in-trade as a bookmaker.
When Gorry wanted to go and “ lay the field ’’ and hadn’t
the necessary coin to redeem his bags,Uncle Aarons would
allow him the loan of them for the day. “ The terms
were that if he proved successful at the races he was to
pay up principal and interest, but otherwise a small sum
would be charged for the loan of the bags. This was
done repeatedly.” One day Bookmaker Gorry borrowed
his bags as usual, but instead of returning them to old
Aarons, he pawned ’em for £1 to a younger Aarons. The
Bench allotted the bags to kind old Uncle Aarons.
* * * »
Fiji is a quiet humdrum place as a rule, aud the
only excitement is when a planter gets a new house-
keeper from India’s coral strand ; but the Sleepy Isles
recently awoke to almost feverish excitement over a race
between Sydney mare Bother and Maorilander Bacchus
for £lOO a-side. Bother won by a neck. Rider of Bacchus
protested that Bother had “interfered,” and the com-
mittee ordered race to be re-run two days later. Bacchus
won by a neck. Starter now protested that both horses
had broken away when he said “ No ” instead of “ Go ! ”
and the committee cheerfully ordered race to be re-run
same afternoon, after refreshments ; but Bother was
beaten easily. Bacchus is brother to M.L. Cup winner
Canteen. Bother’s backers are now agitating for another
re-run. *
* » * *
Most remarkable achievement ever seen on a
Brisbane racing track was Harkaway’s annexation (at
the Park) of the Novice Handicap (sfur.), carrying 12.4,
and winning all the way in the speedy time of 1.5. Once
before a bigger weight was borne over the same course,
when Recovery had 12.5 or 12.7 up, but that nag only
just struggled home. Harkaway has secured nearly a
dozen novice handicaps, and sporting men are waiting to
see what his load will be if he enters for a similar event
again ; he is sure to get a substantial rise, for on latest
occasion he beat his field pointless.
* * * *
Orry was the only N.S.W. nag successful at
Caulfield on Saturday, but N.S.W. jockeys W. H. Smith
(Impression), A. Hood (Orry), and N. Godby (Tisiphone),
steered the first three winners home.
* • * *
Maoriland’s premier jockey, L. H. Hewitt, rode
26 winners at the Christchurch, Auckland, and Wellington
meetings. Seddonia has another promising Tod Sloaner
in Y. Cotton, who got five nags home first at Auckland,
Nelson, and The Hutt.
* * * *
Old Paul Pry is going as gaily as a 2-year-old
on the Flemington track. Paul’s years are now eleven,
and he really seems to be good for a successful second
innings.
* * * »
A Melbourne Cup winning jockey is reported
to be doing a bit as a professional boot black.
* * * *
Ancient M.L. sprinter Blazer, whose owner was
so satisfied that he was past all use that he gave the
horse to his trainer, lately began winning in a startling
manner. At Southland R.O. meeting he was the rankest
of outsiders, but he romped away with the mile and a
distance event, and then cleared out with the Gore Cup,
a 10-furlong event. Giving a played-out horse to a trainer
seems to resemble giving a worked-out mine to the old
employees on tribute.
* * * *
First day of N.S.W.-England return match was
remarkable mostly for unaccountably small scores.
Wicket was good though slow. Seven of the completed
innings failed to supply double figures. English players
were all out for 190, and N.S.W. lost 6 for 152, which,
considering that the tail had to make only 38, left
matters fairly even. The day’s run accumulation totalled
only 342. Of the English, Bosanquet and Hirst,
with 54 and 44 respectively, were the only ones
to exhibit form worth mentioning. For N.S.W.
Hopkins and Trumper, with 52 and 44 respectively, did
unusually well, but the others (bar Noble with 36) were
as flat as last night’s beer. Glebe lightning-trundler
Cotter bowled for catches with great success, securing
five for 44 with his fast risers. Hirst, Rhodes, Bosanquet
and Braund did well with the ball, but the had
judgment and worse cricket of N.S.W. helped them
considerably. Saturday brought better weather, yet
batting continued Slow, only 337 being .recorded—but
for 10 wickets as against Friday’s 16. N.S.W. completed
first innings for 232—42 ahead of the Englishmen. At
stumps draw six English wickets were down for 255,
which gave Bull’s country a lead of 213. On the third
day N.S.W. collapsed. Wicket was perfect, but Bosanquet
in the morning made 114 in little over an hour, and in the
afternoon he scooped six wickets for 45. At the outset
Trumper received a severe blow on the hand. Cotter had
been injured overnight through falling on his shoulderand
dislocating it. Depression seemed to have fallen on the
Cornstalks; a rot set in, and the team which, at the cen-
tury, had only three wickets down, was all out for 141.
Four wickets, remaining good over Sunday, brought the
English score from 255 to 461, and the' match ended
278 in Bull’s favor. Loss of Cotter was a big factor in the
debacle. Noble bowled for the first time since Adelaide
Test, and got two wickets in the second innings.
* V 9
The difference between Rhodes on a soft wicket
and Rhodes on a fast wicket is so remarkable when com-
pared with the averages of other first-class performers as
to suggest that the Yorkshireman is a demon among arm
bowlers, but only a commoner among head bowlers. As
for Hirst, who ranks as a great bowler in England, this
country has not yet discovered any sort of wicket which
suits his particular style of deadliness. His delivery of
the ball is impressive, but he has never shown us where
the virtue of his hop-skip action comes in.
* * * »
But for two misses in the field, Trott .and
Baker, who scored 12 of the 15 runs made by the Vic-
torians in their record innings, would have been out for
ducks. The let-off of Trott (by Bosanquet) robbed Rhodes
of the honor of a “ hat trick.”
* * * *
Victoria’s 15 against the Englishmen set a
Bulletin sport groping down among the depths, where
he discovered that in 1877..M.C.C. got Oxford ’Varsity all
out for 12, and in 1901 Yorkshire put Notts through for
13. On the latter occasion Rhodes bagged six wickets
for four runs. These are the only lower totals than
Victoria’s in the records of the world’s first-class cricket,
so Bent’s State nearly achieved another world’s record.
A State that gets a man like Bent for Premier is capable
of anything in the way of donkey records. As it was, it
is merely an Australian record, this thirsty country never
having seen less than 23 made in an inter-State or inter-
national match, and that was away back, 21 years ago, by
the Crow-eaters against Victoria.
* * • •
The progress of Rhodes. In the two matches
against Victoria he bagged 19 for 152 runs, eight for each
wicket; and in three matches on the Melbourne ground
he accounted for 34 for 276 —an average of 8.11.
* ♦ * *
Foster and Braund are tffe “squirt” batsmen of
the English team. In the first innings of the first test
they scored2B7 and 102 respectively. Second innings they
made 19 and 0, and their figures since then have been
mostly 19 and oor thereabouts. The team for the next
test would undoubtedly be strengthened by the substitu-
tion of Rechabite Knight for Foster, if captain Warner
had the iflind to drop an amateur in favor of a pro. And
why, O why, doesn’t he send the sturdy Hirst to open the
innings along with Hayward? The solid little man
would be pasting the ball, more often than not, before
the bowlers had found their length and warmed to their
work.
* * * *
The ancient gent who wrote in Holy Writ the
story of Lot’s wife was evidently a sport. Mrs. Lot may
have been a myth, but this writer strongly suspects she
was a bikist, and the tale was written to illustrate the
danger of looking back. Negro Taylor peers back at his
rivals under his arm, and is, in consequence, almost as
dangerous to others on the track as an intoxicated ele-
phant. It was looking back which lost Ivor Lawson his
match with the holy wheelist. He might have been
beaten under any circumstances, but the solemn fact
remains that his defeat in both cases was due to the loss
of way caused by looking over his shoulder to see
where the Major was, and what he was about. Immedi-
ately the white Yankee looked round the black one
streaked out, and in each case thereby gained the start
which eventually landed him first over the line. Moral:
Keep pegging away and always be ready to jump. Cycle
racing is a matter of half-seconds.
» * » *
The challenge raoe ’twixb black and white
Yankee cyclists Taylor and Floyd MacFarland at Mel-
bourne Exhibition Oval was a weird farce, and reflected
much discredit on the black pointer. The first heat was
paced. As they reeled into the straight MacFarland was
a full length ahead. Behind him Taylor kicked up his
heels in a remarkable fashion, and gained slowly but per-
ceptibly, but the tape came rushing to them at lightning
speed, and the white man won by a wheel. Twenty
thousand people applauded him frantically. Second heat
was unpaced. Taylor tried to play the same unsports-
manlike game he did with Ivor Lawson. At the start
MacFarland made the pace for a lap, and Taylor hung on
his wheel, using him as a pacemaker and break-wind.
Then the tall Yankee thought it was up to Taylor to lead,
hut that cute Christian wouldn’t, and simply slowed
down till his machine wobb’ed ominoudv. He wanted
Mac. to do all the pacing, so that he would be
fresh at the finish for his jump. Mac. declined to allow the
cullud brudder to bluff him, as Ivor Lawson did, and he,
too, slowed down for a donkey race if necessary. Hoots,
yells, groans, and threats of dismemberment came from
the crowd, but the two riders wobbled along obstinately,
grabbing hold of the fence to keep themselves from fall-
ing. Finally they stopped and hung on the fe.nce. The
judge’s whistle recalled them for a fresh start. Then
Taylor led the way for a lap, when MacFarland, without
any haggling, took his place. Half a lap from home
Taylor was leading, when MacFarland seemed to lift his
machine, and, with a tremendous bound, shot right in
front, where he stayed, with the black a wheel behind.
The judge called it a dead heat, and the crowd howled
for judge on toast. MacFarland left the ground, protest-
ing that he had won, but,in the end, it was declared “no
race,” and ordered to be re-run on Wednesday (after The
Bulletin has gone to press). If Taylor wins there’ll be a
third meeting; if MacFarland gets home first he will have
won the rubber.
* * * *
Said that the “ Major Taylor ” meeting at Mel-
bourne Exhibition Oval was designed and conducted by
Wren, the tote-man, the notorious “sport” who cleared
the way for Bill Martin’s victory in the Austral two
years ago. The attention of the Victorian Government
is respectfully directed to this question of whether Toter
Wren has been renting a Government building for the
purpose of wheel races— and such wheel races !
* * » «
J. B. Dunlop, inventor of the world-famed tyre
which bears his name, has turned his attention to the
improvement of motors. As a result of numerous experi-
ments, he has placed on the market a new automatic
carburetter (the part of the machine which turns the
petrol into gas) which promises to do as much for motor-
ing as his wonderful tyre did for cycling.
* * * *
The big “Sydney Thousand” bike race comes
off at Sydney Cricket Ground sometime in March.
The entries closed on February 6th, and nearly every
crack rider in the Australias is entered. The distance is
a mile, and last year the event was won by N. C.
Hopper, of the U.S.A. There seems to be a possi-
bility of it going Yankeewards this year also, as Ivor
Lawson, Floyd MacFarland, and Major Taylor are all
getting themselves into fine condition for the day, and
already see the reflection of the money ahead.
* • * *
“Fact Otum”: Rare occurrence of partici-
pants in fight both falling out of the ring was witnessed
in Kalgoorlie, at Dempsey’s Grounds, on night of 6th ult.
Sam Keenan and Peter Murphy had fought eight warm
rounds, and, in the ninth, Keenan rushed the other
to the ropes. Corner-post gave way and the two
heavy-weights were precipitated to the ground, Murphy
landing on his back. Referee Brew decided the rules of
the p.r. required him to rule it a draw—and did so.
Keenan, who was going the stronger at time of accident,
took the decision very badly. Can any Bulletin reader
cite other instances of fighters leaving the ring, by acci-
dent or otherwise, and the verdicts there anent?
* * * *
The hideous exhibition made by Tasmania’s
bantam champion, J. Evans, at Sydney Gaiety Club last
Saturday will do a lot to spoil the pug export business of
the Flyspeck. Although apparently hard as nails and in
capital fix, he had no hope against eight-stone Green,
who bashed and walloped him round the ring at plea-
sure. The one-sided proceeding was stopped by the
police in the third round.
• * * *
Newcastle bruiser, Paddy King, stopped
the triumphal progress of Westralian Dunn, who had
been raging through them all, after seven enthusiastic
rounds. King is the bruiser whom Newcastle delighted
to honor with the gift of a Bible when he went forth to
look for scalps. He is only sft. 2in. high, but owns a
chest measurement of 41in., and has an abnormal reach.
Also, he’s as hard as he is broad.
* * * *
“Black Paddy,” the aboriginal bruiser from
Fremantle, was beaten on points by Melbourne feather-
weight “ Silver,” after 15 exciting rounds at Perth (W.A.)
recently. Although the black was 101 b. heavier, and full
of courage, the superior skill of the white man was too
great a handicap. The gong saved our dark brother
from a knock-out several times, but, like his race, he
quietly withered away before the tougher-fibred white.
* * * *
Westralian sporting scribes are in a state of
intense astonishment at the discovery that bruisers
Paddy King, Jack M‘Gowan and Billy Sullivan neither
drink nor swear. Apparently they expected that pro-
fessional fighters would feed on raw beef and illuminate
their conversation with sunset adjectives before every
second word. Heavy-weight champion M'Coll neither
smokes, swears nor drinks, but he’s a terror on water
melons. One-time Australian light-weight premier
George Dawson was also another most abstemious, clean-
living man. The pug, to be successful, must have
perfect health, and the elements of health are found in
careful living, although swearing is not known to be
physically injurious—as long as the man sworn at is a
quiet individual.
* * * *
Sydney bowling pennant competition is nearing
the end. On Saturday, Chatswood, Redfern and St.
George went down before Victoria Park, Petersham and
City respectively, and the victors are the only ones left
in. City is unbeaten, but both the others have been
walloped once. The final should be rather exciting.
* * * *
Sporting item from North Queensland paper:—
CHALLENGE.
T HEREBY CHALLENGE any NATIVE BLACK
in North Queensland to EAT A HOT PLUM
DUFF for a stake of £\. Man and money at J. O.
Porritt’s, Gill-street, any time after 9 o’clock This
Morning.
CONDITIONS.—StruggIe to be decided at Theatre
Royal Next Saturday Evening. Weight of Plum
Duff, 21bs.
(Signed) SANDY,
Winner late Contest at Show Grounds.
* * * *
The rage for “thanks” advertisements cul-
minated thus in Windsor (N.S.W.) Gazette (23/l/’O4): —
ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
T DESIRE to publicly' acknowledge the generous
**■ and liberal action of Henry Rivett, Esq., owner
of the trotting stallion, Tuxedo, in foregoing the fee
for the services of his horse upon hearing that my
chestnut mare had died.— Alma Turnbull, Windsor.
* * * *
They carry the Holy Roman and Yellow Pup
frenzy into their football in Ireland. During the last
fortnight of December two matches had to be left
unfinished between the Linfield (Protestant) and Celtic
(R.C.) clubs, both belonging to Belfast. In the second
case, a bottle thrown at the visiting goalkeeper
began the trouble, then stones were freely ex-
changed, and the police closed in and the
players closed up. So clearly is the religious
fervor of the clubs realised that to call out “Go it,
Blues ! ” or “ Hurroo for the Stripes ! ” (their respective
colors) in the public streets, or anywhere away from the
playing field, is now recognised as an attempt to start
a sectarian riot, and costs 40s. for “insulting language”
every time! Very soon we may hear of the Protestant
ball being excommunicated or the R.C. ball denounced
as a horrible device of the Scarlet Woman. Plainly what
Belfast needs is a dispassionate Mahommedan football
club.
* * * *
Mr. S. A. Spragg, a well-known young Australian
footballer, died at Brisbane last week. Treated for ten
days for typhoid, he was discovered to be suffering from
appendicitis, and an operation was performed, from
which he never rallied. Spragg was the finest three-
quarter back of his time, and had played for both
N.S.W. (his native State) and Queensland in inter state
matches, and for the continent against the British team,
which visited us some five years ago. He was also an ex-
cellent oarsman, all-round athlete, and pleasant, well-
liked fellow.
At Poverty Point.
The Broughs are said to be returning to Australia with
a co. after they have toured S’Africa.
Bland Holt and co. make their Easter re-appearance in
Sydney at the Royal (not the Lyceum), opening the season
with that mighty fine drama, “ The Great Millionaire.”
More trouble behind the scenes at a leading Australian
theatre. Trouble behind the scenes is incidental to
theatrical art in all its branches, but it thrives best on a
musical diet. The more musical the show the more fre-
quent the trouble, as a rule.
An amateur who attempts to shine amongst profes-
sionals has a lot of difficulties to contend with. Noticed
that when Miss Unie Russell (Mrs. G. B. Lewis’s pupil)
appeared as Juliet in the balcony scene, on the last
night of Musgrove’s Shakspearian season, the effect
was spoilt in a great measure by the turning of a sea-
green limelight on the golden-haired damsel.
“ Melb.” : Premier Deakin, opening the A.N.A. Musical
and Elocutionary Competitions, gave a salutary hint that
this kind of thing is overdone. Melba, Crossley, and
Castles have sent the girls off their heads. All consumed
with a devouring thirst to get before the public. Stainer
said : “ I have tried 19,000 voices, and only found 25 good
ones.”
The proprietor of the quiet hotel, with some show of
embarrassment, took the departing- week-end visitor
aside. “ Just a moment, sir,” he saul. “ Oh, I’ve just
paid, Joe,” said the guest, in his best off-hand manner.
“ It’s not that, Mr. Footlight,” said the careful licensee,
in a low voice, “ but, if you could manage to have Mrs.
Footlight as near to the same height an’ build as possible
every time, I’d be so pleased. There’s a lot of ladies
staying here, as you know, sir—an’, well, people will
talk ; an’—you know, sir. Thanks, sir; much obliged
indeed, sir. Good morning ! ”
The police of Maoriland always se'em ready to give a
theatrical show a free advertisement by summoning the
proprietor for over-crowding, or something of that sort.
Last prosecution occurred at Dunedin, strong man Her-
cules being proceeded against violently for giving exhi-
bitions of his strength in the street. It was successfully
contended for the defence that the section under which
the charge was laid prohibited the exhibition of any
object or thing, and that Hercules’ little ghow couldn’t
be called an object or thing.
As the result of a recent theatrical venture, which
appeared to be a financial success, a certain Australian
manager is threatening to go insolvent under pressure
from a principal creditor.
The late Col. Bingham was one of the best comic
amateurs ever known in Melbourne. The last part he
acted was Admiral Rankling in Pinero’s “Schoolmistress”
at Rupert Clarke’s house in East Melbourne.
Lola Montes, from the Dictionary of National Bio-
graphy. Maiden name, Marie Dolores Eliza Rosanna
Gilbert. Born in Limerick, 1818. Died in New York,
1861. Her father was Ensign Gilbert, of the British
army. Her mother, nie Collins, had Spanish bb od.
They went to India. Gilbert died there, 1825. Mrs.
Gilbert married Capt. Craigie. The so-called Lola (short
for Dolores) was sent in 1826 to Scotland for education,
and afterwards to Paris. Approaching womanhood she
lived in Bath with her mother, who wanted her to
marry Sir A. Lumley, aged 50. She eloped with
Capt. James, and married him in 1837. They went to
India, whence they returned to England in 1842. Jam< s
obtained a divorce from her, through her misconduct
with one Lennox, on board ship. She appeared at Her
Majesty’s, London, 1843, as Lola Montes, Spanish Dancer.
Went next to Dresden, Berlin, Warsaw, St. Petersburg,
where Czar Nicholas loaded her with presents. Next
heard of in Paris. Her rule in Bavaria, under the name
of Countess of Lansfeld, lasted from March, 1847, to
March, 1848. In 1849 she was announced to perform at
Covent Garden, London, in a drama called, “ Lola
Montes, or a Countess for an Hour,” but apparently it
was prohibited by the Lord Chamberlain, and not acted.
She was shortly afterwards married, at St. George’s,
Hanover Square, to G. T. Heald, a rich gentleman, aged
only 21. His aunt instituted proceedings for bigamy,
wherefore they went to Spain. Lola is rumored to have
had two children there. Heald is said to have been
drowned at Lisbon. Lola had left him before this ai.d
gone to America in the same ship with Kossuth. Ap-
? eared in Dec., ’5l, at the Broadway Theatre, New
ork, in a ballet. Then a dramatist named Ware
coopered up for her the drama called “Lola Montes
in Bavaria, or Danseuse, Politician, Countess, Revolu.
tionist and Fugitive.” She acted this in America, Sydney ,
and Melbourne. In California, 1853, she married her
third husband, P. P. Hull, proprietor of the San Francis< o
Whig. This did not last long. Lola opened at tl e
Sydney Victoria Theatre, Aug., J. 855. Thence she pro-
ceeded to Melbourne and the goldfields. In 1857 she
started lecturing in America. Her lectures were writtc n
by the Rev. Chauncey Burr, of New Y'orlt. The last two
years of her life were comparatively peaceful, than..s to
the kind offices of an old schoolmate.


Franz Josef Lager
. . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
GOLD INITIAL BROOCHES
Set with REAL PEARLS.
EVERY INITIAL IN STOCK.
VALUE REfIARKABLE,
7
6
7
6
Post Free.
Send for Catalogue.
ƒ
This Lovely WREATH
BROOCH,
SOLID GOLD,
>t with HEAL PEARLS
and
Turquoise,
-Amethyst,
Obsidian,
or Topaz,
32/6
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd.
90 KING ST., SYDNEY
(Immediately next door to the Fresh
Food and lee Company's Tea Rooms).
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
THE
im
LETTER BOOK
Makes a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write e
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
Prom O. Plummer,
Straw Hat Manufacturer.
Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
August 18, 1902.
Two months’ trial of the Pin Carbon Lbttbr Book obtained from you has satisfied us
that your
PEN
roduce
reserve
revent
G
ARBON
lean
opies
onfusion
L
ETTER
egible
asting
oss and
OOKB
ills
right
ad Language
Sole Australasian
Agents—
Yours faithfully, C. PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
E. RICH &CO., Ltd
SYDNEY.
BRI BANE.
VO
o
H
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
H
MAKERS OF
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1903)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output-NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT HT —i
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
.ranchesihall.TATßS- 97A Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & GO.
34 Queen St.,
bourne
1000 Agents in
Australasia.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Win Prizes on the Track.
Win Praises in the Bush.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 357 George 5t., Sydney
“ J.A.C.” : Be tree grubs (J. E. Preston-
Muddock, B. 4/2/’O4). There is in Maoriland a
grub which bores (principally in matai and
totara pine) a hole half-an-inch in diameter as
truly as if done by an auger. This grub is greedily
eaten by the Maoris, and is esteemed a delicacy
by many Europeans. Mr. Bold, Inspector-
General of Telegraphs for Hawke’s Bay province,
told me that the flavor reminded him of a very
delicate filbert. I never tackled one myself,
though I have eat en snails.
SHARPS HOOTING
sdfs
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK /
180 Pages, ioo Illustrations, 1/- nirr.•
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ewer Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
O. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Creener’s Representative).
mim
mum
[Ml]
ra<§ra
iiK
emo
II %.ll
i msm
Qll 111
m
nil lun
mm r
ljiOß the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GKO. Jr. ALLIS.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugenei 91 Pitt Street) Sydney.
Sending, mention this pape'
CHAS GILBERT’S
CLOTHING # CURIOSITY
Q
u
E
E
N
S
J.i
You’ve perhaps heard of the boy who tickled
the foot of a mule to see how high he could kick.
You may also have heard he found out. If you
desire to satisfy your curiosity by putting up good
money for an unknown make of clothing, when you
can buy my <£ ECONOMIC” ready-to-wear
guaranteed clothing, don’t grumble when you
find out you could have done better by seeing my
goods and prices first, and satisfying your curiosity
in a more satisfactory manner.
Suits 25 - to 45/-
Carriage free ; and your money back if you are not
satisfied. Write to-day for patterns.
m
i
R
N
a
advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.’’
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving- Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OP SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF 114 lbs.
■ in. mJmkrn mtfm
s
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAB
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U:S.A.
George of Cambridge is, apparently, on
his last legs. He contracted a morganatic
marriage—married a non - royal person who
through her life was known as Mrs. Fitz-
George. She was not recognised at Court,
but George stuck to her through thick and
thin, unlike some of his Royal relations. Their
sons were an admiral in the navy and a colonel in
the army respectively, and were both A.D.C.’s to
the old man.
Alfred Deakin is so fond of presenting
things rosy-end first and obtruding his personal
gratification over whatever turns up that it is very
likely he really spoke as thus reported on immi-
gration :
I have been gratified to learn that during the last few
years there have been, and still are, in the United
Kingdom a number of men who have been engaged in
farming, who find conditions obtaining in the mother
countj-y so severe that they are looking for homes else-
where.
Reminds of an early Australian Governor who, in
a despatch acknowledging the receipt of a ship-
load of convicts, expressed his appreciation of the
brisk business in the way of convicting people and
sending them out to the hanging and flogging
colony.
John Farrell’s Poems.
ONE GUINEA SPECIAL MEMORIAL EDITION.
Intending subscribers are reminded that the issue will
be limited to 500 COPIES ONLY, and as a large number
of these are already bespoke, immediate application will
be necessary to prevent disappointment.
The undermentioned members of the committee will
receive applications and promptly acknowledge remit-
tances, and the books will be issued in the order in which
they are applied forßose Scott, 204 Jersey-road,
Woollahra; Senator J. P. Gray, Ashfield ; B rt Stevens,
76 Denison-street, Woollahra ; T. Courtney, Daily
Telegraph Office ; W. E. Johnson, M.P., “ Bonnie Boon,”
Marrickville ; Victor Daley, Manly ; W. 0. Norman, Doll’s
Point, Sandringham ; John Longmuir, Newsletter
Office, Park-street ; Frank Cotton, Hornsby ; 0. von
Hagen, 52-7 George-street, City; Rev. W. H. Beale,
Paddington.
There has just passed away a quiet, un-
obtrusive, genuinely benevolent Melbourne insti-
tution in the shape of Ascancio De Freitas’ “ eight
o’clock rush.” For 32 years De Freitas opened
his Bourke-street restaurant doors at eight every
evening to all who wanted a meal—good and bad.
deserving and otherwise —asking neither reward
nor advertisement. Now the kind old publican
and his wife return to their native Portugal to
spend their declining years. If the prayers of
the grateful avail anything, these years should be
long and happy.
Rev. Chas. Strong, pastor of the un-
financial Australian Church, Melbourne, gets £lOOO
for his reverend self under the will of the late
Alfred Felton. Strong’s windfall calls attention
to the rarity of such bequests to Protestant par-
sons. In every up-country or sea-coastal district
the weary shepherd, who covers an awful lot of
ground every week, is probably so ill-paid that his
horse is the best fed member of his family. There
are a few wealthy people among his scattered
parishioners who profess a respectful sympathy
for him. But no one seems to think of leaving
“ fifty ” or a “ hundred ” to the poor devil.
Just Try
a pair of DUNLOP
RUBBER CUSHION
HEELS, and you
THE DUNLOP
CUSHION HEEL
makes a wonderful
difference in walking,
affording great comfort
by preserving the
cushion tread. It ab-
sorbs all jarring, and
will outlast two or-
dinary leather heels.
Made in all sizes, for
Ladies and Gents. In
ordering specify Size
No. of boots worn, or
send drawing of boot
heel. Instructions and
Nails for fitting packed
in box. Price, 2/- pair.
Posted, 2/4.
From all Storekeepers,
or direct from us.
67\|lP
CUSHION HEEL
©Oo
w
:.V
Cushion
Heels
Ensure easy o
comfortable
Walking.
The Dunlop Pneumatic lyre Co of Aus. Ltd Melb.
Sydney Adelaide Perm Brisbane• sChristchurch. N.Z
Sydn y House:
150 Clarence Street.
will be surprised at the
comfort they afford.
Obtainable from any
respectable boot shop.
BE SURE AND SPECIFY
Dunlop Heels


The achievements of Havelock, in India, have brought undying
fame to his credit. The defence of Cawnpore and the relief of
Lucknow are both stirring events in the history of that awful
Mutiny. The name of HAVELOCK will be remembered as the
greatest name in the long list of heroes that helped to save India to
the British nation. ......
And in the realms of commerce, no less than of war, the
name of .......
u
f*
will be remembered as the title and distinguishing mark of a great
achievement. .......
Not many years ago "HAVELOCK” Tobacco was
unknown; to-day it is spoken of and smoked throughout the
Commonwealth. .......
The determination of the proprietors to succeed, the efforts
towards perfect manufacture, the almost heroic attempts to secure,
amidst the greatest competition, the finest selected leaf, the
incessant study of the taste of the Australian smoker, and, finally,
the constant daily effort to procure for "HAVELOCK” Tobacco
everything that was of the best —from the leaf in Virginia to the
most skilled workmen and the best machinery—has built up for
“ HAVELOCK” Tobacco an enduring reputation that few will be
found to question. It is no exaggeration to say, that . •
"HAVELOCK”
Is the best pipe-smoking tobacco in the world —best made, best
material, and best in all those qualities that the intelligent smoker
looks for. . . . . • . . .
“ Havelock” is sold in plugs or tins—Aromatic or Dark.
There will be a terrible accident one day
if regulations are nob framed to prevent the
overcrowding of floating baths in Sydney harbor
during swimming carnivals.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, .Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
After a run of oyer half a century, the
little brick public house in Phillip-street, Sydney,
known as The Blue Belle, has lost its license"
The last tenant was a lady who played chamber-
maids and such with Q-. V. Brooke in Melbourne
Royal in the late 50’s.
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
ULULimii
w
OLDEN
mm
ym
■ f&ii&a
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes thus: “The action of
Golden Frutex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Good for INFANTS and AGED alike*
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS. Obtainable Everywhere—Box, 20 Tablets, Is 6d.
Head Office for Australasia—3l7 COLLINB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mqw Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
X.td.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
PAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
; Ar i
m
oO
Concerning Elgin Watches^-
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewel®; 70s, Bilver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADIES’ —Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
(Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE.
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
EM O S
HEADACHE, FRUIT
SALT.’
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SOLD BY CHBMISTS, Sc.. BVBRYWHBRB.
PRICE 6d.; POSTED, Bd.
Tales of The Penance Track.
AMOS CLARE'S RESURRECTION
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old man with the swag and the black billy-
can rapped at the wicket-gate, and the lion, grip-
ping the key of justice in his mouth, frowned down
at him. Warder O Connor, doing duty at the
gate, peeped through the observation hole, opened
the gate, and the derelict drifted in. /
“You want to see your son? What’s his
name?”
The old man replied, and then sat in the office
staring stupidly around him while the Deputy
turned over the leaves of the prison register. j ■
“You’ve made a mistake, old man; we haven’t
got him here; he must be somewhere else.”
“No, he is here,” said the old man; “Mad
Regan told me he was here, and he ought to
know. ”
“ What was he like?” questioned the Deputy.
“A young sapling, could whip anyone in the
district; hammered Kealy, the trooper, one day
till he couldn’t stand.”
“ Any marks on him ? ”
“No, a clean skin. Let me have a look at the
men. I’ll pick him out.”
The Deputy-Governor smiled. <“ Come back at
dinner time. I’ll make a big try to find him.”
* * * *
The prison- bell rang for dinner, and the grey-
jackets trooped out of the workshops and formed
in double-rank in the lane. The overseer of
labor and the Deputy tallied them, and drill-
master Ryan waited to march them to the yards.
Then the Deputy spoke: “An old man called
this morning to see his son who, he thinks, is
serving a sentence under an assumed name. He
is going to Liverpool asylum to end his days.
I can’t pick the son from his description, so if the
man is here and is not afraid of any consequences
that might arise through the authorities knowing
his right name -mind, it will be looked ,up—he
can see his father. The name is Amos Clark.”
No one moved. The Spider whispered to
Rajah Riley—“Aman would be a mug to give
himself away.” Then there was a shuffle in the
back rank, a man elbowed his way through the
front, took two paces, and stood to attention. It
was George Saunders, “the Long Tough.”
“Tell the old man,” he said. “That’s my
name.”
The rest were marched into the yards.
The interview was over in 20 minutes. That is
the regulation time allowed for interviews. The
father leT for Liverpool two days afterwards, and
the same train carried “The Tough ” on his way
to Darlinghurst to stand his trial as Amos Clark
on a charge of uttering a forged £5-note two
years previously
■» * * *
The prisoner had no defence to offer, and the
Jury returned a verdict of “Guilty” without
leaving the box. His Honor sentenced him to
three years hard labor in Darlinghurst Gaol.
At the foot of the little stair that leads from the
dock ,'t'o the underground, passage “The Tough”
told the tale of his “ resurrectipn ” to the warder
in charge of the sentenced prisoners. ‘‘ If the old
man knew I got three stretch for the sake of a
chip with him, he’d go crook.”
The warder cut off a “chew” of “flat” and
gave it to him. “ There’s no need to tell you I
didn’t give it to you ; you’re white,” he said, and
“ The Tough ” was comforted somewhat.
N.S.W
THE WASP.


THE DEAF OF THE PRESENT DAY.
Half a century ago the person who-became deaf
could entertain very slight hopes of a cure. The
deaf person of to-day, however, is in a different
position, for the advancement of science in the
past twenty years has placed within the reach of
the Aurist a means of cure for a class of cases of
ear diseases once considered hopeless. Those
who do not realise how great has been the success
of this special branch,of medicine should read the
latest issue of “The Review of Ear, Nose, and
Throat Diseases,” describing the latest method of
treating ear diseases, based on an external applica-
tion. This issue of the ‘‘Review’’* has been
placed at the disposal of the public and though
published in London, England, a free copy can be
obtained by writing to “Review,” c/o Box 241
G.P.0., Sydney. With, the “ißeviewi” there is
also a report form by means' of which anyone can
obtain free advice by post.*
The remaining copies of Phil May in
Australia can be had on application to The
Bulletin office or leading booksellers; price 21s.
Elicited during the prosecutions in con-
nection with the Mt. Keinbla disaster motor car
art union that another recent art union, held
in aid of Sydney charities, resulted in a sum of
£1864 being raised by selling tickets. Ihe
expenses reached £1296, leaving 1 «£o6B for the
charities. Art unions held for charity roust, to
comply with the law, receive the imprimatur of
the Attorney-General. That functionary evidently
doesn’t exercise a nearly strict-enough super-
vision. '
CUTS AND BRUISES
should receive immediate treatment before the
parts become swollen, which can only be done
when Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is kept at hand.
One application gives relief.*
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
llmperial
E\>e * *
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens yision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-
IMPERIAL.*
chsmists k ifcors*. Post 2/2 from Proprietary, Melb!
YOUTH AND DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ jrriJY dig you here?” the maiden saith.
'' “ Not for a living," chuckles Death;
“ But homes 1 make
For poor men’s sake
MVho’ve weary grown of Love and Breath."
“ Nail, nay! ” she cries, "it cannot be
That men could leave delights I see,
Here in the cold,
Below the mould,
fn darkness deep to bide with thee!”
Death grins : “ Ah, Beauty has its course,
And Love turns sour—its voice grows hoarse.
Right gladly, then,
The weary men
Come here to seek the long divorce!”
SNELL.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“San Remo”: An instance of John Bull’s
conservative trade ways. My firm (drapers, clothiers, etc.)
had done remarkably well with a certain line of light sac
coats, German made. The value was right, and the
measurements and cut of garments suited our trade Al.
The boss caught the preferential trade fever, and decided
to give the Britisher a chance. The agent of a large
British clothing firm received a handsome order, also
sample of German coat. Instructions were to have cut,
measurements, style and fold similar. The improved
way of folding light coats, right side out instead of
reverse, is credited to Germany. It is not only an improve-
ment in detail, but an advantage when displaying goods.
The instructions were ignored with lordly scorn. Coats
not to measure or cut of sample. To add insult to
injury, coat sample was refolded in the prehistoric
method. The Britisher possesses one trait of character
in common with the Chinaman : what was good enough
for his forefathers is good enough for him.
* * * *
“ D.”: The custom of carrying on a business
under the name of a former proprietor who has died pro-
duces queer sensations sometimes. My baker passed the
barrier some months back, but the business is still
covered with his name. A few weeks before Xmas I re-
ceived a circular from the dead man, saying he was
baking magnificent Xmas cakes at 25., 2s. 6d., and 3s. fid.,
and would I send in my order at once, as there was ah
unusual demand. It put me off his cakes. My wife made
one ; it may not have been magnificent, but I knew where
it was cooked.
* * * *
Evidence given during the course of a N.S.W.
Industrial Arbitration Court hearing, reveals the pro-
gress made by the Chinese as storekeepers in many
of our inland towns. Speaking of his o-.vn district, the
sworn testimony of one witness was that there were five
Chinese stores, employing (exclusive of managers) 45
hands, with an estimated stock of £23,310, and a turn-
over of about £72,000 per year. This was in Inverell and
Tingha, A Chinese storekeeper at Glen Innes had a
turnover of something like £45,000 in cash a year, and
employed over 30 hands. Information supplied to the
witness by a man well acquainted with the west of the
State \vas to the effect that in each of -11 western towns
there was one Chinese general storekeeper or more, and
in the north a somewhat similar condition of things.
Some interesting particulars were given as to the busi-
ness methods of the Mongolian. Starting in business, he
would not. buy out. a white man’s place, but trust to
undercutting- to establish a position. Money was
deposited with him by confiding countrymen in varying
sums without any interest being required for the use of
it. All being partners in a concern, the Early Closing
Act did not affect them, nor any assistants’ log. The
witness added that it was from Australians, and not from
his own countrymen, that the Chinese storekeeper
derived his main patronage.
“J.F.D.”: I discovered a few days
back why the second-hand clothes business
requires a husband and wife for its successful
management. Half a ton of clothes came into
my possession, and I notified an Ole Clo’ firm.
Next day a greasy Jewess arrived, and, plough-
ing through the lot, condemned them as
utterly worthless, after which she said she
would rob her children if she offered more than
£3. I used language, and the Jewess left.
Next day a battered-looking he-Israelite called,
and, after half an hour’s examination, offered
£3 55., and we closed. Later on I found that
the battered Israelite was the husband of the
greasy Jewess, and the trick of the trade
became apparent.
“M.”: The police should occasionally
interview the person
who has a diamond
pin, ring or garter
pawned for £2O, and
who wants to dispose
of the ticket for 255.
He or she is in some
cases a tool in the
.employ of Cohen,
and the article
pledged for £2O is
worth about £3.
The purchaser of the
ticket cannot - see
the article without
paying the interest
due, so Cohen gets a
div. even if he does
not redeem.
* * *
The Law as
Tantalus. During
1903 famished credi-
tors sued to the
extent of £5386 in
Geelong (Vic.)
County Court, and
only recovered £9051
It cost them £3Bl to
get that much
An American
brewery advertises,
and advertises truly :
“VVe go 1400 ft. down
for water. We spend
fortunes on cleanli-
ness. We not only
filter the beer, but
filter all the air that
touches it. We
age the beer for
months, so it cannot cause biliousness. We pasteurize
every bottle after it is sealed." It is thoroughness of that
sort that commands success in the making of food pro-
ducts. Such, in fact, is the only road to success.
* * * *
Like Melbourne, Sydney only had one “ horse-
undertaker” for years, but his haughtiness fathered
competition. He used to pay nothing for the corpse, and
was generally so long in coming for it that the owner,
being stirred up by the health authorities, telephoned
that he would pay funeral expenses. So the “ under-
taker ” grew fat. Now there is competition, and a dead
horse is worth to its owner 7s. 6d. Dead horses go to'the
Zoo, to the dogs, or to the poultry farmers, who use them
to fatten the Xmas duck.
• * * *
“ Prooshan ” : Met a poor-looking, but clean,
old man, in a Waverley (Sydney) tram, two years ago.
“ Sydney is in a fearful state,” he said ; then, drawing a
greasy letter from his pocket, “ This is from my son,
Jimmy, on the Richmond.” He sighed a hundred
fathoms deep, and then read as follows : •“ Dear father—
Just a line to say we are all well. Emily has another
little son. Our little church is near done, and we want
you in the Sunday-school, and to lead the choir. I think
you are foolish to be battling in Sydney, with your poor
weak eyes. You should come up here. If you can raise
half the, fare, I will give you the rest." Dad sighed
again. “1; only need 2s. Bd. now,” he said, and I came
down with the coin. But, the other day, I spotted the
same old gent on a tram, and again he delivered his sigh
and produced Jimmy’s letter, which was in blue ink this
time.
At Grampus Range (S.A.) a single wheat-plant,
self-sown, has
produced 3667
grains, weighing
4foz. Record? To
sow a bushel of
this variety and
reap 3667 bushels
would be a useful
investment.
• * »
“Stony”: The
sanitary bread-en-
velope hasn’t yet
come to Mel-
bourne. Saw a
baker’s man, one
day, jump out of
his cart, grab a
loaf, dodge past
the horse’s head,
and pat thehorse’s
nose as he ran,
transfer the loaf to
the nose-patting
hand, open the
gate with the
other, take the
loaf in the gate-
hand, and knock
at the door. ‘* Nothin’
to-day, mum?” Reverse move-
ment, including affectionate treatment
of the horse, and then the undelivered loaf
was slung back into the cart, to be passed on
to the next customer.
L. and N. comprise an Adelaide firm. _ L.
reckons himself a steady-going person, and N. is an
eccentric individual, who does all manner of quaint
things. L. came to the office one day and was surprised
to see two shapely damsels, who smelt like a scent
factory, trying to operate on a typewriter. “ Who are
you ?” he asked. “ Oh, Mr. N.’s put us on to work here,”
quoth one damsel, blushing; “ he’s going to reform us.”
L. passed on to find N., and ran upon a whisky-nosed
flight of a male person poring over a law book. “ Who
the devil are you ?” he gasped. “ I’ve been put on here
by Mr. N.,” said the man. “Oh, he’s going to reform
you, too, I suppose ? ” “ Er—yes, that was his expres-
sion.” Then L. sought out reformer N., and pointed out
to him the error of his ways. “ When you feel these fits
for reforming people coming on,” he advised, “ you ought
to clear out for a day or two’s holiday.”
* » * *
King David, of the Age, at most times is no
fool. But latterly he has been having his leg pulled. A
soul-stirring wrangle has been allowed to go on in the
Age as to whether porridge is injurious to Australians,
and as to whether the new ’Merican wheat foods are not
much better. Looks like one huge free advt. on the part
of the American Food Fad Cos. To get a Scotchman to
print remarks derogatory to “ parritch,” and at the same
time to give a free advt., seems the height of genius.
Aboriginal Marriage Law.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australian aboriginal marriage laws may be
briefly summed up as among, if not the,
most intricate on the face of the globe. So
difficult of understanding were they that ex-
perienced writers like Fison were led astray,
mistaking a not uncommon custom (under certain
conditions) of lending or exchanging women for
a fixed law. Personally, I take it as the aboriginal
mode of courtesy, or doing honor, or making wel-
come a visitor, for it is handed down to us by our
early explorers that not infrequently were women
pressed upon them. Lumholtz also mentions
his difficulty in refusing the proffered local
beauty. Yet, amongst themselves, the natives
are very jealous and punish any immorality most
severely.
The aboriginal woman belongs to her husband
as absolutely as his spear or his boomerang—a
slave and a toy, something to be petted one
moment, and half killed the next. They are
taken as wives at from 10 to 13 years of age,
and frequently are mothers at from 12 to 13
years. They are rarely wooed and won, being
usually bartered by a father or brother to some old
man in exchange for his sister, or daughter, or
woman over whom he has control. Thus a single
woman belongs to her father, and after him to his
sons or heirs and nearest of kin males.
In native tribes runaway matches or elope-
ments do occur, but not nearly so frequently as
amongst white races. In such instances the males
most concerned usually fight with spears or
waddies, and the unfortunate woman has a barbed
spear driven through the fleshy part of the thigh
or through her foot into the ground. I have wit-
nessed both punishments, and marvelled at the
fortitude and apparent indifference of the victim.
An aboriginal cannot explain the why or the
wherefore of his marriage code, but he sticks
religiously to it nevertheless. His father before
him and his tribe “all about like that longtime,”
and that is sufficient.
Consanguineous marriages are held in horror by
the blacks, and their children are specially warned
against them. On no account is the marriage
of first cousins permitted. It has been claimed
by some writers that communal or group mar-
riage existed very largely throughout Australia.
If such is correct, all I can say is that I have
never found it so,. either east, west, north or
south. Further, I feel quite sure it is an
erroneous statement. Wives are undoubtedly
lent to brothers and distinguished visitors, etc.,
but are not held in common by any native law or
even custom. George Grey, one of our earliest
and best authorities, says—“ Astern and vigilant
jealousy is commonly felt by every married
native. He cannot, from the roving nature of
his life, surround his wives with the walls of a
seraglio, but custom and etiquette have drawn
about them barriers nearly as insurmountable.”
Any man who is a great hunter and warrior
will often be well supplied with wives—sometimes
through men of humbler status giving him their
female relatives in order to stand well with him,
and occasionally through some wanton, struck on
his dashing manner and fine appearance, running
off with him, and his subsequent victory in single
AN UNREASONABLE EXPECTATION.
CALLOUS BRUTE: “If you contemplate poisoning
yourself, where's the use of giving you. 6d? ”
LUGUBRIOUS HARRY: “ You wouldn't have a bloke
take it in water, would you?"
combat over her proper owner. But even the
most Homeric aboriginal cannot obtain wives
except by these recognised methods. If'he sets
the laws of his tribe at open defiance he will
assuredly be killed for his pains.
In no aboriginal tribe do women hold a status
anything equal to that of men. In a general way
they cannot even _ inherit property ; they are
chattels and nothing more.
As a rule, the native women do not bear large
families, and rarely rear more than two or three
boys and a single girl. Bachelors preponderate,
many not obtaining wives until well on in life.
The old men monopolise all the prizes in the
matrimonial mart, consequently the young wife
often shows a marked disinclination to join
her consort, and has at times to be hurried up
by a vigorous flogging from her new lord and
master. *
HARRY STOCKDALR.
CASUAL SONGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Gate of the Hapless Dreams.
Set far back from the world’s wide way, deep in a
shadowed wall,
Carven about with curious skill,
With shapes that still
Writhe at the pillars tall,
Where the brooding black-winged Form above
deep-sunk in a stupor seems,
It swings to the breath of the passing years —the
Gate of the Hapless Dreams.
Gay was I when my feet first strayed from the
busy path away,
Light with the burden of summer years, bright
with the dawning day ;
Ay, I was gay with the thoughts of Youth,
filled with a scornful pride,
And I swung the Gate and I laughed aloud and I
passed to the other side.
Pleasant it was to drowse and dream while the
great world’s way swept by ;
To build hopes vast
While days raced past,
Clouds in a driving sky.
And all of the passing world of strife grew hollow
to me, and vain :
For Will of Life had won to the Gate that it may
not pass again.
My stay grew longer and longer still away from
the cares that fought,
Breaking, building, and breaking dreams that
never could come to aught,
Till shadows about me grew and grew, and doubts
at n.y deep thought tore,
For joy of the dreaming was less and less, desire
of the dreaming more.
And now that Youth is dead, and Hope, and
Honor is lost in sleep,
And though, all-clear,
I surely hear
Voice of the Black Hours deep,
Though the black-winged Shape at the portal-bars
stirs as I wander near,
And its half-raised head and its meaning gaze I
read with a seizing fear,
Yet I shall creep to the Gate once more, once
more from the world-ways flee ;
Though horror grip at my secret thought, at the
shuddering heart of me,
My feet are bound to the oft-trod path that leads
to the gate-bars tall:
My soul is dead to the dreams beyond ; and hollow
the Voices call
To the Gate of Dread from the world set-back, far
back, in a shadowed wall.
Vic.
MERIDEN.
The Passing of Spring.
Hush ! Bind back the grasses
Kissed by the North wind’s drouth,
Room for a queen that passes
Smiling with wan sweet mouth !
Underneath latticed sun and shade,
By dim paths where the wild-flowers fade.
Bear her on to her rest
Where late-lingering shreds of bloom
Softly fire all the bushland gloom,
And winds sigh from the West.
Chant no dirge of sorrow,
Weep not for the lost queen’s fate ;
But rose and myrtle borrow
To compass her royal state,
And thro’ all the radiant hours
Heap high her couch of flowers,
Murmur strange songs and low,
While above the bending sheaves
And the trembling, singing leaves
Cloud-ships come and go.
Summer, in raiment splendid,
Shall gaze on the sleeper fair;
Autumn with brown head bended,
And Winter with storm-tossed hair.
Odors blown from far gum and pine
Shall breathe here—white moons nightly shine
While the lone curlew shrills ;
And anon, thro’ her placid dream,
Sounds the lay of some seaward stream
That strays down from the hills.
Strew bush ferns and grasses,
Scatter epacris red;
Room for a queen that passes
In pomp to a queenly bed !
Fair and crowned doth she smile to rest,
Sun-gleams shine on her jewelled crest
And kiss her blue, tired eyes.
Leave her thus, ye who love her well,
Till the hours standing sentinel
Bid her again arise.
S.A.
A.M.B.R.
In Winter.
This is the garden where my true love set
White roses and the purple violet;
These are the walks where wattle branches played.
And bent and bowed in golden pomp arrayed ;
And here the sweets of every flower combined
Came softly borne upon the singing wind.
But all the sunshine* and the flowers are gone,
Winter in solemn state sits here alone.
Thechillbreeze moans with low and sobbing breath,
The sodden leaves drop slowly to their death,
Up-piled and grim, the grey cloud-fleeces stand,
Stretching weird shadows o’er the sombre land.
Yet soon my love shall with the Spring anpear,
My own true love, for absence yet more dear ;
And every flower shall blossom as she goes,
The purple violet, the lady rose ;
And Winter, fleeing in his robes of white,
Shall vanish like a shadow of the night.
S.A.
J. M. BOWYER-ROSMAN.


The Colinton Estate.
We have received advices from the auctioneers of the
Colinton Estate, Messrs. Isles, Love and Co., Bris-
bane, to the effect that people are already commencing
to arrive in large numbers to inspect the property, and
consequently, in order to find accommodation, it has
been found necessary to erect a temporary pavilion of
wood and iron, measuring 114 ft. x 60ft., fitted with over
100 bunks. The Salvation Army lasses have undertaken
the catering arrangements, and persons staying at the
pavilion will be assured of every comfort and a genuine
bush welcome. The circulation of the illustrated pam-
phlet is now upwards of 175,000, and arrangements have
been made to distribute them at the principal railway
bookstalls. The Government are very liberally granting
excursion fares to all persons coming from a distance of
twelve miles and upwards, to the present terminus on
Cressbrook Creek. “ Koraji ” and “ Delphia," two of our
best writers, are engaged now in preparing articles in
connection with the Estate, but as “ good wine needs no
bush,” there is really no necessity to further
“ Paint the lily or gild the rose.”
Colinton is a fair and square deal ; no land-sharks or
squeezing syndicates, but “ fair dinkum” from start to
finish. No reserves, simply because the land will sell
itself. Ask any person who knows Colinton what they
think of it, and you will find that everything that has
been said about the Estate in the advertisements is O.K.*
+
GOOD ADVICE.
In advising you to use Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm for rheumatism, we know it will give you
perfect satisfaction, as the first application will
relieve the pain, and its continued use for a short
time will effect a cure. Sold everywhere at
Is. 6d.*
Amusements.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY
OF N.S.W.
grand Commonwealth Show.
30th March to 7th APRIL, 1904.
PRIZE SCHEDULES
MAY BE HAD ON APPLICATION.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary
Royal Chambers, 1 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
ALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
NINTH WEEK, and Continued Unabated Success of
MR., GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY.
Headed by OHAS. J. STINE and OLIVE EVANS.
LAST NIGHTS OF
BROWN’S IN TOWN.
Last Nights op thb Season.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES—-45., 35., 25., and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.46. Wednesday Afternoon, at
Mr. TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY, including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNIGHT in
Great Russian Play, RESURRECTION
A Powerful and Realistic Drama illustrating the Music,
Customs, Costumes, Habitations and Scenery of
THE LAND OF THE GREAT WHITE CZAR.
m’ Box Office at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Every Evening at S p.m. Wednesday Matinee at 2p in
MUSICAL COMEDY SEASON.
THIS EVENING, and for a Limited Number of Nights
only, the Most POPULAR MUSICAL ATTRACTION
ever Presented on the Australian Stage—
FLORODORA.
Box Plan at Paling’s. BST PRICES AS USUAL.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE 10.30 DOWN EXPRESS.
SATURDAY NEXT FEB. 20, and Every Evening until
further notice, WILLIAM ANDERSON will present for
the first time in Australia, the most Successful of all
recent London Dramatic Productions, in Four Acts,
THE BEST MUST WIN.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plagi open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
QRITE RIO N THEATRE, S Y ONE V.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20th,
SIR FRANCIS BURNAND’S Great English Success,
The Lady of Ostend.
Presented by William P. Hawtrey and Company.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. ~WI Box Plan at Elvy’s.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
and OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. tW~ Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mu. Harry Rickards.
Great Success of THE THREE DUMONDS.
A Brilliant Reception Accorded Our New Artists,
MDLLE. VULCAN A and MONS. ATLAS.
Magnificent Success of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Marvellously Trained Troupe of CATS and DOCS.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWERS and Miss MAUD FANING.
Mrs. SIMS REEVES, Miss JENNY GREY.
Latest Biograph Importation, Canadian Salmon Fishing.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS,
Specialty Artistes and Dancers.
THE TWO BELLS, Duettists and Dancers.
First Appearance of FRED. RUSSELL, Ventriloquial
Humorist. JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical Comedian.
THE COLLIERS, MALVENA MOORE. LES WARTON,
FRANK YORRE, IRVING SAYLES.
AST COLORED 810 PICTURES.
Grand Amateur Cake Walk Competitions. Three Prizes.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. . . C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING—FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY,
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in Reproduc-
tion of the Most Popular and Successful of Australian
Rising to Win.
Realistic Representation of a Great Bicycle Race in the
Exhibition Grounds.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
STEYNE COURT, MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES «» TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
New Attractions—BlJOU THEATRE, “BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. YERTO. Next TOBOGGAN RACE (for
Ladies and Gentlemen in double cars) WEDNESDAY, 24th inst., at 8 p.m. Entrance Fee, Is. Enter Early.
Bakers Creek (N.S.W.), up to the end of 1903,
crushed 145,248 tons for 217,9710 z., an average of a shade
over ljoz. The value would be about £850,000. Divs.
totalled £272,000, or about one-third of the product;
last div. paid in Dec., 1900. The aggregate figures
correspond with past three years’ results ; profits are
represented by returns above loz. per ton. This reads
like excessive costliness, but the reefs are so small that
for every ton of ore at least four tons of mullock have to
be removed ; then there is hand-picking and other costly
treatment, owing to the presence of antimony. Despite
optimistic reports of manager and directors, there is no
immediate prospect of a return to the div. list.
* * * «
Many of the dredges working in the shallow
alluvial tin deposits in New England (N.S.W.) are making
good profits, but before regarding any of the stocks
as investments, speculators should inquire as to the
extent of the holdings of companies. The areas available
for dredging are comparatively limited, and it does not
require much calculation to determine the life of any of
the companies. There is undoubtedly a big field for
enterprise in deep-lead tin-mining in these northern
areas. Take the Emmaville district, for example.
There are the Vegetable Creek, Y Waterholes,
Rose Valley and innumerable tributary leads, all
converging into one main channel, and all
worked with splendid results down to deep
ground, where excess of water has stopped the
small companies that pursued the policy of dividing
profits to the last penny on every realisation. There
have been spasmodic attempts to test the deep ground
by shaft-sinking, but paucity of funds has meant failure.
What is wanted is systematic boring for a length of
fully 20 miles. The result would probably be that
N.S.W. would have tin workings corresponding with the
Creswick gold workings in extent and productiveness.
The mining financiers who are assisting in the develop-
ment of the gold-leads of Creswick, Maryborough, and
the Loddon Valley (Vic.) might do worse than look this
way. Emmaville district is mentioned merely as an
example ; at Inverell and Tingha there are great possi-
bilities.
* * *
Ballarat men have taken possession of the
derelict Prince of Wales mine, Gundagai (N.S.W.). This
is something beyond a risky enterprise ; hopeless is no
word for it. The mine was systematically and exten-
sively prospected in Mr. Howell’s time, then by his suc-
cessors, and was finally exploited by tributors, who
couldn’t make tucker. Mr. Howell certainly got a divi-
dend or two from the shallow workings, but below 300 ft.
the mine proved an unmitigated duffer. It is a one-shoot
show which is payable only where enriched by lateral
feeders, and tens of thousands were spent in vain search-
ing for these at the lower levels. If Ballarat men are
intent on tackling discredited shows, why not have a
shot at the Kimo pyrites deposit, or, above all, Booth’s
Reward, which is, or was, a complete Ballarat second-
hand machinery yard ? One would think that Rice and
Robinson’s Mount Kimo mine would be more to their
fancy. A show from which, now and then, £lOOO worth
of gold is won from a bucketful of stuff would be an ideal
one for the share-boomsters of Lydiard-street to handle.
* * * *
Homeward Bound, Yalwal (N.S.W.), is reported
abandoned. It was famous for its law-suit; some people
tried to take advantage of the forgetfulness of an agent
to pay the lease rent. Mine was then owned principally
by the late Wm. Olarke and his brother, and was con-
sidered such a good thing that the jumpers easily raised
funds to fight to a finish. The Privy Council gave them
the coup de grace. Mine never yielded sufficient profit
to pay the law costs. It is a pity that it has failed. It is
equipped on modern and model lines, and holds the Aus-
tralian record for low working costs. Probably before
the introduction of the cyanide process many divs. were
washed into the Pacific.
« * * •
Lithgow (N.S.W.) people are in the dumps.
The demolition of the Lloyd Copper Co.’s refining works,
the reported intention of the Great Oobar Syndicate to
discontinue treating matte there, and the slackness of
work at the iron mills are having a serious effect. The
greatest disappointment of all is the non-establish-
ment of the big iron-smelting works proposed bj
Mr. Sandford and hung up by the politicians. Lithgow
now looks to the establishment of such works as its
salvation, bub the people are rather late in the day in
recognising this. At the first Federal election they
assisted to down their industrial champion, Sandford, in
favor of Joe Cook, whose industry lies chiefly in making
vinegary speeches, the main purport of which is that all
men are dishonest —except one. By the way, Sandford is
advertising for sale the powerful engines which were
specially imported for the proposed works at Lithgow,
and it is stated that the syndicate which intended to
erect works on the Parramatta River for the treatment of
Blythe River (Tas.) ore has definitely abandoned the pro-
ject. Those who want State-ironworks can therefore now
get to work, though they will probably strike a snag
when they start to look for the necessary supply of suit-
able ores, inasmuch as every well-known iron-deposit in
N.S.W. is held under freehold or M.C.P. title.
* * * *
Mount Boppy (N.S.W.) return for December
was 21310 z., making the total recorded for the year
14,6000 z. This year ought to show a substantial increase.
Shares (110,000) worth about £3. Divs. last year, ss. 3d.
* * * *
The British Broken Hill, which resumed work
six months ago when the lead market made a sudden
but short-lived move upwards, and has since been just
making ends meet, has had more luck than usual lately
in prospecting with its drills. The British stands at
a point in the Broken Hill lode where the ore bodies
turn sharply to the west, into the Junction, and they are
consequently more irregular here than usual. Probing
between the 300 and 400 ft. levels in the far north of the
mine, good makes of fair-grade ore have been found.
They would hardly give any profit under present
conditions ; but, as conditions at Broken Hill are always
changing, they hold out to shareholders a rather larger
hope for the future. So far, for 12 years, shareholders
have had very little else to live on.
» * • *
As was here anticipated, the B.H. Prop, isn’t
going to build a line to compete with the Silverton Tram-
way Co., bub it has driven the carrying co. to reduce its
freights with a bump, so far as the B.H. Prop, is concerned.
Prices hitherto have been 3s. Id. per ton for ores, etc.,
and 3s. 3d. for coal; for the future 2s. 6d. is to be charged
all round, with a reduction to 2s. 3d. on all over 200,000
tons per annum. (Last year 247,000 tons were handled
for .the B.H. Prop.) This means from £13,000 to £14,000
a year less for the Tramway Co. for the same amount of
work. Bub the Tramway Co. gets out of it an agreement
binding the B.H. Prop, to use its line and no other for
seven years; and as no line could possibly pay which
didn’t have the B.H. Prop.’s trade—at any rate, so far as
traffic is at present developed—the last has been heard of
any rival line for another seven years. To get established
for even that time in a nice little monopoly which gives
from 35 to 80 per cent, on actually paid capital is worth
some concession. The co. reckons to go on paying
36J per cent. (4s. per share), expecting to make
up in other ways the amount chopped off by
the big customer. It sounds as though an effort were
to be made to grease the most corpulent pig, in a manner
of speaking, with fat squeezed out of the lean pig— i.e.
the Broken Hill people, the co.’s workmen (a pretty well-
treated lot, on the whole, up to now), and probably the
smaller mining co.’s which, even as it is, can’t make
ends meet in some cases. All things considered, how-
ever, it doesn’t seem likely that the £13,000 or £14,000 can
be made up; the co. will be lucky if it can retrieve
£5OOO of it.
* ♦ • •
“Potchie”: White Cliffs is passing through a
poverty period just now. Very little good opal is being
found. The Continental buyers (the “ too plue push ”)
have refused to buy low-grade opal for some time. Most
of the stone found is low-grade stuff ; and the fact that
there is no sale for this has had a very depressing effect
upon White Cliffs. Opal that used to fetch £1 an ounce
is now worth about 10s. a candle-box. Still, in the open
coun try and on the tributing blocks, fair parcels are being
got. The men working Block 3 have found and sold over
£5OOO worth of opal during last two months, and Jerry
Lucey’s Rush has yielded about £3OOO. Roughly speak-
ing, 1000 men are working on the various blocks. They
are mostly just making a living. Opal-finding is full of
chances. About the beginning of the year, a man gather-
ing thistles for his horse on a virgin piece of ground,
400.vds. from the P. 0., noticed the “color” hanging to
the thistle-roots. He had unexpectedly dropped on a
patch of good opal. In a few davs he dug out nearly
£2OO worth of the stone within 2ft. of the surface.
So little above a bare living wage do the work-
men get in Victoria’s “ great natural industry ” of gold-
mining that the greatest difficulty is being found in
collecting the small levies which have been struck to
support the Mt. Farrell (Tas.) miners, who have been
locked out for months past. When the figures were made
up last only £316 of a total of £665 had been scraped
together. Certainly the Vic. miner is not, as a rule, the
most ardent unionist in the world. You find it hard
work to be ardent about anything, in fact, after about
two years’ tributing on an average of 3s. a dav.
* * + m"
Divs. paid by Victorian mining co’s in 1903
totalled £601,802, towards which Bendigo contributed
£322,415. Ballarat—Bendigo’s old-time rival—is low on
the list with a beggarly £6650. The total for 1902 was
£472,135. The figures for 1903 have not been exceeded
since 1898.
* * * *
Victoria Quartz (Bendigo) is down 3890 ft.
Plenty of quartz, but very little gold for the last 500 ft.
Reported that ventilation is perfect, and air compara-
tively cool. Rather cold comfort this for the plucky
shareholders. Nothing daunted, they are going still
deeper. May they strike as rich ore as Ballerstedt got
on the surface nearly 50 years ago !
* * * *
New Chum and Victoria (Bendigo) shares sold
last week at BJd. This sounds like the death-knell of
deep-mining, which, so far, has been a distinct failure.
In one instance only has really payable stone been
found below 3000 feet, and that was a small shoot in the
Victoria Quartz. New Chum Railway is persevering with
prospecting work at about 3800 feet; but, judging from
market quotations, local people cannot be hopeful.
Mount William (Western Vio.) is fast going
the way of so many rushes. In July, 1900, a month after
the Emmetts first found gold, from 7,000 to 10,000
people were on the ground. Now the population is about
that—less, the two right-hand figures ; and those are
rapidly drifting into that state wherein they look to one
another’s hair-cutting to keep them alive. The water
BU Pply is insufficient to allow of regular mining; but
when a shower comes the miners rush into the gullies and
work while the water lasts, which generally is not long
• • • »
Those who read The Bulletin of 20th June
lass will not be surprised to hear that the Cue Gold
Mining and Exploration Co. (W.A.) is in trouble for
the fifth time. The defunct co., while under its last
name, spent £22,000 from shareholders and £2llB from
gold won, or a total of £24,118 ; all it has got to show for
it are six holes, of an average depth of 180 ft., and an old
20-head mill and engine, bought secondhand from the
Ivanhoe Co. The trial crushing, which led to the pur-
chase and erection of the mill, panned out 473 tons for
4420 z., or 18.7dwt. per ton; but the battery only pro-
duced 5840 z. from 1699 tons, or 7dwt. per ton. And
shareholders were told that the mine was worth loz. per
ton! These leases were first floated in July, 1894,
as Kinsella; since then fully £lOO,OOO has been
spent, and there is nothing in the way of
serious development to show for it. The com-
pany has now got three months’ exemption in which
to raise more cash, which will most likely go the
same way. J. 11. Curie, of the Economist, opines that
Kinsella contains “ a fine body of ore, with splendid
walls, but it is too white.” That’s the truth. It’s
apparently just a fine old buck reef.
* * * *
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie, is still mainly
looking for that will-o’-the-wisp lode in the lowest
level ; but manager Roberts has practically given up the
search in despair. The investigation committee has
whitewashed Herman Landau, and there is peace once
more in the London office.
* * * 3)1
A great effort is being made to boom the Black
Range, East Murchison (W.A.), but most practical men
think that, so far, it is a mere surface show. Like
Arltunga, in S. Australia, the field has been known and
tried for years, but no juggins with capital has hitherto
appeared to take a hand. Recently Hans Irvine, the
Victorian wine-grower, bought two properties at the re-
ported prices of £lO,OOO and £BOOO. He erected a 10-head
mill, and has just put through 27 tons for 3530 z. The
stone is said to have come from an open cut 10ft. deep,
12ft. long, and 4ft. wide. This looks all right, but a
10-head mill can treat anything from 500 tons to 1000
tons monthly, according to the weight of the
stamps. Then why not continue running constantly
instead’of putting through a miserable 27 tons, which
the mill could easily treat in 24 hours ? Scarcity of
water would be a good excuse, only it was reported that
the mine was flooded out. The fact seems to be that the
gold cuts out at a shallow depth ; and if Bulletin readers
don’t want to be left with the baby to nurse, they had
better give Black Range ventures a wide berth.
» * * •
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.), is
still being boomed ; and it needs it. The co. has been in
existence under different names since 1895, and it is not
yet down 400 ft. Shareholders were lately told that the
co. had been spending £lOOO a month, and had done
1126 ft. 6in. of development during year, which was said to
be “ a large amount of work to do." Fancy calling 94ft. a
month, at a cost of over £lO a foot, a large amount of
work. The usual fiction that the Great Fingall didn’t
get pay ore till it reached 340 ft. was trotted out, and
shareholders were told that the same would happen in
their case—presumably, whether a chute existed or not.
(The Great Fingall’s first 37,300 tons produced 27,2450 z.,
orl4’6dwt. per ton without tailings, and it was simply
muddling management which left the then Consolidated
Murchison £lB,OOO in debt.) The first small crushing-
-227 tons for 150 oz.—from this co. only averaged 13dwt.,
although the parcel was picked from a reef—a supposed
continuation of the Fingall—running up to 36ft. in
width. J. H. Curie, of the Economist, says of the mine—
“ The mill will be run on the small patches of richer ore ;
but I don’t suppose it will earn any profit to speak of,
while it may delude the shareholders into thinking
that all their ore is of this same average.” Delusion—
Curie has hit the bull’s eye in one try. The co. has still
£15,000 cash, and 40,000 reserve shares of ss. each about
to be issued at 2s. 6d. premium : so directors are all right
for some months yet. A threat of a heavy 40-head mill
has been made ; but where is the cash ?
* * * *
W.A. public batteries, during Dec., treated
4568 tons for 59980 z. This brings the total since these
batteries were inaugurated to 157,541 tons for 193.0940 z
* * * *
Shareholders of the old General Gordon,
Kanowna (W.A.), will not feel good when they read that
a recent crushing from the mine-now known as the
Sirdar—went 871 oz. from 43 tons. The gilt conies off the
gingerbread, however, when one learns that it took
the two Williams brothers two years to break out the
ore, and that Gordon gold is only worth in the neigh-
borhood of £2 an ounce.
* • • •
It is now fully six months since Prof. Lidgey
struck Kalgoorlie with the “Lodes found by Electricity'”
fad. When are we going to hear about the results ?
* * * *
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, is still pushing
on with developments, the main shaft being down 1650 ft.
At present rate of progress it will very soon overtake the
Great Boulder. The values at the 1400 ft level are very-
poor, though payable so far as the Perseverance lode is
concerned. The reserves of ore are gradually increasing,
though the grade is a long way below what it used to be’
The new 50-head mill will make a start before long, and,
with 75 head of modern stamps running, the co. should
materially increase its tonnage, though it is unlikely that
its gold yield will show any advance.
• • • •
The White Feather Main Reefs (W.A.) ought
to be heard from for a div. very soon. The last return
was the best for a long while.
* * • n
Oroya-Brown Hill is being stripped of its best
ore by a system of incline rises and branch rises, and the
public are still being told that no sloping is being done.
There will be an awakening before long.
• * * *
Menzies Alpha (W.A.), like its neighbor Lady
Shenton, is quite depleted of ore, and Manager Rayfield,
who has bossed both shows for years, has resigned. The
co. owns the lease adjoining the Shenton on the south,
and got the tail end of the chute at 400 ft. Things are
looking so blue for Menzies that Prof. Goezel has been
engaged to make a special geological survey and study of
the district to see if he can make out what becomes of
the chutes, which suddenly peter out. It is to be hoped
that his mission will prove a success, otherwise it
looks uncommonly like another deserted village being
added to the already long goldfields tall}'.
£ >' £
Queensland Menzies (W.A.), if Manager Fer,
guson’s advice is followed, may be put on a more stable
basis. His suggestion is that, instead of dividing profits
up to the hilt, as hitherto, £2OO or £3OO should be set
aside at each distribution for prospecting purposes. This
is a very mild proposal, but the Brisbane directors have
been so consistently short-sighted that Ferguson is pro-
bably afraid to open his mouth wide. The chute on the
western lode is only 40ft. long, and, on the eastern, 80ft.,
so that it is marvellous how the mine has been kept going
as it has. The new heavy mill is now at work ; but, as it
will treat 1000 tons monthly, suspensions of operations
will come more frequently unless some effort is made to
keep reserves ahead. The lode is still going strong
under foot.
* * * *
Smith’s Creek (Q.) in six months crushed 10,640
tons of ore for 300 tons of concentrates, assaying 70 per
cent, tin, worth £73 per ton. New manager reports dole-
fully that the alleged fault at the 100 ft. level is not a
fault, but the end of the ore body in country rock,
* * * »
M.L. dredging returns, now complete: —
1902. 1903.
Otago and Southland .. 106,3690 z. 87,1300 z.
West Coast .. .. 30,4160 z. 30,6190 z.
The Otago decline is attributed to the severity of the
winter. Five years’ product of Otago and Southland
dredges, 367,4290 z.
* * * *
M.L. reefing yields for 1903:—Ohinemuri dis-
trict, £869,739 (Waihi, 231,373 tons, £649,400; Talisman,
69,487 tons, £88,095 ; Crown, 35,312 tons, £78,265;
Komata, 14,780 tons, £37,157) ; Thames district, £54,589 ;
Coromandel district, £35,336 ; total, £959,664. In 1902 it
was £803,094.
• * * *
The actuary of the U. K. Temperance and
General Provident Institution, the largest of the in-
surance companies which specialise in the lives of those
who wear upon their parlor walls the motto “ Wine is
a Mocker,” has brought joy into the cold tea camp.
Basing his conclusions upon his company’s experience for
60 years—from 1841 to 1901—the actuary finds a remark-
able difference in the rates of mortality* of “ abstainers’*
and “ non-abstainers.” Between 25 and 29 the
“ abstainers’ ” rate was '406 per 100; the “ non-
abstainers,” '523. For the next five years the figures were
•408 and ’648 : the next ’444 and ‘BO4 ; between 45 and
49, '749 and 1-277. The figures are all on the side of
Cold Tea until you get up to 95, and then Toddy scores
for the first time. But. though the figures have
made the tea-cup ripple with joy, they probably don’t
mean anything like what they are claimed to mean. As
a rule, the man who sticks to tea and ginger-beer is a
mild person engaged in a mild calling, who would
probably live a long while anyhow. The parson’s occupa-
tion, for instance, is, of all occupations, apparently, the
healthiest. The British Registrar-General reports that
between 35 and 45 the mean annual death-rate in that
calling is only 5.18 per 1000, while among, say, lead
workers it is 2*2.78 and among all males 13-01. To find
out the real strength of Cold Tea it would therefore be
necessary to compare the relative mortality of the two
sorts of parsons, the two sorts of lead-workers, and so on.
You can’t compare fairly the rate for the abstainer, who
is largely a parson, with the non-abstainer, who is
largely a lead-worker or something of that sort.
Sydney Telegraph, in noting the pre-
sence of Mr. W. D. Green, an English M.P., in
Sydney, describes him as the author of several
works, including “ William Canning, Earl cf
Chatham.”
The smartest thief of recent times was
captured very recently in Sydney Domain as he
was fleeing with the pants and boots of a man
whom he had undressed in his sleep. It doesn’t
appear that the sleeper was tight either.
Sounds of naval battles coming over the
cables recall old William Allan, M.P. (English
Commons), who died a month or so ago, and
whose firm conviction was that in time of war the
British navy would show up as badly as did the
British army in S’ Africa.
The abandonment of the harbor works at
Trial Bay (N.S. W.) as a hopeless and useless
business means that £165,000 of the State’s good
loan money has been thrown overboard. To leave
posterity to pay the bill, seeing that posterity will
get no value for it, is pure swindle; this genera-
tion should pay for its own blunder, and refund
the money out of revenue. But it won’t. Honesty
of that sort doesn’t grow in N.S. W.
Touching the refusal of Shiels to join a
Tom Bent Ministry, it is noted with grave sus-
picion that he has of late been playing the con-
spicuous sick man in an invalid chair. He gets
himself wheeled around under public observation,
not at all like a sensitive subject suffering from
nervous complaint, but very much like an alert,
renovated Shiels who is enjoying the joke.
R. J. Farrer, in an article on Korea in
December number of the Nineteenth Century,
does some straight talking. Amongst other
things, speaking of the blessings the missionaries
have brought to that country, he says : “ He (the
Emperor) also tastes our western blessings in the
religious massacres that from time to time
threaten his security by a sanguinary convulsion
between the Protestant and Catholic converts.
Such a trouble is at present going forward in the
interior with a zeal that may result at any
moment in a revolution.” It is gratifying to find
that there is at least one country where Dill
Mackyism has reached a higher stage of develop-
ment than it has in N.S.W.
With Tommy Bent leading the Vie. Tory
party at the coming elections, the Liberals should
have no difficulty in shaking off the dead weight
of political inertness that has so long burdened
the country’s chest. They should first, however,
rouse themselves by sustained attention to D.C.L.
Whisky. There is plenty of that invaluable
stimulant yet on hand to win a hundred elections
and inspire a thousand progressive measures.
D.C.L. —The Whisky of the Wisest and Best.*
At Glenfyne (Vic.) a perfectly-formed
human femur and ilium were recently discovered
in limestone, from which they were scarcely dis-
tinguishable. Some years ago imprints of human
feet were found in sandstone at a depth of 50ft.
from the surface in a quarry at Warrnambool.
Where does Genesis come in ?


Exquisite New Goods—
NOT one of these things we illustrate to-day has been shown before. They are ail new—some of
them have hardly got the wrappers off as we write. They are pretty and serviceable—suited both
for personal wear and gift giving. There is not a common style in the lot and the make and finish are
quite equal to our usual high-grade goods. If yoH are particular as to what you buy in our line then
nowhere else can you go if you would select from a stock so large—so varied that it is an uncommon
thing for us to have to say, “ Sorry, but we have not got it.” Remember that, although we illustrate but
21 articles, we have hundreds of equally dainty, equally good, and equally low-priced new lines to show
'CU0SOM
I
you if you call. Our
catalogues, “Attractive
Things at Attractive
Prices” and “Honest
Watches,” will be sent
free on request. We
deliver all Goods free
and safe by post or rail.
No. FB93s.—Exquisite Gold Pearl
and Turquoise Necklet and Pendant,
£3 ss.
No. Cl32o.—Solid Gold Fashion*
able Photo Pendant, 8s 6d.
Exact size.
No. G 1970.— Solid Silver
Mounted Toilet Bottle,
patent pull off top, 4}in.
high, 16s Gd.
No. F9297.—Dainty
Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Pendant, 25s-
No. F9oo2—Rustic Inkstand, Silver-plated,
6Jin. high, 9s 6d.
No. F 2966. — A Magnificent Cruet, the highest
quality ot Plate and Out Glass, £4 15s.
No. G 1414. —A 1 Quality Exquisitely Engraved
Hot Water Kettle, £2 15s.
No. F 8966.— Handsomely Chased Hair Brush,
man’s size, 6iin., 22s 6d.
No. F729B.—Choice Pearl and Gold Brooch, 218
DRAWN J^'SISE
No. F2376.—Lovely Saw-pierced Belt Ol&sp,
Heavy and Handsome, 21s.
No. Fl76o.—This size Gold Mounted Pen Knife
—Fluted Pattern only, 10s 6d.
Catalogues Free.
No. F 8936. —Gold and Fine Pearl
Necklet, with Pendant, £2 12s 6d.
No. F 8731. —15ct. Gold
Engraved Cross, exactly
as shown, 18s 6d.
No. F7539-—2£ x 3 in.
Solid Silver Bag Purse,
32s 6d.
No. F7o9B.—Fish Pendant, Gold, and Greenstone
from Maoriland, 22s 6d.
No. F337.— Baby’s Can.
Engraved and Hall-marked Solid
Sterling Silver, 3in., £2 sa.
No. F5.65.—501id Silver
Glass Lined Powder Jar,
2£in. high, 22s 6d.
No. F 3849. —Solid
Silver Milk Jug, 3iin.
high, £2.
No. Cool.—lsc. Gold
Brooch, set with Pearls
and Turquoise, £1 15s.
No. GBlB.—Heavy Gold
Mounted Solid Silver
Match Box, ljin. high,
22s 6d.
No. FB439.—Cluster
Bing, 18c. Gold, 3
Rubies, 6 Diamonds,
£3 ss.
HEN we have CURED
Mr. PETE HUGHES.
Known far and wide in theatrical
circles, Mr. Pete Hughes, who for
years acted as advance agent for Mr.
J. 0. Williamson, the famous entre-
preneur, suffered from Weak Kidneys
and Lame Back. He consulted the
Specialists of The Freeman & Wallace
Institute, became cured, and de-
clares :
“ Your Electro-Medical Treatment
has removed the severe Kidney pains
from which I suffered for many
years. Your Electric ‘ Invigorator ’
has done me more physical good than
I ever anticipated. ”
Mr. 0. H. BERNARD.
Mr. C. H. BERNARD was a sufferer,
and —to quote his words—“ a physical
wreck ” —in 1902. Yet here is an
extract from his letters sent after a
few weeks’ treatment:
“ Ganmain Station, via Wagga.
‘ ‘ 1 am getting on steadily and surely.
My nerves are in a much better state
now. 1 am not now subject to those
severe frontal headaches. My brain is
quite capable of executing any reason-
able amount of labor offered it."
Mr. G. D. HAILEY.
From Toorak, Victoria, Mr. C. D.
HAILEY chronicles his improvement
from chronic dyspepsia, from which he
was a great sufferer. In his reply to our
queries concerning his health, he
states:
“lamnetting on first-class. 1 have
not had better health for many years.
The medicine you sent me was the very
thing in every respect. I feel certain
that 1 will continue to improve, and
ultimately regain my usual health.”
SIGNOR CARLO DANI.
SICNOR CARLO DANI, the dis-
tinguished operatic tenor of the Roya
Italian Opera Company, Sydney, says
of the Electric “ Invigorator “ which
he wore:
<« I desire to inform you that , owing
to the great lassitude I have experienced
here, due no doubt to sudden climatic
changes, I tried your treatment, from
which I have obtained great benefit to
my muscular and nerve systems."
Mr. CHAS. KENNINGHAM.
Mr. CHAS. KENNINGHAM, prin-
cipal tenor Royal English Opera
Company, Savoy Theatre, London,
and Royal Comic Opera Company,
Sydney, declares that he has in a
few weeks been completely cured
of Insomnia :
“ For years past 1 have suffered
from Insomnia. Your treatment
teas brought to my notice, with
the result that I am now sleeping
reasonably, and my general health
is much improved."
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute, Sydney & Melbourne.
The above portraits are of attestants -well-known in commercial and
fine art circles. They were each benefited by the treatment received
from the Specialists associated with the Medical Staff of The Freeman
and Wallace Institute. These are but a few of many thousands
of testimonies received from all sorts and conditions of men throughout
the Commonwealth. Men who have been tortured for years from Con-
stipation, Insomnia, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indigestion,
Dyspepsia, Locomotor Ataxia, Loss of Nerve Power, Swollen Joints,
P.les, Anaemia, Bladder Irritation, Vital Weakness, have found relief
in a few weeks by following accurately the Specialists' Advice and
methods. Diseases that medical men have considered “ incurable ” have
been permanently eradicated and men have again enjoyed the benefits of
assured health and happiness. The Specialists may be consulted Free
Of Charge upon any matter of serious import to a man.
A GOOD BOOK
The best friend to suffering men is a good Medical Work.
“CLINICAL EXPEDIENCES ” on General Diseases is that book.
It is a genuine medical treatise of 570 PACES, 150 MEDICAL
PLATES, 31 CHAPTERS. It treats upon all Diseases of both
sexes. It is hones'Jy worth a pound a page.
The 31 Chapters within this work treat upon Diseases of the
Lungs, Heart, Throat, Kidneys, Bowels, Bladder Brain, etc. It
contains articles upon the treatment of Invalids, the Sick Room,
Snakebite, Sunstroke, Gunshot Wounds, Poisons and Anti-
dotes, Insomnia, Rescue of Apparently Drowned, Fevers,
Epilepsy, Care for Children. It is invaluable to country
residents. It possesses a vocabulary of 1000 medical terms and
fifty valuable prescriptions for Home use. It will be posted to
any address on receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS from
either our Sydney or Melbourne Offices. There is no further
charge. It is a whole library of useful facts.
Gene
nun
Menul*
tilt*
NOTE.
Any man may, if he desires, through
private reasons consult the Specialists by
addressing privately “ THE SECRETARY.” The Free-
man and Wallace Medical Institute, cor. Bourke and
Ehzabeth-streets, opp. G.P.0., Melbourne, or 227 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney. In some instances, a man may not
be able to call personally, and may prefer to write upon
masters seriously concerning himself. All such letters are
replied to by the Physician-in-Chief, who is Qualified and
Registered by Medical Boards of Aust., England & America.
The Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Branch—Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts., Op. G.P.O.
NOTE.
In order to meet the great growth of
public patronage accorded the Institute
by suffering men from all parts of the Commonwealth, a
branch of the Sydney great medical centre has been
opened at Bourke&Elizabeth-sts., Melbourne, opp. G.P.0.,
under efficient professional and correspondence staffs,
where patients in the Southern and Western States of
Australia may consult the most eminent of Specialists and
save the long journey to Sydney. All correspondence to
this Branch will be effectively replied to.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound! that Discharge or otherwise. perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? It so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which. if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
it allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
H sndatonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : KLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on e
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright!.
THE HIGH-CLASS WABHINQ MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
- .
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
There are SOAPS and SOAPS.
But for a NURSERY SOAP
there is no Soap like
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR
SOAP.
It leaves the skin with a wonderful feeling
of refreshment, and
PROTECTS FROM INFECTION.
THE NURSERY SOAP.
When a person suffers from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
NATURE’S CRY
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Qravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
Nature is crying aloud for aid. Pain is really Nature’s voice, and is her only method of communicat-
ing with us, therefore pain is a blessing in disguise. By the infliction of the pains attending tl 8
above group of disorders, Nature is calling our attention to the fact that there is something which
impeding the action of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER,
beings^'to*bring* Science again/her enemy
Death The kidneys and liver, being the most important organs of the human mechanism, have
many natural ways of indicating their disability to perform their functions, and by causing us to
suffer from the disorders mentioned, we are compelled to bring Science to their relief, or to die a
consequence of neglecting Nature’s appeal.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce °f urea, ten to twelve & ' ,
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce tonea y
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the ho ■
dissolved in the urine, but if through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do then >
properlv a quantity of these u> inary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veil s,
th/whole system. Then we enffer from , f °'».Ve^aST
HVienmatism Gout. lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent -tleacacne, xneuiaig .
Gravel ..tone and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys a
Wealthy is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning in a covered glass, and let i
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatu
oor o. ha about in it! the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must
immediately be taken to restore their vigor, or Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many
manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the I liver various substances are actuafly
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every d y. •
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to agai
supply it to the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric amd-which
is insoluble into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood c p '
wlifch have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundic ,
bick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys, and that done by
that where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy
vice verel It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital
organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world aa
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be ~tive
which w“uld act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compo
ing a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fu lest degree. Warner s Safe Cure ex
hibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functiona or chronic disease of the kidney..an i
and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures a.!l complaint a
to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons A vigorous actumof
liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease,
affected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. L "
The Red-Faced Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If God would take for His great plan
A little hint from me, '
Then I would say the Red-faced Man
Should an archangel be.
He had no striking social gift, '
At cards he was not strong,
He could not pleasurably lift
His voice in choral song.
When tropic sunsets were abloom
In mystic rose and pink,
He’d stay inside the smoking-room
And simply smoke and drink.
There was of Poetry no trace
In him—no sacred rage:
He looked with serious red face
Upon a serious age.
In steamer-concerts—functions grim—
He never took a part:
But this thing I will say for him—
He had a Giant’s heart.
And when the rest of us saw Doom
In squall-clouds ghostly grey,
He smoked within the smoking-room
Till it was swept away.
The storm came down with condor wings—
A dreadful nor’-east gale;
The ship was full of shudderings,
The sea was fierce and pale.
It smote the ship a-beam and hurled
Her over on her side—
The men who’d sailed around the world
Did in their cabins hide.
The Red-faced Man came smiling down :
“ The wind is blowing free ;
We’ll play a game for half-a-crown—
Buck up, my lad ! ” says he.
We played the game ; he dealt to me.
And up the cards did throw.
I dealt to him—he seemed to be
Six feet or more below.
For very shame the others then
Came out with faces pale
And took their drinks like gentlemen
While fiercely roared the gale.
The Red-faced Man he laughed and said,
“ We all are Homeward Bound —
The best of us must soon be dead—
We’ll get there if we’re drowned.”
The storm swept by. You would not know
That anyone was scared ;
They said it was a Little Blow
For which they were prepared.
If God would take for His great plan
A little hint from me,
Then I would say the Red-faced M m
Should an archangel be.
CREE E ROE.
Why the Delver Dug Deeply.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The naturalist had wandered a mile or two into
the forest, and paused for a moment when he came
to a tiny clearing in the midst of a dense jungle.
Throwing himself dawn on a bank upon which
grew a galaxy of orchids and nepenthes, he
watched a plandok come with a bound into the
glade. As the midget mouse-deer peered anxiously
into the surrounding jungle the naturalist brought
his gun to bear.
“Too damned far to hump-the beggar,” was his
comment, as his 28-bore came down once more to
his hip; “better keep powder and shot for a mias
or a badak (orang-outan or rhinoceros).
Suddenly the plandok raised one foot and
listened intently, then grunted, and with a bound
disappeared in the ferny undergrowth.
“Hullo,” said the naturalist, “some one
coming. ”
The naturalist was right. Someone—several—
were coming, and soon they had come. The
naturalist lay back and watched the group, which
stopped and held a conference in the clearing.
He was too much of a sing-keh (newchum) either
to understand the talk or to recognise the object
of the gathering, but he had been long enough in
Sarawak to know that the half-dozen men in trim
white uniforms and black pork-pie caps belonged
to Rajah Brooke’s Constabulary. These men, in
addition to their Snider carbines, carried the
formidable parang ihlang, ornamented with
human hair, for which firearms are at once aban-
doned at the sound of the word “Charge!”
In the centre of . the group stood three others,
natives one and all, of whom one wore the unmis-
takable brown dress of the Sarawak convict, and
carried a couple of chaukoes (hoes) and shovels >
another was apparently handcuffed, and preserved
a forbidding silence, standing a little apart from
the rest, but apparently intently interested in their
conversation. The third man wore a self-satisfied
smile and occasionally brought out a remark to
which the others listened with respect, real or
assumed.
One other man was present, a Hadji certainly,
an Imaum probably, by his dress—a long, white
gown reaching to his sandalled feet. A gaudily-
trimmed, green-silk waistcoat outside this, and a
red fez, bound round with a white muslin dustah,
completed his toilet. This Hadji, too, stood a
little apart from the group and mumbled his
prayers.
The naturalist lay still, wondering what was
about to take place.
Evidently the minds of the party were made up
at last, for he with the apparently handcuffed
hands nodded his head to him with the smile,
and, stepping up to the Corporal of Constabu-
lary, waited to be released. This done, with-,
out a word he went to the spot selected, and
with a tiny sodok (native trowel on a long handle)
commenced digging. As he dug the naturalist’s
wonder increased, for even now he did not under-
stand.
The guard, the convict, and he with the grim
smile sat down on their heels and commenced to
smoke, only the last-named getting up occasion-
ally to see how the delver progressed.
The Hadji strolled up and down, praying still,
but the digger, upon whose brow appeared huge
drops of sweat, took no notice of anything.
Presently the Lance Corporal and No. 804 B,
the convict, not the constable, fell to gambling.
The convict made his stake, a cent produced from
the bandage round his ulcered ankle, played and
lost. The Corporal pocketed the coin and called
on his opponent to cover his stake. This the
convict did—again played and again lost.
The convict pleaded guilty to having no more
coin, and slowly rolling himself a roko from the
Corporal’s tobacco, suggested playing again his
dinners for a week against a tael roko (ounce of
tobacco). The Corporal consented, played, and
again won.
Meantime he of the grim smile had made his
fifth journey to where the digger worked.
“Deep enough ?” queried the latter, pausing in
his task for a moment and leaning on the sodok as
he gazed wistfully into the grim face of the man
above.
He with the sardonic smile, shrugged his
shoulders. “You should be the better judge,
since ’tis for yourself, not me, you dig.”
The delver looked critically at the hole, and,
stepping to the other end, commenced to deepen
it. This done to his satisfaction, he smoothed
away the sides of the hollow, and, throwing out
changkol and sodok before him, he placed his
hands, one on each side of it, and drew himself
out of the pit.
Walking up to the Corporal, he announced the
completion of his task—“ Sud’ habis.”
The Corporal nodded, and went on with his
game; having won his all from the convict, he
had commenced on his subordinates.
But the Hadji had turned and asked the delver
whether he would not like to wash himself.
“Wash myself?” he answered. “Is my bed
then so clean that I need fear to soil it?” Then
turning with a shrug to the hollow he had
fashioned—“ln my bed I shall soon be clean, for
the ants will strip my bones ere many moons go
by, that is, if the pigs leave me in peace. I thank
the stars that I dug deep.”
“ Ask Allah for mercy on your soul,” said
Hadji.
“ Mercy from Allah for a kapir (heathen) ?
No ; by the stars and omens of my fathers, no! ”
And as the delver walked away, the naturalist
saw the Corporal and his men jump to their feet
and stand at attention as a white man on a small
Sulu pony rode up. In him the naturalist had no
difficulty in recognising the white rajah’s doctor.
As the doctor flashed a glance over the group the
convict stealthily squeezed out his lighted cigarette
and surreptitiously hid it away in the seam of his
badju.
“ Lekas, lekas ; brapalama musti serya nanti,”
(“Hurry up; how much longer must I wait?”)
said the doctor, throwing down his reins and
sitting back in his saddle.
The delver took off his badju, which left him
stripped to the waist, and, walking up to the edge
of the pit, knelt down.
From the folds of his gown he of the grim smile
produced a kris, one with no less than nine distinct
waves, keen as a razor and pointed as a needle.
Picking up a pair of handcuffs he walked up to
the delver.
“No need to handcuff me, loivan, ” the latter
said with just the faintest trace of a smile. “My
body is too weary with digging to resist, and my
soul you cannot detain.”
For answer the man snapped the handcuffs,
and, with a push, half kindly, half rough, bent
the delver on his knees.
Meantime the Corporal and his guard drew
round in a circle, and the doctor amused himself
squashing the flies that settled in legions on his
pony’s neck.
The naturalist was about to come from out his
hiding-place to ask the doctor what it all meant,
when he with the grim smile bent over the delver,
who knelt by the edge of the pit, and holding in
his left hand the kris , called aloud, “ Sidir, tutup
mdtd” (“ Ready, close your eyes.”)
The delver obeyed, but flinched not, even when
for an instant the point of the kris rested on his
left shoulder, just where the neck and collar-bone
meet.
Holding it thus in his left hand, he of the grim
smile raised his right in the air, and as the palm
came smartly in contact with the rounded handle,
the blade of the kris passed through the delver’s
heart, the point showing some inches under the
right ribs.
As the body rolled over, he of the grim smile
caught at the /fcrt's-handle, and placing a foot on
the delver’s neck, twisted the kris right and
left, and drew it from the body. For an instan
the blood spurted, then rushed in a stream, then
trickled for a moment, then ceased to flow—for
ever. •
Rooted now to the spot, the naturalist stood
and watched the doctor dismount, turn the still
warm body over with his foot and stoop to listen
at the heart which was still for ever. “ Mati
Sudah,” said the doctor, and the guard and he
with the grim smile knew that their share of the
work was over.
Not so that of the convict. As the naturalist
watched the doctor spring lightly into the saddle
and gallop off, the convict relit the end of his half-
consumed cigarette, and seizing his shovel in one
hand, and the delver’s foot in the other, he toppled
him over into the grave he had dug for himself,
and ere the naturalist had recovered his powers of
locomotion, the earth was thrown into the hollow,
and the convict had followed the lordly Corporal
and guard back into Kuching.
Presently the horrified naturalist understood.
It had been execution ! —under the law of
Sarawak.
CEIL FABRIS.


The South African Press Bulletin
gives the opinions on the labor question of two
native chiefs —Linchwe and Sekgoma (son of
Khama). The former says :
Early last year I sent a hatch of laborers to the Rand,
as was understood, at £3 per month, all found, for three
months, on surface work. On arrival there they' were
forced into a contract of six months against their wishes,
at 4f>s. The death-rate there was something appalling.
Dead bodies were hurled into an open cart, and then
thrown into a large trench. This cannot be interpreted
otherwise than as a deliberate attempt to frighten
natives away from the mines, thus creating an excuse for
importing Chinamen. If anyone tells you that there are
not enough laborers in this country," it is a falsehood.
They want our people to leave their families, go to
Johannesburg, stay away for six months, suffer to enrich
the mine-owners, and bring back nothing.
The recently printed statement that, after
the China-Japan war, the Russian Admiral in
Chinese waters suggested to the French Admiral
a combined attack on the Japanese fleet, is
vouched for by Audley Coote, of Pacific cable
fame. He says that he was on the spot at the
time, and that the proposal was actually made;
the proximate cause was trouble over the arrest
of some drunken Russian sailors by the Japanese
police at Tokio. The Jap. authorities, according
to Coote, requested the Russian Admiral to send
ashore for. his men, but received a truculent reply
to the effect that if they, the Japs., didn’t' imme-
diately send off the prisoners, their fleet would be
attacked.
“ L.M.” : Writer was staying in a country
pub. in N.S.W. when a just-married rustic couple
came along. Landlord put them into a room con-
taining a double and single bed. Ten minutes
later the groom came nervously to the landlord
with —“ Er—lsay—you’re not going to put any-
one else in the room, are you?’’
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Eugene Rudloff, engine-driver of the
fastest train on earth, the Paris-Calais, which
runs up to 75 miles an hour, has been interviewed.
His worst experience was in 1890. A goods train
dropped an iron rail on the track. It flung the
express off; Rudloff’s locomotive capsized, its
chimney being stuck into the embankment. Yet
he and his fireman escaped. One of the short
tunnels has another railway crosswise over it, just
at the entrance. Luckily, a train was passing
overhead on one occasion when Rudloff’s entered
the tunnel. The driver overhead shouted “Slow!
Rudloff slowed right down, and found a cow on
the track when he emerged from the tunnel.
Through dense fogs the train goes as haphazard as
an Atlantic steamer. Thick snow blurs the look-
forward utteily, and if the driver cranes out he is
blinded.
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALI
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (96 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
Ror all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
oreness m the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, .as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
or ing in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never een known to exjst where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
*nd a Complete Cure is certain.
BKWA.R.E OP COUGHS \
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A. MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
.. TT “ Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearn e. —
Hear sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, andyou can confidently
refer anybody to me.
i "I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really' excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.’*
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RE y.FJ F ' D BY ONE BOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
„ n ... . Dergholm, Victoria.
, , , a !L S ,r > — 1 w mh to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nbdits
1 was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtai
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was pet
rectiy and rapid I \ successful under circumstances whicl
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed li-
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, ani
ty-mne other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I uiecl your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’a Creek, Victoria."
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I Should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
M My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
‘‘l have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —("Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly. —C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Viotoria."
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
_ “J tm very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
J* ave tided lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.— S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
, can truly say that lam astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Y’arra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
' ‘ •
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that ihe two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.— HENßY VVURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
• ■
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CUREIPIN THEIR OWN
CHICLE.
••The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
••Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during' the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
‘‘PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack qf
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it isi taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I ain, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
VU2L222L Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
small Size. 2s 6d: Large. 4s 6d. Sold bv Chemists and Medieine Vendors Forwarded bv Post to anv Address when not obtainable Locallv.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants , Invalids, and the Aged . Delicious, Nutritive . and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, 6tc., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wih-
the praise ot ‘ Benger s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


TATTE RS ALLS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.— The Tasmanian Government having imposed a Tax of One Penny on every Five
Shilling Ticket issued by “ Tattersall’s ” on and after Ist January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for eac
ss, Ticket applied for, or 4d. for every £l, and so on.
NOW OPEN i
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27 - 100,000 at 10s 2d
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1 - - 100,000 at 5s Id
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2 - 50,000 at 5s Id
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 4- - - - 50,000 at 5s Id
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS
(“ TATTERS ALL’S ”) STILL CONTINUES his business in
HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GO-
VERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscrip-
tions by letter to any friend or acquaintance in HOBART,
who will there have no difficulty in delivering the appli-
cation and securing the despatch of tickets and results
direct to clients.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Aus-
tralasia, to the credit of GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial
Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients, when so doing, will
please request Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount,
with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to
Hobart through any PARCEL DELIVERY CO. or EIRM
doing business with Tasmania.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PL ANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALVE
To Anthea ... ... ... ... ... C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) ... ... ... SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele
Why. Davydoff
Andante “ Favour it a ”...
Lullaby from “Harold ”
COM. CARTJSO
MADAME YIALTZEYA
M. RENAUD
MADAM EIGNER
If a combination of artiste such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how ? The answer » rea y
at onee-By means Of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and .
* r , , , , I, Thn Vipqt Christmas present a man can get nis tamny is a
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself.
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type
£4.
f
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. G-ENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


£
ri
:r , x
r*!!V
i
Hardly any rubbing; with Sunligrht Soap.
The Sunlight Maids say it’s child’s play.
UNLIGHT SOSP
Will wash anything, but to secure best results with least labor should be used
in the Sunlight way. First dip the articles to be washed in a tub of lukewarm
water and draw it out of the water on a wash board and rub the soap over it
lightly. Then roll them up tightly and lay under the water. Leave them
there for thirty minutes and let Sunlight Soap do its work. Commence
rubbing the clothes lightly on the wash board and the dirt will drop out.
Turn the garments inside out to get at the seams but don’t use any more soap.
No need to scald or boil a single piece and don’t wash through two suds.
Rinse in lukewarm water taking care to wash out all the dirty suds, then ring
out and hang out to dry. That's the Sunlight way. It makes the clothes
snowy white.
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white and won't injure the hands.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY.
506
Jk-S
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
liotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Manly.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were merry days in Manly,
The days that used to be,
When there never dawned a morning
That brought a care to me,
And I never supped with Sorrow—
A stranger black was she —
In the merry days in Manly,
In Manly by the Sea.
Then I woke from dreams at dawning,
And, O, but it was fine,
When the sun walked on the water,
To see his sandals shine—
Golden sandals flashing, dancing,
To a melody divine—
Shall I ever know in Heaven
Such joy as then was mine?
For the ocean-wind came singing
A song that thrilled me through,
And, methought, the trees grew greener,
The sky a brighter blue ;
And the world was full of magic,
And fairy-tales were true,
And the blood sang in my body
A song of Springtide, too.
It was pleasant in the morning
Along the beach to roam,
And see, beyond the surf-line,
The great green rollers comb.
It was brave to breast the breakers,
And dance amidst the foam,
And, upon a white-maned sea-horse,
To ride in triumph home.
Where are now the gay companions,
The comrades blithe aiid free.
Who came sailing down from Sydney
To camp a ong with me ?
We had actresses to breakfast,
And brother-bards to tea,
In tiie little house in Manly,
In Manly by the Sea.
Then Young Time strode on before us,
And filled our hearts with cheer.
For he sang the bravest ballad
That ever man did hear,
And his scalp-lock was a love-lock
Tiiat hung beside his ear,
As he gaily marched before us,
A gallant cavalier.
They are gone, the gay companions,
And sore is now my dearth ;
They are scattered far, like spindrift,
To all the ends of Earth—
And the best, ’neath her green mantle,
Await a brighter birth.
They are gone, the gay companions,
With all their joy and mirth.
Where is now the Ancient Pirate
Who stood before the bar,
Telling how he fought with Nelson
At Nile, and Trafalgar ?
He has floated off on liquor
To that bright and pleasant star
Where, a-spinning yarns forever,
His brother-Poets are.
In those merry days in Manly
We laughed the hours away,
For we owned the Radiant Future
Which would our debt repay.
While the Sons of Toil were working,
Our business was to play.
0 the years of life go gaily
Before the hair grows grey !
Wiser men took life less lightly :
They fought for fame and gold
Till their hearts grew sour and barren,
Their eyes grew hard and cold.
But Fortune whispered lightly
To me : “My son, behold !
They shall feel their years as burdens—
Thou never 3halt grow old.”
They were merry days in Manly,
The days that used to be,
When the birds of Hope were singing
In ev’ry bush and tree,
And the air was full of laughter,
And I was twenty-three :
They were merry days in Manly—
In Manly by the Sea.
Then the green world was a garden
A-bloom with roses fair,
And the Rose of Love was fairest
Of all the blossoms there;
But the Scarlet Flower of Glory,
It shone with blood-red glare.
“Sure,” I murmured, “I will pluck them
When I have time to spare.”
They were merry days in Manly,
The days that used to be—
But the play is not yet over,
Though I am forty-three;
And I know that, ere the night falls,
There yet remains to me
Many a merry day in Manly,
In Manly by the Sea.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
“Mejib.”: Four of the Victorian military
ambulance waggons, each two horsed and with the
red cross emblazoned on the tarpaulin, wended
slowly along Swanston’-street last Saturday I .' I
mused qn whether it was possible that wounded
men would ever come trundling into Melbourne
thus from a battle. Such a thing was thought
impossible at Washington, and yet what ghastly
cargoes rolled in after Grant’s desperate Battles
of the Wilderness. Those vylio take excursions
into the unforeseen will fancy a procession of
ambulance waggons into London with the
wounded from some Battle of Dorking. In these
times you may say of anything that if it is im-
possible it will be done.
A Dissolution of Partnership.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A wide expanse of sun-browned plain, so monoto-
nous in form and color to the eyes of the travellers
that the smallest object standing upright on it at
once attracted their attention as the topsails of a
ship on the horizon catch the eye of a sailor.
Since daybreak the two men had trudged
doggedly over the dry, black soil, which
crumbled and slipped under their feet, making
their journey doubly irksome. They walked in
silence, one behind the other, their eyes fixed on
a row of little sticks far ahead that slowly
thickened and grew into a wire-fence, and so
marked their progress.
They had passed through several fences, and at
each the little man had paused to repeat the
remark “,By Jove; it’s bloomin’ ’ot !” to
which his companion grunted assent. At noon
they reached another with a top-rail, and the
little man, throwing his swag down and placing: a
little terrier he had carried under his arm care-
fully beside it, cried : “ This fence is all the shade
we’ll get this side of sundown, so we’ll camp for
dinner and view the promised land.”
The ‘ ‘ promised land ” lay on the rim of the
plain, where a dark fringe of foliage outlined a
bend in the river, and the flash of sunlight on
galvanised iron marked the site of a township.
The big man glanced across the glaring plain
at the trees quivering in the heat, with a scowl on
his heavy face, and then sat down on his swag
without a word. His companion poured some
water into the hollowed crown of his greasy felt
hat and held it before the dog, which lapped it up
greedily and wagged his stumpy tail for more.
“ Pore little swine, he’s as dry as a red ’erring,”
said the little man, as he poured out another small
dose. The big man sat sullenly watching the
' proceedings, and, as his mate reached for the
water-bag a third time, he got up and laid his
hand upon it.
“You haf vasted enof voter on dot useless
brute, Sharley. You vos a fool not to leave him
behind.”
There was a sudden gleam in Charlie’s eyes that
meant mischief. The Dutchman noted it, and
drew back quickly.
“You’ve had two drinks to my one all the
morning, Peter. I’ve been saving some for the
dorg, an’ he’s goin’ to ’ave ’em,” said Charlie,
refilling his impromptu drinking-trough.
“ I doan’t want to have any rowaboudt de leedle
brute, for he’s not vort it,” muttered Peter.
“ Oh. dry up ! ” retorted Charlie. “ You don’t
like the dorg becos ’e don’t like you—and ’e’s not
a bad judge either,”
He dressed the little animal’s wounded paws
and bound them up carefully in wet rags. Then
he rigged his coat up on the fence to make some
shade for it to lie in. The big man watched his
mate’s with a sneering grin on his ugly features.
It chafed his frugal mind to see so much care
lavished upon an object that gave no cash return.
The little Cockney glanced up at him and read
what was passing in his mind. “You don’t
understand this caper at all, do yer, Pete? You
never owned a dorg in yer life, and I’ve heerd tell
it’s a mean man that no sort o’ mongrel will foller.
You’d ’ave left Snap to lie gaspin’ in the sun until
the bleedin’ crows picked the eyes out of ’im.
Wouldn’t yer now ? ”
“Veil, be ish no goot,” growled Peter. His
stolid face betrayed no resentment at his mate’s
outspoken estimate of his humanity.
“Yah! that’s all you know, ” retorted Charlie.
“ I’d back him to kill rats against any dorg in the
State. The toff I pinched ’im from imported ’im
when ’e wos the champion ratter of Seven Dials.
But wot chance has the pore little devil got here
to show ’is form ? He’s sick for the sight of a rat-
pit. I dunno if he’s any good at the game now,
but he’s the only pal I’ve got in this Gord-forsaken
country —and, strike me, if I can keep clear of the
booze long enough to raise the stuff, I’ll take ’im
’ome with me.”
There was a moment of silence. Charlie was .
gazing across the plain with a far-away expression
that saw—not the prosaic tin roofs of the little
township—but a vast city, over which there
towered the dome of old St. Paul’s, with the sup
glinting on its gilded cross. Then, turning tp his
mate, he cried, with sudden fervor: “Lord send
I may live! How I would like tp be sittip’ ip
the bar of the ‘ Bunch o’ Grapes ’ with a pot of
‘ old-six ’ before me!”
“ I’ll haf a pot of tea, if we can get any vood for
a fire,” was Peter’s comment on this outburst.
“All right, old Drosspot. I’ll soon get some
wood,” replied Charlie, and, taking the tomahawk
that was strapped to his swag, he started, with
cheerful alacrity, to cut at the only firewood avail-
able —the posts and rails of the fence.
So far as the little Cockney was concerned the
dispute over the dog was forgotten. He had a
bitter tongue when roused, and would scientifically
back it with his fists upon the slightest provoca-
tion, but his volatile nature was incapable of
nursing any serious resentment after the dispute
had ended. There had been many similar growls
between them. Mates, in the true sense of the
term, they had never been. A chance contract
had brought them together, and now that it was
finished the only bond that kept them in company
was a cheque that lay snugly in Peter’s swag. At
the town that flashed in the sun ahead of them,
it was to be cashed and divided. Towards that
promised land Charlie had tramped joyously, for
there he would get his money and lose his un-
congenial mate. He had made no secret of the
■ latter intention. Peter, however, had performed
his forced march unwillingly. He even showed a
disposition to delay the dissolving of their partner-
ship ; not that he appreciated his partner’s society,
but he wished first to solve a problem he had set
himself, and so for three days he had lagged in
the rear, thinking the puzzle over in his slow
way, without arriving at any satisfactory con-
clusion.
Charlie was not a bad-hearted specimen of his
breed, but on this last day he felt a great pleasure
in goading his partner into speech by “guyin’
’ini.” Maybe he had a dim idea of revenging
himself for all the silent hours he had been forced
to spend in the uncongenial society of this surly
foreigner, who rarely spoke and never responded
to his light-hearted efforts to brighten the
monotony of their evenings in camp when the
day’s work was finished. Could Charlie have
guessed what kept his mate even more silent than
usual, during their long tramp across the plains,
ne would have put some restraint upon his flow
of wit. But no flash of inspiration revealed to
him the thoughts working behind thte stolid mask
that only excited his contempt for its stupidity,
and so his foolish banter tipped the scale against
hint, and Defer feft justified in his resolve to
work qut his problem.
The noon-day meal was finished in silence, save
for an occasional remark from Charlie, thrown to
his dog with a scrap of meat; but, when they were
preparing to resume their tramp, the little man
made another attempt to arouse some enthusiasm
in his sulky companion.
‘‘Now, Peter,” he cried, “put yer best foot
for’ard, and think of the beano we’ll ’ave in tahn
ter-niglit.”
“I go no farder den der first vorter for dis
night,” was the surly answer.
“What? You’d camp out, like a bloomin’
blackfellar, in sight of a tahn—an’ on New Year’s
Eve, too, ’stead of ’avin’ a fair old spree like a
Christean?”
“ I haf no money for sprees,” retorted Peter.
“No money” echoed Charlie; “no money—
with the ’arf of a sixty-odd pahnd cheque to
splash around with? Garn, wocher givin’ us?
D’yer mean to say you’re goin’ to add every
stiver of it to the little dry bit you’ve got in the
bank ? ”
“I vorked for my mooney, and it shall make
udders vork for me. See dot now ! ”
“Oh, yus. I see yer dart now,” replied Charlie,
with a sneer. “You want to be a boss cocky
with a boy and a dorg to vork for you, an’ Gor-
delpem, I say, specially the dorg;” and, with that
prayer for his mate’s future working staff, the
little Cockney swung his swag into position and
marched off whistling, with the little terrier under
his arm.
* * *
“ Goin’! goin’l gorn ! If I’d bin behind ’im
I’d ’a’ shoved ’im dahn hours ago.”
The little man wiped his head with the towel
he used to sling his swag, and gazed resentfully
at the spot where the sun had just slipped over
the edge of the plain in a blood-red haze of heat,
The partners sat in silence gazing over the
country they had crossed. Charlie was under the
spell of New Year’s Eve, wandering among the
ghosts of the old “beanos” he had enjoyed on
New Year’s Day at ’Appy ’Ampstead ; recalling
the many good resolutions he had made, from
year to year, to save his money for that mueh-
deferred trip home, and debating whether it was
worth while to renew them that evening,
Peter was thinking of Charlie, of the cheque he
was sitting upon, and the problem connected
with it.
The dog was turning around in search of a com
fortable camp, and making futile efforts with his
bandaged paws to scratch out a cool trench in the
hot earth to sleep in.
“Well, you’re dull comp’ny for New Year’s


THAT STAB-LIKE PAI
*
A
&
o
Every Picture tells a Story.
It tells
of
Sick,
Ailing
Kidneys
Consider what it means to neglect the kidneys.
They are the great blood filters of the body. All the
blood passes through them once every three minutes, day
and night, to be filtered and purified. Thus the kidneys
remove about 500 grains of impure matter every 24 hours.
So the kidneys are working day and night to keep you
in health. But when they get sick they do not do this
filtering process properly, and some of the uric acid and
waste matters stay in the system. These impurities are
the cause of most diseases.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Fills
are made to heal and help the kidneys in their great work.
They take out the uric acid (the acid that causes rneuma-
tism, gravel, gout, heart disease, sciatica, and neuralgia);
they take out the water that causes the dropsical
swellings; they relieve backaches, correct the flow from
the kidneys, &c.
But your neighbor’s word, given here, tells the whole
story.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. Geo. Woodroffe, Roseby-street, Drummoyne, writes: —“l am
pleased to be able to write you this letter, for it is to tell you of the very
great benefit I have derived from the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney ,
Pills. I have been a great sufferer with the kidneys for the,past 17 years.
It started with a cold, and eventually inflammation of the kidneys and
bladder set in. During all those years I did not know what it was to
have a clear head, and some days the pain would be fearful.
“ With my nightly rest broken, owing to irregularities of the kidneys,
annoyed and inconvenienced day and night, and suffering intensely from
severe pains in the small of my back, life was anything but pleasant to
me—in fact, I often wished I were dead. I cannot tell you half of what
I suffered. I used to get up in the morning feeling tired and worn out.
“ I have been treated by some of the cleverest and best-known Sydney
doctors, and was for seventeen and a half weeks in the hospital, and also
two months in another hospital, where I had one kidney removed in order
to save my life, the doctor said. And though the various treatments eased
. me for a time, I was not cured, and would soon relapse into my former
condition ;in fact, I seemed to get worse each time. I also tried all kinds
of patent medicines advertised to cure kidney complaint, but they did not
give me even temporary relief. As no amount of doctoring relieved my
condition, I was becoming discouraged. One doctor said I could never be
cured ; and after so many failures to get a cure, and the years of suffering,
I began to think he was right.
“ One day my brother read of the cures effected by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and wanted me to take them. I would not, thinking they
were no better than the other remedies I had taken. I was so bad that to
work was almost impossible. My brother kept on worrying me to try
Doan’s Pills, if I only took one box. To please him I got a box, and took
a few doses. They seemed to make me worse, and I said I would take no
more. He prevailed on me to go on with them. I commenced taking
them again, and before I had finished the box I felt extraordinarily well.
I had not felt so well for years; the pills were working wonders for me.
I continued taking them, and am now cured of the headaches and back-
ache, and I sleep well at night. These pills have been a Godsend to me.
and I feel it is a pleasure to live. My friends tell me the improvement in
me already is positively wonderful. .
“ I would like you to publish what I have written in this letter. It is
true, and I would swear to it before any J.P. I think it right to let
people know what Doan’s Pills have done for me, for what they have done
for me they will do for others. There is no need for anyone to suffer with
the kidneys.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
Eve,” exclaimed Charlie, after waiting in vain for
some talk ; “so here goes for the tahn.”
He jumped up and, unrolling his swag, took out
a clean pair of moleskins, a gaudy, siik-striped
shirt, and a handkerchief to match, and with his
towel over his shoulder stepped to the edge of the
river-bank. It was the outer curve of the bend,
and the swift current had cut the bank away
underneath to such an extent that the ground on
which he stood hung over the whirling, yellow
flood beneath.
“ Are you going for a swim?” inquired Peter,
With a suddenly-awakened interest in his partner’s
movements.
“Not me. I ain’t no swimmer; an’ if I wos I
wouldn’t fancy my charnce among them snags.”
Charlie strolled off up the river to find a better
spot, leaving his companion gazing thoughtfully
at the water.
Peter remained staring at the scene until the
little man, returning from his toilet, interrupted
his meditations by advising him to postpone his
annual bath until the river was lower.
It was now nearly dark, and lights began to
appear in the little township that was perched up
on a sandy ridge half-a-mile away, out of the
reach of floods. Charlie arranged his bed care-
fully at the base of a tree, all ready for turning
into,- chained his dog up alongside of it, and then
put the question that Peter feared was coming :
“ ’Ave yer got any money on yer ? ” '
“Vat for?” inquired Peter, sullenly.
“ To put in the missionary-box for the pore,
benighted ’eathen,’ retorted Charlie with a sar-
castic drawl. Then, in a sharp, decisive tone, he
added : “But, if yer.ain’t got any loose cash. I’ll
have to smash the cheque ter-night, that’s all.
Yer don’t suppose I’m goin’ bummm’ around the
tahn without a stiver, do yer?”
“I haf one note, and dat is blenty to pour
down your troat to-night,” growled Peter.
“ Yus, one note ud be plenty if I was goin’ to
lay it all aht in Jimmy Woodsers, but I ain’t
built that way, chummy. Pll find some pals to
drink with me ter-night, and tomorrer I’ll start
the New Year fair an’ square. So ante up a
couple o’ quid an’don’t act the mule.”
Peter produced the notes from a greasy leather
pouch he carried on his belt, and handed them
over very reluetanty.
“It’s like partin’ with yer ’eart’s blood, I
know,” said Charlie, thrusting the money care-
lessly into his trousers pocket; “ but it’s better
than trustin’ me with a cheque. Eh, old man?”
Peter fattened his pouch carefully and made no
reply.
“ Well, sTong, me bloomin’ ole hatter. You’ll
’ave the river-bank all to yerself ter-night. Larst
time I wos ’ere it wos lit up like Circ’lar Quay
’tween ’ere an’ the bridge.” As he spoke he moved
off into the darkness towards the twinkling lights
of the township, and Peter stood staring into the
fire. He was startled presently by the crackling
of dried twigs underfoot, and the little terrier’s
delighted antics told him that Charlie was re-
turning.
“ Say, Peter ! I’ll be cornin’ aht after the pubs
close, so don’t forget to make up a good fire before
you turn in, so’s I’ll find the camp easy. It s that
dark, a bloke might walk over the bank o’ the
river if he’s a bit bosky, an’ there’s no light to
steer by. See ? ”
Peter’s face brightened suddenly. “ All right,
Sharley,” he replied, in quite a cordial tone.
Peter sat by the fire a long time, gazing into
the flames with eyes that saw nothing but a single
mental picture, around which his thoughts re-
volved, only to return persistently to his mate’s
parting request.
An answer to his problem had come as a flash
of inspiration, but it seemed so easy, and so safe,
that he distrusted it until he had examined it
from all points of view, and tested every detail of
it in his usual deliberate manner. At last his
mind was made up, and as he stood upright, and
looked towards the lights of the township, an evil
grin spread over his stolid features.
“ I vill give you a happy new year, Sharley, my
boy. Your own vords show me the vay.” He
chuckled to himself as he walked over to the tree
where Charlie had made his bed.
Snap, seeing his enemy approach, wrinkled up
his nose, and bared his teeth with a vicious snarl.
Then the poor little animal crept round behind
the tree, as if he realised his danger, and his utter
helplessness, at the same moment.
“You haf too mooch tong, you leedle brute,
like your master,” growled Peter, and picking up
a heavy stick, he crushed the little terrier’s skull
in. With the first act in his plan completed
came a sudden dread of failure. In his heart he
feared the ready hands of the little Cockney.
Suppose Charlie got too drunk to reach the camp
that night, and he had no account for Snap’s dis-
appearance in the morning? The bare thought of
such a meeting made him shiver as he stood
looking down at the faithful little animal he had
killed. But there was no going back for him now
that he had crossed the line, and, after a few
moments’ thought, he went on with his work in
the slow, methodical manner peculiar to him. He
took the-dog up and swung it by the chain into
the middle of the river. Then he went back to
Charlie’s bed and drew out from under the head
of it a roughly-made canvas satchel. Taking this
to the fire he emptied the contents out on to his
outspread coat. All the little cockney’s treasures
lay before him in a heap. They were of no value
whatever to Peter, for nobody would have given
the smallest coin to possess them ; but, to Charlie,
they formed the soul of his swag. His blankets,
shirts, boots, even his smartest neckties were any-
body’s who could care to buy them—here to-day
and gone to-morrow. But the curious collection
of odds and ends in his satchel he had carried for
years, for everything in it spoke to Charlie of old
friends, and old scenes, and of everything that he
wanted to remember. In some vague manner
this was understood by the man who was now
examining the things by the light of the fire. He
had seen his mate turning the satchel out on
Sundays, which was his day for having what he
called a “ sailor’s pleasure. ” t
But neither sentiment, nor mere curiosity had
any part in Peter’s examination of Charlie’s
personal effects. He sorted out the old letters,
photos, and discharges into a little heap, with
everything else that nad a name upon it, and was
about to put them on the fire when a sudden
thought changed his mind. “ No,” he muttered,
“ the dog vood ’ave barked, but these things can’t.
They can vait till aftevords.”
He replaced the satchel as he had found it.
Then, after a careful look around, he poured water
on to the fire and watched it until every spark was
extinguished, and, picking up his swag, he walked
down the river—towards the bridge.
• • « •
The hotels in the little township of W
had closed their front doors, and Charlie had been
hustled into the street, with the rest of the
unprivileged strangers, to start the New Year
rather mo e drunk than usual. Most of his com-
panions had provided themselves with bottles, and
they settled themselves comfortably on the side-
walk —against the corner posts —to welcome the
Xew Year in proper back-blocks fashion; but
Charlie, declining many lurid invitations to “see
it out,” shaped a somewhat erratic course for his
camp.
He was tolerably sober from the waist up, but
his legs had not fallen in with his good resolutions,
and he stopped frequently to swear at them for
carrying him from one side of the street to the
other, against his own efforts to go straight ahead.
He had enjoyed a good time in town, many argu-
ments upon the Labor-question, and “ a hit or
two ” —without which no wayback spree would be
counted a success. But this was to be his last
“beano”—in the bush. As soon as the bank re-
opened, he would get his share of the cheque,
dissolve partnership with Peter, and ship home to
London.
When his short tacks through the town brought
him, at last, into the open country, he saw afar
off the light ol a camp-fire flashing between the
trees by the river. To his home-sick imagination
it seemed to welcome him like the first light in
the English Channel, that catches the eye of the
look-out man on a home-bounder.
He quickened his pace, and; in the intense dark-
ness, unrelieved by a single star, his legs brought
him down over every log that lay across his track.
But lie always rose with a cheerful curse upon his
rebellious limbs, and as he drew nearer to the
light that flashed and disappeared again behind
the trees in his line of sight, like a beacon, his
sentimental fancy connected it with his thoughts
of home.
“ Lord luv me ! I can see the whole bloomin’
proeeshun o’ lights—the Lizard, the brave old
Eddystun, Start Point, the Shambles, an’ right
along the coast to the old Noah’s Ark at the
mouth o’ the Thames.” Then, with a true nautical
drawl, he began to chant—
The lee-ights of the ’arbor, the ’arbor lee-ights,
The der-ream of so many long wee-ary nee-ight(.
e • o *
A man was stretched out behind the fire with
his head pillowed upon his swag. He lay very
quiet, his eyes wide open, staring across the fire
into the darkness beyond. Once, when a log
suddenly, leaped into a flame, and the light spread
along the ground and touched the edge of the
river, the man made a stealthy movement with a
billy of water that reduced the flame until the
river-bend was left in darkness.
He was listening intently to the song, that rang
out with startling distinctness on the breathless
summer’s night, and following the singer’s pro-
gress by the sound of his voice. Suddenly the
song ceased. The listener drew a watch from the
pouch at his belt, and the firelight showed him
that the old year was just dying. He looked
anxiously towards the spot where he had last
heard the solitary singer, and his hearing was on
the alert to catch the slightest sound. His face
was distorted with sudden alarm. He was think-
ing : “If he falls and goes to sleep out there —
what then ? ”
At that moment a flight of rockets shot up from
the township, and burst into streams of colored
lights that shone brilliantly against the heavy
clouds. Then the uncanny stillness was broken
by the roar of the steam sirens at the river flour-
mills, the banging of kerosene tins, ringing of
bells, and the wild shrieks and hurrahs of all the
boys in the district.
Charlie had stopped, and was looking back
towards the township. “There he goes, Peter!”
he shouted. “The new year’s in, and good luck to
it. I’ve brought out a bottle to wet it. Peter!
Oh ! d’yer see the fireworks ? ”
The man at the fire made no sign.
The shouting, whistling, and banging of tins
continued in a hideous chorus for some moments,
and then died out gradually in isolated efforts.
A few bars of “Auld Lang Syne,” played on a
cornet, floated across the plain, mingled with the
chorus of many voices ; then the lights disappeared
one by one, and the silence that followed the
startling uproar was so intense that the man
watching by the fire gave a nervous start when a
voice out there in the shadows broke the spell.
It was Charlie, who had been sitting on a log
watching the performance. He was talking to
himself.
“They made more row than a lot o’ bloomin’
Chinamen scaring the devil off the moon, and yet
there’s old Peter fast asleep by the fire, and that
little dorg o’ mine never lets a howl out of ’im.
Hi! Snap! Snap!” lie shouted, staggering for-
ward again with his eyes dazzled by the fire.
“Bark, you little swine! Bark for a’appy new
year, for ve’re goin’ 'owe to —Christ !”
The startled pry, and the heavy splash that, fol-
lowed, echoed among the trees, but the man at
the fire never moved.
“Help! Peter! Help!” Three times the
despairing appeal for assistance rang out unheeded
—followed by a deep silence. The splashing had
ceased, and only the faint murmur of the current,
as it swirled round the bend, could be detected by
listening ears.
The man rose from behind the fire and walked
a short distance down the stream, stopping to
listen every few yards, and to peer at the black
shadows, where the fretting of the current indi-
cated a snag. Once he was startled at seeing
something white bobbing up and down in mid-
stream, and in a voice that quavered with fear he
called out:
“Is dot yon, Sharley ?” .
But it was only the white spume lapping against
an uprooted tree, and he drew a deep breath of
relief.
Peter retraced his steps, put out the fire and
threw the charred sticks into the river. Then,
with his swag on his shoulder, he crossed over the
bridge and returned to his first camp.
As he stretched himself out to sleep he glanced
at the blankets spread out under the next tree,
and muttered:
“He vos a useless, drunken leedle brute, and
mooney vos no use to him.”
It was all the epitaph Charlie ever had, for,
when the river gave him up, he was numbered
among the great Australian contingent of “un-
knowns.”
CRIPPS CLARK.
“ Hiphen ” : What’s in a name, anyhow ?
Scribbling at random one day, I wrote : “ When
persons are sorry that they cannot be what they
are, you may be sure that they are what they
think they are not.” Then it occurred to me to
put “La Rochefoucauld” underneath and to seek
for victims. Came across a ’Varsity man with
weak vision but strong views. “Um, ah!” he
murmured, “I know the passage; it’s from his
something-or-other. ” “ How would he explain it ?”
I asked. “ Explains itself,” he said, and passed
on. Next I tackled a fair, young creature “with
a soul.” “How perfectly lovely!” she gurgled.
“So telling ! ” Next a bow-windowed old gent
told me he knew the passage well, but that it was
somewhat involved as it stood. “ Suffered in the
translation. Crisper and more—ah —concise in
the original.” I struck a snag though when I
showed it to a scientific uncle of mine. He read
the thing over twice —then handed it back with :
“What rot!


Weak and Nervous
Loss of Appetite. Indigestion. Impure Blood. Severe Headaches.
An Easy and Prompt Cure.
V.* .* .
m %**/'•" > •- •.» ■ •
<w
fro
1.
*5
4T
*§ft
Mrs. Marian Pascoe, of Christ-
church, Hew Zealand, sends a photo-
graph of herself and little boy and
says: ;
“I had indigestion very badly.
My food rested heavy on my stom-
ach. I lost my appetite and rapidly
grew weal*. My blood became im-
pure and I had almost constant
headache. I was so nervous I hardly
knew what to do. A friend sug-
gested that I try Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, which I did, and only a few
bottles made me strong and hearty
again. My little boy began to com-
plain, said he was all tired out,
could not play, nor do anything.
He lost his appetite, and grew weak
and languid. I tried the Sarsapa-
rilla on him also, and he was soon
perfectly well.”
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
o£|ftL A s M ’S
171 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY. MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GCJITVTHA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion. Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System : restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud oe Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, lhese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Heer/tam’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieincin
he icorid. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
u
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Bast
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
“The World’s Greatest Family EVSedioine.”
When you lose your appetite, when your food distresses you, and when
your nerves are weak, you may know that severe disease is not far away.
Taken in time, the cure is easy and prompt. You must strengthen your
digestive organs,, purify your blood, and put your whole nervous system into
better condition. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do this for you every time. And
it will give to languid and thin children the energy and vitality natural to them.
Experiments are dangerous. Avoid imitation Sarsaparillas. Insist always
upon getting Ayer’s, the oldest, strongest, best Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Rich and the Nerves Strong
Constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, — ail cured by flyer’s Pills.
“ A.P.R.” : Stayed the night, once, at a
cocky’s, and was given a bed in the room that
served as a dairy, family museum, etc. About 3
a.m. a cat-fight occurred on the tin roof. Thought
it was an earthquake, and, springing up, I felt for
my matches, and dipped my arm into a dish of
honey. There is nothing so disgusting as honey
outwardly appliedm* I hqrriedly wiped it off with
Mrs. Cocky’s Sunday dress. Felt again, and got
my hand on an old hen, which retaliated by flying
into my face with great emphasis. Then I made
for the door, ajid upset the/nilk that was generating
next day’s batter all over my blankets. As further
sleep was impossible, I spent the next 80min. grop-
ing for theiaoor-knob, Vfrhich wasn’t there at all,
the latch being manipulated by a string. I scooted
early, leaving the hen to meet the consequences.
“Prooshan ” : A hawk recently attacked
a clutch of my chickens, but was beaten off by the
mother hen after a hard fight, during which the
father of the chicks and the rest of his harem
stood off about 50 yards and cackled themselves
i< oarse ' P° w^s always do act on the principle of
Save yourself, but make a deuce of a row to
show your sympathy for the less fortunate.” How
very human !
“ Periwinkle ” : On a certain Queensland
run (cut up into selection slices) is a gate, which
long had the reputation of being haunted*
because no horse would stand at it. But, t’other
day, an old rabbit-trapper pulled up at the gate,
and, when his neddy played-up and bolted, inves-
tigated, and found the explanation in an ant-bed
on the spot where the neddies. were expected to
stand while the gate was being attended to. Most
ghost yarns have some such explanation.
“ A.T.” : When I was recently droving a
mob of sheep from the Q. border it was common
to see 10 or 12 dingoes following about, a mile
behind, and no matter what care we took we
would find nearly every morning several sheep
torn to pieces. One very big dingo was specially
daring. One morning a black boy came running
to say that this dog had a sheep down in front.
Told him to jump on a horse and head the dingo
towards me, and presently I saw the brute coming
for all he was worth. I fired just as he was jump-
ing a log, and killed him on the spot. A couple of
days later had to go back to look for some sheep,
and found the body of the dingo almost covered
with soil—l presume by his mates.
“ W.P.C.” : Do aloes flower more than
once ? In our small community opinions differ,
the practical man says “yes,” and gives in-
stances. The scientific says “no,” and adds that
the nature of the plant is such that the act of
flowering is the climax of its life, after which it
must .necessarily die. Which is correct ?
M
SOLD
BY
- ■
sd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
IHBUCra
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists! Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-To-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, if rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring fOR Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter. Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. MiNEßS’GuiDE(simple testator minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. . Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schooi master., Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, Os 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE QOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POSi.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.;
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is,
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d: ; .Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and, Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason', by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
W annan*s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT
Book Depot
16 Park Street,
A JVetvX/.M.C. Cartridge
Loaded with Smokeless Powder and Inside Lubricated,
which means there is no grease on the outside of
the bullet.
fs
U.M.C.
THE
ANEST and MOST ACCURATE
CARTRIDGE MADE.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
A CARD
dfs
M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P..E., L.R.C.5.,E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
d by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
ELM LEY HOUSE,"
151 ELiZABE i H ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Phys'cian in all Ciseases ot Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in ail Private, Nervous, Skin,,antl Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
snch as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
ttie Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUKD (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ehling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing.


FRUIT
JAR
Best Quality.
All Fresh Stock.
Will not perish.
• MASON " ..
Extra thick
‘LIGHTNING”
Extra thick
“FRISCO”
Extra thick
‘ CHICAGO ”
Ex' ra thick
‘ GILCRIST”
Extra thick
50 doz.
6<l- doz.
5(1 doz.
6d doz.
6d doz.
7d doz.
6d doz.
7d doz.
6d doz.
8d doz.
PERDRIAU &
3d gross
0d gross
fkl "Toss
(id gross
Od gross
Od gr ss
6d gross
(id yross
Od gross
6d gross
Rubber
up Merchants,
ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
-270 George Street, Sydney.
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN*
Tel. 1198.
'HE most charming and stylish
Transformations and ,semi-
* Transformations yon ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTH INGTOH.
TRADE MARX.
Boiler Feed Pump.
■r SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, to-ao*
Warren Webster & Co. "““w
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
tag it -
tangyes
Oil Engines
Sole Australian Representatives—
BENNIE, TEARE & GO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Goolgardie.
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St.. Sydney.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
dfssdfs
New Forms of Vise.
m
r*N
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18Jin., opens llin.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Address of
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers t of Mining MachineiV»
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, eto», ito>
§
sdfsdfsdfsdf
T. M. GOODALL & GO., 129 hay st., Sydney
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE— Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
. . dmmiiihct Plants a Snaoialtv. Mow and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
sd
**~ ' * t 0 ' . ~v "jAMi
Size, 6J" x 3?" x 5"
We are Direct Importers
and Have
for Sale—
SHOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
MAKE THE BEST
ROCK DRILLS‘"‘AIR COMPRESSORS
IN THE MARKET.
UNEQUALLED for SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION, DURABILITY,
The Little Giant and Slugger Drills.
The Imperial High Speed Compressors.
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forces, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, jiyWg
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wir
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
a
SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
—■ ■ .iim *
97
I~!T. A TIEJiTCE aTREEIT, aYP3?JE'g.
LITTLE GIANT DRILt*
ECONOMY OF WORKING AND MAINTENANCE.
The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coal-Cutting Machines.
mam
rticulars
Ijg*
Clarence St., Sydney.
N. GUTHRIDGE, 486 j
