

McEWAN’S
GAELIC
IRROY’S
HHHf*
JCt %rm
Mining
107 Kent street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-fcute
Machine.
HERVEYS
RACKAROCK
18 Years Unbroken Becord
as a Standard- Australian
Explosive.
64
W. C.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
ZEKLZDTfcIZDO'EE .& CO.,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
■
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
un. n THE WORLD’S RECORD
“Grand 3Pri X ,’> 3E>«-r±i, 1900.
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS
IBSON, BA‘
LE &
H>Ts«grtlEp'ai's.
'I
85 Pitt Street,
w n
H
z
o
EVERYWHERE.
kcobart.
rffrx
[jadleys flrient fjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
B
USHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
"n
CO
—_—
EROOSVI’S
INDIAN
POLO STEMS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddler!
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
4
J
—l
*t7 Cv
4
X
ERGOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Bails.
0.1 o
THE
Edis'
BOYAL
i - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
• - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA.
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
IBS EM!i IW
United Electric Light
Co., Lta.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street/. Brisbane.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Trice, Gd; Posted, Bd.
THE
‘PLUM’
T.'V M
m
pi ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
'jl iik e a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM" RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 60.
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
Price Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
:
Wm
X
A Gold or Silver Watcii Free I
SEND NO MONEY.
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s, or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends- us the
correct reading of the following- PUZZLE:—
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the W T atch.
answer,-and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have
won the Watch. We are making-
this offer solely with the object of in roducin.tr and advertising our
goods. Forward vour letter to onr address [or Box 565 G.P.0.l
GOLDSMITHS COLONIAL CO., PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Colonial Hospital writes : “Our patients have
greatly benefited by the use of Joshua’s
Boomerang Brandy. It is a very Nourishing
and Beneficial Stimulant.”
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
74 VICTORIA ROAD,
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
WOrtIDEsiFUL VALUE
/\ PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
\ankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlorenter-
taiiinients), the Wonderful Finger Tlirough the Hat Trick,
the locket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
1 nek. arid, last of ail, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Back of Cards (instructions enclosed).
J ms splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia
tree, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box S, P.-0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co,,
710 George Street, Sydney.
References throughout Great Britain and Colonic.
taken from the System.
Nothing remains whic'J can
1 produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up;
Reliefs, or change of climate no long*
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hav
tahlished 1883 Explanatory BOOK pu»„
Address; DR. P .HAROLD H A YES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE.
Buffalo, N. Y„ U. S. A.
life made enjoyable.
*r needed. We have
Fever patients. Es~
The Bulletin
tory Book
By Sixty
ULLETiN Writers
Cloth, 3
A
4s. 6d.
pages
price
MEMO. FOR 1904: “ AUT HELIDON AUT NULLUS.”
The Bulletin
Vol 25 N<>. 1266.]
[Thursday, May 19, 1904.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SOME RECENT BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd
Latham, Diet, of Names and Nicknames, 3s 6d.
St. Aubin, Ordeal of Sara, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Napier, English Battles in the Peninsula, 3s.
Maxim, Monte Carlo, Facts and Fallacies, ss.
Graham, X-Rays simply explained, 6s, p. 2d.
Cooke, Objects for the Microscope, Ulus., Is, p. sd.
Write to us for any Book you Want.
[Renan, Life of Jesus, 6d, cloth Is.
Piggs, Photographic Instructor, Is 3d, p. 3d.
Grubb, Builders’ Quantities, 4s 6d, p. 6d.
Santos Dumont, My Airships, Ulus., 7s.
duff, Sunny Memories of Australia, Is 9d.
Pearson’s Metal Working, 2s.
We are always pleased to answer inquiries.
(4 Doors South ot King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane St London.
STEELE RUPP’S MASAZIME-^
"
A MONTHLY PERIODICAL.
Fob Australia, By Australians.
RUDD & CO.,
6s. 6d. PER ANNUM, Post Pree.
39 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Por the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
mm.%
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
IS. The Trachea or windpipe.
C • The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D- A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTNOL JUJUBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
Ghemista, in tins, l/6, or from Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of
•tamps. Sydney Depot :5k 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States, N.Z., and 320 Begent-st., W., London.
THE RED PAGE.
A. Doctor’s Confessions*
Some three years ago a Russian doctor of medicin
Y. Veresaeff, published a remarkable book (now tran
lated into English as The Confessions of a
He pictured a doctor as he may see himself, divested o
mysterious “etiquette” and “the dignity of th
profession.” His sincerity is manifest. He tells, fo
example, of hospitals and dissecting-rooms.
We, the representatives of the most humane o:
the sciences, are compelled to trample the mos
elementary humanity under foot. Availin
itself of the inability of the poor to pay fo
medical aid, our school takes .advantage of the;
need and converts the sick into dummies to b
used for the purpose of study, ruthlessly settin
at naught woman’s shame, adding to the sorrow
of the bereaved mother by “desecrating” he
dead child.
I am quite at a loss to suggest any practicab
way out of this dilemma ; all I know is, that w
cannot do without medicine, and that no othe
way of acquiring knowledge is possible. At th
same time I must confess that if want were t
force my wife, or sister, into the position of th
unhappy patient who consulted the professor o
syphilodology, I would cry out that I did no
care a fig for all the schools of medicine in th
world and that no one was given the right t
degrade the feelings of his fellow-creatures
merely because the latter chanced to be poor
. Dr. Veresaeff relates how he was compelled to hid
inevitable doubt and ignorance at the outset of h
practice.
I took lodgings, put up my brass plate with th
legend : ‘ ‘ Dr. , ” and began to wait fo
patients. I awaited them, and at the same tim
dreaded their advent. Every pull at the be!
made my heart beat in a panic ; each time that i
turned out that no patient had called, I sighec
with a feeling of relief. Would Ibe able to
diagnose, would I be capable of prescribing th
right treatment? My store of information wa
neither so large, nor was I so well at home in
what I possessed, that I could feel certain of beinj
able to apply it impromptu. All well and gooc
if the patient’s case was not too urgent and he
could be allowed to wait: after prescribing some
thing neutral, I would look up my text-books a
home and ascertain the right thing to be done
But what if I were called to an emergency case'
It is just this sort of case that beginners are gene
rally summoned to.... What would I do then ?
There is a book by a certain Dr. L. Blau, called
Diagnostics and Therapeutics in cases showing
Alarming Symptoms. I got it and transcribed it
main contents into my pocket memoranda, sup
plementing this conspectus from my text-books
I grouped the different diseases in accordance witl
their symptoms; for instance, dyspepsia: (1
croup ; (2) pseudo croup; (3) oedema of the glottis
(4) spasm of the larnyx ; (5) bronchial asthma ; (6
congestion of the lungs ; (7) croupous pneumonia
(8) uremic asthma; (9) pleurisy; (10) pneumo
thorax. Each disease in turn was accompaniec
by an enumeration of its symptoms and the cor
responding treatment. This note-book did me
yeoman service and I could not dispense with i
for a long time afterwards—about two years
When summoned to the bedside of a patient, ]
would unclasp my trusty friend under the pretex
of taking notes, seek out the disease most resem
bling the patient’s, and prescribe accordingly.
Some of his cases, by good luck, did well; others, bv
bad luok, did ill; but presently he made a mistake in
treatment, and caused blood-poisoning in a patient
washerwoman’s son. The boy died.
Half an hour later, as I was on the point o
taking my departure, the washerwoman openec
her box and offered me a greasy three-rouble
note.
“Take it, sir...for your trouble, she said. “Oh
how you tried to save him, may our Mother ir
Heaven bless you ! ”
I declined the fee. We stood together in the
semi-dark passage.
“It was God’s will!” I murmured, looking
away.
“His holy will. He knows best,” she answered
and once more her lips began to tremble and her
sobs broke forth afresh. “Oh, thank you, thank
you, sir, for having been so good to my boy ! ”
And she tried to kiss my hand, still crying,
thanking me for my kindness and consideration..
Remorse drove Veresaeff back to study, and he was
misled by a “new” cure for croupous pneumonia. An
article in a medical paper of repute had recommendec
digitalis in enormous—and, in normal circumstances
poisonous—doses. Dr. Veresaeff tried the remedy, and
the patient died ; whether from the illness or the digitalis
he could not say.
I registered a vow in future only to employ
those remedies upon my patients which had stood
ample test and left no room for doubt as to their
effects. The closer I became acquainted with
current medical literature, the firmer did this
decision become. An appalling state of affairs
was _ revealed to me. Every number of every
medical journal contained communications on
dozens of new remedies; and thus it went on,
from week to week, from month to month ; a
gigantic, insane and endless torrent, which be-
wildered the eyes: new doses, new medicines,
new methods of introducing them, new operations
—and dozens, nay—hundreds of human lives lost
and healths ruined. Some of these innovations,
like bubbles on the frothing surface of a torrent,
leaped up and immediately burst, leaving behind
one or two corpses.
J*
Veresaeff stresses the importance of “ keeping up con-
fidence ” in patients, and points out how at every step
the doctor has to fight patients’ ignorance.
The exaggerated demands made of medicine,
founded upon an ignorant belief in its omnipo-
tence, are the physician’s bane, and fetter him
hand and foot. A patient down with typhoid
suffers from high fever, splitting headaches, and
night sweats ; he is oppressed by delirium ; these
must be fought against with great precautions,
natural remedies being chiefly recoursed to; but
only try to tell the patient that he must suffer,
bathed in perspiration and tormented by hallu-
cinations. He will turn from you and apply to a
medical man, who will not stint him in quinine,
phenaeebin, and chloral, for he says: “What
doctors this who does not alleviate the patient’s
P ain p matter that this assuagement is
nought at the price of the patient’s strength : let
the permanent ruin of his constitution be the
result, let him lose for all days the power to com-
disease independently; his pain was soothed,
and. that sufficed in itself. The most miserable
patients in this respect are various “exalted per-
sonages impatient and spoilt, who blame the
doctor for the slightest malaise, even when it is •
impossible to remove it. This explains why many
doctors, of whom their colleagues speak with con-
tempt, and to whom no medical man in his right
senses would ever dream of applying, enjoy the
greatest popularity with a certain section of the
public.
Jt
„X - w dtes of the inevitable illnesses bred of modern life,
and suffered by the workers—
A suffering from eczema of the
hands comes to me, or else a drayman with hernia,
or a consumptive weaver; I prescribe salves, pills,
and powders all round, and, myself ashamed at
the farce I am keeping up, tell them in depre-
catory tones that the chief Conditions necessary
for their recovery are as follows : that the washer-
woman should not wet her hands, that the dray-
man should not strain himself by lifting weights,
and that the weaver should keep out of dusty
places.
And he concludes—
Great suffering humanity hangs upon the cross;
his hands and feet are transfixed by cruel nails;'
and medicine bathes the ensanguined wounds
with arnica, and applies aromatic poultices.
On the other side, take an example of the beneficent
work of mechc.ne given in Our Hospitals and Charities
(Liond.) for March.
A patient when he first arrived at the London
Hospital was a man without a face. It was eaten
away by lupus. There were eyes and there was
a chin, little more. The picture is not one good
to think of. The disease was cured. The patient
passed from one department to another. In one
he received an artificial nose; in another a coun-
terfeit moustache and beard. He was refitted to
take his place among his fellow-men in the battle
of life. He had no palate; it was eaten away by
disease. His food had to be poured down his
throat. The surgeons gave him an artificial
palate. Had the man come to consult these
various specialists as any other than a hospital
patient, his treatment would have cost him hun-
dreds of pounds. As it was, it never cost him a
penny.
This, of course, was surgery ; and surgery now-a-dayg
is a science. Medicine, on the other hand, except for
born healers or with the simplest cases, is almost as much
a, matter of guesswork and quackery as in th« days of
Gaien. Says Veresaeff—
Even when my diagnosis appeared to mo to bo
clearly indicated, actuality constantly showed me
to be in the wrong; and, oftener stiff, I stood
before the patient completely nonplussed from
the outset. How was I to draw any conclusion
from the misty and obscure indications with
which his case furnished me! And for whole
nights I would pace up and down my room, pon-
dering upon the data, piecing them together,
and never arriving at apy definite conclusion.
When ultimately I did diagnose, I could never
shake off the haunting thought : “What if my
guess be wrong ? How am Ito verify its correct-
ness ? And to think that I had to live my life
through, beneath the weight of such onstant
uncertainty !
But assuming that I had diagnosed the disease
aright, I now had to treat it. What guarantee
does science give me that the remedies it recom-
mends are really efficacious and to the point ?
The action of most of them is in the highest
degree obscure to us, and the indications to their
application are most empirically set down through
clinical observation. We already know, however,
how unstable and deceiving clinical observation is.
A given remedy acts excellently according to the
unanimous testimony of the profession, and in a
year or two it is thrown overboard as useless, or
even injurious. Koch’s tuberculine lorded it for
two years they saw with their own eyes what’a
brilliant ’ effect it had in combating tubercu-
losis !
A certain young doctor asked the great
Sydenham, the “English Hippocrates,” what
books it was necessary to read to become a good
physician.
Read ‘Don Quixote,’ my friend,’’ answered
Sydenham. “Itis a very good book, and I often
peruse it.”
But this is awful! This means that there oan
be no tradition, no pre-emption of observation.
“Learn to study life without any prejudice, and
eaoh of you learn from the beginning ”
d*
His reflections apply to Australia and the world no less
than to Russia. “ Had I not,” V. asks,
Had I not examined my patient who died of
aneurism most conscientiously, applying all that
science demanded from me, to fall into gross error
nevertheless ? Had a born physician been in my
place, he would have diagnosed rightly: his
peculiar creative faculty would have seized upon
a mass of impalpable symptoms which had escaped
me; through sub-conscious inspiration he would
hav© thus filled the void left by the absence of
clearer indications, guessing what I was incapable
of divining. Only a man thus gifted can answer to
the requirements of the ideal doctor, for talent is
as necessary here as it is to produce the true poet,
artist, or musician. Whereas I had imagined,
when entering myself at the Faculty of Medicine,
that it was possible to learn that art. . . I fondly
believed that a certain level of knowledge and a
certain degree of mental development were all
that I required ; that these qualifications would
enable me to master medicine in the same way as
any applied science, such, for example, as chemi-
cal analysis.
When medicine shall have become a science in
the completest sense of the word, single, universal,
its acquisition by the average man
will be possible. But at present it is as far
beyond our powers to learn medicine, i.e., the
healing art, as to become poets or actors at will.
There are shoals of excellent theorists, genuinely
scientific medical men, who are not worth a
brass farthing in actual practice.
The Passing Scribe.
Gov.-Gen. Northcote or bis secretary has been
whetting wit on that useful word appreciate,
and the Labour Prime Minister is supposed to he
transfixed by a subtle shaft of satire. Watson
telegraphed “ hearty congratulations ” that North-
cote had been dubbed G.C.M.G. —“hearty con-
gratulations upon your receipt of a further mark
of his Majesty’s appreciation of your valuable
services to the Empire.” He went on: “I
assure you that the news will be warmly received,
throughout the Commonwealth a sentence that
may represent either official dullness or personal
irony. N. replied: “Very many thanks for
your telegram of congratulation ” (and he might
have stopped there) “which I fully appreciate ”
(and lo! the venomed dart). For, look you,
the word appreciate has two chief uses,
the good or scholar’s use=“to estimate justly ” ;
and the less good or vulgar use= “ to estimate
highly.” The confusion is so familiar that every-
body who keeps nails and language clean
is accustomed to add highly or greatly for a
quality mark when he fits the word to the popu-
lar understanding. Lord Northcote added fully.
Ordinary, readers (and, doubtless, a Labour
'Premier is an ordinary reader from the Govern-
ment House point of view) would interpret the
telegram to mean “I thank you for your good
wishes, which I esteem highly.” What it really
says is “Very many thanks ” (ironical common-
place) “ for your telegram of congratulation ”
(stressing the better use of congratulation)
“ whioh I rate precisely at its worth.”
Jt
The stroke is too easy to be fine. A more in-
genious passado, for example, is reported by
Frankfort Moore in They Call it Love.
“ I have the honour to wish you good afternoon, sir,”
said the colonel...
“ Nay, sir,” said Mr. Conway, drawing upon his memo-
ries of the eighteenth century. “ Nay, sir, the honour is
on my side.”
That, now, is really pretty. We like it almost
as well as “Sappho Smith’s ” remark when an
eminent citizen lingered over his dying. His
life-innings had been good, and it was clearly “up
to him ” to give his relatives a chance to score the
assets. So “Sappho” reported to the effect that
“This week Mr. is again very ill, and
grave hopes are entertained of his recovery.”
Quod appretiet Etona.
«*
John Pollock, who writes a panegyric on Lord
Acton in April Independent Review, has this
especially interesting passage :
Lord Acton said: “ I was once with two eminent
men, Bishop Stubbs and Bishop Creighton. On another
occasion I was with two far more eminent men, the two
most learned men in the world—l need hardly tell you
their names—they were Mommsen and Harnack. On
each occasion the question arose : who was the greatest
historian the world had ever produced ? On each occa-
sion the name first mentioned, and on each occasion the
name finally agreed upon, was that of Macaulay.” Burke
and Macaulay Lord Acton held to be the two greatest of
English writers, and Burke at his best to be our wisest
political thinker j but, at a time when Macaulay’s name is
more often than not held up for rebuke by historians, it
may not be unprofitable to remember so remarkable a
consensus of opinion of five men, whose varied accom-
plishments at least cannot be accused of lightness or
want of breadth.
You might explain in this way. All history is
false, or at best is but a distant approximation to
the truth. The more one knows of his-
torians, their materials and their prejudices,
the more one realises this. Since then, con-
sciously or unconsciously every historian bears
false witness, the best is he who can make
the historical lie most picturesque and vital, can
most vividly create his own honest conception of
past people and past times. Thus the liest is
Macaulay. Often he is wrong, often he is tire-
some ; but on the whole one cannot be sure
that the duller men are truer. Seeing that all is
error, his imagination is more probably accurate
than others’ representation of what are euphemis
tically called “facts.”
J*
N.S.VV. Birth-rate Commissioners, who for
want of imagination and capacity for generalisa-
tion recently presented us with a report so woe-
fully inept, might read and endeavour to compre-
hend Ellis’s article in the same Review. He
concludes that a falling birth-rate is an essential
phenomenon of rising civilisation.
J*
Lord Acton’s preference for Middlemarvh is a
crucial trait revealed in his newly-published
Letters. A division of the wbrld into people who
prefer Adam Bede and people who prefer Middle-
march would make a good working division of
literary sheep from those very wise animals the
goats. Perhaps Middlernarch fails in dramatic
impression ; but it is the wittiest, tjie most
thoughtful, and the most suggestive of all “ George
Eliot’s” books. Dorothea called here only last
week She is a good creature—that fine girl—
but a little too earnest. It is troublesome to talk
to such women. They are always wanting reasons,
yet _ they are top ignorant to understand the
merits of any question, and Usually fall back on
their moral sense to settle things after their own
taste.” Women’s moral sense, of course, repre-
sents the race’s legacy of accumulated instincts,
and is doubtless a necessary brake on the wheels
of intellectual progress. But it is obnoxious in
the field of art.
Hector Maclean, F.R.P.S. (Lond.), vouches
that a practical and commercial method of photo-
graphy in colours has been invented. The inven-
tor is the clever young Galician Zepanik (whose
name is transliterated into English as Szczepanik.
with a crowd of useless consonants).
A sheet of the colour sensitive paper, being placed
under a suitable transparency, may, under favourable cir-
cumstances, within ten minutes be made to yield a’’
coloured photograph reproducing the whole range of
primary, secondary, and tertiary colours and their mix-
tures. The resultant print, moreover, calls for neither
development nor toning. Indeed, it might iln. v,
without “fixing," but in order that it may not chm,
when exposed to light it is subjected to some simple
4mT ICa ' °P era^'ons "fell within the power of aiiy ordinary
• j 0 near attire there is good reason to expect that
instead of—as at present—rbeing merely a printing pro!
cess, it will be possible to so increase the sensitiveness of
the prepared paper that, just as tintypes in black and
white are taken in a camera, so will it be possible to taka
coloured photographs by imprinting on this paper the
coloured image of a scene or subject as focussed by a lens
m a camera. More than this, inasmuch as with this
strange, eventful '* colour process a positive colour
transparency prints out on to the prepared paper as a
positive, and not, as in all other photographic‘procedures
as a negative, once a coloured picture has been obtained
is a camera it can be printed from times out of number
each print reproducing whatever has been photographed
by the exposure in the camera.
In ordinary photographic procedure the rule has
hitherto been that wherever light acted the sensitised
surface darkened. Zepanik’s printing process, however
depends upon the principle that where light falls a propor!
tional bleaching action ensues. So far the primuline, and
certain other obscure processes, have acted as pioneers
But in the Zepanik process two other steps forward have
been taken. In the first place, the particular dyes are so
sensitised that each dye used is respectively protected
from decolouration by red, yellow, and blue. The
second step is that three collodion (or gelatine) films
dyed red, yellow, and blue, and sensitised by a treatment
with anithol, are successively coated on a sheet of paper.
On placing a coloured positive transparency over sucli a
sheet of paper, and allowing sunlight to act, the red is
entirely bleached except where protected by any red on
the positive used for printing. Similarly the blue and
the yellow films are bleached pro rata according to the
absence of yellow or blue in the transparency. A short
’treatment designed to dissolve out the anithol and to fix
the dyes by means of a “mordant” completes the
operation.
J*
The last story of all-embracing Mormondoru.
declares that President Smith was recently walk-
ing down a street in Salt Lake City when he met
a boy smoking a cigarette. The “prophet”
stopped to remonstrate with him. “ Little boy,”
he said, “don’t you know that it is very wicked
to smoke those nasty cigarettes? What would
your father and mother say if they saw you now ?”
The boy looked up in the speaker’s face, and;
said, “ Don’t you know me, pa ? ”
J*
This reminds of the much-married clergyman
who was placed in charge of an extensive parish,
and came on his pastoral round to a pub.'
in the wilderness. He signified hi 3 inten-
tion of stopping for dinner, and the publican,
took the horses out of the buggy, looking
curiously at him the while. Presently he
said, “ Don’t you know me, father ? ” The
minister started. “Bless me ! Why, no—it can’t
be Joseph ? ” “ Joseph it is, father—there’s the
name up ! ” “ Dear me ! Joseph, and how are
you?” “ Fust-rate, father ; have n’t seen you for
twenty year.” “As long as that!—how time
flies ! I suppose you know I’ve married again.”
“Well, we guessed as much, father —you’re that
sort, you know.” “Dear me! dear me!—and
how is Mary?” “Mary, father?” “Yes, your
sister Mary ?—she had red hair, I remember.”
“No sister of that name, father—there’s Alice
and Jane and Henrietta—no Mary ; no red hair
in our family. We ’re by your second, you know.”
“Dear me, to be sure! Mary was Emily’s
daughter; I remember now. But wasn’t there
a Clara? ” “She was by your third, father; she’s
housekeeper fifteen mile frdm here; we found
her out by the name.’’ “ Dear me ! And William,
and Thomas, and Eustace?” “We don’t know
them, father; they must have come since our
time.’’ “ Dear me ! I wonder where they are ! ”
And the patriarch, who had dropped progeny all
over the length and breadth of the country, went
ponderingly in to dinner. J >
♦ '
A recent visitor to George Meredith (now 76) is
especially awed by his mouth. The head is good too—
“ a grand head” —“a Greek head ” ; but the mouth!
“ The srreat month opens almost foursquare. It is an
Attic mask, a magician’s cave. . . . We feel that, as Men-
delssohn said of Goethe, he could shout like a hundred
warriors.” v>
An Academy reviewer says very sensibly of Yeats’s
plays, written for “an Irish thea re,” that they can do
nothing to help the Irish .stage because, first and last,
they are not dramatic—they contain much good poetry
and little characterisation. What is wanted ? Living
hearts, not dead bones ; human beings, not abstractions ;
—dramas of Irish life of to-day.
New sixpenny books worth buying are Brownell’s The
Heart of Japan and (possibly) Hath. Thurston's The
Circle,
The Strand Magazine quotes Phil May as praising the
incomparable Gillray. “ Look at his sweep of line and
his astonishing mastery over the grotesque and ridicu-
lous. There are pictures so extraordinarily funny that
you can’t laugh—too funny for words.”
“Little Miss Bauermeister,” one of the old-time
operatic singers, now retiring from the stage, says of
“our Nellie” that “Madame Melba I always call a
diamond in the rough. If she likes you she is as true as
steel, and if she does not it takes a very short time for
you to discover the fact.”
The Athenceum mentions that Sidney Lee, in a pre-
face to the collection of Elizabethan sonnets in the new
edition of Arber’s Garner, shows that a mass of them,
“ hitherto regarded as original, are literal translations
from French or Italian.” One of these days somebody
may generalise regarding the whole Elizabethan illumina-
tion that the fire was kindled in Europe, and the fuel
was supplied, and that England’s part was with charac-
teristic energy to blow the fire to flame.
Regarding 0. Rossetti, the same review remarks that
“ It is curious—curious and regrettable—how few poets
retain the white heat, the thorough-blast of their inspira-
tion, when they dedicate themselves to direct religious
themes. Since the days of Crashaw, Vaughan, and
Herbert many have felt themselves called, but few have
been chosen. It seems to demonstrate the inferiority of
holy-water to the Pierian spring as a source of in-
spiration.”
Printed in England that Blackwood’s reminiscent
“ Sigma ” is Paget Toynbee, author and critic, known for
his work on Dante.
Holbrook Blinn, an actor, relates this Amer. experi-
ence. The play was As You Like It, and the place was
Detroit, Michigan. On the morning after the first
performance one newspaper appeared with no mention
whatever of the theatre or the company. Its criticism,
headed “The Baconian Theory,” ran as follows “The
believers in the Baconian theory will noV have an
opportunity of proving the truth of their opinions. If
to-day the graves of Shakespear and Bacon be opened,
She body of that one which turned over last night will
establish the authorship of As You Like It."
A.G.S.


root
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCHGOM BE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
ABE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE ST„ SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
S/NGLETON’S EYE OINT M ENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI ELVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
The Leading House for Sporting; Goods and Tobacco
Hollis
& Sons’
a
The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
N?n
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauere, Top Lever, Bar Action, Heal Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt, Left Choke, Reboundiner Locks, Snap Fore-
end, chambered for 2}in. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “ KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
boJted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2jhn. cartridges,
left choke, right cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap
fore end, half pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
POWDER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeloy-Edge patent
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2|in.
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States ...
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING- RIFLE, 1903 model, Special
22 Calibre, fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight s£lbs.
£5
£l2 12s
£5
AMMUNITION.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW’RIVAL
NEW CLUB
.■ B. SMOKELESS „
AMBERITE
E.O.
.. 12b-. 6/~
.. 16-r. 6/6
.. 12b. 6/6
12sr. 0/6
.. 1C or 12jr. 9/-
12(f. 11/6
12(f. 12/-
per 100
Per 100. Per 1000.
WINCHESTER 22 short 1/3 10/6
22 lonjr 1/5 12/6
~ . 22 ex. lone .. .. 2/- 18/
~ 22 lonjr shot .. .. 2/6 23/6
~ 22 short smokeless .. 1/6 14/
~ 22 lonjr ~ .. 1/9 16/-
~ 22 automatic .. .. 2/6 21/-
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
Folding
Collector Gun, 410 g.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel
Darrel, case-hardened locks
WINCHESTER ” S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V sights,
scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlbs
•* REMINGTON ” S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in. barrel,
weight 3£lbs * ’
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifles, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine ... ... ... ... Round barrel, 555. ; Octagon barrel,
2?IE1 ER’S “BAYARD ” S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weight
l3 s. Gd.
£1 15 0
0 18 6
10 0
2 17 6
1 1 6
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES-
GUARAN
PERFECTLY
accurate:**!
reliable:'.
ct lf = \e f"] o\i rye” fl e
Rifle Apart
22 cVßorf orLOntf, P/m Amr, 80/fA effort
Pound B/ued 5/~c e/ /o/rref/ BarreJ, YYefdhf'ty t>
fided m/hp/ain YorJ//d/ng Back J/dB/a
(Guarranfeedybr&OOYbi). Po/üßeaHaJnat
S/dch. Pos/ddfe onP/f/e. hdo exSfo.
MICK SIMMONS,
i~/iyrnßrkeP, &YDrt.ev.
plain sights 13/a
SLIOING- SIGHTS TO 300Y05 IS/tf
Carfrtdgca Can Oa/yOe Dc/iverad by Rail or Boat
MEN!
IF YOU ARE OLD YOU CAN
BE GIVEN THE VIGOR and
VITALITY of YOUTH
You may be full of life, energy, and determination, and defy your years. There
is a fountain of perpetual youth to be obtained, and, like the giants of old, you can be
in your prime at sixty—strong, vigorous, and full of youthful enthusiasm. By
infusing a soothing current of Electricity into your system you can obtain Health,
Strength, and Vitality. You can be made as good as any man living.
Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric
Belt.
will warm your heart, and fill your body with the fire of youth. Thousands of men
and women, some old in years, who had lost all strength and vitality ; some young,
but who, through youthful follies, had allowed the vital nerve force to waste away ;
others who had suffered from their Liver, Kidneys, Stomach, and other ailments ; and
many who for years had suffered the excruciating pains of Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Weak Back, Varicocele, Sprains, and Bad or Swollen Joints, have come to
us when other means have failed, and now they cannot thank us sufficiently for the
relief given them. Many men and women who have been cured will tell you what
Electricity has done for them, and you can be supplied with abundance of proof of all
that is claimed for this world-famed appliance.
VITALITY RFSTORGD.
2 Brougham Street,
BALLARAT, VIC.
Dear Sirs,--I am now writing to you with reference
to my health. I can assure you that lam getting on
splendidly, and feel sure that before long your Belt will
make me as strong as fc'er I have been in my life.
There is something marvellous about the Belt in its
curative powers, and I can honestly recommend your
Belt to anyone suffering from any weakening and
nervous disorders.
I remain, yours faithfulh ,
W. BOWDEN.
LAME BACK CURED.
DUDLEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—l have suffered with Chronic Lame Back
for years. Some time ago I purchased one of your
High-Grade Electric Belts, and, after using it for three
months, I am pleased to inform you that the result in
my case was marvellous. 1 feel better now than I have
feit for the past ten years. My advice to any man who
is suffering with a bad back is to get one of Dr.
McLaughlin’s Electric Belts, for it will cure when
drugs fail.
I remain, yours gratefully,
ISAAC CLARK.
SPECIAL NOTICE. If you Value Health try Electricity. Obtain an Electric Belt that has
) cured, and is curing, thousands of men and women. Don’t be induced to
try any wortldess Imitation of our Belt. Our success has induced many Imitators to spring up who
know nothing of Electricity. Ynu’ll waste your money and gain no benefit from these worthless
appliances. There is only one Electric Belt—Ours. 42 Branches throughout the World.
• Dr Me. Lauqhtiris •
ELECTRIC BELT
The Progress of Twenty Years.
I to only wttfrta the past twenty yean that pragmas of a ay note
•an made in the application of electricity for the sure cf flame
y by the physician's battery, and. In many Instancaa, with gone
la. Ii waa through the success attained by physicians In making
THE ABOVE ILLUSTRATION SHOWS THE
CURRENT PASSING THROUGH THE ENTIRE BODY.
THIS BOOK GIVEN AWAY.
Those who are sick, weak, or in pain, should avail
themselves of our Special Offer, and obtain one of these
beautiful Illustrated Books, which explains what
wonders Electricity will do for most ailments of the
human body. It is of the utmost value, for therein lies
the secret of how to obtain Health, Strength, and Vitality
by the aid of Nature's great restorer, Electricity.
It should be in the hands of every weak, suffering man
or woman. It illustrates how the Belt and attach-
ments are applied, and, in addition, you will be sent
many names of men and women who have been cured.
We will forward you one FREE, and Postage Paid to
any address. Write for it, if you value Health.
. . OUR ADVICE GIVEN FREE ..
to every Sufferer from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. daily. It living at a
distance and unable to call, by means of our Special Diagnosis
Chart we are able to Advise Sufferers in their own homes, whatever
their ailments may be, and tell them whether Electricity will
cure or not. It costs you nothing. Send at once for Our Advice
and Book. Every man or woman who uses our Belt praises it.
The McLaughlin Electric Belt Co.
IOOW. Market-st., Sydney
Melb. Office—l67E. Swanston-street.
N.Z. Office—s - Willis-street, Wellington.
William Charles Crawford.


IF YOU WANT IT
** GET IT WITH A
ICO OAK
SEND FOR
Of AI L DEALERS OR
(ODAKl!. o^^^! 7
MTNTIfiN THIS PAPER. I
A NOVEL PRESENT.
f\N receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Oct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
tn 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
drunkenness
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
Stamps. Address:
WH. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
WEAK, NERVOUS
And DESPONDENT SUFFERERS—our concen'ratfd
extracts of HERBS, ROOTS, BARRS and BLOSSOMS
will restore you to sound HEALTH, STRENGTH an
vigorous MANHOOD when all else has FAILED Valuable
advice explaining NATURE’S SIMPLE TREATMENT
sent post free to the afflicted. Address—
BOTANICAL, INSTITUTE
VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
UANISHED VIGOR,
j/l Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vinegar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURCEON LANCSTON, M.R.C.S., ENG.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix,Paris. POTTER DRUG
And Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless
odourless, economical substitute for the cele
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 Closes. Cuticura Piles are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine fOT
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
l
§ll
ce
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to Worcester
and oilier Sauces.
■dGEATS-Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
LIST OF
BOOK OP NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over SO engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donklly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is yd. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. . Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-To-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
hy Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d
ANl> ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHtS.
REGULARLY at BEDTIME
USE
CALVERTS
20 per cent
CARBOLIC
SOAP
to prevent Mosquito bites. It is an excellent
antiseptic soap, refreshing and beneficial
to the skin, and a useful remedy for insect
bites, itch, and other skin irritation.
Each tablet in metal box.
CALVERT’S
15% CARBOLIC POWDER
offers a safe and simple precaution against
the spread of infection and disease.
Cheap to use, as it is so strong.
i lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
P. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England.
NERVOUSNESS.
3 LOSS of ENERGY and BTRENGTH,
4 DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
3 A Gentleman having tried in vain every
4 advertised remedy, and at last dla-
-2 covered a SIMPLE MEANS of BELP
i CURE, -will forward the same, free of
L charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.O„ BYDNEY,
--v-TTT rrfJTTvrTTtTTTTI TTTVTYVTTTTTTYVfYTI
ox w
J
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
|and Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are th-same
'to the ears as gkisses arc to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Vio n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy,
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingijkstkk ifc Truman, of
71 Old Kent Load, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body'.
soi.d in two sizics, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb <L Tkuiian,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks bjr using
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; N.S. IP.—Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
I was for years ; by chance I catne across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willing-] v send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street f SyOi’iey.
Sending, mention this paper.
*asr
TAREE BY POST.—A reliable
recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CUKE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereaglpst., Sydney.
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
COCOA
EPPS’S
Free to Men.
aA/RITIJ to me and I will forward you my scientific
“ book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of youf
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. WnU
Mons. Arm and Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne


3V\
s*
k
If it’s
Consumption
The best present you can
take home is a bottle of
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It quiets the cough, makes
breathing easy, and heals the
lungs. And it cures, even
advanced cases. Make no
mistake. Be sure and get
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the
standard cough remedy of
the world. Sold for 60 years.
Beware of imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell- Mess., U.S.A#
SPOONER’S
SPOONER'S
%
j. « i ■**—» »«•*•«•
is-TENT LEATHER BOOTS
CLAZEO IU0S&?
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 18.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
REYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Vigorous Articles.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
3 ___
TOR \
YOUR HEALTH’S SAKEI
it
use
SANITAS
II
pcalyptus SOAP
BECAUSE IT
Keeps the Skin nice.
Protects it against Heat.
Keeps the Pores active.
Wards off infection. .
It is delightfully emollient, free from excess of
alkali, and so exquisitely fragrant that the skin
is greatly refreshed after its use. It is a highly
refined soap.
Specially adapted for hot climates,|
Is peck
THE “SAN IT AS” CO. LTD.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON, E.
BONNINGTONS
CARRAGEEN
IRISH MOSS
FOR
LUNGS
VOICE
THROAT
n<?
l
>l.
O P
y. o>
r* o
o
Cz
2u>
o i
r cl
"LARGE ano
•SMAt£' BOTTLES j
WINCHESTER
II MODEL 1902 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE II
THE name “ Winchester M on this
* rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes ot
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
Concerning Elgin Watches^-
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents :
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
THERE IS A DAINTINESS
about the design of these
Brooches you won’t find
elsewhere.
And the Prices are lower.
I HAVE
THOUSANDS
OF OTHERS
TO SHOW
WHEN YOU
CALL.
A Gift, solid gold Dove Broccb,
real Pearl Spray, 15s.
SEND
FOR
MY
CATALOGUE.
I wish to call your special attention to this Brooch,
the quality and finish is of the best, the price exceptionally
low ; three inches long, set with soft lustrous pearls, the
effect is very pleasing. 9ct. Gold, 355. ; 15ct. 60s*
tI.F: SMITH THE. LEADIMG JEWELLER’
Queen S' (ncarbridge-)
BRISBANE
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Price Is. Id,
Post Free.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Ballad of Regret.
The Bushland tells her stories
In whispers on the breeze ;
The morn unfolds its glories
In golden ecstasies.
The sun was never purer,
Nor half so brightly shone;
The Bush, my love and lurer,
Has called sweet fancies on.
The skies to me are clouded,
The earth is wrapped in grey,
And Life itself is shrouded
In dismal dark dismay.
Bush songsters sing in gladness,
Where leaves are wet with dew;
The old earth knows no sadness
Her wide dominions through.
The soft mists rise to meet me
From sleeping river-bends —■
The whole bush wakes to greet me
For we are more than friends.
The breeze?s song a dirge is “
To my unmindful ears,
It sobs and sighs and surges
To wake my sleeping fears.
The rising sun has crowned me
A fairy king of old ;
The mountains tall around me
Are tipped with gleaming gold.
Through fern and frond and creepers,
That each with each entwine,
He wakes a thousand sleepers
To cheer this path of mine.
In spite of sunlight streaming ,
The Bushland?s glories pall;
She is (in raptures seeming)
A woeful sight withal.
No morn was ever brighter,
No path was half so gay;
No heart was ever lighter
Than mine might be to-day. . . .
We praise sweet Nature highly,
As she, my lover, knows,
And yet we chide her slyly,
Because of human woes.
This world of jubilation
Finds me for murder ripe;
Fm ten miles from the station.
And Fve been and lost my pipe.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
Cuttin’ Wood.
You’re sure to meet when you are poor and badly
needing food
A Christian-hearted lady who will let you cut some
wood;
She smiles and finds a blunted saw, some wedges
and a maul.
And points you out the curly logs she wants cut
“ nice an’ small.”
You doff your coat and get to work and wonder
what’s the pay,
And as you stack the billets up the kids bear them
away;
And soon the lady comes and says “her heart
bleeds for the pore,”
And urges you to hurry up and cut a little more.
Abashed you graft away again until the sun is
down,
Then meekly hint you’ve not engaged your shake-
down in the town;
And when you’re paid—a battered “piece”—a
tract on “ Faith is All,”
The kids take care you reach the gate without the
saw and maul.
So you depart, their parting words a-ringing in
your brain:
“Mum sez yer good at cuttin’ wood, an’ p’raps
yer’ll call again ! ”
vio.
FEANK BELLMAN.
Our Spell.
We’ve got the Blue Tank paddock cleared,
We finished up to-day ;
We grafted till we almost feared
We’d graft our souls away.
The crowbar and the pick we drove,
In heat and dust and sweat,
And heard the old man spouting of
The spell we were to get.
’Twas just the same when first we came
To live at Wangeroo;
The looked-for rest was sure to come
When harvest work was through.
Since then we’ve passed through weary years,
Oft prosperous, but yet
Still in the future dim appears
The spell that we’re to get.
Dad reckoned once we’d get the spell
When Bunyip Creek came down ;
A month, he thought, would see us well
Upon the road to town.
But when the flood came rushing past,
The roads became so wet,
Dad reckoned that we’d best put off
The spell we were to get.
It’s been our guiding star for years
(A far-off star, indeed !)
It always glows its brightest when
The land is clothed with “feed.”
For wealth and gold we rarely yearn,
But oh ! with deep regret,
Our hearts keep sadly longing for
The spell that we’re to get.
Ah, well! perhaps the life in town
Would sicken such as we,
And in the contemplation of
The spell the joy may be.
So let us strive to be content,
It’s little use to fret;
For in the grave we’re sure to have
The spell we are to get.
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian
security of Government
States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine. °
Directors Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J, T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. : F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F S S
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ’ ‘ ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
*
0
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Ajjento— Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbou
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
C k There’s SECURITY in
ARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PI IpLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter's
New Zealand Loan « Mercantile Agency Co.
JLat:cX.
SYDNEY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Pries Medals,
mmti
Worlea s Birmingham, England,
These series
of Pens neither
.scratchnor spurt
[They glide over
|the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
AN OFFER TO MEN
SMS
I
m
m
m.
it
m
m
WE have always given proof of anything that we
claimed for our Electric Belt, because we know
that there are people who claim a great deal more for
their remedies than the truth would justify. If you
want a remedy which will cure you, it seems wise for you
to take the one that has cured others. We have published
thousands of testimonials from cured patients, and we will
pay in gold for evidence showing that we have ever used a
testimonial which was not true and honest.
Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
cures Rheumatism, Lumbago, Pains and Aches in any
part of the Body, Weakness in any part of the Body,
Tired Feelings, Sleeplessness, Premature Old Age, Weak
Stomach, Weak Kidneys, Loss of Vim and Ambition.
We don’t ask any man to buy our appliance on a specula-
tion. We know that it will cure these troubles, and we
want our pay only when the cure is complete. If we fail
in our task it’s our loss, not yours. All you lose is your
time, and if our Belt fails to cure you, you will have the
satisfaction of knowing that the best, strongest and finest electric body appliance in the
world—one with 50,000 cures to its credit—has failed, and that there is no cure for you in
electricity. Remember our terms are
PAY WHEN CURED.
•At. Free Boole. —We have just completed our Beautiful Illustrated Book, descriptive
of our treatment. It is worth reading. We will send it free upon request. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. M.
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. J
Now Zealand Branch i 19 Rrincee Street, Dunedin.
The GRAMOPHONE
IS A DISC TALKING
MACHINE —>
IN FACT, IT IS THE ONLY DISC TALKING MACHINE WORTH MENTIONING.
it is ENGLISH MADE, and as there is only one make of Gramophones, you
cannot confound the machine made by
The GRAMOPHONE and TYPEWRITER, Ltd-,
with any other talking machine.
THE NEW LIST (ILLUSTRATED) AND RECORD CATALOGUE IS NOW READY AND COfIPRISES A RANGE OF 15 MACHINES,
FROM £3 10s. TO £l4 10s.
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & 00., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. . •
HIS fIASTER'S VOICE.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A Six Years’ Martyr
To Neuralgic Torture.
A PERMANENT CURE EIGHT YEARS AGO.
The Case of Mrs. K. WARREN.
(FOR THE “NEWTOWN INDEPENDENT.”)
The first and most obvious duty before us
is the adoption of a policy of rigidly shap-
ing our actions according to our judgment.
W hat these actions should be would remain
a matter of doubt were it not for such state-
ments as those from the lips of Mrs. Katie
Warren, of No. 106 Wilsoa-street, New-
town. Interviewed by our reporter, this
lady remarked :
“ For nearly six years I was a great
sufferer from neuralgia, and although I
visited plenty of chemists’ shops, and pur-
chased the medicines which the chemists
said were remedies for my complaint, I
could not get ease from any of them. The
pains in my head were terribly severe, and
to think that I had to bear them all my life
was too dreadful a reflection for any woman
to resign herself to patiently. Better a
thousand times to be out of the world than
endure such torture, I used to think, but
what was I to do when no relief could be
obtained ? ”
“Had you tried many things?” queried
the reporter.
“ All that I could think of, and the only
return I got was to find myself sinking
lower and lower, for it is an awful drain on
the system not to be able to sleep and take
proper nourishment. I certainly thought I
would never be cured, and became a most
unhappy mortal; but one day a relative put
the idea into my head to try some Clements
Tonic, and when I got some I felt great
relief in a few days. The stiffness and sore-
ness vanished from my jaws, and with the
hungry feeling which Clements Tonic gave
me I started to eat well, and picked up
strength rapidly. I was so astounded at
the disappearance of my afflictions that I
thought it was only just a temporary affair,
and that my neuralgic pains would come
back again, but for all that I took a few
more bottles of Clements Tonic, and I have
not been troubled with my unmerciful com-
plaint during the past eight years.”
“And I ho te you have been free from
other malad'tii.'.”
“ Unfortunately, I have not, as I took ill
again twelve months ago last February. I
remember the very day, which was an ex-
ceedingly hot one, and in the evening I
took a cold bath, and caught a severe chill.
Shortly afterwards I was taken with shivers
and frightful pains in my right side, while
in my back and chest the agonies were in
the extreme. * I could hardly breathe for
the pains, as when each breath was drawn
an acute cutting sensation ran right through
my chest and gave me terrible suffering.
During the night a more alarming symptom
than ever set in, for I began spitting blood,
and, as if my fate were not already suffi-
ciently cruel, the pains in my chest became
still more violent. A little relief was ob-
tained through applying hot fomentations,
but I am sorry to say that the ease was only
of a temporary nature. All that week I
was confined to my bed, although I was
taking medicines in the hope of beinghelped
out ef my distressful predicament; but I
derived no relief. I could not tolerate
lying in bed any longer, so I got up, being
barely able to drag myself about the house,
I was so weak and thoroughly run down.
This calamity came shortly after a domestic
misfortune which had previously befallen
me, so the lowness of my spirits can be
better imagined than described. Although
I would not stay in bed, I was nevertheless
conscious that my health was drifting away,
as I was kept awake at nights by a nasty
hacking cough, and during the day I was
languid, and could not eat. Because I
vomited clots of blood I imagined some-
thing was wrong with my lungs, and I grew
quite alarmed, while by my sallow com-
plexion and the emaciated condition of my
body I really thought I was going into
consumption I could not digest even the
lightest food procurable, as everything gave
me an uneasy feeling in the stomach, and
my shoulders had sharp pains between
them. Three weary months went on in
this way, all of wltich time my eyes were
dim and swollen and my limbs ached from
head to foot, the pains across my loins being
so bad that I could scarcely walk for them.
Sickened as I was by a vile taste in the
mouth, there seemed no prospect of ever
enjoying my food again, and as my nervous
system was quite unstrung I was a misery
to myself when left alone, for I was always
imagining some frightful thing was going to
happen, and if I heard a knock or anything
of the sort my nerves trembled excessively.
I do not like going to doctors if I can avoid
it, and I followed my previous practice by
taking advertised medicines ; but when my
condition did not mend I thought seriously
of seeing a medical expert. One lady in
particular was very angry with me for not
calling in a doctor, and she said : l lf you
will not do so, why not try some Clements
Tonic. You say it cured you before.’ ‘ But
that was for neuralgia,’ I replied. ‘ Never
mind ; it may do you good again,’ my friend
answered. It was not improbable, I thought,
so I got a couple of bottles. The first one
affected me but very little, and it was not
until I had emptied my second bottle of
Clements Tonic that I knew whether to
continue with it or not.”
“ Was there much difference in your con-
dition then ? ”
“ Not a great deal, but enough to make
me think I ought to give Clements Tonic a
further trial, and I am heartily glad I did
so, for shortly afterwards I felt so much
revived that I ventured to hope I was saved.
The three months’ blood-spitting trouble,
which had held me in a state of awful
suspense from the time it started, was now
becoming less frequent, and the appetising
influence of Clements Tonic enabled me to
take some nourishment. The indigestion
symptoms which had made me loathe the
thought of eating had lost a great amount
of their force already under the treatment
of Clements Tonic, and as the pains died
away so could I sleep in proportion. I used
to prop myself up with pillows because of
fearing suffocation, but that was not neces-
sary now, as Clements Tonic had entirely
relieved my chest, and in a little while my
cough was better. I used to start up
suddenly from my sleep and feel as if I
were choking, but three or four weeks’ use
of Clements Tonic saw me arising with a
cheerful heart and an invigorated system.
The pains left my body one by one, and my
nervousness was quite overcome by tho
toning qualities of Clements Tonic, which
had a regulating and strengthening power
over me which surprised everybody. My
complexion became bright and clear, an l
the fears of going into consumption were
dispelled by the robust appearance I again
assumed, for I took my Clements Tonic ti l
I looked and felt as well as I ever did in
my life. My restoration to an enjoyable
existence should be a lesson to other poor
sufferers, so you may publish these par-
ticulars in any way you consider most
useful.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Katie Warrex, of 106 Wilson-street, Newtown,
Sydney, in the State of New S-outh Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that I have carefully read the annexed docu-
ment, consisting of five folios, and consecutively
numbered f-o 1 one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and ; rithful account of my illness and cure
by Clemen's Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any w-ay mv statements—which
I give voluntarily, without receiving anypiyment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Newtown, this four-
teenth day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
FREDK. JONES, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEFY COMIFETIXION.
WINES **• Bes ‘ SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS. CORDIALS. &0.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Vexsss.
Price 1/1
Post
Frte.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for —r
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
QapiNarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
la sin. or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. Gd.
Til Try T{.” sock agents.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s.w. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Result.
/SB
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
FILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Brains-
ruletheWorld
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory. The memory
must be trained if the brain is to do good
work. The memory can be successfully
developed by proper training, just as am
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
is a practical and successful system whioli
benefits all braia workers. It will make
a poor memory good, and a good one
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on apolication to the
Secretary, PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
BOX 403. (i.P.O,
MELBOURNE.
And 4 Bloomsbury St.,
LONDON, W.O.
RUPTURE
FREE CURE.
Wonderful Home Treatment that Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. 6. Eice (Dept. 1317), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he
sends free to every sufferer a
free trial of his method, and
there can be no earthly reason
why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this
generous offer. As an instance
of this remarkable method,
the cure of Mr. J. J. Hogan,
Cobar, N.S.W., is well worth
noticing. He was cured at the
age of 70 years, after suffering
10 years. He made an affidavit
to this effect, of his own free
Mb. A. Dochebty. w iu ) before two J.P’s.
Mr. J. Eubank, a farmer of Yarloop, Western
Australia, was cured after suffering 48 years from
a scrotal rupture. Mrs. F. Medley, 177, Sturt
Street, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia, was cured
after suffering 5 years. Mr. A. Docherty, 23, V ar-
wick Street, Birkenhead, Cheshire, England, was
cured of an irreducible scrotal rupture—one of the
worst kinds known. No treatment he had used
would enable him to return the rupture to its
proper place. He tried the method of Dr. Eice,
which not only reduced the rupture, but also
effected its complete cure, and he is now as sound
as a bell. A full description and sample of this
remarkable method of cure will be gladly sent
upon application. It has cured thousands cDo not
hesitate to give it atrial. Write at once—to-day.
Don’t delay in a matter of such importance.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentee* of Crystalline Carbide of Calolum
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use.— Throw the Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
AA*
Beware of Infringers of our Patents
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than Is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 FITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne
Telephone No. 10hS
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive anil carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
M ARQUEES, TENTS and DAIMCIIMQ FLOORS
of various sixes supplied.
Do You Want a New Suit ?
For JB2 we will forward Post Free to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Ready-Made 1
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Price List of other goods on application.
Address:—
T. C. BEIRNE &CO.,
Tlie Valley, Brisbane,
Engineman’s Master Key
Steam Power, Electricity, 2nd. Ed., 1904.
Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Boardof Trade and Mining Regulations. 2nd Edition, 1904.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
r^TkiMAl
EMATONE POWDER ACIGARETTES
1 All
The marvellous remedy for ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS and
, Complaints of the Respiratory Organs. Instant relief and j
cure Recommended by the entire medical profession. Price 1
SPB DM box. Trial box free from Coknford& CO.,
■ ' F 6 Coronation House, Lloyds' Avenue, London, i. '
- *
1
ski;
WHY SUFFER
the ILLS and WOES of the flesh, when you
will be MADE STRONG, HEALTHY, and
VIGOROUS by SIMPLY WEARING one
of OUR IMPROVED and PATENTED
“ GLADIATOR ” ELECTRIC BELTS ?
Call or send for price list and GENUINE
TESTIMONIALS, post free. Address—
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
ROTHerhaivis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
oka
tVBp
/
Sr
&
sold by all
WHO CAN SHOW-
v Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
!s•*
<%&•
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Models 0 £2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to mn*
port In Australaalm.
Motor Cars and MotocyolU
Tyres, Accessories , Sporting Goods *
<Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
•Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO* De P t. sis b
CHICAGO, C.B.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
1 BRIGHT’S DISEASE AND DIABETES/
FULTON’S COMPOUND—OnIy Known Cure.
Agents—Beniamin Bros. & Co., Ash-street; ON SALE,
A. E. Durno, Pitt-street, Sydney.


Insist
Upon
Having:
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
Corner Ceorge & Market Sts.. SYDNEY
Has just been re-furnished and renovated throughout in the most up-to-date style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy first in the public’s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
{TERMS.— The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL
SYDKTEY.
The NEW “CHICAGO” HORSE CLIPPER
— l3
So Simple, so Quick, so Easy——.
"IT'S ENOUGH TO MAKE A HORSE LAUGH."
HIGH SPEED, LIGHT LABOR. ROLLER BEARINGS.
Set up in one minute* Horse clipped in 30 minutes*
• • • • PRICE - 555. • • • •
(Can be saved in a week.)
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YOUR CIGARETTE
is just as important a thing for choosing as your dinner, and if you smoke anything offered you,
instead of selecting the best, so ought you to eat everything set before you, without grumbling.
Your digestive organs require suitable food and your nerves require soothing not stimulating
to put it mildly, you want
CAMEO CIGARETTES
and you know it.
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Qo.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary■
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
on to The Manager.
Worth a GUINEA
A FOOT when used
in the walls of a
Brick House, and
costs less than 3d.
RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE
But you must get the original
and genuine RUBEROID. . ♦ ♦
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1266.
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 1904,
Prick 6n.
<3)l* R-
&&' - 0 r wi
/f/ 7 / \
it
tlllp?
))r V s |
SelfclGrafts
ift 5 Mbsi-
M
, Jw&hi'S mdhcl
V of jkfttH) ffii-
OfpjiH jgj
%
XeatJE RjJEAKIM
h/br-fo tor
ofcristo
4fof% DiyPotj.-it-s^iuit
J |
Slkitsmm'Jrm Smlh
i! .S« | 'mfjttffctm,
(ktk if oil
ferA Itaf
:
pwfa
.
■
CURRFNT SINS AND HAPPENINGS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only).
Per Annum ... ... ... jfi g Q
Half-yearly ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Directors
Literary communications to he addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JtlaeJc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetown ; 11. R.
Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia;
and others.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
HonoKong .—Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
ffi^^zzlleZzai.
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 1904.
THE BENT ELECTION.
Victoria holds a State general election next
month, and it presents the curious spectacle of a
Government with no policy, and hardly any politi-
cal assets save a curae and a howl, going to the
country with some slight prospect of success.
There are many things wrong with Victoria just
now, but what is most wrong is the want of a
statesman large enough to realise what is wrong.
The gross and grotesque figure of Bent, of course,
fills the foreground. Bent is a relic of the old
nefarious boom days, which led to the State’s
downfall, and he is so gruesome a relic that even
the bad old gang of the boom and the burst and
the halfpenny in the £ compositions, dropped him
overboard for its own safety in the long ago.
But he came to the surface again like the
remains that have been in the Yarra for
many days, and now floats temporarily on
the top of the political waters. He is a grotesque,
dribbling person with a crumpled shirt-front ;
lie is curiously unlettered, and can’t pronounce
“ consolidation ” —he talks of the “ conciliation of
tlje statutes” ; he thinks there are 88,000,0)0
square miles in Victoria ■ and he has got some
wonderful and dizzy idea in the way of apple-stall
finance whereby, per medium of some ‘ ‘ fake ” or
dodge with a company, the £350,000 a year which
Victoria has to pay in pensions is to be liquidated
for £175,000 or so annually. In fact, he has a
scheme for getting a quart out of a pint pot by
floating the pot into a company. Thomas Bent,
in short, is about the most amazing figure that has
loomed up as a ruler since a certain nigger left off
driving his mule to become Emperor of Hayti,
and immediately ate a large pot of jam on the throne.
Bent’s whole existence is a squalid shriek of humor.
And this quaint object has a policy. It consists
mostly of a yell against Socialism, which Bent
apparently, by his descriptions of it, mixes up
with Communism, or else thinks is a new variety
of lettuce. Otherwise it is made up of a habit of
promising every farmers’ deputation all kinds of
socialistic assistance ; of a threat to disfranchise
every civil servant who doesn’t vote for the Bent
candidate ; of a further threat to repudiate the
State’s liability to its civil service pensioners; and
of a general waddling up and down on the face of
the earth, and eating largely, and spluttering
foolishly.
« -ft • ft
The Bent Government has a record apart from
the record of its leader. It has been a strictly
class Administration, whose policy has consisted in
granting concessions to farmers and rich land-
owners, and allowing them to repudiate their
obligations to the State. It partly inherited from
its predecessor, Peacock, and partly manufac-
tured itself, a deficit of £400,000 for the year ended
June, 1902, and didn’t pay it off; all the statements
that it did are unadulterated falsehood. It just
avoided having a deficit in its first complete year
by annexing as revenue certain sinking funds and
other moneys which the careful Turner left
behind him. It repudiated the law whereby the
small surplus which it manufactured out of the
sinking funds must go in reduction of old debts.
It claims to have a prospective surplus of £500,000
for June, 1904, but refuses flatly to publish expen-
diture accounts, as most other States do, whereby
the figures can be verified. It cut down the old
age pensions, and drops hints about abolishing
them altogether. It has starved the charities and
the hospitals; in Melbourne poor and aged in-
valids are dying in .gaol and in the streets for
want of hospital accommodation, and in such
hospitals as exist there are dreadful cases of
two sufferers in one bed, and even worse horrors.
Victoria, under Bent and his friends,
has become a disgrace to civilisation, a
smudge upon the fair face of the earth.
Though its manufactures are prospering its
people are leaving it for want of land to settle
on, while its big landlords are allowed to lock up
the land and block all progress. And through all
this chaos and political debauchery lumbers the
surprising apparition of Bent, struggling round in
search of a policy, promising everything to-day
and cursing everything to-morrow, stumbling over
the small words and laboriously spelling out the
big ones, perspiring in a manner that isn’t agree-
able to witness, dropping off platforms and break-
ing furniture when he sits down upon it, rushing
to and fro on railways that are tied up with
string through Bent’s management, and in the
tottering vehicle which is called in derision
“Bent’s train”—a. wretched, pathetic, human
spectacle of blither, ignorance and violent futility.
• • • •
If the Opposition had the courage to promul-
gate a big policy it would almost certainly wipe
Bent off the face of the globe. It has got rid of
the mentally shambling Peacock, and its new
leader, Mackinnon, is a man of some promise, and
was never accused of taking £5O from any Canadian
assessment assurance office, or suspected of accept-
ing favors from any Red Indian. But while the
Mackinnon policy is honest and honorable, it is
only half a policy at best. There is a great future
in Victoria for the leader who will promise to
break up the big estates with a heavy graduated
land-tax and thus provide land for the people on
a scale which will set the tide of immigration once
more flowing towards the misgoverned State ; who
will promise an absentee-tax, a fair old age pension
system, decent treatment of hospitals and chari-
ties, complete cessation of borrowing, the establish-
ment of a sinking fund, an honest Arbitration Act,
and such encouragement to local industries as
a mere State Government can give. For a Whole
Hog party, whose programme of reform is obviously
for the; good of all classes, there is always an
opening in politics ; while for the colorless party,
which is moderate, neutral and half-hearted—the
party of Respectable Drift—there is no permanent
abiding place. The strength of Kyabram lies in
the fact that it is Whole Hog—in its meanness, in
its resolution to rob everybody for the sake of the
farming class and the rich traders and landlords
who are its main support, in its brute selfishness,
its tyranny, its lying, its complete callousness to
human suffering, and its pandering to the worst
passions of human nature. Being Whole Hog,
and haying a leader who answers to the same
description, it is a power that has to be con-
sidered. It may not have a legislative pro-
gramme, but every member of the Hog party
rallies round it confidently, knowing that,
however hazy its outlook, it can be relied upon to
do the worst thing when the moment arrives. On
the other hand, Opposition-leader Mackinnon has
no record in office. The party which is not Hog
doesn’t know by experience that he will manfully
do the best thing when the moment comes, and his
programme leaves the impression that he is liable
only to do the second-best thing.
* • * *
The State Labor party suffers from the same
trouble as Mackinnon. It lost its chance through
its failure to come out in strong protest against
the spectral Peacock’s policy of financial drift.
Mackinnon has an indefinite financial policy ; the
State Labor party has actually issued its manifesto
with no financial policy in it at all. The downfall
of the remnant of the progressive party once led by
Turner was brought about mainly by Peacock’s
incapacity as Treasurer. The finances wanted
squaring, and Kyabram and 00. promised to do
it—by starving the poor and the sick, by robbing
the public servants, by stealing the sinking funds,
and in general by lying, fraud, brutality and other
sins. To some extent, too, though only to some
extent, it kept its promise. Its opponents now
want, above all things, to come forward witb a
definite and cast-iron policy for making the
finances square and keeping them so without
robbery and ruffianism. Kyabram’s lie is that its
methods are the only ones which will stop the
financial drift, and until that lie is refuted
Kyabram will have an advantage. The Vic-
torian Labor party has everything except the
thing which, just at this crisis, it most needs.
It has a splendid programme so far as it goes, and
that is all that can be said for it.
• * * *
All the same, no Victorian can go wrong by
giving his vote in any direction which will rid the
State of the political leprosy of the Bent Govern-
ment and the crowd of old Tories, dull incapables,
boodlers, hoodlums and back-numbers by whom it
is surrounded. The Bent Government is making
Victoria a world’s jest, and Bent’s legislative
schemes threaten to crowd up the world’s ash-
barrel. Strangers visit Melbourne and look at the
deafening curiosity that is supposed to conduct
the affairs of the country, and then go out in a
dazed fashion to the Zoo to see if the rest of the
Ministry has also escaped from its natural place
of residence. They consider the starved hospitals,
and the decayed charities, and the old people who
are sentenced—sometimes by a J.P. holding an
impromptu court on the pavement—to 12 months
in gaol for being sick, because gaol is the only
available accommodation ; and they reckon Vic-
torians a callous and brutal people, whose more
natural habitat would be somewhere in the Dark
Continent. This is a time when all the decent
elements of the community should make up their
differences, and combine to clean up and disinfect
their native land. It was never more in need of
cleaning—not even in the days when Gillies the
wife-deserter was the temporary god of Melbourne
Toryism.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Political Position.
The situation in Federal politics, at the time The
Bulletin went to press, was mainly made up of
Yes-No Reid pathetically whining for a situation
of some sort and industriously explaining that
nothing mattered to him except office. This
situation has been developed in some mysterious
place by the sea-shore of Victoria; and most
stringent precautions were taken to ensure the
secrecy of the “ caucus.” So it is not possible to
say what the Deakin response to the pitiful appeal
of a stout man in his agony has been. The curse of
Deakin’s nature as a politician is that he is such a
good-hearted fellow, and it is among the imagin-
able possibilities that he will throw away his
future in Federal politics now, out of charity for
the forlorn Reid. It is among the possibilities;
The Bulletin is beginning to hope that it were
among the probabilities, for with every day it is
becoming clearer that a Reid-Deakin coalition,
whilst dispossessing Watson from office to-day,
would make his accession to a long term of power
in the near future, with a reliable majority of his
own, a practical certainty. Already there are
several defections from the proposed following of
the suggested Deakin-Reid coalition, and with
Parliament in session those defections would
increase with every false step made by the two-
headed monstrosity whose construction was
undertaken in the cave. As for the con-
stituencies, no Reid-Deakin coalition could
appeal to them with the faintest hope of suc-
cess. The only plea such a body could put
forward would be that Premier Watson was
a dangerous anarchist, whose existence in office
made it necessary for Reidites ahd Deakinites to
sink all else to turn him out; and there is no hope
of convincing the electors of that. A Deakin-
Reid combination would be such a glaring example
of selling principle for office that it would pass all
explanation. It is known that Deakin found the
Labor party so safe and desirable a party that he
worked with it for three years ; and that Reid
found it so useful, patriotic, and progressive
that he worked with it in State politics
for five years, and offered to work with
it in Federal politics for an indefinite
Eeriod, provided he was allowed to hold office.
f these two men informed the country
at election time, as an explanation of their
new attitude, that the Labor party was so
dreadful that they couldn’t conscientiously touch
it with a big pole, and that they had to sacrifice
their life-long principles to get rid of it, it wouldn’t
be a convincing shudder. People would naturally
ask why this feeling only came upon them when it
was calculated to lead to office. Also, why they
didn’t, by way of evidence, leave Watson in
power long enough to let the malignity of his
character develop, and thus prove that his removal
was really for the country’s good.
♦
The Federal Capital.
The Federal capital comes within sight. The
Watson Ministry will make the settlement of the
locality one of the first duties of office. The sites
in the running have changed somewhat as the
result of recent Parliamentary visits. The chances
of Lyndhurst have not appreciated; nor, on the
other hand, have they suffered. The support
given to that site is not even pretended to be on
account of its suitability, but because it serves the
aspirations of the narrow Sydney provincialists,
just as Albury served the aspirations of the same
class in Melbourne. Tumut seems to have dropped
altogether out of the race. There is still some
talk, however, of Batlow, a site near Tumut,
and on a higher elevation. But the choice
really seems to rest between Bombala and Dalgety
—two towns close to one another on the Southern
Monaro tableland. Each possesses a capital cli-
mate, a good soil, and an easily accessible position.
Dalgety has the advantages of a better water
supply and a better opportunity of utilising the
Snowy River cataracts for electric power. Bom-
bala, on the other hand, is much nearer to Twofold
Bay, and a Southern Monaro site which did not
stretch down to the coast would fail in some im-
portant essentials. With the choice of Bombala
the territory necessary to be resumed for the in-
clusion of Twofold Bay would not be nearly so
great as if Dalgety were the site. If it is stipula-
lated that the Federal territory shall be sufficiently
large to extend, with a reasonable width, from Dal-
gety to Boydtown, The Bulletin would be inclined
to favor Dalgety as being at least equal to Bombala.
But since a territory including Bombala and Boyd-
town would need to be of at least 2000 square miles,
and a territory including Dalgety and Boydtown
at least 3000 square miles, and there is already a
cry that Sydney “ has been betrayed ” whenever a
suggestion is made that the Federal territory shall
exceed the minimum mentioned in the Constitu-
tion Act, the selection of Dalgety might create a
situation which would lead to the Federal territory
being left without a port. Of course, an area of
3000 square miles of Federal territory would be
better for the Commonwealth, and for N.S. Wales,
than an area of 2000 square miles, and an area of
5000 would be better than either; but the posi-
tion has to be faced with its practical difficulties
as well as its ideal possibilities. Still, the
Constitution gives to the Federal Government
power to resume any area so long as it is greater
than 100 square miles. There is a minimum
provided but no maximum—a clear inference that
no maximum was thought desirable. The Sydney
Stak the other day talked ignorantly of—
Some novel proposals in relation to the capital site.
The most startling of these was that, instead of the
hundred square miles specified in the Federal Act as what
should constitute the Federal area, a thousand square
miles should be taken from New South Wales for that
purpose. The idea of this wholesale appropriation, and
in complete defiance of what was set down in the bond, is
known to have found great favor with many of the
forwards among the Labor party.
That is a foolish perversion of the truth. The
Constitution Act does not specify 100 square
miles as the area of the Federal territory: it
specifies that the area must be at least that, and,
inferentially, as much more as is thought desirable.
—
The Independent Order of Fakirs.
Nobody who knows much about the Red Indian
Order of Forester" the impudent cheap-jack con-
cern which masquerades as an insurance society,
will be surprised that Justice Hood, in Victoria,
has found it guilty of bribery and corruption.
How could a society which offers these disad-
vantages hope to get along otherwise
(1) It gives no guarantee as to the amount of premiums
that will be called for. They may be increased at any
time in the shape of assessments.
(2) Its policies have no surrender value. If the insurer
fails but once to pay a premium (and he never knows
what the size of the next premium is to be), the policy is
forfeited, and he loses everything he has paid.
(3) Its funds amount to 'only 6d. in the £ of the total
alleged to be assured ; so that it is morally certain
premiums will have to be increased. If they are not
increased it will only be because of the vast number of
policy-holders who are crowded out and forfeit all that
they have paid.
The only chance for such a bounding society to do
business is to do it with those who have no
capacity for figures or business themselves
unfortunates, mostly, who have very little put by,
and who are least likely to be able to pay increased
premiums. To such people results are nothing ;
names are everything. And the fact that the
1.0. F. offers bribes in order to get these names
seems to prove that those who know it best know
that they can’t get the names by fair means.
A society which has merits of its own has no
need to corruptly buy support; and when an
attempt is made to buy it in that way, the society
stands self-branded as worthless. That, in fact,
is the most valuable result of the Victorian Com-
mission’s inquiry. Whether Dr. Montague is a
corrupt person or not is of little consequence to
Australia. The thing that is of consequence here
is that his society, which apparently lives to some
extent by bribery and is therefore self-condemned,
is continuing to collect premiums from Austra-
lians, and Australia lets it go on doing so. The
Governments demani from it no guarantees what-
ever. They submit its affairs to no sort of official
inspection. The society, which a Supreme Court
J udge has found to be capable of attempting to
bribe and corrupt a State Premier and member of
a State Parliament, may issue statements of
accounts which are utterly misleading; and the
Governments do not interfere. It was shown
lately that the society spends enormously more in
“expenses” than the accounts supplied to in-
surers show. It is fairly obvious now why it
cannot afford to be precise on such a point; but
have the Governments no duty to protect the
public, especially in such a matter as that of life
assurance? The Commission will be so much
wasted effort and money if the revelations which
it has made are not followed by laws that offer
some protection to the people against adventurers
in a field where, above all others, cheap-jack and
purse-trick methods are dangerous. If -the cheap-
jack must live, it is an obvious duty to see that he
doesn’t live at the expense of the provision which
struggling men make for their families after their
death.
A Superfluous ‘Worm with a Popgun.
The superfluous worm Jenkins, of S.A., still
wriggles. The Australian Government refused a
1 Hiding at Port Darwin to nine Chinese. Then
the worm Jenkins ordered the police to land
them, in defiance of the Customs, which repre-
sented Australia in the matter. The foolish
J enkins thought he had some shred of authority
for his action ; he relied upon some State certifi-
cates that he supposed these friends of his held.
As it happened, they did not hold anything but a
handful of forgeries. Therefore Jenkins had not
even the bad authority he thought he had. He
declared war, and marched out (strictly by proxy),
and then found he had only blank cartridge to
fight with, and that his gun was broken and also
obsolete; likewise that he had never possessed
any real gun at all. Of course, that doesn’t
improve Jenkins’ position ; it only proves him a
more foolish Jenkins than he seemed to be before.
It doesn’t alter the fact that he declared war; it
only proves to S. Australia that it has a Premier
who leads it into a row first, and finds out after-
wards that he has only a popgun to carry the row
through with. Now the Popgun Premier wants
to know why the Australian Government didn’t
prevent him making a fool and an exhibition of
himself. He whines that it did not intimate to
him that the certificates were forgeries. Why
should it? Jenkins had nothing to do with the
case. The charge against these Chinese was that
they were prohibited immigrants. Australia was
the prosecutor; nine Chinese the defendants.
Who was Jenkins? Where did he come in? All
that he was doing was making a fool and a laugh-
ing-stock of himself outside the courthouse. Why
should the Australian Government come outside
the court to tell the mountebank who was per-
forming in the street that he was an ass? Mr.
J enkins hasn’t found his level even yet. He can
be even a worse sort of an ass than this without
becoming of any Australian consequence.
«
Fiscal-Sinking and Locomotives.
If the N.S. W. Labor party would devote a tenth
of the energy to bringing new work into the
country that it does to deciding whether some
scrap of work already in the country shall be done
at Fitzroy Dock or some other place, it would be
better for the party and for N.S.W. also. For
quite a long time past there has been a wild
clawing-match as to where some few engines,
which it is proposed to build in the State, shall be
constructed. So desperate has been the clawing
that one might imagine this was the last job left
on earth, and that when it had gone the sun would
set for ever on civilisation, and the universe
hand in its resignation. The Government estab-
lishment at Cockatoo wants the contract to keep
things going ; the Clyde Engineering Works want
it to keep their hands employed and prevent the
bottom falling out of the local bread and butter
supply. The fate of the Government almost came
to depend on where this job went to—yet, compared
to the State’s demand for ironwork in general, it is a
small job, spread over a number of years, and
during the time it has been wrangled over, foreign
hardware to about three times the value of the
whole affair has been dumped on N.S.W.’s shores,
and as much work as represents the entire cause
of the row three times over has been fooled away
unnoticed. If the N.S.W. Labor party hadn’t
“sunk the fiscal issue,” and had shut out
imported ironwork, there would have been so
much ironwork to be manufactured in N.S.W.—
the ironwork that is noiv imported that the
Not Understood.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not understood ; the times
Lack consequence;
There’s no increase in crimes,
No pestilence.
There is no extra gloom
Seen anywhere;
The ribald roses bloom
And do not care.
The ocean and the sky
Are beautiful;
The cows have not gone dry,
The sheep grow wool.
Not worse than us-u-al
Are snakes you meet;
Gohannas do not crawl
Down Collins-street.
On Melbourne’s eastern ridge
No dingoes hoot,
Nor walks on Princes Bridge
A bandicoot.
Still come the stately ships,
Nor have we heard
That earthquake or eclipse
Has yet occurred.
The sun still rises red
(See Boldiiewood),
As Thomas Bracken said—
“ Not Understood.”
Not understood. Ah, me !
The times appal—
The Labor Ministry
Should kill us all.
The Fatman gazes far—
And seeing more,
“ I feel,” he groans, “ there are
Good times in store.”
O. R.


local establishments, instead of reaching out like
hungry wolves after this one lone contract, would
have been unable to overtake orders. If the
Labor party in its Federal capacity intends to
continue sinking the fiscal issue, then in its State
capacity it should let this contract go wherever it
darn well pleases. To demand that the importa-
tion of locomotives for State use shall be, not
merely hampered by a duty, but absolutely pro-
hibited, is a horrible parody on the fiscal-sinking
policy. To insist that the manufacture of a
handful of railway engines shall be kept in the
country in order to supply work for the people of
N.S.W., while for years and years some £2,000,000
worth per annum of ironwork, which might have
found work for the people, has been bought from
foreigners, is a gruesome joke—especially when it
is considered that the party which is making the
present row voted for nearly six years to give
all this sort of work to foreigners, and hasn’t
definitely repented of that policy even yet. The
party’s present locomotive policy and its fiscal-
sinking policy are two things that won’t hang
together under any circumstances.
♦
The Farmer—and His Man.
There was a wild and hairy gathering of farmers
at Bendigo (Vic.), the other Saturday afternoon,
when “it was decided to form Farmers’ Leagues
throughout the district.” All the farmers present
were fairly indignant at something not clearly
specified, but an agriculturist named Read was
the worst. He—
Did not believe in class legislation. It was contrary to
an Englishman’s idea of legislation. (Hear, hear.) He
had been in Australia fifty years, and he felt that the
country was becoming worse and worse every year so
much so that he felt inclined to leave it.
And, curiously enough, just a few hours pre-
viously, a farm labourer named Thomas Upton
had come to something like the same conclusion.
“ a Wr to the Trades Hall Council, he asked
that body to take some action to ameliorate the
condition of farm laborers :
The accommodation provided for such men was dis-
graceful; only about one in a hundred had a proper place
to sleep in Men were put in places that would not be
given to a dog, and it would be a blessing if these abodes
were placed under the Health Act, so that the workers
might be treated like human beings. Further, the un-
specified hour system left the men without an hour to call
their own from dark to dawn seven days a week. The
farmer had more consideration for his dogs and horses
than his men.
Upton did not state that he intended to clear out
of the country, but it is evident that, like farmer
Read, he “feels inclined to leave it.” With the
peat majority of farmers the objection to pay a
fair wage and accord decent conditions to their
laborers amounts really to a disease ; and when it
fs suggested that the roof of the men’s quarters
should not leak in more than ten places, the
farmer screams about socialistic legislation, and
rushes out to form a league. The root of the
whole matter is the mental inability of the farmer
to grasp the fact that the farm laborer is a human
being and a citizen like himself. In the eyes of
his employer the farm hand is something like his
cow or his plough.
' »
The Black Ingratitude of Bankers.
In Melbourne, last week, there was a gathering of
magnates, to send-off a departing bank potentate,
and the potentate seized the opportunity to make
Bid6lo,lg 800,13 at the
JdhTEZ U l ing the t ° asfc of his healfch > Mr. Sawers
said he had seen times of great prosperity and times of
great depression during his long residence in Melbourne.
, there were bad times before them in the
C as „ a result of legislation directed in
firtenf f r f? ctlon °, f , the community, but he was con-
-2 a reaction would soon take place. Serious trouble
m connection with the Federal Banking
to d l l ’n lln ® SS I - sound Principles were adhered
tamner fvit wn nd unmformed men mi £ h t be tempted to
tamper with the currency for the sake of financial
advantages, but by adhering to sound principles and a
gold basis, we, as heir of all the ages, had an opportunity
3 U tfnn at flu ai V d ? al currency, which would be the
admiration of the whole civilized world.
Taking them all round, the banking classes of
Australia have on various occasions exhibited a
child-like ignorance which makes their lofty scoff
at misguided and uninformed men ” a most
amazing piece of insolence. And the ingratitude
oi the banking class is even more remarkable
than its insolence. When the smash of
IB9d came about brought on by the
unspeakable ignorance and incompetence of a
large number of bankers, who were better fitted to
• 6 v a ur a^i rS a do £-fight—there was in power
* the first Ministry which had been
created by arrangement with the Labor party, and
the first Ministry which existed by the aid, sup-
port and goodwill of the Labor party. That semi-
Labor Ministry rushed to the aid of the tottering
banks and saved them by socialistic legislation—
whlch were so dry-rotted that they
ouldn t hold up even for the few hours necessary
t It® - BIU thr ough. In Maoriland a wholly
Labor Ministry also came to the assistance of a
big ruined bank and put it on its feet again. In
Queensland a wholly Conservative Ministry of
business men” let the banks go down
with a crash, and kicked them when they
nriViio ° Wn confiscating their note-issuing
vr- - ,^ es ’ - f. 1 * Vitoria a wholly Conservative
Ministry of ’business men” also let the banks
go, and gave them no assistance, though two
rge and practically sound institutions—the
mwMM -fl nd r th -j Vlcto ria—only wanted the
Srif 6 K3k rn to P ull them through the
crisis. Probably there was no lack of readiness to
but that misguided and ignorant
y ’ P att .erson, didn t know what to do, and
Suld^fSll d v d a w I # noranfc bank managers
fUAiki v 1 Wl ? at sl , lould be done. Ever since
then the bankmg ckss has denounced the Labor
Fnr fL'T 10 - 1 ca T *° lts rescue, and has whooped
trouble To £f es W r°i e ? 14 £° to wreck in the day of
O °S ; , Ba PP 1 . led f or and obtained a great mass
bLv?- lg l slatlon to enable its broken-down
*° a fresh start, and to enable
t i y H e^ d u te their bargain with their
lepositors, and it has spoken with a cold
or tne rum brought about by Labor legislation
bSv 1 '1B»“.f 0 "* ,orthe ignoraneelfeve”:
-'TT ’"«* ,U its financial ideai,
as if these financial ideas hadn’t led to a monu-
mental smash which has made the Australian
world n for il’vear^ 1101 A a l( over th^fiiianc^l
K™"?; 11 SZ 'SZciZ
SSL™ jWfe on the experiences ’of
where there (L onse r v ative British territory,
system which the Australian bankers advocate is
associated with almost the most memorable and
disastrous breakage in British history, should
further tend to make certain financial magnates a
little more humble.
» -
Legal Bluff.
Waxcellency Madden, Chief Justice of Victoria,
is engaged in what appears to be a game of legal
bluff. A while ago Madden solemnly announced
his intention of prolonging his ordinary court sit-
tings until. 5.30 p.m., whereat the learned counsel
were unanimously shocked and politely enraged.
Madden, C.J., speaking as one of the brethren
who had changed his line but not his sphere of
usefulness, gave the counsel to understand that
their horror and disgust did them great credit.
He was intensely sympathetic. No Judge, he
said, who considered his duty to the Bar—-with a
Hig - , big B—would prolong the Bar’s harassing
duties until 5.30 p.m. But there had been an
accusation of laziness levelled against their Honors ;
an ignorant public and a viperous press had
imputed a lack of enthusiasm to the judges,
and therefore he (Madden) had made up his mind
to get more work out of the court by way of con-
vincing its detractors that the thing can't be done.
He agreed, with the Bar that his awful innovation
was not wise, nevertheless he thought it right—
which conclusion, by the way, seemed perfectly in
accord with many of Madden’s judgments as
others see them. They are not wise, though he
thinks them right. This unwise policy of rightness
is to be abandoned as soon as the public recognise
the impossibility of continuing it, and then
Madden will be—
only too willing' to do what he conceived to be in the
interests of the public business, and which would involve
going back to the method that would give the Bench an
opportunity to get that sufficient condition of mind in
which it could direct its best powers to its business ; that
would give the Bar an opportunity of properly doing its
work, which could not be neglected and could not be
omitted if the work of the court was to be well done, and
which the Bar could not do unless it had reasonable time
in which to do it.
Madden’s latest utterance on the subject of late
sittings indicates his intention to assume that the
public have had enough of his “experiment.” He
smiles a bland smile, and says “You see, it
couldn’t be done.” The world sees nothing of the
sort. The new long sitting lasted an hour and
a-half longer than the old short sitting. The
extension went to an unnecessary length, in order
that Madden and co. might be publicly over-
worked. There was no reason why the Court
should not have changed its time from 4 p.m. to
4.45. Madden piled on the agony with the ob-
vious intention of taking it off again. Bluff, gen-
tlemen of the jury ; bluff !
The Timid Whine of B. Smith.
Mr. Brdce Smith, whose diseased self-esteem
allows him to style himself “ a thoughtful Imperial
statesman,” whined to a Sydney meeting last
week:—•
If the Japanese came out of the Russian war victorious,
he should expect the Federal Parliament to modify our
existing legislation, which grouped them with other less
progressive peoples, and to place any arrangement limit,
mg their introduction to our country on treaty terms,
instead of effecting it offensively on statutory exclusion.
Which is typical of the low political morals and of
the cowardly attitude generally of the party to
which B. Smith belongs—the foreign-trade, foreign-
borrowing, cheap labor, anti-Australian party—
the set of people who, from timidity or worse, are
ever arguing that the Australian is a poor and
Uriah HEEP-ish object, who must crawl on his
belly before the world, must be very ’umble and
refuse to dare to manufacture anything, or to
strive to get out of debt, and must be always
ready to bow to the opinions of foreigners, Euro-
pean or Asiatic, as to the management of his own
affairs. Bruce Smith says, in effect, that if Japan
comes victorious out of the present war in the
Far North, Australia should tremblingly climb
down on its policy of excluding the Japanese
Rahab and her complaisant husband, and should
allow the Japanese Government to decide what
form of restriction, if any, Australia should enforce
against Japanese immigration. In other words,
Australia is to surrender self-governing rights in one
important respect to an Asiatic power. The man
who advocates such abject cowardice should give up
calling himself Anglo-Saxon—“Mangled-Oater-
pillar ” would be a vast deal more expressive. If—
as is not probable, in spite of the seeming trend of
affairs at present—Japan is finally victorious in
the struggle with Russia, there is not the least
doubt but that the bumptiousness of the Monkey
will be almost equal to the abjectness of our local
B. Smith, and that Japan will be more than
willing to push an intrusive paw into Australian
affairs. But does B. Smith —an Imperial as well
as a “thoughtful” statesman on his own showing—
wish to suggest that 1 ‘ the Imperial connection ”
is not an obstacle to the success of such an ambi-
tion on the Monkey’s part? It is, of course,
useless to ask B. Smith whether, as an Australian,
he was not willing, anyhow, Imperial help or no
Imperial help, to put up a fight for his indepen-
dence against the brown man, for B. Smith, is
not in any sense an Australian, and probably has
no notion of the value of independence. He could
live just as comfortably, and pose just as beauti-
fully, as the political slave of the Asiatic. But
The Bulletin believes that there are still in the
Commonwealth, in spite of such cankers as the
borrowing policy, a majority who would, no matter
what the consequences, elect to fight for their
rights as a.self-governing people rather than yield
them up without a struggle to the Japanese, for
to yield on one point would be to invite further
aggression. Demands grow with granting.
Switzerland, with a smaller population than Aus-
tralia, has kept back the mighty foes who cluster
round her borders. Australia, with a decent
defence organisation (which is unhappily as yet
lacking), would find it at least worth its while to try
to do the same. If not, and if, as Mr. B. Smith
seems to suggest, Britain is too weak and cowardly
to be of any assistance, then presumably Australia
will go down when attacked. But better to go
down fighting than to surrender liberty without a
blow ; and that’s what the B. Smith proposal
amounts to—the acknowledgment of a sort of
Japanese suzerainty over Australian domestic
legislation.
#
The Benevolent Variety of Tramway.
“Galvo” writes on tramway matters:—
Re A. E. Morgans’ Essendon (Vic.) trams (B. 7/4/’O4).
The bait held out to councils that, in 30 years, the tram-
way systems for which the Morgans class gets concessions,
will become their property, is a common one. If they
only knew it, it means that, instead of only having to pay
first cost for a new system of their own, and pocket the
profits thereon, they will, in 30 years, have to pay in
addition, cartage on a quantity of scrap iron and broken
down obsolete machinery in order to get it out of
the road. And yet the bait has so far been a very successful
one. Perth got its system that way ; Melbourne the same ;
Brisbane ditto. The British-owned Auckland tramway
co., not satisfied with getting a highly profitable con-
cession on these terms, has actually the cheek to ask for
another two years to be added, so that the concession
may date from the time the trams started to run, and not
from the time the agreement was made. Why these
concessions were ever given is a mystery. Given a
town of any size, an electric tramway system,
if economically installed and decently managed,
is almost bound to pay. But municipalities seem
to have a fatal hesitation in taking up any undertaking
that might prove profitable and relieve the rates.
They are ready enough to do the work which capitalists
won’t touch, but to rob dear old “ private enterprise ” of
anything with money in it is seldom thought of. Take
the Australasian systems in detail: Perth citizens pay
enormous fares to support a foreign company, run by
foreign engineers. One has only to look at Melbourne
conductors and gripmen to see that the company’s
money is not lavished on them, although the fares
are ridiculously high. Brisbane’s tramway competes
most seriously with the railways and sends thousands a
year out of the country. Auckland tramways have prac-
tically ruined the railway line to Onehunga, and the co.
now proposes to run baggage cars—it has power in its
concession to do so—in order to grab freight as well as
passenger business. After such examples it is a pleasure
to turn to the socialistic horrors of Christchurch, Welling-
ton and Dunedin. Dunedin already has the first part of
its system in successful operation, and has laid in a
splendid plant, which compares favorably with anything
in Australia, the cars and overhead lines in particular
coming easily first. Christchurch has just let a contract
for its electrical plant, and will have its cars in operation
within 12 months. Wellington will probably start to
collect fares in less than a month.
Sydney system, as a State-owned concern, stands alone.
If it was better managed it could easily be the best-paying
system of the lot. Unfortunately red tape, frill, and
Owe’Sullivanism get in the road. Still it is 1000 miles
ahead of the Melbourne system.
FAR.and away the silliest document issued in con-
nection with the Victorian elections is the Minis-
terial manifesto. _ Except that the country has had
lately so much evidence of the stupidity of Bent,
Gillott, Sachse, renegade Murray and decaying
old Davies it would be impossible to believe that
any body of men could write such twaddle. There
is talk in high-faluting terms of the Ministry
having “restored Responsible Government,”
“ restored the equilibrium of finance,” etc. Then
there are fine rounded periods like the following :
The Labor party, whose aims are avowedly socialistic,
assisted by Mr. Maceinnon and his party, are making
strenuous and determined efforts to wrest from the
majority of the people, and to transfer to the Trades-hall,
the power which will enable it to exploit the affairs of the
State in order to aggrandise the minority at the expense
of the majority.
If you are indifferent, if you fail us, then all that has
been accomplished will be lost, and it will not be long
before you feel the squeeze of the socialists, and their
allies, the Opposition, are waiting to advance merely class
interests, regardless of the general welfare of the country
as a whole.
Electors ! do not be side-tracked into apathy ! Erect a
bulwark of votes strong enough to resist the surging rush
of socialism that threatens to devastate the best interests
of Victoria.
Socialism has its best definition in the law which
the Lord gave to Moses when He provided,
among other things, that every man should
have his own bit of land, and that no
mortgagee, boodler, land-boomer or person who
constructed bogus banks and then paid 2d. in
the £ should deprive him of it permanently under
any circumstances whatever. The “anti-socialist”
howl is mostly the revolt of Bent against the
Lord, and the case of Sammy Gillott versus the
Book of Leviticus.
The confidence yarn circulated by the Australian
dailies as to how their several uncles from Fiji
were dissuaded from investing their cowries in the
Commonwealth by the socialistic trend of this un-
happy country, etc., having failed to excite any-
thing but ridicule, it has been found necessary to
devise other means to vilify democracy. It was
left to the hundred eyes of the Argus to see that
“ the Woman who Did” could be dragged into the
case. In a recent criminal assault case tried at
Shepparton (Vic.) the jury refused to obey the
direction of Chief-Justice Madden to bring the
accused in guilty. Whereupon his Waxcellency
bristled up and said things. Inspired thereby,
Granny published a leading article dealing with
the disagreements of juries, in which occurred the
following gem of deductive reasoning :
One begins to wonder whether some subtle spirit of
revolt against law and order has not been undermining
to some extent the wholesome common-sense of the
people. In the political arena there has long been
preached a doctrine of defiance against existing institu-
tions, against society as at present established. Have we,
in the self-willed lawlessness of certain jurymen, an after-
math, so to speak, of the political sowing ?
The doctrine that the Democratic party is respon-
sible for the refusal of juries to believe the gentle
little modern maiden, what time that guileless
damsel swears that she was chased all night by a
man in maroon through a dense forest opposite
the Y.W.C.A. rooms, is original if somewhat
startling.
The Maoriland Government will meet Parliament
under difficulties when the session opens in June.
Seddon will almost certainly be a cypher, if not
an absentee, for it now seems that the big man’s
career is about ended. Then Joseph Ward is in
less than his usual robust health, and there is only
a team of weak political scrummers to look to for
support. Hall-Jones (who by reason of his
lately-annexed hyphen will henceforth be known
as Half-Jones) will be back from England, but
his forte is departmental work and not debate.
Timi Kara is popular with all sides of the House,
but any aid from him will necessarily be small
when the Cold Tea Goths hammer at the gates
for Jimmy’s unuttered answer to everything
requiring sustained effort is “What’s the
good!” As for Tam Duncan, of the “Lands,”
he is a replica of N.S.W. Pa Brunker— with
the saving clause that he occasionally drinks
whisky. And the remaining member of the
Govt., Charlie Mills, will be quite useless with-
out his prompter, Seddon, whose practice was to
tell Charlie what to say, and to audibly criticise
Charlie s method of saying it. There is much in
doubt as to what changes the coming session will
result in—but that Mills and Duncan will be
jettisoned in the sea of party exigencies is con-
sidered certain. Hogg and Millar are the like-
liest successors, but M‘Nab, of Mataura, who
favors a liberal land policy and a conservative
liquor law, has also a chance.
“O.B.” writes:—
The Papuan slaughter, whatever its dimensions
calls lor an emphatic expression of Commonwealth
opinion on the morality of buttressing missionary
exploitation with the secular power and the carnal gun
This latest shooting down of Papuan natives was
admittedly the outcome of secular revenge for the killing
of missionary Chalmers. But Chalmers had gone into
the barbarous region of Goaribari, not for any State
purpose, nor for any purpose the State undertakes to
advance, but solely to propagate his own spiritual
opinions. He knew he had prejudices and passions
to meet; he knew he carried his life in his hands; that
knowledge was his pride and boast. He volunteered
for the work and was prepared for its possible consequences
That is the theory that vests missionary enterprise with
any character of merit it possesses. But -that theory
takes it out of the sphere of secular government. It does
not matter what other countries do or have done The
Commonwealth should make it clear that it has no
alliance with zealots who leave the protection of the State
and cast themselves, for purely religious purposes into
the arms of savages whose gods they denounce, whose
family life they assail, and whose habits and customs thev
anathematise. The man who goes among the Goaribari
for secular ends is an agent of the Commonwealth
and the Commonwealth must stand by him- w
he who goes among those or other savages to’force
an exchange of religions should be left to stand, as some
say they do, on the rock of his faith. When a missionary
is paid for his work and demands the protection of the
law as well, then he only differs from the trader or the
gold-digger in the fact that his remuneration is more
regular, and he should go out of the halo business and
cease to pose in the limelight.
4,
The person who says that the country is ruined
and that capital has been driven out, is an amusing
individual at times. For instance, at the recent
employers’ shivoo in Sydney, old Mr. Forsyth
was very severe about the exit of capital and the
wreckage of all kinds of industry by socialistic
legislation. He was so convincing that his audi-
tors, if they had taken him seriously, would have
decided to give the old man’s firm no more credit,
and would have rushed home in alarm to see how
much he owed them. But they didn’t, for they
knew that the respectable old gentleman was talk-
ing mainly from force of habit. And then young
Forsyth rose up to explain enthusiastically that
the Forsyth firm was prospering under the ruin-
ous and disastrous system his father had just
described, as it never prospered before:—
The firm had imported the finest machinery in the
world from America. Within the last year we started
this new factory, in consequence of which 40 additional
hands had been given employment. (Cheers.) The firm
had now the best and most up-to-date machinery in the
world.
Now whose capital is it that is being driven out of
the country? Nobody seems to know. The bur-
den of the lamentation of each individual speaker
is : “ Everybody’s ruined by socialistic legislation
except me. lam just building a new four-storey
factory and struggling so keep pace with the
enormous rush of orders.”
+
A special Melbourne correspondent of the Sydney
Evening News (Freetrade organ), on May 5, tells
this in a burst of candor :
The events of the past two or three weeks cannot possi-
bly be said to have strengthened Mr. It kid's position. The
tactical move by which he voted with the Deakin Govern-
ment, while his followers voted against them, though suc-
cessful in wrecking the Ministerial craft, left Mr. Reid
helplessly amongst the political breakers. Nor has his
openly-expressed dissatisfaction with the action of Mr.
Deakin, in recommending his Excellency the Governor-
General to send for Mr. Watson, and the acceptance of
this advice, done aught else than further damage his
reputation. The verdict of the lobbies plainly is that, in
pursuing the course which Reid and his followers mostly
did, they all, in vulgar parlance, fell in badly. The
division-list was transparent enough, but, when coupled
with the loquacious indiscretions of some members, who
gave away the whole show, and plainly indicated the
manoeuvre that it was hoped would result in turning out
Deakin in the interest of Reid, no one but the self-deluded
plotters expected any other outcome of the Ministerial
defeat but the sending for Mr. Watson to form the first
Labor Ministry of the Commonwealth. To-day members
in the lobbies find a sarcastic pleasure in comparing the
present situation with that created a few years ago by
Mr. Reid when he announced his intention of voting for
the Convention Bill, and left his followers to vote against
it. It is a commonly-expressed opinion amongst members
that the “No-Yes !” incident of the near past finds a
remarkable parallel in the “ Yes-No 1” of last month.
Anyhow .it.fs a very generally expressed opinion that Mr.
Reid has shot his bolt, missed the target of oflice, and is
now much in the position of “ odd man out.” To-day,
therefore, (“Reid and his Wreckers,” as the squad are
called, are not greatly considered amongst members of
the Federal Parliament, except as to how best to dish
them.
“One of the Race’’writes from a North Island
(Maoriland) town :
As one of the “ garish Asiatic tribe ” alluded to in your
leader of the 7th ult., permit me to make a few observa-
tions and comments.
The writer of the article in question is wilfully mis-
leading his readers by insinuating, as he does, that
Wernher, Beit and Co., and the other Rand capitalists
(many of whom, by the way, are not Jews at all) in any
way represent the views of the majority of their race.
They do nothing of the kind. They speak and act as
capitalists, and capitalists only; and to fill their own
pockets they are as ready to ignore and flout the opinions
of their brethren, as they are those of the world at large.
You trot their names out, and make much of their racial
origin, but conveniently forget to record that at a recent
discussion on the subject of the introduction of Chinese
labor into the Transvaal in the House of Commons, it was
Mr. Herbert Samuel, the Conservative member for Lime-
house, who moved the amendment of protest. There are
two or three Jewish members of the British Parliament
who are Radicals, and I have yet to learn that they have
given their vote for the mine owners.
The writer’s allusion to the Jews being an unwarlike
race may be lightly passed by. I should like, however, to
remind him that there are over two thousand in the
British army alone, that they are more than propor-
tionately represented in the armies of Europe, including
even Russia. A member of the “ garish Asiatic tribe,” at
which he sneers, is also Minister of War for Italy.
The three words I have quoted indicate, I think, what
was passing in the writer’s mind. He is a fanatical
“ White Australian,” to whom everyone not of European
blood is a “ nigger,” and therefore inferior. The Jews are
of Asiatic origin, and as, in his opinion, Asiatics (even
when white) are, without exception, inferior to, and unfit
to associate with, Europeans, he is, of course, quite con-
sistent. If the Chinaman, the Japanese, the Hindu, the
Afghan, the Arab and Syrian are a menace to European
society, and should be rigorously excluded from Australia,
why make an exception in favor of the Jew, who is also an
Asiatic, and closely akin to the last-named on my list ?
I am, like many other Jews, an advanced democrat, and
am rather astonished at the attitude taken up by The
Bulletin in regard to my race, as the article complained
of is only a sample in extenso of what I frequently see in
its pages. If a prominent public man, who happens to be
a Jew, adopts a policy of which The Bulletin does not
approve, the fact that lie is a Jew is enlarged upon ; but
nothing is said about his Asiatic origin if his views should
coincide with those of The Bulletin, which itself has no
objection to making use of the talent of members of the
race it sees fit to decry, and which race, notwithstanding
its many faults, has given more leaders in the van of human
progress, in proportion to its numbers, than any other.
This is no idle boast, and, if the writer takes' the trouble
to investigate, he will find that what I say is correct. I
say nothing about its contributions to science and art,
especially musical and dramatic.
■ ♦
There is probably no characteristic of the Tory
mind so constant as its habit of viewing all sug-
gested reforms from the stand-point of what they
will cost. Witness this extract from the debate
on the Navigation Bill:
Senator Pearce : Another matter, suggested to me by
Senator Gutiirib, has brought before my mind scenes
l i* ave often witnessed in travelling* between
Westralia and the eastern States. I refer to the over-
crowding of cattle on cargo steamships. I venture to say
that the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
might well turn its attention to the subject, and inquire
into the way in which cattle are crowded on to these
boats, so that in rough weather 25 per cent, of them are
often lost. This Bill does not deal with that question,
but we might insert provisions which would prevent such
cruelty. r
Senator Fraser : That would increase the freight upon
store cattle. ‘
The small soul of Simon Fraser was quite unaf-
fected by the fact that cattle are so disgracefully
ultreated in these ships that sometimes one out of
every four dies on the short trip; but it
instantly discerned that any improvement in
the conditions might mean a rise in freights,
nf. • fc y.? lcal Tory has been so busily engaged
all his life getting fat, that his alleged heart has
apparently become one compact mass of profits,
and when the cold wind of extra expense blows on
him he complains with great bitterness. Yet it is
quite possible—in fact, very probable—that Simon
x! baser himself belongs to the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals; it is certain that
he is the High Chief Flag-waver of an institu-
tion which is continually shrieking about an
Open Bible—a Bible that teaches compassion


The Leading Life Insurance Company of the World,
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York,
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
Statement for the Year ending December 31st, 1903 :
Ae3Cte exceed £82,509,000
Contingent Guarantee Fund and
Divisible Surplus ..
Income, 1903
Payments to Policy Holders, 1903
Insurance end Annuities in Force
£12,729,000
£15,901,000
£6,797,000
£297,254,000
During the Year 1903 the New Business written by The Mutual Life of New York amounted
to £43,691,000, showing an increase of £1,659,000 over the previous year.
Head Office for Australasias
COMPANY'S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE AND PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD RENNIE, General Manager,
Branches at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Perth.
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
ones.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O
for this?
I
V t
Write lor our Illustrated Booklet, mailed Free on application. Ask for Catalog 8.,
explaining what can be done with the Pianola.
All Records supplied from our immense Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO., •‘iiMSSSXr
323 George St., SYDNEY; 185-7 Collins St., MELBOURNE; &at Finney, Isles & Co., BRISBANE.
and meroy. But when Simon leaves his private
residence, after putting away the Open Bible
®jd folding up the Flag, his curse on anyone
who ventures to squint, sideways even, at his
money-bags, is something memorable.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Raffles.”
Theatre Royal “ Golden Ladder.”
Criterion ............. “The Marriag-e of Kitty."
Palace Nawn’s Comedy Co.
Tivoli. Rickards’Co.
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Three Little Maids.”
Her Majesty’s “ Silver King.”
Theatre Royal “ Tommy Atkins.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
+
That tough group consisting of Prof.
Moriarty and his three merry men, assisted by
the gentleman blackleg, James Larrabee, and the
bandy-legged safe-breaker, Prince, are back at
Her Majesty’s, _ Sydney, pitting their merely
human wits against the superhuman intelligence
of Sherlock Holmes. The public must love the
investigator thoughit knowsall his tricks and clues,
for it turned up in swarms on Saturday night
to watch the hunt, the double and the ambush,
■with as much zest as if the manoeuvres were over
new ground. Cuyler Hastings handles his con-
tract with the same old assurance of victory,
inspired, by the fact that the dramatist has fixed
things right for him beforehand and Moriarty is
consequently running stiff. But there are a few
very minor changes in the piece. Hastings’ face is
made up red, which is a mistake. Women in the
audience will no longer think he requires comfort-
ing. if he looks healthy, and the hypodermic
syringe will have to give way to lager beer and a
large solid meal of boiled meat. Then Miss
Chevalier, as Alice Faulkner, doesn’t propose quite
so plainly to the detective when it’s time for the
curtain to fall and leave all the good people to
wallow in solid happiness, though whether this is
an improvement or not it is hard to say. Also
Mabel Lane, in a glittering black gown and with
a startling exposition of creamy shoulders, is back
in her old part of the heartless Madge Larrabee.
On Saturday next “Raffles,” an amateur cracks-
man, will make his first appearance at Her
Majesty’s. . Hastings will assume the disguise of
the chief criminal.
** & *
At Sydney Royal the “ Great Millionaire ”
will be withdrawn after Friday night, and on
Saturday “The Golden Ladder” will be staged.
Bland Holt’s choice of pieces suggests a desire to
cheer this hard-up land with visions of consider-
able wealth.
** * *
The difference between “polite vaude-
ville ” and plain variety show is that polite vaude-
ville covers its legs with something more than silk
stockings. When the Bells sing “Come Back to
Me, Barney,” in Castlereagh-street, Sydney, they
wear a frock of green to rhyme with the brogue,
and have the skirt cut well above the garter to
rhyme with the bald old heads in the stalls. But
when Miss Dorothy Drew sings it at the Palace,
as a member of Tom Nawn’s company, she wears
a trailing gown of black spangled net—and seems
to wish she didn’t. The whole Nawn programme
consists of seven turns and a train robbery. The
seven turns are all good, and some of them better,
but the robbery apparently had a wet time coming
across from America and is afflicted with the
jumps worse than usual. Mr. and Mrs. Nawn’s
own contribution consists of a slight, amusing
sketch which opens as a melodrama, develops into
a tragedy, and ends in a pair of roller-skates. On
Saturday, the opening night of the season, a densely-
packed house welcomed it with real enthusiasm,
and when Nawn had no more breath for fancy
tumbles he gasped a speech mainly to the effect
that his heart was too full for words. Pete Baker,
the veteran of the ancient Baker and Farren. co.,
which used to play “ Struck Oil ” in the dim
distance of last century, probably began to have a
different opinion of the house. He opened with
a monologue in the Dutch dialect, which he is said
to have invented, and the gallery got restive. The
Palace isn’t a good place to monologue in ; it has
great height and little depth, so that when the
monologuer patters confidentially to the stalls the
gallery only sees the crown of his head, and asks
him to “chuck it off his chest.” Later on, when
he got to know better what was wanted, and, with
the help of a remarkably mobile face, represented
14 different characters m 10 minutes, the gallery
reckoned Baker was all right, after all. And he
was—it was a very clever and artistic enter-
tainment. Three Johnstons hammered music
out, of a quantity of rosewood, including the
overture from “ William Tell,” certainly the most
ambitious thing ever attempted here by xylopho-
nists, and admirably performed. The “tossing
Austins,” neat jugglers, one of them taking his
tossing seriously and the other mostly engaged in
burlesque ; Katherine Dahl, who sang the quaint
“Hiawatha” craze, heard previously in the same
house when the Stine co. held it, but without the
present picturesque moonlight effects ; and illus-
trated ballads by a lady who hasn’t a voice strong
enough, nor an enunciation clear enough—these
completed the bill, except for the flickering
felony previously alluded to. The new co., especi-
ally on the male side, is a well-assorted lot, which
gives an artistic show.
* # . * *
For his last week at Sydney Criterion
W. F. Hawtrey dipped into the stock-pot, and
drew out ‘ ‘ Little Lord Fauntleroy ” for Saturday
and an afternoon snack on Wednesday ; “ Tom,
Dick, and Harry,” with “A Highland Legacy”
to eke it out, on Monday and Tuesday ; and when
this was written “ The Lady of Ostend ” was being
war-med up for Wednesday and Thursday.
The co. goes north, after a season which will be
best remembered for Hawtrey’s tramp in “Mars”
and Miss Lane’s “Dearest” in “Fauntleroy.”
* * * *
“ The Marriage of Kitty,” which has been
heralded by many samples of wedding cake, will
commence m Sydney on Saturday, May 21. Kitty
will begin to be a, married lady at the Criterion
under J. C. Williamson’s management.
* * Kf *
Since last week the Jap. Consul-General
has given his benediction impartially to the Bear
and the other portions of Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
The Osaka wrestlers have had fierce bouts
to determine the championship, which still remains
with a gentleman named Tomato Can as near as
The Bulletin can get it. This is the same Can who
has worn the belt before —the “belt” in the Jap
case consisting of a silk rope tied behind in a huge
true-lovers’ knot. Gordon is still turning himself
into a swingle-bar and dragging 5 tons of wheat
behind him, and breaking chains, and explaining
the simplicity of it all; also he does a clever bur-
lesque of Yes-No Reid. Zaph has reappeared
with his tiger-and-elephant act, and is providing
numerous extra thrills nightly at the old tariff of
4,3, 2, and 1.
* * * *
Jack Carkeek, the first imported repre-
sentative of the English music-hall boom in
wrestling, arrived at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday,
and proved a first-rate platform speaker. The
“ turn ” is something like this (Monday night’s pro-
gramme) :
Hush—the Tivoli’s weird expectancy. Crash-brrr from
the orchestra. Enter Carkeek—a clean-shaven fellow,
rather pleasant-faced, looking not more than 30 or
35 perhaps, close-cropped, in evening clothes. In-
troduces himself (3min.). Says Mr. Rickards (up in
the manager’s box) has engaged Harry Pearce as his
wrestling companion for the tour. French gentle-
man in a box interrupts. Understood to say (2min.)
that he has challenged Carkeek through the papers.
Somebody says the French gentleman represents Marzouk,
the Algerian who wears the crazy-quilt. Difference of
opinion (3min.) as to the style that shall be adopted
when the French gentleman’s champion comes along.
French gentleman is with difficulty understood (3min.)
to insist upon Grseco-Roman. Carkeek says he insists
upon the right to name the style, whether catch-as-catch-
can, Grseco-Roman, or Cornish. Will lay £lO to nothing
(“ which are pretty good odds even in Australia ”) that he
will throw the man in 15 minutes. “ Right ” from the
box. More speech from Carkeek, saying they may reckon
the match fixed for next night. (3min.) Voices from all
parts wanting to know what’s wrong with' to-night. The
manager could tell, only he’s in the office counting up the
money. Introductions all round: “ Dr.” Gordon, referee ;
stage-manager Glynn, time-keeper ; Harry Pearce, the
other party. Carkeek explains some more—what catch-
as-catch-can is. “ You’re not much to look at,” irrele-
vantly and untruly from the gallery. Carkeek annoyed:
“ You’re not any l(/,000-dollar beauty yourself.” (3min.)
Disappears and disrobes—smartest thing of the evening.
(15sec.)
At this point there is a short interval for wrestling,
mostly on the mat. Pearce, swarthy; Carkeek, fair and
smooth, and apparently giving away some weight.
Pearce defensive ; winded and panting in 3min. Carkeek
cool and deliberate ; no bustling. Pearce pretty obviously
outclassed. Shoulders down. Shake hands. (4min. Bsec.)
Re-appears in a dressing-gown. Another speech ; tells
a story (4min). London, music hall; Carkeek performing.
Old lady asked to see him. Apologised for interrup-
tions ; said her imbecile son mqde them, so Carkeek’s
back-answers had hurt her. Said he~then resolved never
again to notice interruptions, or answer back, for fear of
again hurting the unfortunate mother of an imbecile son.
And he never had. Evidently forgot the “ no 10,000
dollar beauty” episode earlier. More remarks (lmin.)
from the French gentleman. More remarks from Carkeek
(2min). More crash-brrr from the orchestra. The
wrestling is over.
Nat. Clifford continues to do the best eccentric
dancing seen since the earliest days of Johnny
Coleman; and the Bells and the Six Empire
Girls, and the rest of the strong second-part bill
continue as previously chronicled.
* * * *
Melbourne Argus had a wailful leader
lately on the apparent impossibility of making a
permanent success of orchestral music in the city
by the Yarra. That, too, despite the efforts of
Marshall Hall to forward the cause. Signor Hazon
may now stroke himself down with his own baton.
For 14 years he has been the heart and brain of
Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society, and the con-
certs which he directs would not be second-class in
the Cold Capital itself. The society opened its
season at the Town Hall last week with great
glitter and brilliance. That original pianiste, Miss
Florence Taylor, and Mr. J. W. Aitken, who
sang a love song, deserve flattering mention for
their work, and the undertaking deserves to be
patted generally.
* * *
The Sydney Chamber Music Society will
start another season of its attractive concerts on
June Ist. Herr Gerard Yollmar, of the waving
locks, is surrounding himself with the best
musicians, and something mighty is expected.
* * * #
At Melbourne Princess’s the event on
Saturday was the first Australian appearance of
the touring “Gaiety” co. from England, by way of
America. The word ‘ ‘ Gaiety ” applied to a visiting
co. has not quite outlived its original significance,
and doubtlero most of the audience on Saturday ex-
pected a wild, leggy burlesque—a variety enter-
tainment such as Fred Leslie and Nellie Farren
headed in the long ago. But that was very long
ago. The people who brought “Three Little Maids”
to light are from the same school as those who in-
troduced “ A Gaiety Girl” and “In Town” nine
years back. More artistic as comedians, they are
decidedly weaker in song and dance. The early
musical comedies, being haunted by old burlesque
traditions, depended largely for success upon their
“variety” items. “Three Little Maids” is
quieter toned, and the strength of the perform-
ance lies in its unstrained assumption of natural-
ness, and its continuity of intorcst. A thin 3-act
story is made the most of by the careful “ produc-
tion,” or staging, whilst the leading man of the
co., who neither dances nor sings, presents his
own original caricature of a true British peer.
* * * *
The Maids are the daughters of a hard-up
vicar of a parish that includes the local golf links.
The usual society Lady of the district (Miss Maud
Hobson), who is attended by the usual society
girl proteges, engages the vicar’s fair young brood
to go to London and earn their daily scone and
perquisites as waitresses at her fashionable tea-
room. She is a wise, commercial-minded Lady,
and she reckons that the rosy rural maidens will
treble the takings at her shop. But before the
girls leave the dear old home in a donkey cart
they achieve the individual mash of three golfers
from town —a long-pedigreed lord, a vivacious
Frenchman, and a seriously sentimental lover,
contrasted like the trio of intruding bachelors
in Pinero’s “Amazons.” Next act shows
the Maids repeating their mash in their
disguise as Dutch waitresses at the London shop,
where an eighteenpenny cup of tea possesses
strange medicinal qualities, and the broken edge
of a sponge cake is hard enough to cut glass.
Finally the Maids reappear as the vicar’s
daughters, and triumphantly drag their adorers
from the clutches of the Society girls. Just here
it may be remarked that the vicar amounts to
a weak spot in the landscape.
* * * *
Misses Madge Crichton, Delia Mason and
Elsa Ryan are three pretty little actresses with
sympathetic little singing voices—the first a com-
paratively pert maid; the second, demure and
soulful; the third, remarkable for the expressive
smiling of her eyes. Most clever girls can look
sweetly wicked, but Miss Ryan has a larger assort-
ment of wicked glances than the average angel.
These three name parts are filled to admiration, if
not to perfection, whereas the society spinsters
bring no particular charms into the shows. Miss
Maud Hobson (the only link between this
‘ ‘ Gaiety ” co. and the previous one) is the same
handsome Maud as before, with an improved
manner, but her presence on the stage is more
important than her acting opportunities. And
there is a casual low-comedy lady in a bucolic bon-
net. She dances a duet with George Carroll,
a very diminutive comedian who follows in
the well-remembered footsteps of Fred Kaye,
and is moderately amusing. Maurice Farkoa
scores freely as a captivating Frenchman, although
a long odd lock of white curled amidst his black
hair, doesn’t impress one favorably at first sight.
Perhaps the snaky white coil is an acquired taste,
or perhaps one must be a woman to appreciate its
loveliness. Maurice Farkoa possesses no voice
worth mentioning, yet he fetches sincere encores
for his expressive French-colored warble, and he
has a way with him—a Rudinoff way. J. E.
Fraser commends himself as a pleasing young
man and a minor baritone. His duet with
Miss Mason in the first act is gracefully
done. The remaining half of the company
consists of G. P. Huntley in the part of Lord
Cheyne, and there we have a performance that
looks inimitable. His lordship is a slight exaggera-
tion of a lamentable truth. His eye-glass, his in-
human deportment, his method of speech, his air
of being half-conscious of his own absurdity, and
quite satisfied with the result, make him an edu-
cation for less intelligent actors of similar char-
acters. Lord Tweenwayes, in. “The Amazons,”
was a doddering, unamiable young idiot who
drivelled haughtily of his inherited diseases, but
Lord Cheyne is a cheerful creature of cir-
cumstances, a Johnnie who brags of having
“ led a fearful life,” an ass by instinct and
by the influence of environment, rather than
from utter mental incapacity. Huntley’s char-
acter study abounds in convincing touches.
The Lord Dundreary played by American actor
Sothern in the ’6o’s and ’7o’s was a less subtle
satire on British aristocracy than is this up-to-date
presentment of an egregious type of “swell.”
Dundreary is dead ; his ghost still walks the
Italian and French stage when a comic English
lord is required, but the bones of the languid,
lisping, stuttering man with the prolonged whis-
kers are now laid upon the shelf of many a noble
family vault. Lord Cheyne flourishes in his stead,
and the House of Peers is still there.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the lurid wife of many
husbands is concluding “ Her Second Time On
Earth,” and the place where she buried the luck-
less organ grinder will be occupied by “ Tommy
Atkins ”on Saturday. ‘ ‘ Atkins ”is a more or less
military drama, first played in Melbourne in the
way back time when Kipling wrote the Hempire’s
songs and Australia helped to sing ’em.
** * *
One or two “turns” are being retired
from the Opera House this week and another one
or two will fill the gap. The programme is strong
and long, and one of the later items that looked
weak on its first night appears less flabby than it
was.
The early Roman Christians eternally talk-
ing of their Faith in the language of Harmy
preachers, and the ancient Roman pagans who
talked of nothing but Marcus Superbus, also the
lions round the corner who only roar at the first
sight of Stephanus and are profoundly silent when
Marcus and Mercia go to meet them —all these
matters will be discontinued at Her Majesty’s
after Friday. These are the last two nights of M.
Superbus’s earnest appeal to Caesar for the life of
just one girl (which shows M.S. at his best), and
the final repetitions of Poppea’s emphatic “No.”
On Saturday, there is to be a revival of “Silver
King,” with Miss Jeffries as Nellie Denver and
Julius Knight in the big boots of Wilfred, the
converted punter.
** * *
Johnny Wallace, probably the oldest and
best known of Australia’s representative stage
managers—veteran John who, in days of yore,
revolved around the late Harwood in “ Tambour
Major,” and placed this country under a deep
debt of gratitude for merriment received—John
is going to enjoy a benefit at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, on the afternoon of May 27th. The
whole strength of the theatrical profession just
now in Melbourne will be drawn upon for this
occasion.
*# * *
Adelaide Tivoli has been crammed during
Cup week by people wanting to laugh at “Mama’s
New Husband.” Stine and company are out after
laughs, and get them—American fashion—by any
means that comes handiest. Olive Evans is a
desirable proposition whether dressed as 17 or as
7, and the Bicknells’ dancing is of the Darto or
whirlwind nature. The competition has been bad
for the Pollard co. at the Royal. “DjinDjin”
brought with it a pleasant flavor of panto-
mime-in-lavender, with the songs and jokes of
yesteryear, when Japan was considered merely a
humorous kind of country. A nation that does a
lot of hard and successful fighting somehow suffers
as a background for decorative effect. All the
same, the big earthquake scored heavily as of old.
Nellie Wilson, an Adelaide girl, makes a first
grown-up appearance as the Prince in this pro-
duction. This week, one Bronson of New York, is
engaged with an Anti-Cigarette Society and a
Polite Lunatic and other mirthful trifles.
The Wild Cat Column.
Apropos of the Independent Order of Foresters
life assurance stench, it may be remembered that some
time ago certain questions were asked in the Victorian
Assembly about the soundness of the miserable and
bumptious concern. Then Premier Peacock (who, it now
transpires, had received £5O from the society under very
remarkable circumstances) rose like a man and a
brother (he was a brother, and the fat poten-
tate of the Order who came here from
Canada is understood to allege that he was a very
cheap brother whose first year’s premium was paid
for him, though the statement isn’t at all borne out by
evidence), and delivered a vague and eulogistic reply,
tending to show th£t the 1.0. P. was so sound and repu-
table that any inquiry into its solvency was quite need-
less. It now leaks out that the reply was not Peacock’s,
but was supplied ready made from Canada, presumably
by arrangement with Dr. Montague, the fat potentate
of the society above mentioned (the same man who handed
Peacock the £5O), and apparently the cable communica-
tions with Canada over this matter were charged to the
people of Victoria. Also it transpires that the questions
were drafted by Dr. Montague —that the whole thing
was a put up job to advertise the institution which gave
the foolish Peacock £5O. Under these squalid circum-
stances the assurance of Brother Peacock about the
honorable record of the 1.0. P. is quite useless, and the
need for a rigid inquiry into the solvency of that dreadful-
looking concern is more urgent than ever. The whole
business only tends to make the 1.0. F. official look like a
person who was very anxious to avoid inquiry, and who
started a bogus inquiry to get ahead of any real one ; and
Peacock looks like his humble servant and obsequious
hanger-on. The fact that this insolent concern deli-
berately pasted its advertisement on the Victorian
Parliament by getting a member to ask readied-up
questions about the 1.0. P. and getting the Premier to
deliver a readied-up reply, gives it an extra claim to be
investigated. Australia has a right to know fully what
kind of institution has been hanging its placard on our
Parliamentary institutions. Also it has a right to know
some more about the fat and corrupt bungler from
Canada w ho engineered all this silly business.
* * * •
From the evidence of the first financial secre-
tary of the Melbourne branch of the 1.0. P. “ assurance ”
office :
We were allowed to keep members financial. There
was a fund we could draw on for the purpose.
Is there any other case where you had a cheque
from the funds of the society to pay anybody’s pre-
miums ? —Must I answer that, your Honor 2
Yes.—There were others.
_ You need not mention their names. Was it a
usual practice ? There were only a few prominent
names.
When the new insurance legislation comes along it ought
to contain a clause absolutely prohibiting any society
issuing or maintaining a policy out of the funds
tit the society (this is, of course, quite different from keep-
ing it in force out of the policy’s own surrender value).
Even if guinea-pigs and decoy ducks can’t be barred out
of the ordinary financial wild cat, they ought to be barred
out of the life assurance business, anyway ; for the assur-
ance business is invested in by thousands who are not
professional investors, and who don’t even know that there
are such things as guinea-pigs.


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULACE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with.suitable rolling stock for annual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Syd i y, .Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Trainu iv, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS. —Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives —~ EVERYTHING,
&3T Our CATALOGUE is yours for t e asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. E - •• LAS TRIER, Manager,
Representing Ouknstkin and Koppel, L d., London, Berlin and Paris,
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
38/1 00%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles,,Caustic Soda,
- Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING OHARGE3.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Mmlbourn* ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ;94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Welling ton, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z,
The Australian Mutual Fire Insubance Co.
(Sydney)
Dividends on
Capital (£6250) Bonus Total
Actually Paid to Added Capital
up by Policy- to and Re-
Mar.. Profits. Shareholders, holders. Funds, serves.
1893.. £15,377 79*p.c. =£4965 £3965 £6,447 £100,970
1894.. 15,069 771 „ ~ 4848 3848 6,873 107,349
1895 15,667 94 ~ „ 5862 3862 5,943 113,292
1896!. 15 087 92 „ „ 5728 3728 5,631 118,923
1897 . 15,851 90 „ „ 5651 3651 6,549 125,472
1898.. 17,647 91* „ „ 5720 3720 8,207 133,679
1899 . 17,530 97 „ ~ 6055 4055 7,420 141,099
1900 . 17,213 113* „ „ 7087 4057 6,039 147,138
1901.. 19,903 112* „ „ 7036 4036 8,891 166,029
1902 . 17,952 131* ~ ~ 8224 4224 5,504 161,533
1903.. 17,184 132 „ „ 8248 4248 4,688 166,221
1904.. 23,313 132* „ „ 8290 4290 10,733 176,954
Capital and reserves are in the foregoing shown together
in the column where the reserves generally appear, the
Australian Mutual having, by a succession of trans-
fers of profits, increased its capital from £6250 (the
amount actually subscribed) to £50,000. The dividend is
made up of £4OOO dividend proper and £4290, being a
bonus of 10 per cent, on the total amount of premiums ;
another 10 per cent, goes to policyholders. The year has
been one of remarkable good luck. Recent experiences
have been
1900. 1901. 1902. 1903. 1904.
Premiums .. £33,888 £33,677 £34,961 £35,565 £35,856
Interest .. 5,221 5,811 6,237 6,490 7,037
Losses .. 8,131 5,530 9,356 10,325 4,293
Expenses .. 13,765 13,994 13,890 14,545 15,287
The losses have amounted to only 12 per cent, of the
premium income, as against 29 per cent, the previous
year—an unusually favorable experience. Expenses are
mounting slightly ; five years ago they were at the rate
of £4O 12s. sd. per cent, of the premium income, now they
are £42 18s. 3d. But so rapidly have interest earnings
increased that if total income is taken as the basis the
advance in expense rate has been only from £35 3s. lOd.
per cent, to £35 12s. 9d. per cent. The interest alone is
now more than enough to pay 100 per cent, per annum on
the total amount actually put into this remarkably
successful concern.
» * * *
W.A.0.: Don’t recommend an industrial policy
at all if you can possibly get the other sort. At 25 you
can get an ordinary £lOO policy for well under Is. a week,
payable half-yearly, and share in the profits, too Salt-
bush : N. Kalgurlis, probably. And remember it’s a
gamble and your own funeral Merlin: No; Govern-
ment scheme may affect them seriously XXX.: Pure
wild-cat.
* • * *
The Ocean Accident and Guarantee Cor-
poration, an English co. with a large Australian busi-
ness :
Reserves
(Including
Reserve
Dividends Paid Added for Un-
Income Profits During Year to Re- expired
(less tax) serves Risks)
& £i £>£/£/
1895 201,566 40,118 12* p.c. = 12,292 162,974
1896 255,871 50,941 12* „ „ 12,500 38,441 201,415
1897 347,007 59,896 15 „ ~ 14,501 45,395 246,810
New Share Premiums ... .. 80,667 327,477
1898 736,947 213,547 15 „ „ 16,148 197,399 524,876
New Share Premiums .. .. 165 525,041
1899 748,733 139,472 15 „ „ 19,429 120,043 645,084
1900 878,492 71,496 20 „ ~ 28,096 43,400 688,484
New Share Premiums .. .. 96,250 784,734
1901 1,120,359 20,367 20 „ „ 36,488 768,613
Loss
1902 1,196,655 46,936 20 „ ~ 32,424 689,253
Profit
1903 1,130,516 48,747 20 „ ~ 32,415 16,332 705,585
It cannot be said definitely what the amount of one year’s
final dividend is until the next year’s balance-sheet has
been issued, so in the foregoing the amount of dividends
shown are those paid during the year. If the ordinary
process were possible, and the amount of dividends paid
in respect of each year’s operations were set against that
year, and if the other appropriations made in respect of
the year were taken into account, the last line would
show very differently; for the 5 per cent, bonus which
usually accompanies the final dividend (paid in March for
the preceding year) has been dropped, and £35,828 has
also been transferred from revenue account to suspense
account, in order to provide for the slump in American,
British, Australian, and other securities in which the
funds are invested. Approximately, if the balance-sheet
showed all the year’s operations, things would work out
in this way:—
Income. Profit. Dividends.
£1,130,516 .. £12,919 .. 15 per cent.^£24,446
And the reserves, after the final appropriations made in
respect of the year, would be £657,634. With an improve-
ment in securities the amount now in suspense (£50,000
altogether) would, of course, be retransferable to reserves.
The recent shrinkage in ordinary trading profits—in 1902,
in fact, there was a heavy loss—was due to the co. going
heavily into the employers’ liability business before it
knew anything about it; before, in fact, anybody knew
anything about it. Gradually, however, rates have been re-
vised as experience dictated, and a considerable amount
of business has been dropped, with the result that profits
seem to be mending again, though they have not yet
mended to anything like an extent that justifies the
present extravagant dividends.
* » * *
Paunch M‘Kinley, now putting up for Victoria’s
House of Rather Fat Landlords, has a wondrous patent
scheme for relieving the State of the pension incubus
that Bent perpetually fumes about. It seems to be
the same scheme as Bent’s. At present the pensions
amount to about £350,000 a year, which M'Kinley
“has discovered, after great difficulty, represents a
capital liability of £3,500,000.” He proposes that the
Government shall make arrangements with one of the
big insurance companies to take over this liability on
consideration of an immediate cash payment of three and
a half millions, to be obtained by issuing bonds at 3* per
cent. This interest, with 1* per cent, added for a sinking
fund, would mean, he reckons, a reduction by one-half of
the annual pension payments and a consequent saving of
£175,000 a year. It is a beautifully simple scheme, by
which some fool of a company is to agree to pay £350,000
a year for an indefinite period in return for £3,500,000 —in
other words, it is to pay 10 per cent, on the money. The
humor of the situation lies in the fact that a respectable
concern would probably want nearly £3,000,000 to insure
the men already on the pension list; to insure also the
multitude who have still to come on the list when they
leave the service wouldmost likely require about £7,000,000.
Anyhow, if the Paunch man’s scheme is sound, why drag a
company into it at all. Why not let the Government
finance the matter itself and keep the profits ? The only
profit that an insurance office could make in the matter—-
the profit out of which any real saving of £175,000 a
year could be effected—would have to be made out of the
fact that the Government would borrow the £3,500,000 at
3* per cent, and the insurance office would invest it (if it
Sad luck) at 4* per cent. Therefore the thing is quite
simple. Let the State buy a large box and imagine it has
-put into it its own securities for £3,500,000. Let it put
into the box the £157,500 a year which the securities
would yield at the rate of 4* per cent., that being some-
thing like what the best insurance offices realise on their
investments. And by the success it meets with in
paying out of the box £350,000 a year for pensions it can
decide what size of an ass Bent is and what dimension
of a mule is Paunch M’Kinley. If the £157,500 which
went into the box wouldn’t pay the £350,000 which is
supposed to come out, then the scheme falls through as a
saving, though it may be a postponement. M’Kinley, by
the way, doesn’t explain why he hasn’t tried the thing on
his own business first. Say Paunch’s wages sheet amounts
to£2ooo a year; this represents for that item alone on
AI Kmley’s reasoning a capital liability of £20,000. Why
doesn’t M’Kinley borrow £20,000 at 3* per cent., put by
1* per cent, for a sinking fund, “ arrange with a big insur-
ance co.” to pay the wages and so save £lOOO a year ? For
such a genius of a financier M'Kinley seems a painfully
thriftless, casual sort of person.
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New
York Added
Total to
Income, Claims. Expenses. Outgoings. Funds.
1895 9 978,939 4,748,815 2,135,762 6,884,577 3,094,302
1896!!10’421,359 5,262,203 2,107,705 7,369,008 3,051 451
isq7 II ai 9 883 5 316 642 2,063,053 7,379,695 3,933,138
ll6 267 Affißoifi 7)228,435 4,887,832
1899 12'932 673 5,540,220 2,535,825 8,076,045 4,856,628
1900 13018 126 5 404 560 2 674 923 8,079,483 4,938,643
1901 14 267 844 5,968,433 2)830)329 8,798,762 5,469,082
1902 15 148 791 5,937,070 3,098,214 9,035,284 6,113,507
1903!! 13)985’720 6,798,278 3,295,234 10,093,512 3,892,208
This doesn’t look as healthy as it might; but a good deal
of the unhealthy appearance can be fairly exp amecl
away. During the previous two years there had been a
boom in most American securities, as a result mainly of
the Pierpont Morgan operations. The securities of the
American life assurance offices are valued by Government
officials annually, and as a result of these valuations the
assets were, in those years, written up considerably. n
1901 this appreciation of assets added £964,509 to the in-
come, and in 1902, £247,951. Now, however, Pierpont
Morgan has lost his Pierpont and is just plain Morgan, a
sort of head-clerk in Rockefeller's office ; the booin is
dead ; and the Government valuation knocks £1,915,712
off the value of the society’s securities. This comes off
the income as so much loss, and affects the amount added
to funds correspondingly. If no heed were taken of these
market movements the past three years’ record would be .
Added
Income. Outgoings. to
Funds.
1900 .. £12,458,207 £8,079,483 £4,378,724
1901 .. 13,403,335 8,798,762 4,604,573
1902 .. 14,900,840 9,035,284 5,865,556
1903 .. 15,901,432 10,093,512 5,807,920.
Thus, so far as income from premiums and interest goes,
there has been a continuous advance.
On the face of it the next list shows also an un-
satisfactory movement: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1895 .. £2l 8 1 p.c. 1900 .. £2O 10 11 p.c«
1896 .. 20 4 6 „ 1901 .. 19 16 9 „
1897 .. 18 4 9 „ 1902 .. 20 9 0 „
1898 .. 17 16 1 „ 1903 .. 23 11 3 „
1899 .. 19 12 2 „
But here again there has been a serious disturbance,
owing to P. Morgan. This shows it in another way
Expenses Compared with Income from Premiums
and Interest.
1900 .. £2l 9 6 p.c. I 1902 .. £2O 15 10 p.c.
1901 .. 21 2 4 „ I 1903 .. 20 14 5 „
Which puts a different complexion on the Mutual’s face.
Even then, of course, the rate is high—about twice as
high as the most cheaply managed of Australian offices.
But, to a great extent, that is because wages and salaries
are high in Protectionist America, where the co. does by
far the greatest part of its business. Even the insurance
canvasser can command good wages where the business
isn’t overrun by unfortunates who can’t earn a crust at
anything else.
Interest earnings continue good. The funds at
the beginning of the year amounted to £78,089,284; at
end of the year to £81,981,491. On the year’s average,
the return was at the rate of £4 ss. 4d. The A.M.P-’s
rate for the same year was £4 Bs. lOd ; on the other hand,
the British offices usually earned considerably less than
the American office—the Scottish Provident, for example,
£3 16s. 5d., and the Provident Life £3 19s. sd.
As was expected, South Australia did not get an
offer for the building of the overland line. The Arltunga
wild cat killed whatever chances there ever were of push-
ing the business through. The yarn of the “ mountains
of gold ” in the interior, all waiting to be tapped by this
line (the syndicate was offered all mineral rights), was
overdone. Bull-Cohen too easily recognised the voice as
the voice of an irresponsible book-fiend standing in his
doorway and talking wild advertisement ; and as soon as
Arltunga fell in and exploded the wild yarn of the
canvasser, Bull-Cohen slammed the door and refused to
listen to anything that might be said on the subject.
The moral seems to be that the methods which will sell
a pen’north of peanuts or even a book on the instalment
plan aren’t to be relied upon when it comes to hawking a
huge railway concession.
* * * *
The Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
(Newcastle district, N.S.W.) :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Mar., 1900 .. £l5ll
Sept., 1900 .. £3517 { gj',' '!* P ,f ,7 “S} "f
Mar., 1901 .. 2404
„ , lom j Pref., 12J „ „ 12501 Keser - v Q e a s -
Sept., 1901.. 601 l | ord> ’ ” ” 2402 j 1886
Loss.
Mar., 1902.. 1661 Nil 225
Sept., 1902.. 25 Nil 200
Deficit.
Mar., 1903.. 525 Nil 325
Sent., 1903.. 1163 Nil 1488
Mar., 1904 .. 1214 Nil 2702
The co. will, from present appearances, have to recon-
struct before ordinary shareholders can hope to get any-
thing out of it. The old mine is just about played out,
and more capital is needed to open up the new property
in the Maitland district. The present paid capital is
£103,939, in 70,000 paid-up £1 shares, 20,000 124 per cent,
preference shares, and 20,000 ordinary contributing, on
which £6061 is still callable. As usual, the pref. shares
are the bugbear. Even in good times 12£ per cent, is
enormous, but in bad times it is impossible ; and, with
the keen competition among producers, these are . bad
times for N.S.W. coal co.’s. The old Wickham mine is
now idle, for, though there is a little coal left, it doesn’t
pay to work at present prices ; and, though the new mine
could probably be worked more cheaply, the difference
wouldn’t be enough to provide for any 12J per cent,
dividends.
• * <• a
Mr. A. C. Rowlandson, who trades under the
name of the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., has issued a fine “ Art
series ” of twelve postcards, bearing on the reverse pic-
tures of the sights and landscapes seen by the explorers of
the Discovery expedition. The cards are well printed,
and the pictures are interesting and reminiscent of a
great exploit.
* * * *
The Australasian Sheep Dip Co. (Sydney):—
Trading In reduction Visible
Dec., Loss. Dividends, of Deficit. Deficit.
1899 .. £220 .. Nil .. Nil . £484
Profit.
1900 .. 58 .. Nil .. £5B .. 919
Loss.
1901 .. 115 .. Nil .. Nil .. 1465
Net Profit.
1902 .. 563 .. Nil .. 563 .. 1453
Loss.
1903 .. 891 .. Nil .. Nil .. 2344
This record shows the hard row which is hoed by the co.
that tries to set an industry on its legs in Australia. The
co. can apparently make very good sheep and cattle dips
(it has good references as to its character, anyhow) ; but
it has no Protection, and so it bumps up against tremend-
ous opposition. The importing crowd is constantly
crying about capital being driven out of the country,
and here is a pretty convincing proof that the importing
crowd is the crowd that is doing the driving. An industry
which, with a little Protection, might easily employ 50 or
100 workmen, and profitably employ also £lOO,OOO of
capital, gives without Protection precarious employment
to perhaps half a dozen men, and the £15,488 sunk in the
co. hasn’t yet earned a dividend, And last year over
£5OOO capital was driven out of N.S.W. to pay for im-
ported dips alone. Last year’s loss was, of course, mainly
due to the drought, which reduced the turnover nearly
50 per cent. The co. appears to allow a rebate to share-
holders who use the dip, but the amount isn’t shown in
the accounts. The visible deficit as shown above has been
increased from time to time, apparently, by expenses in-
curred in extending the business to other States and
South Africa.
♦ * ♦ *
The Ballarat Woollen and Worsted Go.
(Ballarat, Vic.): —
Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
Sept., 1902 £17,389
March, 1903 .. £2269 15p.c.=£2249 17,409
Sept., 1903 .. 2215 15 „ „ 2249 17,376
March, 1904 .. 2308 15 ~ ~ 2249 17,434
The most remarkable thing about this little co., one of
the most successful of Australian industrial enterprises,
is that it maintains its excessive dividend in the face of a
heavy overdraft; its interest bill is usually about £6OO a
year, and at present is still more. As to the national
value of even such a comparatively small manufacturing
concern as this, it is worth noting that last half-year it
paid for wool, stores, fuel, &c., £12,752, and in wages and
other charges £9638. # #
Most important announcement made by Broken
Hill Junction directors in their half-yearly report is that,
“ from time to time, as conditions (of the metal markets)
varied, estimates of working results have been made, but
the calculations have shown a probable loss. To resume
operations with profit there must be a rise in the prices of
lead and silver, or a better recovery of metals.” Metal
markets are even less favorable now than they were a few
weeks back. All the same, the co. hardly knows what it
can do, as the remodelled plant has never been tested.
The ore lately developed is as good as any recently found
at Broken Hill, and if the mine could be economically
worked (which is the trouble with all these little northern
mines, that ought to be amalgamated) a fair profit should
show. The co. has now a surplus of £3688 of liquid assets
over current liabilities.
* » * *
Broken Hill Block 10, which made a loss of
£1777 in the half-year ended Sept., 1903, made a profit of
£12,680 in the half-year to March, 1904. This is by far the
best result since March, 1901; in fact it is double the net
profit made in the intervening 2£ years. Of course this
does not include payments for the new plant or even for
the new main shaft; on the former £13,618 has been
spent in the six months, and on the latter £4934. These
things have been provided for mainly out of the reserve
fund, which stood at £50,000 when the remodelling of
mine and works started but is now down to £8772,
represented by Victorian 3 per cents, at face value ; and as
Victorian 3 per cents, are about 87, over £lOOO must be
written off that. As there is still a great deal to be done
and paid for, and as the directors are apparently averse to
making calls (there is £35,000 uncalled] notwithstanding
that the overdraft at the end of the half-year was £13,591,
dividends are hardly likely to be seen yet awhile. The
old mill, which was built on the side of the hill, and
almost over the lode, has been affected by movements for
years past; and, though these movements have given a
lot of trouble lately, and affected the running of the mill,
only three or four half-years have shown a larger output
of crude ore treated. The value has, however, been a
good deal less than formerly; in the half-year ended
March, 1900, it was 15T40z. silver and 16T6 per cent,
lead ; last half-year, 13’8oz. silver and 15 "2 per cent. lead.
During part of 1902 the grade was still higher ; but at
that time, with the metal markets very weak, and the
mine and mill generally under a heavy cloud, the poorer
faces were not worked. That means that if the mine
had been worked during the past half-year as it was worked
during a good part of the previous two years, when only
the richer ores were taken, the profit would have been a
good deal greater than £12,680. Portions of the new
plant are now getting to work ; and with this and other
economies (including cheaper coal and freights) going in
its favor, and with the lead market still 12s. per ton"
higher than last half-year’s average, the co. ought to do
still better in the current six months.
* * * *
Such a poor apology for ore-treatment is the
ordinary concentration process at Broken Hill that Block
10 has only saved about 36.8 per cent, of the silver in the
ore during the past six months, and 65'08 per cent, of the
lead. The result can be expressed in another way :
Silver, oz. Lead, tons. Zinc, tons.
Metal Contents .. 962,912 10,606 12,141
Metal Recovered .. 355,800 6,932
Metal Unrecovered .. 607,112 3,674 12,141
And even what is here represented as recovered is not all-
recovered ; there are still considerable losses in smelting.
The enormously greater quantity described here as un-
recovered is the field upon which the magnetic separators
and the acid zinc-processes have just made a start. In
the Block 10 case the metals in the ore milled during the
six months were worth, at market value, approximately
£481,500; and of that £121,700 was recovered, while
£359,800 was left in the tailings, or was otherwise un-
recovered.
• * • •
“I’llbuy Brothers One ! I’ll buy Brothers One ! ”
Thus Langford for weeks past in the Melbourne Stock
Exchange ring. He jumped shares from 7s, to 15s. 6d.
without getting a set-back, so that his average can’t be
high. Who is at the back of him? Is it a bull deal or
genuine buying? Bears look blue, but the little man
plugs away just as he did when Briseis bulling was on.
Some of those outside don’t like him taking up Brothers
One, and they say that the little man is suffering from some
variety of share madness. Let him tell the history of the
North Lyell deal, and then they may realise that man-
nerisms don’t count for much. As for Brothers 1., it’s a
moot point whether the mine is worth £60,000. A lot of
calls have yet to be made, and it is not demonstrated that
the wash will pan out high-grade. The drift has been
riddled by drives on the false bedding, and the best of the
stream tin extracted.
* ■* * *
Pioneer, Bradshaw Creek, is the best tin show
in Tassy. It struggled along for years in A. Mellor’s office
in Queen-street, but shareholders would not put up
money. So Gibbs, Bright and Co. got the show in hand,
and it has proved a gold mine to them. The capital they '
subscribed has long since been returned, and divs. are
regular and big. Mellor had hard luck in having to let.
the show go, and in afterwards replacing it with the dis- -
appointing Mayne’s.
* * * *
New Moon, Bendigo, is a big mine with a fair-
sized battery. Estimate of ore in sight, nine years. Yet
co. does crushing for other shows. It is in little ways like
this that Bendigo is miles behind the rest of the world—
except, perhaps, Charters Towers. When stone is proved,
why keep it in the mine ?
Zeb Lane and George D. Meudell are whispered
to be conjoined over some outside Bendigo leases. Any-
way, G.D.M. has left for London. So it would look as if
Bull’s purse-strings are to be loosened. Meudell some
time back sought to get for his people rights to a big
block of mining land on the Bendigo extension in return
for doing some boring, but Travis, at the Mines, wasn’t
on. Too much land was wanted.
* * * *
Old North Duke, Maryborough (Vic.), is not
giving up the ghost without another kick. Bores ate to
go down to try aiid pick up the run of westerly wash
being worked by the Duke United. This is a sort of for-
lorn hope, especially as the wash out that way is dropping
in grade.
* * * *
Hustlers Reef No. 1, Bendigo, is knocked back
because the end of the tribute is getting within sight.
But Reefs don’t improve in proportion. Why ?
* * * !*—
Lansell, Dyason, Mueller and co., are very slow
about opening up the Virginia, Bendigo. They ought to
have picked up the Great Northern shoot months back,
but are going about it like a front mark man that doesn’t
want to win. Mine ought to have a big future, what with
existing profits from upper-level dirt and the certainty of
obtaining the Great Northern stone left at the boundary.
Lansell owns about half the show, and it’s a big mine.
* * * * €
Sebastopol Plateau and Ballarat East co.’s are'
quarrelling over water troubles. Meanwhile, water is
rising and men are idle. The folly of the thing is that, if
the co.’s don’t take care, they’ll shut-down the mines alto-
? ether. Divs. have not been conspicuous from the
lateau for many a day, and holders will welcome any
pretext to end dead call-paying. Only real pros-
pecting being done is at the Star of the East, which
is going out to try and pick up the old Albion lode. It,
too, is partially hung up over its drainage fight with
the Central Plateau. Difficulty lies in a legal quibble as
to formal registration of co. 20 years back,
♦*- * *
Dead J. A. Wallace’s Chiltern Valley-mine
(Vic.) is turning up trumps again, yields having got well
over 300 oz. Last week’s output was one of the biggest
for the field for years, though Great Southern has been
doing exceptionally well. If Chiltern Valley comes out
O.K. it will be a big feather in the cap of Wallace’s widow,
who fought for and won the right to handle the old man’s
mines and scrip. •
* * * •
Duke of York, Bamganie (Vio.), ja promising
sortie fun again. Brokers seein inclined to forget that the
stock not long since was the central figure in a corner
which passed out some of their number. Shares dodge
up in little spurts. A poor return was preceded by a nice
little strike of stone at No. 2 level. The balance thus re-
mained even. Very little is needed to set the market
jigging, but the dance will lack the old profes-
sionals, who shy at handling a stock with a history.
* * # *
Gympie (Q.) is using the diamond drill in
prospecting for the first time. Bore is to be sent down
1000 feet from the bottom of the West of Scotland mine,
and the carbons will therefore produce a sample from a
total depth of over 4000 ft. Mention of 4000 ft. at Gympie
resurrects one of Philp’s Bills for concessions to Scottish
capitalists, who were to sink a shaft to that depth, and
generally shake Gympie to its foundations. Gympie is
still waiting for those capitalists. The use of the drill on
this field is cheering. Gympie men do not take kindly to
modern ideas of exploration or extraction as a rule, and
in this connection the fact that last year’s production was
a record, in approximately 37 years’ work, is noteworthy.
The stone is getting poorer, but Gympie is beginning to
learn what quantity means in economical work.
* * * *
Croydon (N.Q.) has had two important develop-
ments, and now announces itself convalescent. In its
time it has produced well over 1,000,0000 z. of gold, but,
like most Queensland goldfields, has been prosperous
only in spasms. Its erratic output and its remoteness
are responsible for the little attention it gets from
outsiders. Recent crushing from Murray’s Block (400
■tons for 15380 z.) made things hum locally. Show, worked
by tributors, declared dividend of £7O per 30th share,
and the “ big men ” of the field fell over one another in
the rush to get in. Probabilities are that this rich patch
will give way to a lower average when a reasonable tonnage
is attempted. Big tonnage and low average, however, is not
in the creed of Croydon and some other fields. They
“ wolf ” during the fat period, and when the low-grade
stuff fills the faces they wail for foreign capital. This is
the trouble pretty well all over Queensland. Croydon’s
other development—the strike of gold at the 920 ft. level of
the Golden Gate—is of considerable importance. The
show, owned principally by Charters Towers people, sank
Plant’s shaft to 1200 ft., and then evidently decided that
what it was looking for—the Golden Gate reef —had
been passed through at 920 ft. The crosscut put out struck
what is alleged to be this reef at 60ft. Quite possible it
is the right reef ; but it will be well to wait and see what
gold the stone contains.
* * * *
Charters Towers (N.Q.) last month accounted
for 47 per cent, of Queensland’s gold yield, 45 per cent, of
its divs., and 43 per cent, of its recorded calls. Croydon
calls were not recorded, or latter figure would be less.
Figures for the field for April: 23,935 tons stone for
20,4820 z. ; cyanide gold, 48670 z. ; old tailings, 550 tons for
1230 z.; total, 25,4720 z. Divs., £31,400 ; calls, £7367.
* * * *
Finance Chronicle, London, Ist. August,
1903 :—“ The report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, is a very favorable one, and is happily summarised
as follows. A larger new business, an increased premium
income, a higher rate of interest earned on investments, a
greater increase in funds and a lower expense ratio.”*
* * '* *
The Mount Boppy G.M. Company are about to
duplicate their Milling plant to deal with the large re-
serves of ore opened up, and have placed an order with the
Austyal Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne,
for a 20 head Stamp Battery and accessories to complete
same. This mine promises to be among the largest pro-
ducers in the States when these additional stamps are set
to work.*
* • * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* ’ * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * •
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open, competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have' accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Rivited Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.*
* * • * ♦
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
To Prospectors And Others.— -The Curtin-
Davis~ Proprietary Co. N.L. is prepared to purchase
approved mining properties. Particulars to, John Potts,
Legal Manager, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* * » *
Band of Hope, Charters Towers, struck 15in.
of stone in 1429 ft. crosscut; stone said to be worth an oz. .
Payable development will mean a new life for mine, which
is nearing its end in upper workings. Brilliant Central
scrip tops the market. Brilliant St. George hanging-
wall reef develops satisfactorily. Brilliant Block reckons
on an increased output of 15dwt. stone. Having its own
mill and having got rid of its overdraft, this show should
be within the div. -paying circle shortly. Queen Cross
developments in upper levels and crushings are still favor-
able, but lower levels are suspected of not being likely to
come up to old values, and the knowing ones are pre-
paring to stand from under. New Queen’s 1145 tons of
oz stone crushed for month is flattering ; output can be
increased and value bettered. It is “upto ” this £160,000
co., whose capital is almost exhausted. Queen Central’s
last crushing of 498 tons went only ljoz. Some forward
operators will get a hard knock. Columbia, a north
edge show, is going to utilise the diamond drill.
Victoria and Queen is putting down another bore at its
N.E. corner. Queen Central Block is crosscutting at 850 ft.
for reef ; Queen Cross Extended has stopped sinking at
750 ft., and come up to crosscut at 300 ft. to test a forma-
tion passed through. Day Dawn P.C. has put up an
ounce crushing of SOQ tons A a month or two’s getting. A
£300,000 co. wants a* lot more than this. D.D. Gold
Mines are ekeing out income by purchasing residues.
West Wallis prospecting east is showing a little promise— ■
a plucky, well-worked show, which deserves luck.
Continued on page SO).


THE "ORIENT”
'ONE GUINEA BOOT
Black Calf.
Special.
Price
21/-
Delivered, Carriage Paid, to Any Address in the States.
PAVIP JONES ANP CO
CEOR6E aijd BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
PHOTOGRAPHERS!
HOW’S BUSINESS? Not very
brisk, eh ! Then wake it up with
something new. Let us submit you
a thoroughly UP-TO-DATE STYLE
OF MOUNT—a really New Idea. Perhaps you can suggest something yourself, and we will
make it for you. We have capable artists for inventing new designs, and our factory is replete
with the latest British-American machinery for making Mounts of almost any conceivable
Style, Size, and Color. Our “Artist-Proof Folders” have caught on—are you in the fashion?
GOOD WORK, and work that is permanent, depends upon your using fresh, reliable
Chemicals, Plates, Papers, &c. We have regular fortnightly shipments coming to us. (Empire
Papers are made on the spot). The article is good, and the price is right. Beware of
bargains or cheap lines in materials—there’s always a reason for it.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE Free.—Over 300 Pages, describing
Cameras, Lenses, Hounts, and everything pertaining to
fessional and Amateur Photography.
HARRINGTON
& Co.
Ltd.,
k
f
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS,
66 King Street, SYDNEY, and 93 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Society
[?]
THE TIMIDITY OF CAPITAL.
BERT, THE STOWAWAY (from Australia, explain-
ing his position to captain): “ Well, you see,
dear hoy, the—aw—beastly Labor party had
just come into power, and capital was leaving
the country, don’t you know, owing to beastly
socialistic legislation , and the — aw—exodus of
the better classes of the community had—aw—
definitely set in.”
The Queensland Full Court has rejected
the appeal in the case of Angus M ‘Donald and his
wife, who beat, starved, and tortured their 14-
years old daughter to death by a process of slow
misery, extending over a number of months. Their
hanging, if they are hanged, will excite about the
irreducible minimum of sympathy. Horton, of
Adelaide, the eccentric individual who shot his
wife, and who was strung up by Jenkins Iscariot,
was, on the other hand, a case which might have
aroused some sympathy in the heart of any
Premier who hadn’t been hardened in his youth
by having the dog sooled after him when he was
trying to sell a Picturesque Atlas.
* * • *
The proposed conference to deal with local
government in N.S.W. does not meet until the
last week in May, but already the chief item on
the business-paper has been settled. The harbor
excursion has been fixed up, the Government
having chartered a steamer to take the visiting
country cousins for a day on the big dam. No
conference in Sydney is complete without its day
out on the harbor at the country’s expense.
• * • *
At a large and fashionable Melbourne
bazaar held recently, a young woman was
decoyed into a raffle for a gold chain, valued at
about something like 15 guineas in the shade.
By some mischance she was the winner. When
she went to the stall to claim it, the gorgeous
ladies gathered round and remarked: “What a
lucky girl ! ” After some delay the Marquis of
Moonee Valley or the Earl of Footscray presented
her with the chain amid much palaver. His
concluding words were touching. “ May you live
to wear it out,” he said, bowing gallantly till his
bald head wrinkled like a heliograph. She did.
Next week there were unmistakable signs of brass
coming through the dye. A jeweller informed
her that it might be worth half-a-crown. From
there she went to a solicitor. The Marquis of
Ascot Vale or the Count of Mordialloc may live
to regret the fulfilment of his gallant wishes.
• • • *
A further extension to the Divorce Law of
N.S.W. has been given by Justice Simpson in the
Kinnear case. He ruled that if a husband was an
habitual drunkard for three years, and during that
time did not support his wife, she was entitled to
a divorce, even though she had had ample means
of her own and had not required support from her
husband.
• * * •
There was a humorous touch about the
escape of two men from the Terrace Gaol at Wel-
lington (M. L.) recently. There were three prisoners
in the cell, and a hole a foot’square was bored in
the wall with a brace-and-bit. Two got through,
but the third was fat and stuck ; so, while his com-
panions were scudding across country in the cold,
wintry night, he stuffed a blanket in the hole and
sat down to consider how [best to explain that he
hadn’t noticed the orifice, or observed the departure
of his mates.
* * • *
That Poo Bah, the Victorian policeman,
has to hold on to his head with both hands at times
to keep himself from getting hopelessly
tangled amongst his many appoint-
ments. Recently, in a country town,
he was directed by one of the
numerous departments he serves to
take legal action against a householder.
He did so, served the summons as
policeman, prosecuted in court as sum-
moning officer, and as clerk of the
court recorded the conviction. Costs
were allowed ; in his capacity as police-
man he collected them and handed
them over to himself as C.P.S. As
C.P.S. he paid them into his special
account, drew a cheque and paid it to
himself as summoning officer duly
issuing a receipt in the latter role.
Then as S.O. he sent the money along
to the department, which was almost
the only thing in the whole concern
that wasn’t himself.
* * *
“F.C. ”: lam pleased to observe
that, immediately on his arrival, the
A.D.C. of Governor Tallbottle, of
Victoria, was appointed to an hon-
orary captaincy in the Commonwealth
forces; but lam grieved to see the
Governor of a democratic community
allowing his aides to bestow all their
honorary patronage on one profession.
An A.D.C. who would become an
honorary barrister, or an honorary
medico, or an honorary clergyman,
during his term would be a pleasing
innovation. Also, what’s wrong with
an hon. cook ?
The Cooktown (Q.) Independent says that
Mr. R. Garvey recently discovered an interesting
relic of the visit of Capt. Cook to the Endeavor
River. This is a halfpenny coined in the year
1749 ; it bears the head of George II on one side
and Britannia, in a form and dress different from
the modern picture, on the other. The coin was
found when cleaning out a well near Webber
Esplanade, where it is supposed Cook watered his
vessel. But anyone could lose a George II half-
penny at any time, and this unseemly haste to
ascribe the battered brown to Captain Cook, who
isn’t likely to have brought money ashore with
him when he went to look for water in a savage
country, seems rather ridiculous.
“Roma”
on young
Miss Aus-
tralia :
Every Aus-
tralian mo-
ther has an
idea that her
little Hem.
meline is go-
ing to turn
out a Melba
oraCrossley.
Each morn,
ing for some
time past I
have noticed
a small,
miserable-
looking ob-
ject coming
out of a tum-
ble-down dwelling with a
music-case in one hand
and a milk billy in the
other. She was the typi-
cal Hemmeline—Miss
Hemmeline Australia. I
asked her at last if her
mother sold milk. She
said, “We only ’ave one
keow, but it’s goin’ dry
now. Mother ’as only
enough milk to serve me
music-teacher and me
drorin’-teacher.” Grow-
ing more curious, I ques-
tioned her about father.
“ No, ’e don’t do much
work,” said Hemmeline ;
“ but ’e’s gorn to Gipps-
land lookin’ for a job, an’
mother’s goin’ out wash-
in’ till ’e gets one. ” Then
I went home and thought
hard. The comedy of it.
Mother washing, father
swagging in muddy
Gippsland, and a small,
“h”-less Hemmeline
learning music and
“ drorin’ ” and murder-
ing the British language.
• *
“ Marat ” : In a
sixpenny bar, yester-
day, during a slack
hour, saw an energetio
new barmaid polish-
ing the glasses. She
breathed into each
glass and then rubbed
it vigorously. “ The Voice that Breathed,” &o.
* * * *
“Miss Siam,” the Adelaide Zoo elephant,
died on May 9 from calculus —a stone as big as a
man’s head being found in the bile ducts. She
had been in the gardens for 21 years and was, like
almost everything else in Adelaide, presented by
the late Thomas Elder. The present director, in
bewailing the old days when his father filled the
position, remarked recently : “We don’t get as
much money from the Government as we used to,
and the entrance money has fallen off because we
have to make Saturday a free day. Then we have
no Elder. In father’s time Elder would say :
* Minchin, why haven’t you got an elephant ? ’
‘ Can’t afford it,’ he would reply. ‘ How much
will it cost ? ’ ‘ About £250 by the time it gets to
the gardens.’ ‘ That’s all right, get it, I’ll pay for
it.’ The same with other things. It was always
‘doit’ or ‘ get it, and I’ll pay for it.’ ” Adelaide
still has wealthy men, but they don’t throw
elephants about with the freehandedness of old
Uncle Tom.
# • * *
On top of their chronic state of over-
crowding, Melb. hospitals are now rushed with an
epidemic of diphtheria. The big institution has
two little patients in each of its five diphtheria
ward cots, and 11 more in six beds in the septic
ward. Also cases, of both classes, have to be
turned away daily. The little sufferers are treated
and sent home, returning again next morning for
further treatment—and, of course, spreading infec-
tion by the way—until they get better or die. All
the other hospitals—even the Eye and Ear —are
similarly congested. Meanwhile the incompetent
noodles who allegedly “manage” the Queen Vic-
toria Infectious Diseases Hospital fund have kept
that finished institution lying idle for three years
now, because apparently they haven’t energy
enough to open it and get it going.
» * * *
The “honorarium ” again ! The other day,
after a Melbourne police magistrate had, without
comment, fined a restaurant-keeper 305., with
475. costs, for working one of his waitresses 72\
hours a week —12J hours beyond the legal maxi-
mum—an amateur beak sitting alongside him,
one J. J. Rogers, must needs chip in that “he
thought the Factories Act was altogether too
severe in making a prosecution of a case like the
present: it savored of persecution.” Rogers
didn’t explain how many hours he thought a
waitress should be sweated before the Law stepped
in. In comment next day, Chief Sec. Gillott said
“the legal 60 hours was enough in all conscience”;
but he didn’t do what he should have done— i.e.,
order Rogers off the bench for condemning a law
he is sworn to administer honestly and impar-
tially. And, anyhow, a man who openly apolo-
gises for such conscienceless sweating seems unfit
for any public position—except, perhaps, that of
gaol-flogger.
* * * *
Urgent military news reported by the Age
war correspondent at Lancefield encampment:—
This morning- a pair of horses in a D.D. waggon bolted
down the drift over some very rough country, but were
brought to a halt before any accident occurred. The
waggon contained the lunch of the G. 0.0. and his staff,
but a broken glass summed up the damage.
QUESTION OF DATES.
MISS SPTEMBER : “I have been taken for 15.”
MISS JUNE : “ When?”
The fool Carlton (Vic.) honorary beak
again! An unsober individual who watched this
season’s first football match, against Fitzroy, got
so excited at Carlton’s defeat that he stoushed
three inoffensive strangers, badly battered a con-
stable, and nearly caused a general riot. He had
■fifty prior convictions, yet the beaks let him down
with a 40s. fine, assuring him they were dealing
with him thus severely because he appeared in
court in a state of beer ! The honorary magistrate
seems to exist for the encouragement of assault,
battery, cruelty, and general blackguardism.
NOTHING SO COMMON.
MISS LANDS : “I see your father's got the sack."
MISS TBAMWAY : “ So’s yours."
MISS LANDS : “He ain't."
MISS TBAMWAY : “He did."
MISS LANDS : “He didn't, funny! See! He's
got retrenched."
Melbourne seems rather a desirable place
just now for giddy little damsels wanting pro-
tectors. One such, charged with vagrancy and
remanded on bail, tripped gaily into court, in a
new dress and an artificial blush, when her case
was called, and proffered her scareely-dry marriage
lines to the staid old beak as a complete answer to
the charge. She had snapped up a young Gipps-
land farmer, and was going away immediately to
dwell in the bush and be virtuous and happy. The
solemn old magistrate smiled inscrutably and
passed on to the next case. ,
THE INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oti, why did Providence create the Independent Candi-
date?
I neither love nor fear nor hate the rival parties in the
State ;
I’ve seen no halo round the pate of any leader up to date !
And yet I hate
To contemplate
The Independent Candidate !
The Independent Candidate of abstract principles may
prate
In language which is quite ornate and eloquently delicate ;
And yet I do not hesitate to most emphatically state
I can’t abate
The way I hate
The Independent Candidate 1
All sorts of people make a State—some think that Mr.
See is great;
And some, especially of late, of Joseph form an estimate.
That may, perhaps, exaggerate his shrewdness as inor-
dinate,
But who would wait
To elevate
The Independent Candidate ?
Were I disposed to challenge Fate and seek election in
this State
I’d sooner be, I tell you straight, a Labor Party’s delegate.
Of course, they’re not immaculate, but they’ve SOME
views, at any rate 1
They’d hesitate
To emulate
The Independent Candidate 1
Like Herod at some bygone date, I seek his head upon a
plate;
No use is he unto the State, to measures that we con-
template.
I would my powers were adequate in verse to fitly cele-
brate
The latest great
Degenerate,
The Independent Candidate !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOOUQE.


H
AIR DESTROYED.
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Destroy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or Injury
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits, but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DRUG CO., 8 Bond St, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS.
The most fashionable hairdressing estab-
lishment in Sydney, where six first-class artists
are engaged, is Wild’s, 30 King-street Arcade
(upstairs) George-street entrance. Open from 8.30
to 6.30., Mondry to Friday; 8.30 to 1 p.m.
Saturdays.*
| FACILE PRIIMCEPS. |
BUCHANAN
SILVER
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality.
Sailormen fight shy of Fremantle (W.A.).
The local police magistrate is a native of Bunbury
and a schoolmate of Bigjohn Forrest, which
accounts for a lot of things in Westralia. Sailors
seem to be his pet antipathy, and he punishes
their trivial offences with a severity that is pro-
bably unparalleled in any other part of Australia.
Poor devils, half-starved, and knocked about by
harsh skippers, apply for leave to break their
articles when there is no hope of escape from their
floating hells by other means. Deaf to all ex-
planations, they are sent to gaol, and their pay
docked in addition. Recently, eleven men on a
barque, just arrived from America, struck work,
as a protest against the bullying of the captain.
The men swore that the captain had threatened
to shoot them, that they considered their lives
were in danger, and they refused to sail with him
again. That entire crowd was sentenced to three
weeks’ hard labor, and ordered to pay all costs of
the proceedings. The whole conduct of this court
wants digging into.
* * * #
The Westralian Chief Justice gave a deci-
sion the other day which he owned was just about
as likely to be wrong as right. It was an inter-
esting situation. The local Truth had told the
local Trustee Co. that it ought to be ashamed of
itself for turning respectable white tradespeople
out of shops and letting them to the little fat
brown woman from Japan, and the co. felt
lacerated in the conscience, or the balance-sheet,
and asked for a large amount of compensation.
The old idea of a co. in such matters was that it
hadn’t a body to kick nor a soul to lose; and
though the Chief Justice thought that the position
was not quite as bad as that, he didn’t quite know
how you could put the co; into the witness-box and
cross-examine it about its conscience and how it felt
when it was torn. It was suggested that the
chairman of directors might say how he felt about
the matter (under the W. A. libel law it is neces-
sary for the plaintiff to go into the box and submit
to cross-examination); but, on the other hand, it
was suggested that the rest of the co. might have
a different sort of conscience altogether—might, in
fact, have a conscience that liked being handled
this way. And when the chairman did go into
the box he did not know anything much about the
co.’s feelings, having only just been appointed
chairman ; and the question was whether the co.
could be said to have gone into the box according
to law, when all that went there was a gentleman
who didn’t know anything to speak of about the
co.’s affairs. Apparently the easiest way out
of the difficulty the Judge said that he would let the
case go on, and so give the jury the chance of say-
ing whether there had been any injury done or
not; and the jury said £lOO. It seems a good
deal of money to make a paper pay for saying that
a co. had let shops to a dear ally of ours, for
whose _ success against a white nation we are
whooping for all we are worth. In fact, it looks
like treason or something.
• • * •
Kangaroo Island, the stronghold of Dowie-
ism in S. Australia, is beginning to have its doubts
about the prophet. Kangaroo Island mostly lives
by growing barley, being a rocky wilderness which
will grow hardly anything else. Now, barley is
used for making malt, and malt goes to make the
beer which is anathema to the prophet; and the
question arises whether they are to give up Elijah
or their living. A few of them have crayfished
out of the trouble by selling their rocks to sinners
who mock at the prophet; others (the supply of
sinners who want to grow barley having ap-
parently run out) are making it a subject for
prayerful consideration. Meantime, they are
planting more barley.
“ War E.” : Be the Junee (N.S.W.)
hospital scandal (B. 5/5/’O4), here are a couple of
incidents of hardship out of many. A child,
whose parents can ill afford it, was sent by Dr.
O’Flanagan to St. Vincent’s Hospital for treatment,
because the local hospital is closed against his
patients. A woman suffering from enteric fever
was debarred the right of going into the local
hospital, because she asked that Dr. O’Flanagan
should attend her ; as a consequence of having no
food, no nursing nor proper attendance, the under-
taker secured a job ! Dr. O’Flanagan commands
an extensive practice amongst the poor of Junee,
and to every one of these the State-subsidised
Junee Hospital closes its doors ! The whole busi-
ness is a monstrous scandal, and in the interests of
justice and charity the Chief Secretary should
institute a searching inquiry. Surely the Govern-
ment has a right to ascertain how its subsidy is
misspent!
* * • *
A Maoriland advertisement with names
slightly changed (Evening Post, Wellington)
Tl/IRS. LEONIDAS IPHIGENIA BROWN is pre-
A 1 p are( i to go to gaol if her “ Asthma Cure” will
not cure every case. She will not allow anyone to
cheat her. The medical profession admit she is
very clever.
(Signed) MRS. LEONIDAS IPHIGENIA BROWN.
Mrs. Leonidas Iphigenia Brown invites the clergy of
Wellington (Wesleyan and Methodist) to meet at her
house (any time after 7 p.m.) to offer a thanksgiving
to God for the miraculous power he has endowed
Mrs. Leonidas Iphigenia Brown with.
(Signed) Mrs. L. 1.8.
They tell this story of St. James, the
fashionable Sydney Anglican Church. On Easter
Sunday the verger had
just shown a rather
second-hand old party
to an unobtrusive seat
in the rear, when he
was surprised to feel a
prod in the back. Point-
ing towards the resplen-
dent gilded eagle lec-
tern, she murmured in
a voice softly modu-
lated to the key used
by the suburban “ ’Ere
y’ar, twodozenabagfer-
threppense” : “ Ida a
bit’ard of ’earin’; would
you be so kind as to
gimme a seat up
nearer the FOWL ? ”
There’s warm
competition among
Melbourne under-
takers for the dead and
late - lamented corpse.
One planter advertises
that for “this season’s
trade he has the finest
mourning coaches in Vic-
toria.” Another announces
that “he has laid to rest
12,500 corpses” as a guarantee he will
put you where nothing but Gabriel’s trump
will disturb, and prints illustrations of his
“finishing and trimming rooms,” with the sub-
ordinate ghouls at work putting silver gew-gaws
on the narrow tenements of the dead.
* * * *
The philo-Japanese of N.S.W., up to May
7, had subscribed £447 to help the pagan to down
the blessed Cross, and to aid in spreading the cult
of the Geisha and the Yoshiwarra and the tea-
house and the paper fan.
“F.C.” : At a Melbourne boarding-school
one of my room-mates was a youth named Sammy.
He was the concentrated essence of a prig, and
once, when he returned after holidays, brought
with him a choice enlargement of his own photo,
E resented by his sisters, cousins and aunts. This
e stuck over his bed while heathens scoffed.
Next term (he had in the meantime captured
most of the prizes) he brought back another
presentation—a wax bust of himself, which he
proceeded to instal on his locker. This was too
much, and the bust promptly disappeared, being
subsequently found, in a disgracefully mutilated
state, in a place that need not be mentioned. I
had forgotten Samuel until I read lately that
Sammy Gillott, Melbourne’s ex-Gaud Mayor, had
been presented with his portrait in oils and a
marble bust of himself. Now lam trying to
remember what was the surname of my old
Sammy.
* * * *
The case of the barque Magnet, recently
towed into Hobart for repairs, reads like one of
Clarke Russell’s interminable, droning sea-yarns,
in which there are pages and pages of the gentle
wash of the deep against the side, in between the
stereotyped calamities—the fire, the mutiny, the
storm, the going mad of the captain, the appalling
discovery that the mate is a gorilla in disguise,
and the falling out of the bottom of the ship. The
Magnet left Glasgow in April, 1903. It came to
such bad grief inside the first 100 miles that it put
into Ardrossan the same month for repairs.
Started again, and fell out of one calamity into
another, and struggled to Mauritius for repairs.
Caught fire there and needed more repairs. Then
the Magnet pursued its sorrowful way with ill-
omens and albatrosses and disasters thick upon it
till it reached Hobart clamoring for repairs. The
voyage occupied a year and a day. Such a vessel
should be re-christened the Cassandra.
• • * *
Catmittee of Melbourne Women’s Hospital
has shed its claws at last. In future patients will
simply be labelled “Mary Jones” or “Kate
Smith,” as the case may be, and often is; and no
married woman will be able to flaunt her moral
superiority over the infant-laden spinster. Until
lately, the patients were subject to a system cf
numbering—which, amid their continual comings
and goings, made Ann Brown, just arrived, liable
to receive the close of physic prescribed for Wini-
fred Robinson, just left. Under the common
sense system of full names, without prefix of any
kind, it is reckoned that each woman will get her
own physic without her character being inquired
into.
* # * •
Since the vituperative Torrey visited
Maoriland that place has been overrun with
peripatetic evangelists who have found that as a
religious “claim” it produces good results. Now
the local sky pilots are beginning to kick
against this foreign competition, and talk of a
Parsons’ Union, with a demand that the alien
evangelist should be kept out. Rev. Dr. Gibb
told the Wellington Ministers’Association ( apropos
of an application to welcome a certain touring sin-
smiter) that they were getting too much of a good
thing. •. He felt that by these constant visits of
excited and extraneous evangelists the people were
being tempted to belittle the ordinary dull-brown
services of the kirk. The Association signified
that it thought so too.
* * * *
Some interesting remarks were made on
the Bible-in-Sehools question at the Presbyterian
Assembly, recently, in Melbourne :
The Moderator (the Right Rev. Arthur Davidson), in his
opening address at a meeting of the commission of the
Assembly to-day, said that there was no blinking the fact
the continued exclusion of Scripture lessons from the
regular curriculum of our schools had been largely, if not
solely, due to Romish influence. Politicians had been
deterred by fear of alienating the Roman Catholic vote.
Boiled down the theory is that the Protestants
want the Bible taught in schools and the Catholics
don’t, and that politicians deliberately flout and
scorn and offend and throw away the votes of over
900,000 Protestants in order to secure the votes of
260,000 Roman Catholics. The Right Rev. per-
son had better think out a more plausible tale than
that.
GATHER THE ROSES WHILE YE MAY.
EDITH : "’Em sorry I refused Choll; now."
ETHEL: “ Why ?”
EDITH : “Because I saw him to-day taking such
a lovely hunch of flowers to somebody."
MOGG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reported from Bacchus March (Vic.) that a numerously-
signed requisition was presented to Mr. B. B. Mogg
yesterday, asking him to become a candidate for the
Southern province. Mr. Mogg thanked his friends for
their good opinion of him, buo said he had no desire to
enter the Council.
To a far-off Southern town
Came a deputation bland,
Put a requisition down,
Spoke with oratory grand :
Six electors and a dog
Came to wait on Mr. Mogg.
“ Save the country ! ” so they spake
“ From the Socialistic flams ;
Put your own name in the wake
Of the Pitts and Gibbs and Hams 1
Added to the catalogue
Be the lustrous name of Mogg 1
“ Unto Mogg the settlers cry,
’Tis for Mogg the farmer pleads ;
Only Mogg can satisfy ;
Mogg is what the country needs.
Lead the country forth from fog
Into daylight, Mr. Mogg ! ”
But that noble soul replied
“Nay, the letters M.L.C.,
Tho’ their fame be blazoned wide,
Have no charm at all for me.
Cease your tempting apologue 1
Let me still be simply Mogg ! ”
Thus the hero they did leave
By his hedge of eglantine,
Lulled to sleep each dewy eve
By the lowing of the kine ;
Or the music of the frog—
Manly, modest Mister Mogg 1
A.
THE FALLEN STATUE .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SAD, 0 sad white thing !
f J 0 Miracle of Art !
What windy hireling
Hath flung thee here apart ?
0 uttermost despair, »
0 mystery of Fate ;
No might, nor skill, nor care
Gan thee reintegrate.
Is it for rage, or shame,
The night-dews, in thine eye,
With cabalistic flame
Flash tears that will not dry ?
See, how the heavens glow!—
And Night enfolds the spheres ;
And fiery thunders throw
Their sparkling battle-spears.
The ivy and the grass,
That once, about thy feet,
N.S.W.
Did cling and hold — alas,
Now weave thy winding-sheet.
God wot the time is now
Arrived the world may see
The mould upon thy brow,
For all Eternity.
The moss within thy lips,
A web about thine eyes,
The rose’s thorny strips
Across thy naked thighs.
And pime will never cease,
Nor will thy fetters fall,
But climb and blind thy name,
From off thy pedestal.
0 uttermost dispair,
0 cruelty of Fate,
No might, nor skill, nor care
Gan thee reintegrate.
HUGH R. M'CRAE.
TRIOLET.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
Thought reads his riddle book
Until Life dies.
Within Time’s eerie nook
Thought reads his riddle book ;
There’s none therein may look
With mortal eyes !
Thought reads his riddle book
Until Life dies.
K. CRCWFORD.


<C?
&
a**’
\V*
<b
&
o
\\
sv
THE LADIES’
MASSAGE
SOAP
VC*
&
H
PURE
FRAGRANT
REFRESHING
BEAUTY IS POWER.
“ VALAZE,” Dr. Lykuski’s RUSSIAN SKIN FOOD,
will make you beautiful. It is absolutely the best skin
cleanser, guaranteed to remove freckles, tan sunburn,
wrinkles, acne, blackheads, all skin impurities ; restores
flabby muscles and starved tissues. Valaze will improve the
worst skin in one month. Try one iar, and see for yourself.
NELLIE STEWART SAYS: “Have used skin prepara-
tions from America, London, Paris ; paid fabulous prices
for some, but nothing has proved half as beneficial as the
Russian Skin Food, Valaze. It is absolutely the very best
skin preparation I ever used. Can never praise it
enough.” Price 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Guide
to Beauty, 3d. Washington Soul and Co., 160 Pitt-st.,
Co-Operative Civil Service Society, Sydney. Leading
Chemists, or direct from Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein,
293 Collins St., Melbourne.*
Baumann's New Cafe,
Handsomest and
Host Up-to-date
in Australia. . .
f
Cuisine and Service Perfect.
Ladies’ and .
Gentlemen’s . . .
Dining Rooms. .
Moderate Charges.
%V
“CEAV’EMETTES
Are the Ideal fABRJCS
FOR
RAINCOATS.
, THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS
j€ftoaee /
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 17, 1904.
My Dear Abini
Last Thursday Lady Northcote, who has been
busy making a nest for herself at the Macquarie-
street house, took her first pleasure trip since
arrival in Sydney. In the forenoon State Governor
and family called for the Northcotes, and the
party got on board the launch Premier and
headed for Middle Harbor. Her Ex. is so de-
lighted with her first dose of Sydney natural
beauty that nothing short of a counter-irritant—
say a view of Broken Hill—will restore her to the
normal nil admirari attitude.
With a musicianly G.-G’ess at Government
House one foresees a rather good time for local
musical talent. Constance B. Usher and
Yvonne Leverrier are amongst those already
bidden to make melody. It will probably not be
long before someone tells her Ex. of that remark-
able player, Florence Taylor, whose rendering of
a Lisztian concerto with the Amateur Orchestral
Society last week is still a theme for admiring
comment. Miss Taylor is credited with genius!
She is a Goulburn girl, and has never been out of
this State for tuition.
To return to our Northcotes: The G’ess.-Gen.
is a great horsewoman, and rides often and far
with himself. Two Arab steeds, a brown and a
grey, which carry the vice-regal weights, are
snorting in the Macquarie-st. stables. Possibly
some indolent Sydney women will now gal-
vanize themselves into a love for horseback
exercise which, according to an old riding
master of my acquaintance, “strengthens
without enlarging the limbs.” Maybe to it, in
some degree, Lady Northcote owes her good
figure. She has a bend in her back that is worth
one of her necklaces. So far, the Northcotes have
not done much motoring, but they are thinking of
getting a ’bile, and so increasing the perils of the
South Head Road. By the way, all their horses,
save the Arabs, are N.S.W. beasties. In India
also, with few exceptions, their horseflesh was
Waler. When I used to read in Kipling of the
colonel’s daughters rushing about Simla on un-
groomed Walers I did not know that the typical
Waler was Monaro born. But, as someone has
remarked, even the youngest of us doesn’t know
everything.
On Thursday morning the consuls called offici-
ally on his Federal Excellency, so there were some
awesome uniforms abroad. I note that the Consul
for Honduras was amongst them, and I can
imagine Northcote anxiously asking beforehand
“Where’s that? Quick, Nevill ! Look up the
value of its geographical position and the what-
ness of its staple products.” There is, by the way,
a funny contest going on as to who is the genuine,
hall-marked consul for Patagonia, or some such
place. There are two fierce claimants to the office,
and the military may yet be called out to
settle the question. Meanwhile a friend of
mine has applied for the position of consul for
Thibet, on the off-chance that the last of the
Hermit Kingdoms may be dragged out of its
shell. If only Jorgen Jorgensen’s republic of Ice-
land had lasted there might have been a consul for
Mount Hecla. I believe some consuls compose a
uniform to their own fancy. The most gorgeous
uniform ever seen was built at a George-street
tailor’s a year or so ago for the King of Tonga.
His Majesty designed it himself, and also invented
the orders to be worn with it!
Last Tuesday week the Northcotes met Sydney
folk at St. Vincent’s Ball. Seems a far cooee
from now to then, but the mere memory of the X
rays that streamed from Lady N.’s diamonds and
emeralds on that occasion makes me want to reach
for smoked glasses. Little Miss Fanny Doyle and
others who work like beavers for this annual whirl
are quite capable of inviting the Archangel
Michael himself to come down (with his sword
and wings) and balance to corners in the vice-
regal set of Lancers. And before ever they
had got his celestial reply they would have
advertised that “The Winged Captain of the
Heavenly Host and the members of his staff
will enter the Town Hall on the tails of comets.
In consequence of this Distinguished Patronage
the price of gallery tickets will be doubled, and
the coffee will be made in a coffee-pot instead of
as heretofore in a tea-pot.”
It was a beautiful ball, and Lady Northcote’s
gown of apricot-colored satin, with mother o’
pearl sequins, “went” very harmoniously with
its neighboring gown—that of Lady Rawson, who
wore pale heliotrope with rose point-lace. Her
Federal Excellency’s bodice was tight-fitting,
with a fold of apricot chiffon round the top of the
decolletage and a pink rose in front. Below a wide
collar of diamonds she wore an emerald and dia-
mondnecklace. The green stones are, I’m told, quite
flawless, and amongst the finest in the world. Her
tiara, bracelets, and the jewels in the front of her
corsage did the ball proud, and the wearing of ’em
all proved that her Ex. wanted to look her shiniest
in Sydney’s sight. Lord Richard Nevill intro-
duced all the Somebodies and Anybodies to the
new people, and the galleryites who were opposite
the dais got the worth of their two shillings in
laughing at the bob-curtseys made by the intro-
duced women. I hear that the curtsey should not
be made to an Australian G.-G. at all. It is due
only to the G.-G.’s of Ireland, India and Canada,
and to the Jam of Mysore. In the Northcote
wake were Captains Balmain and Stevens. The
latter looks as if he wrote love-sonnets and did silver
point etchings. He has soulful blue eyes and the
bind of moustaohe that Lord St. Asaph presses on
the Hon. Eleanor Boscawen’s jewelled hand. The
Balmain man looks like the young gentlemen in
David Jones’ advertisements of their new Spring
overcoats. He might be a pirate or an academi-
cian. A forbear of his gave Balmain its name,
and once owned that suburb. If Captain Balmain
doesn’t know it already, I’ve the pleasure to
inform him that he has the honor of being related
to a most charming Mosmanite (or should it be
Moswoman ?).
Amongst those who bobbed a curtsey was Mrs.
A. A. Blow, an American lady, wife of the
manager of the Dapto smelting works. She is a
large, really handsome woman, well-dressed and
well-jewelled, who has bulked considerably in
Sydney society for the last year or two. I felt an
interest in Mrs. Blow from the time I was told that
the gold shield lettered “ F.F. V.” which she wore
on her breast signified that she belonged to the
“First Families of Virginia.” Presently I asked an
American of some note and considerable travel if
well-born Virginians did such things. He gasped
in horror, “ Not on your life ! No more than the
English aristocracy or Knickerbocker families of
New York.” Then h® sat down murmuring
“Well, that’s the limit! To have to label your-
self well-bred. Why even a well-bred dog doesn’t
need to carry a placard to prove he’s not a
mongrel.”
A group of statesmen at the ball took their
pleasures seriously, as if they were digesting the
Athanasian Creed. Hairy, beardy Justice
O’Connor, who danced with Mrs. B. R. Wise in
the vice-regal set, looked as if he could gobble up
the slender little woman. If she had been in red
instead of white the pair might have posed for the
wolf and Little R. Ridinghood. The O’Sullivan
went about looking like a deficit cartoon of him-
self. His daughters almost danced themselves
thin. Before 12 o’clock a stately minuet was
trodden by Mrs. J. C. Williamson and the mem-
bers of Her Majesty’s co.
The Northcotes are busy depasturing official-
dom. On Saturday noon Premier Watson was
yarded for a pink-and-white-clover browse. On
the evening of the same day they gave their first
dinner party. Acting Premier Wise and Mrs.
Wise, the Suttors and a few others were guests.
A long-drawn case concerning corsets, now run-
ning its length to the great profit of the S.A.
Bar, includes a batch of evidence taken on com-
mission in the United States. The “cute”
rejoinders of Yankee dressmakers to Yankee
counsel cause much amusement to the court that
gets them at secondhand. A general disposition
to object to some of the evidence, as being
elicited by leading questions, was suppressed by
Chief Justice Way, who says that, in his
experience, you really cannot tie down
American lawyers to the rigid rules that
are obeyed here or in London. Another nice
point arose through John Downer’s dramatic
reading of the evidence, and Symon protested
strongly against having to accept all the fine shades
of meaning which Downer’s organ-like voice gave to
what somebody said in New York. John Downer
can read about his own party’s corset as if it were,
a poem, or a work of art, or a great effort of
philanthropy, and put a subtle inflexion on the
enemy’s corset which at once arouses hatred
towards it and conveys the news that it is a ser-
pent and a malignant invention of the devil.
Why weep ye by the tide, ladye—for the tribe
of Australian singers, players, and writers who
have gone hence to London ? Think of how
cheaply they may live —provided they are earning
something. A dinner of ox-tail soup, roast lamb,
two vegetables, plum pudding, and coffee for
! That’s the dinner the Queen and an orchid
retinue ate lately at a restaurant founded by Her
Majesty. And, on the authority of the Times,
she took pot luck. We are assured that
the factory girls had just the same menu.
It is significant, though, that the Queen
and her retinue were served in a private room.
That shakes our faith in the statement that
the ’Arriets were dining off equally good fare.
And the Queen didn’t go down in her working
clothes—the ones she wears when she dusts the
drawing-room in the morning—nor did she travel
incog. The suite arrived unostentatiously in two
carriages, and her Majesty tendered 2s. 6d. for
eight tickets, and was subjected to the ignominy
of being bailed up for another 6d., and by this
time the news had spread, and the crowd got on
the tables with its boots in the soup to look at the
visitors.
I did not know, till a few nights ago, that a
Sydney city-street pould appear a spiritualised
thing—something large and noble, with the star-
light streaking the quiet roofs, the lamp-glow
lying on wet pavements, and the clear tones of
bells that told the hours sounding down the quiet
ways. “Our Lord God holds the watch.” Imagine
anyone murmuring that (quite appropriately) in
Lower George-street, too ! It was close upon one
o’clock in the morning when 1 and my maternal
progenitor, returning from a ball, and ignorant of
the ways of all - night trams, sat down on
the steps of the Bank of North Queensland
to await a car that after midnight runs only every
hour. We had the city to ourselves, save
for a few gigantic policemen casting double
shadows in the cross lights. Now and then a
sympathetic officer would come along and talk
tram with my m.p. whilst I took a pasear down
Bridge ; stj , eet. Bank and warehouse cats were
peering from every alleyway and porch with the
large, curious eyes of woodland creatures. Cats
were crossing the street to see one another and
exchange cellar gossip, and when I rejoined the
m.p. quite a cloud of cats occupied the bank step
ivith her. One was a fixed-deposit cat—she was
fat and _ sleek, with defiant green eyes, and evi-
dently lived comfortably on ner income. Another
was a half-grown, starved pussy mewing “n.s.f.”
(not sufficient food). A third wore a proud,
corpulent air. She might have been an over-
draft cat that was backed by good security,
and felt that she represented profitable business.
There was a cat with weird expectancy in her eyes
whom I at once diagnosed as a promissory note
cat, who felt she was rapidly falling due and had
little hope of meeting herself. I don’t think the
bank had discounted her; I fancy she was just
lodged for collection. Then there was the furtive
cat, that had evidently fallen due and been
renewed with difficulty, and the cat that had been
written off as bad at last balancing time, and had
had no legal existence since. The hunted-looking,
shifty, transient cat had probably been told to
remove her account by reason of the unsatisfactory
nature of her business.
Miss Dena Cooper, who replaced Miss Mabel
Lane as “Dearest” in Hawtrey’s production of
“ Little Lord Fauntleroy,” is the daughter of a
deceased squatter of this State and a niece of
Justice Cooper, of Queensland. She made her
debut in “Ben Hur,” and her progress since then
has been considerable.
Mrs. Napier, the young wife of the commander
of the Euryalis, is the stylish-looking lady in grey
that Mrs. Fanshawe is seen about with these days.
Miss Annie Praed, who is the first woman to
take the financial-looking degree of L.D.S., issued
by the new Dental Section of the Sydney Uni.,
has hung out her brass sign in Sydney. She is a
native of this State.
Frances Ross, of the Bland Holt Co., is a marvel
who contrives to keep looking not more than £8
years, though she must be quite 30. Her figui e
actually looks that of a growing girl— at least it
does from the back view. And her face can stand
the noonday light without a veil. Yet her daugh-
ter, who has been about with her these days, is
taller than herself. Her son died some time ago
in Maoriland.
Miss Bancroft, who takes wicked or intriguant©
rdles in the Hawtrey Co., is an Adelaide native.
Her father was on the Adelaide Register from
the day of its inception up to a few months ago,
when he retired to grow roses and read Seneca.
His actress daughter is a young widow (surely
there’s a viscount or a millionaire squatter waiting
for her somewhere), and took to the stage after a
short wedded life of four years.
Signora Hazon, one of the most beloved of
women in Sydney musical circles, is seriously ill
after undergoing an operation for tumor.
School pupils of Miss Mercy Murray, B. A.
will give a dramatic performance of “Jack ard
the Beanstalk,” and “ Ali Baba” and those
memorable thieves on Wednesday, May 25, in the
Queen’s Hall, Pitt-street. The frisk will be in aid
of that worthy charity, the Women’s Hospital.
Also, do not forget St. Margaret’s Hospital hall
for next Wednesday. Mesdames Tudgay and H.
G. Quinlan, hon. secs.
North Shore Hospital is in urgent need of cash,’
and is going to earn an honest crown by means of
a ball, in Mosman Town Hall, on Friday, 27th.
Hon. secs., Mesdames Cameron and R. Arthur.
A young woman—a real grown-up—wearing
sandals on her bare feet is the latest sight in Syd-
ney streets. A well-cut short skirt gives feet and
ankles a good show, and those bold things, men,
are not slow to take advantage of the lady’s
generosity.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The way from Melbourne to Malvern was
strewn for the past two weeks with the profane
language of people going to officially call on the
Talbots. Stonington is execrably placed. No
matter how economically the journey to the re-
mote house is made, the cost amounts to the price
of a pair of gloves and involves the loss of half-a-
day’s time.
“Things were reversed at a Toorak shivoo a
week or two ago. Instead of the eiders receiving,
and any available children being just on show at
the lull of the programme, the youngsters ‘re-
ceived,’ and the grown-ups were put aside with
the pot-plants, only being called to take part when
th 3 infant principals felt fagged. It was a pitiable
game to look on—the short-frocked kids being
imitative and monkeyish to the last degree. They
employed the high shake insolently and the staccato
‘ How-do,’ and all the tricks of the Society trade.
And anon they exchanged inanities in the identical
manner of their mamas. Toorak has so little
humor that the youngsters were felicitated on
their hosting it so nicely, and the nice locality
thought nothing of the travesty of its own drawing-
room manners—the monkeying of the monkey.
“They get no end of fun in a certain theatre
watching the qualms and emotions of a harried
mummer who hangs about the wings while the
lady of his choice casts herself officially on the
bosom of the stage hero. The poor chappie
expresses admiration with difficulty, and says,
when he isn’t gnashing his teeth, that the fierce
but furtive embraces of the inflammable hero are
‘ good art.’
“No woman is a pearl to her maid or her
dresser. A wardrobe-mistress in this State turns
up her eyes every time one of the envious chorus-
girls recites from an English journal the progress
of a certain Australian beauty. ‘I wonder,’ says
the dresser, ‘if she is any cleaner by now! ’
Cleaner! The lily-like and most patrician
dazzler who is favored even by Royalty ! Cleaner !
In the old days, according to this dresser, the
beauty’s lingerie was often on the same level with
suspicion.
“A girl complained to me the other day
of her tram experiences in your city. In 10
tram rides she had a comfortable seat but
twice. Other times it was stand up or sit on
somebody’s lap. * Whose lap ?’ I asked. * Oh, it
was on any old lap. You couldn’t choose, other-
wise I wouldn’t have complained.’
“Senatah Matheson, with the newest London
trousers, is back from England. Mrs. Matheson
and a daughter just at the end of her teens follow
later ; but the trousers came with him.
“ Bard of Works and Drains Eitzgibbon is many
things besides being master of ceremonies, autho-
rity on etiquette, verse-builder, and chief of the
Kow-tow tribe. He is an authority on Blood, not
the ‘product of the bullock that falls down with
a thud,’ but Blue Blood. Just now he is giving
his attention to the Talbots and their family, and
the Governor will possibly be rejoiced to find an
appreciator of Blood in a community that very
often can’t track down its own father.
“ The Gaiety Co. had a brimful house on Satur-
day and the dresses in the audience were fine.
Mrs. Ernest Brooke, Mrs. Norton Grim wade,
Mrs. Jack Fisken and Mrs. Edward Miller were
among the most prominent wearers.
“Miss Maud Hobson has, of course, changed
with the years. She is riper, heavier —as large as
Blanche Wallace —and within an ace of forfeiting
her elasticity of form. With the aid of the dress-
builder and the corset-maker she just manages to
swing her massive figure into graceful lines. She
wears the f rocks of the show. One is autumn
grey with an elusive silver streak waving horizon-
tally about the skirt. A second is in mauve tones
and a Marcus Stone hat. A third is in magpie
shades and has generously shed its entire top tier.
“ The tootle about * Humbugging Men,’ with
whioh Miss Madge Crichton hits the humor of the
crowd, was Ada Reeve’s particular triumph in the
city by the doggy Thames. Tourists, on Saturday
night, told of Ada’s exquisite treatment of this
saucy songlet and her irresistible piquancy through-
out the star part, in which she coruscated for one
jolly week before her break with the co. Miss
Crichton shrewdly leaves the Reeve business out.
■ “The ‘three little maids’ of the Gaiety group
made a dainty first appearance in Melbourne, in a
typically English scene, with flowery golf-house,
sunny links, frigid fashionables, ‘flannelled fools,’
and a real live donkey. Stage charmers are so
prone to fluff their thatch and dock their skirts
unduly, whenever an appearance of comparative
youth is required, that tne Gaiety trio won a good
mark straight away by depicting the parson’s
nearly-grown-up daughters as nice girls, with their
pretty hair in demure ‘pigtails’ and their white
muslin gowns just short enough to show their
natty brown shoes.
Maurice Farkoa, the Frenchie who croons love
lays with a wealth of satin gesture and a seductive
softness of tone never before attained by a male
tripper on our boards, wears a grey wavy streak as
a. forelock. Globe-trotters grinned when they saw
it. Eighteen months ago he had London audi-
ences guessing at its genuineness. It’s evidently
a mere coquetry on the part of the mummer.
“ The latest idea in theatre-dress is an exquisite
kind, of scarf not much weightier than a spider’s
web and as delicately toned as a tiger-lily. It is
drawn taut over the shoulders in shawl fashion,
or slackened till it merely falls over the elbows
and makes a graceful drape for the arms.
“Society is in the grip of anticipation at a
coming divorce suit. The fair dame is the
petitioner. She returned from a trip abroad
quite recently, almost incog., landed with an
equal degree of quiet, and is domiciled in strict
privacy for the preparation of the rdle of plaintiff.
“Frumpishness marked the Fihdon Harriers’
meeting, last week. The event that was once the
gayest of all the fresh-air affairs passed off as
tamely as the altruistic prayer that reminds us to
love our enemies and be good to them that dis-
parage our best hat.
“ The Melbourne scandal of the hour is a serious
frontal attack with a pair of sharp scissors made
by a titled lady on her husband. He had fre-
quently sworn to give up all interest in another
lady, and now he has been again reminded of his
promise.
“Touch and go that the congratulations ten-
dered to the Cliveden widow re her new Lindsay
grand-daughter were not turned into condolences.
Mr. Russell Clarke, his mother’s eldest surviving
son, suddenly attacked with appendicitis while
travelling in Switzerland, became so ill that his
step-sister, Mrs. Falconer Macdonald, and his
aunt, Miss Snodgrass, were called from England
to his sick bed. ,
“Last week a returned globe-trotter (a
Federalist) sampled ‘The Marriage of Kitty’
here. He had seen the original performance in
London with Marie Tempest playing Kitty.
Knowing this, one of the Williamson staff
approached him for an opinion and comparison.
There wasn’t much difference, said the playgoer,
in the two productions, after all, and the pair of
Kitties, though so far apart in comedy experience,
came within coo-ee of one another in the part.
But, said he, Rose Musgrove squeaks like a rat
when disguised as the rural spinster, with absolute
absurdity. Marie Tempest gave a hoydenish
cackle that stamped the situation and colored the
disguise to perfection. Next morning a Williamson
emissary waited on the Federalist to ask, with
double bowing, if he could give any idea of that
cackle. He couldn’t, but ever since has been
rending the air of Melbourne’s principal hotel in
an effort to strike the right note.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


MAD WITH NEURALGIA.
“Neuralgia is not a disease,” runs one of the favorite sayings of the great Dr. Williams, “It is only a
symptom. It is the surest sign that your blood is weak, watery and impure. Bad blood is its one cause—
good, rich, red blood is its only cure.” There, in a nutshell, you have the real reason why Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People cure Neuralgia—because they actually make new blood. Read this proof :
“ Two years ago my nervous system went all to pieces,” said Mrs. Margaret Purkis, Thorne and Forsyth streets, Newtown,
Wagga, N.S.W., “ owing partly to worry. I had been in pretty poor health for some time, and my blood had got thin and
watery. Sharp, stabbing, neuralgic pains ran like darts of red-hot fire through my face and head. Then the nerves all over
my body became sore and bruised. The pains in my head became so bad that they were just like red-hot table knives being
stabbed in and Out. Sometimes an attack like this lasted for weeks ; one attack went on for two months. I was almost mad
with agony. I only slept from sheer exhaustion. I was so weak that I could not lift my head from the pillow. Often the
pains started all of a sudden, and my nerves seemed to lift clean out of my body. More than once I screamed aloud with the
• agony. Even a light footstep on the floor would set my nerves alive until pain. If I tried to eat, the first bite would make the
nerves in my head throb with agony. For months I lived on soft and sloppy foods. Then one of my little girls brought me a
pamphlet which told me how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People cured Neuralgia by enriching the blood, from which the
nerves derived their nutriment. I sent to Mr. Williams, the Fitzmaurice-street chemist, for three boxes •of these blood-
building pills. Even one box enriched my blood and steadied my nerves. Two boxes took all the pain away. Three boxes
made me eat and sleep well, and I have been in good health ever since. lam positive that Dr. Williams’Pink Pills have
built up my blood and nerves and thoroughly driven every trace of Neuralgia from my body. lam sure no one ever suffered
more from Neuralgia than I did.” Mrs. Purkis went before Mr. L. A. Fosbery, J.P. (son of the late Inspector-General of Police in
N.S.W.), and made a declaration that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had permanently cured her of excruciating Neuralgia.
Write for Free Medical Advice. Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box.—Refuse all substitutes.
Dr. Williams pink pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Richard Bourke, aged 93 (a son of the
early N.S.W. Governor of that name), recently
died near Limerick, Ireland.
Some provincial papers still publish the
portrait of the much-deceased Dr. Harman Tar-
rant, and announce the address at which he can
be “ consulted daily.”
Another old Yic. goldfields battler passed
out this month —W. F. Salmon. He was one of
the party that worked the Creek claim, which
afterwards became the Band and Albion, for years
the best-known at Ballarat.
Clement Wragge, ex-rain prophet of
Queensland, has been giving Maoriland audiences
a scientific proof of the religious theory of the im-
mortality of the soul. But bringing religion to
M.L. is like carting coals to Newcastle.
April appears to have been a deadly month
for veterans in Sydney metropolitan district.
Eliminating the infant mortality, one-fifth of the
deaths were of persons aged 70 and upwards, the
top-scorer reaching 96. It is recorded that 42
persons between 70 and 79 handed in their resig-
nations to the Almighty that month.
Dodery, who succeeds Adye Douglas as
President of the House of Dodery (Tas.), is a
youngster who has only been in the State s Parlia-
ment for a little over 40 years, and can’t be
expected to know as much about rules and things
as Douglas, who had been 49 years in the business.
But he will probably drop down to it in time.
During the late contest for the two Laun-
ceston seats in the Tas. Upper House, Adye
Douglas went to a civil servant and asked him for
his vote. “Ask me for my vote?” said the
indignant C.S. “You have passed an Act retir-
ing me from my billet at 60, and you want me to
send you back to the Council till you’re 95 ! No,
sir.”
Cabled that
Pictures by Australasian artists, Roberts, Streeton,
Quinn, Pox, Lambert, David Davis, Bunny, Burgess, Full-
wood, Parker, Ashton, and Lever have been well hung in
the English Academy.
Thus Australia comes out with quite a respectable
showing. Another message tells that Lever has
three pictures in Paris Salon, and that one of
Rupert Bunny’s pictures, also in the Salon, has
been purchased by the French Government for
the famous Luxembourg Gallery.
There are good chances of the Westralian
Labor party holding at least one sawbones after
the elections ; Dr. Ellis is the selected candidate
for Coolgardie. If he gets there he will be the
only doctor now in an Australian State Labor
party, though the House of Reps, has two—
Maloney, of Victoria, and Culpin, of Queensland.
The first N.S.W. party, in 1891, had one, the late
Dr. Hollis ; but though he was on the best of
terms with it till his too-early death, he did not
long continue his membership.
THE PATRIOTISM OF BRUCE SMITH.
B. SMITH: “ Gentlemen , don’t shoot. Anything you like, gentlemen. Abrogate our legislation?
Certainly! Would you like me now to do a little artistic prostration? I take Off my
hat with profound respect to your honorable ladies there ” (And so on to the usual
length of a B. Smith oration.)
Dear Bulletin, — For the Commonwealth’s
sake (and mine), kindly buy G. Reid a few lollies
or something to console him. The sight of that
short, fat gentleman blubbering and sniffling all
over a fellow’s native land because the boss
Governor didn’t “send for me” is very severe on
the nerves. It’s worse than “weird expectancy.”—
Glenaka.
A sudden and unexpected advt. from the
Barrier Miner (Broken Hill, N.S.W.): —
PUBLIC NOTICE.
T WISH to state that the name, Sarah Hawkes, under
which I was proceeded against on the summons
side of the police-court yesterday was incorrect. The
name should have been Sarah Hopkins.
[Signed] SARAH HOPKINS.
The police-court appearance of Ebby Ward,
the nearly extinct political volcano of S. Australia,
and his vigorous assertion that the policemen had
made a mistake about his condition, recalls his
defence of ’B7. There had been a noise about just
the same sort of thing then, and the matter was
dragged into Parliament. “I deny,” said Ebe-
nezer, waving his long arms and legs, “I deny
that I was ever drunk in my life— except medi-
cinally..”
Gov.-Gen. Northcote’s private Goliath,
Bulky Johnson, apparently takes an adult
interest in politics. His countenance gleamed
continuously from the gallery, what time Fisher’s
amendment was falling leisurely on Deakin.
Also, it shed a light on the building the afternoon
that Watson made his first show as Premier. He
is an exceedingly brilliant-visaged man, and wears
an out-size in countenances, so that his presence is
always obvious.
Sydney University Commemoration let
loose on the already overstocked professions some
130 graduates. One doctor of Laws degree was
conferred on G. W. Waddell, nephew of the State
Treasurer and son of Colonel Waddell. A Science
doctor announced was Mr. W. G. Woolnough.
He achieved some distinction by assisting Pro-
fessor David to settle the burning question whether
the coral insect built upwards or downwards.
They and others spent a long time in the South
Seas deciding this knotty point, by tracking the
fearsome insect to his lair at the bases of the coral
reefs.
William Hampson, holder of No. 1 lease
on the Coolgardie goldfield, died early this year m
Central America, where he was managing a mine,
Hampson was scratching about at Southern Cross,
when he heard something from further east.
Bayley and Ford got the Reward claim ; Hamp-
son came in with the first lease. He did fairly
well, tripped to London for a while, and then
went out looking for more trouble in a country
where you can get it pretty easily.
The pre-election decision of Bent to honor
the old agreement with the Yic. police re retire-
ment at 60 makes a scatter among the superin-
tendents and inspectors. The inspecting super-
intendent (Hamilton), the superintendent at Mel-
bourne (Crampton), and five inspectors are up to
the retiring age; and another superintendent,
Maude, will reach the limit in August. Mahony,
now of Bendigo, will then be next in seniority to
the Chief Commissioner. Six senior sergeants
will go up to the vacant inspectorships.
An Adelaide Dowieite has had a horrible
surprise. He had sold all his property and made
a song about it, and was just about to quit for
Zion, South Australia being too wicked and selfish
a country for so good a man to stay in any longer,
when the Destitute Asylum officers sent for him.
They told him that they were surprised that a
man of his wealth and lofty principles should have
left his poor old mother in the workhouse for so
long, and wanted to know what he was going to do
about it. He performed, but he also had to pay.
Albert Hinchcliffe, since the early ’9o’s
the wet-and-dry nurse of Queensland Labor move-
ment, is one of Morgan’s new nominees to Queens
land House of tallow and overdrafts. “ Little
Albert ” —who is a Kiplingesque sort of person in
appearance—is, among other things, secretary of
the Queensland Labor Federation, ditto Queens-
land Central Political Labor Executive, manager
and gallery scribe for Brisbane W orker, secretary
of a Workers’ Political Organisation, and sundry
other shocking kinds of agitator. The collective
sniff of his new colleagues should be worth
depicting.
Judge Dash wood, before whom the small
Jenkins row over the Northern Territory Chinese
should have come, does a dozen or so odd jobs at
Australia’s back door. He is both the chief ad-
ministrative and judicial officer in the N.T. S.
Australia used to separate the two billets, and in
the days when the lately-dead J. L. Parsons was
Government Resident, T. K. Pater, afterwards
Adelaide’s pungent Police Magistrate, was Magis-
trate, with the same power as a Supreme Court
Judge. (Even S. Australia proper hasn’t any
other sort of Judge but the Supreme Court
variety.) Dash wood does all the work, and then
he isn’t rushed. He used to be an Adelaide poli-
tical lawyer, reckoned fairly democratic, and was
a trusted friend of Kingston’s. Personally he
isn’t any lover of Ah Sin, and has written some
scornful things about his devious ways, especially
in connection with N.T. mining.
The Owe’Sullivan’s Deform opponent at
Belmore will be ex-“ Brigadier” Bruntnell, of the
Salvarmy. The “ Brigadier ” threw off his Booth
jacket a few months ago, and is now the paid
agent of the N.S.W. Temperance Alliance. A
party which goes into the field bearing the bene-
diction of George Reid, and cordially suppor e.i
by Jack Want, looks a promising sort of field for
an Alliance lecturer.
AN UPHEAVAL.
SCOTCHBYTERIAN MODERATORYTOR (re Scrip-
ture Lessons Referendum): “It is
high time that the Christian people of
this State rose in their might.”
Considering the proportion of
churchgoers to non-churchgoers,
the rising pans out about this
way.
About a
big bogged
book and its
author:—
The death of
ex-J u d g e
M'Farland’s
widow revives
recollections of
the old Judge
and his very
elaborate work
on Norfolk
Island, Lord
Howe Island,
and early Aus-
tralia general-
ly. The manu-
script reached
large propor-
tions, and really
represented
literary labors
extending over
40 years, and
often narrating
personal expe-
riences. M‘Far-
land had held
judicial ap-
pointments in
Westralia and
N.S.W., and
was commis-
sioned to in-
spect the
islands named.
An English
publisher de-
cided to take
the work in
hand, but just
then Parke s’
“ Fifty Years
of Maki n’ ”
came out, and
the publisher
said that that
was as much
Australia as
England could
digest for a de-
cade or two.
The erroneous
puffs about the
thousands
Henry was paid for “Makin”’inspired the Judge to demand
a Lank of England safeful of money for his manuscript. He
offered it to an Australian newspaper for serial publication
for £2OOO, £lOOO to be paid in cash before the first chapter
appeared, but there was no doing business on the terms.
Many a day, after heavy work on the Bench, the Judge
toddled straight to his writing room and stuck at his
huge manuscript till the sun rose. There may not be a
direct market for so voluminous a narrative about Aus-
tralia, but cut up in lengths to suit a scrap-loving public
it should be able to wedge itself into a here-and-there
circulation.
The memory of the first Queensland Chief
Justice is kept green by a familiar pill notice.
Lutwyche, who was resident Judge at Moreton
Bay prior to separation, should have had the
appointment as C.J., but Governor Bowen wanted
something “genteel.” Writing to Roundell
Palmer, then Solicitor-General of England, Bowen
said : “ What we want is a gentleman rather than
a mere lawyer. The principal officials in the
colony form a sort of social aristocracy.” And
Queensland got James Cockle in consequence.
Lutwyche was a horsey man and not aristocratic.
“Melb.”: In the Rev. Elias Blaubaum
Melbourne’s Jewry mourns a gifted, versatile and
industrious member, the leader of its thought, in
his Jewish Herald. Associated with him some-
what in business, I feel as if the little man, with
his cigar, must still be about. He permeated
Hebrew society in all its aspects. Blaubaum had
the pluck to come from Germany to Melbourne
and take charge of St. Kilda synagogue, without
knowing a word of English when he started. He
illustrated those embodied paradoxes which give
the Jew so much power. They lie in a mixture of
perfect conservatism with perfect assimilation.
“ Demos” : Prime Minister Watson’s face
charms me more than any yet thrust forward in
Australian politics, except Higinbotham’s, and as
much as that. There is the boy in Watson, and
there was in Higinbotham. I apply to them
Emerson’s sentence on the beautiful male
countenances he saw in England—“lncorrupt
youth in the face of manhood.” In John Christian
Watson I read both humility and power. There
a peculiar wistful gaze, such as Longfellow
would desire to have imprinted on the lad who
carries the Excelsior banner. He is the statesman
who looks to the next generation, not the politician
with an eye to the next election.
Big landlord Onslow, who has feverishly
wooed various N.S.W. electorates of late, rules on
his Camden Park estates with all the dignity and
show of a pasha. When living on the estate he
and his family drive about with the sun shining
like a limelight on them and their liveried foot-
men. In Sydney the Colonel strides along with
lanky legs like any ordinary human being, but in
the country it is necessary to overawe the tenants
and other caterpillars. So a gorgeous chariot and
uniformed menials meet the warrior at Menangle
station and furiously gallop him to his palace,
distant about twice his own length. The burden
of his ancestral greatness hangs heavily on Onslow
—who is also celebrated for paying his employees
255. a week.
Died at Waverley, Sydney, (29/5/’O4),
Nicholas Head, journalist, formerly of Orange
(N.S. W.), where he owned and edited the Okangb
Liberal. For a country newspaper proprietor,
Mr. Head was very independent ; he was a man
of means, and could afford the unusual luxury of
telling his readers what he thought of them.
Writer remembers an alderman—-Pat Kenna no
less—with whom Nick had a tiff, stalking off to
the office in Lord’s Place “to stop his paper.”
“Mr. Head,” said Pat in his happiest brogue,
“ I want to sthop me paper. You’re unpatriotic;
you attack the Council that is thrying to do its
best and put the lamps in the best places, and for
your want of pathrioticism I’ll sthop my paper.”
The editor told the irate alderman that he might
take his dirty money somewhere else. Pat and
Nick were devout R.C.’s, the former always
“ humping the plate,” but Nick avoided Pat’s plate
after Pat withdrew his subscription.
Ernest Terah Hooley, who, in the days of
his boodle, presented a Hooley communion service
in solid gold to St. Paul’s Cathedral, and who has
lately been living on the money he settled on his
wife while his sun was still above the horizon, has
fallen in. Along with an individual named
Lawson he is charged with inducing a publican to
invest £7950 in a bogus Siberian gold mine for
which he professed to have got a concession from
the Czar. The meteors of the London Stock
Exchange are, on the whole, a poor and transitory
lot. They practically all burst, and end up in
gaol, or the workhouse, or the gutter, or obscurity
There have been many of them since the time of
Baron Grant, who died worth about 2d and a stale
scone, but hardly one of them had a tithe of the
staying power of a Gould or Vanderbilt.
Died last week, Robert Reid, the Melb.
softgoods importer whom Kingston happened to
bowl out. Possibly the bowling-out hastened
Reid’s decease, in which case he was a solemn
lesson, teaching that honesty is the best policy.
Anyway he was a solemn lesson of one sort or
other. Reid began life as a drapery boy, and
ended it as a drapery boss, an inferior sort of Sar-
good, with a reputation for having prospered by
means of commercial hanky-panky rather than
Elate trading. During the Boom time in
urne he was roughly criticised at some of the
meetings where he loomed large on the platform.
After the Boom, when other men in, his line of
business were speculating as little as possible, Reid
figured as a bold, enterprising person, making some
investments that looked bad, but apparently doing
well out of them. At that time, too, he entered
the Vic. House of Fat Landlords, and made an
object of himself as Minister of Defence. His
ignorance of political things in general was as
patent as his self-conceit. Making a speech at
one of the “ Foundation Day” luncheons at Mel-
bourne Exhibition Building, Reid referred to the
occasion (Jan. 26th) as the anniversary of Captain
Cook’s landing in Australia. And it was this
inflated draper whom the Bent crowd nominated
for the first vacant seat in the Federal Senate,
where he sat unabashed whilst his Customs
swindles were sheeted home to him.
ROBERT SIEVIER, the Distinguished English
Blackleg, formerly known to Australia as
Bob Sutton, the Cash Bookmaker.
(An old Melbourne photo.)
The yarn of a Melbourne man who makes
a fad of that sort of thing :
Judged fairly, there are more gentlemen in the Watson
Ministry than there were in the Deakin. Some of them
don’t know the small rules; have an idea that the best
way to “ dress up ” to a ceremonial occasion is to wear a
buttonhole ; don’t see the incongruity of wearing brown
boots with a claw-hammer coat; but, taken by-and-large,
they are a crowd that I would sooner introduce to an
English country house than the last Cabinet, which had
some absolute bounders who’d be tolerated only in official
circles. Snobbish, you may say, to notice such things.
Perhaps so, but I’m a radical in politics if a bit of a snob
in other things, and seeing those quiet self-possessed men
labelled “ Labor Ministers ” goes for pleasure.


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
Most central, largest,
most comfortable, and
best appointed hotel
in Australasia.
Lounge Bar.
Winter Garden.
Every possible atten-
tion for the comfort
and safety of visitors.
NIGHT STAFF regularly
patrols the building. . . .
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Marpy SroTmcrs.
JEWELLERS
Fine Whole Pearls
and Diamonds ♦,.
mounted artistically as
a drop Brooch,
£4O.
Other Gems mounted as
Brooches in various
designs from £2 to
£230.
GOLDSfIITHS.
SILVERSMITHS,
QOODS are promptly de-
livered at Sydney
prices to any part of the
Commonwealth without
delay or trouble with the
customs.
Write for
HARDY BROTHERS’
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE for 1904
which is full of illustra-
tions of new goods.
13HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.&AT BRISBANE AIONDON
Aboriginalities.
OUT OF IT.
As a popular spectacle no new Governor has a
look in against a fairly good dog-fight.—Recent
Bulletin par.
In the drought days a man out Dubbo
(N'.S.W.) way lost all but six of his 3000 sheep.
After that he became a picturesque lunatic, and
his sole occupation consisted in riding round look-
mg for blades of grass. When he found one he
cut it carefully in six pieces—one for each sheep.
“ Thurla ” : Be “ Curlew’s ” suggestion (B.
17/3/04);as to the whyness of the aboriginals’ small
camp fires. They have better reasons than either
dread of bush fires or that tired feeling. Once
asked the late King Cutabush, of the Castlereagh
blacks, why he. made so small a fire when there
were tons of dead wood handy. “ Cut ” grinned
and said, “ More better have little fellow. Spos'n
wild black see big fire come spear me, in the bright
light, no good that. Haven little fellar and hear
noise in hush, put out so ” —suiting the action to
the word by instantly heaping dust with both
hands on to the blaze which was reduced to a
smouldering heap. Which recalls an incident that
happened on the Murray during the ’9O floods.
A miscellaneous crowd had been driven in to
Angledool to await the fall of the water. Amongst
them was a Scotch piper with bagpipes in good
order. _ About a mile up the river a big camp of
aboriginals was planted between the river and a
lignum swamp. The whole camp was drunk and
m a great uproar. We got the Scotchman drunk
also, and led him silently through the darknes s
to the river bank opposite the camp. Then he
advanced suddenly but unsteadily on the enemy,
playing “ The Campbells are Coming,” which was
untrue, as our names were respectively Smith,
Ferguson and Jenkins. Instantaneously every
fire was smothered, and a rush of niggers, old and
young, could be heard splashing through that
lignum swamp. For long afterwards that camp-
mg ground was regarded as “ debbil-debbil.”
* * * *
“Darb”: The following incident will
serve to show that though money was scarce and
crops, grass and water unknown quantities in a
certain Mallee district during the drought, social
feeling was by no means dead. A settler who
could no longer hold out against the many trials
imposed upon him, decided to leave. When the
fact became known, his numerous friends and
well-wishers determined not to let him depart
without marking in some way their respect and
esteem, &c. A canvass of the district was made,
and the net result was 10s., which was about all
the coin in the place, and the canvasser’s horse
died from over-exertion. It was agreed that the
departing friend and his wife should be made the
recipients of a gold albert and brooch respec-
tively, and, as a temporary respite from the
drought, beer to the value of 7s. was procured to
irrigate the presentation. That left 3s. to pay for
th i gold albert and brooch, which were bought
from an Indian hawker. It was a joyful
party. The 7s. worth of beer flowed freely, and
on every hand you could hear snatches of conver-
sation referring to the fact that Bill or Alf. had
lost another horse and 10 sheep, &c. After the
presentation some members of the gathering
is^ low fight, and I left. It took very little
of the unaccustomed beer to make the Mallee
drunk m those days. I believe there was a scrap
towards the end, but whether or not the eighteen-
penny gold albert was trodden upon in the confu-
sion I am unable to say.
* * * *
“F.C.P.”: Have read Sorenson with
great interest on “ Bushman Junior.” His obser-
vations are generally correct. He might
havesaid something of the “homeliness”
of the youngsters (one of their chief
their mateship at an early age,
and their self-reliance, probably unique.
Another striking feature is their know-
ledge of subjects usually only known with
maturer age. This is unfortunate, and
due to parents talking of all sorts of mat-
ters in front of the children. The bush
children have a strange sense of humor.
I have read to Australian outback child-
ren stories from Ethel Turner, from the
“Children’s Page” of various weeklies,
also foolishly tried them with Kipling’s
“Just-Bo” stories. All these raised no
laugh—plainly bored them. But to illus-
trate pluck and determination I told a
class of 10 or 11 years the well-known tale
of Paul Kruger cutting off his own thumb.
This, to my astonishment, was hailed
with shrieks of laughter. And when
casually describing the ancient method
of execution, i.e., the axe, I was inter-
rupted with continual ripples of laughter !
Another point, a sad one—their sore eyes.
Surely Australian children (of the interior
at all events) must be the weakest-eyed
young among all the nations, yet they
are almost the healthiest, otherwise !
••* * *
A Perth (W.A.) reporter, attached to a
daily which is always boosting up the wonderful
agricultural resources of that great country,
recently spent a few days holiday on the South-
western Coast. He found that, although some of
the cookies had been settled on their so-called
farms for 30 and 40 years, they were too lazy to
till the soil even for the growth of a few vege-
tables. Occasionally the pressman struck a
selector with a few half-starved cows, but when he
asked for a drink of milk he was served with the
condensed article out of a tin. The tired feeling
existing everywhere was simply appalling, and he
does not at all wonder why strenuous efforts are
being made to get farmers from the Eastern States.
Here is one of the many stories he tells of his
experiences:—
He was a farmer, and related to a successful Westralian
Personage. Unlike the Personage, however, he had
stayed at home and lived on his farm, where he tilled a
little of the soil and kept a few cows. Among the
customers of the farmer was the landlord of an hotel near
hy. The greater portion of the product of the few cows
was bought hy the hotelkeeper. In fact, he looked to
the farmer to keep him supplied with milk daily. The
supply was very irregular, however, for the farmer would
lose his cows when he wanted to milk them, or they or he
would he unwell, or something or other. Anyhow, the
hotelkeeper became tired of the shiftless, irresponsible
irregularity of the milk supply, and the frequency with
which he had to fall back on the canned article. An
opportunity arising, he bought a cow of his own, and, a
while after, a second milker. The farmer accepted the
situation without comment, and finding out that the
hotelkeeper could supply him with milk regularly every
day, and also with fresh butter—for the hotelkeeper in-
vested in a separator—he made a contract with him.
Now the farmer has turned out his cows, receives fresh
milk and fresh butter regularly from the hotelkeeper
and feels greatly relieved at not having the bother of
milking* cows.
* * * *
Mr. T. Whitley, of Blackheath (N.S.W.),
in a paper read before the Australian Historical
Society recently, knocks the stuffing out of the
claim of Wentworth, Blaxland and Lawson to
have been the first to cross the N.S.W. Blue
Mountains. Mr. Whitley showed on good evidence
that a convict named Wilson had crossed in 1798.
He lived with the blacks for a number of years'
and it was through his intercourse with them that
he learned the route.
SWEET AMENITIES.
FIRST MISSING LINK : “ Gam! You’re working for an Italian ,
and your mother teas in the Zoo.”
SECOND MISSING LINK: “ Get out! Your father got three
months for picking lucky marbles out of a spieler’s box
at Randwick! You ought to talk!”
Plain Bill ” tells a remarkable fact about
a goanna’s appetite—and from this forth goanna
appetite facts must be very remarkable to get into
print :
When the railway from The Rock to Lockhart was being
constructed we had our camp at Quandong Tank on the
Brookong run, and the place was crowded with goannas.
one P a y*day tramped to the nearest pub,
did in ” his pay, and returned to camp at the end of
the week, sick and repentant. He kept to his tent next
day suffering a recovery. Returning from work that
afternoon Paddy’s tent-mate saw the tail of a big goanna
protruding from under the tent flap and wriggling
violently. Investigation showed Cooney lying on the
floor of the tent with his foot and most of his leg inside
the goanna, which was strenously endeavoring to absorb
the rest of Cooney. He was muttering : “Lave me be !
Lave me be !—it’s no use thryin’ t’r foorce me fut into a
boot too shmall. Ye’ll hev t’r git a soize larger, Oi tell
yez 1 ”
* * * *
The A. W.U. is still the “ringer” among
N,S. Wales’ labor unions, though its tally isn’t
what it was by a long way. Drought and reduced
nocks have been mostly responsible for cutting
down the membership from 20,891 at the end of
1901 to 11,538 at present. The bogus Shearers’
Union is now alleged to have a membership of
2717 including, presumably, those who shear the
wild merino in Pitt-street and the others who
pursue the jumbuck in Hyde Park. The New-
castle (Northern) Colleries’ Association, with
6502, ranks next after the A. W.U. ; then the Rail-
way and Tramway Service Association with 3794.
u* 8 i amon f? the bigger unions, is the one
which has made most progress ; it had only 1755
members two years ago, so it has more than
doubled itself. Perhaps the Tramway Employees’
Union could show as good figures, only it hasn’t
sent them in to the Registrar. The Journeymen
Tailors have also made a long jump—from 334
last year to 1084 this year; and the Shop
Assistants are going the same way fast.
* * * *
Let us all settle on the sand and win our
way to bloated affluence by poultry-farming. That
is the advice of the Queensland Agricultural
Journal for March
If 2000 farmers and other settlers kept 100 fowls each,
and each hen were to lay only 100 eggs a year, the annual
output of eggs would equal that of Maoriland—say about
20,000,000 or 1,666,666 dozen eggs. At 6d. per dozen, a
sum of over £BOO,OOO would be poured into the State.
Evidently Joe Rudd, who made the famous com-
putation of the value of Dad’s wheat, has joined
the staff of the Q.A. J. as mathematician-in-chief.
* * * *
“Petramos”: Re bull-ant-breath discus-
sion. This may be applied to fleas. By careful
microscopic observations I have found that the
reason why the ever-busy flea cannot be found
when most wanted is that he holds his breath.
Likewise, I have found that if we sleep with-
out breathing we will never be troubled by
his bite. My knowledge only extends to
city fleas, but if anyone is willing to pay my
fare I am prepared to further experiment in
the country.
* * * *
“ Huffin-Gruffin Re sweating of children.
Writer has just had a glimpse of life on a Victorian
farm. The chief impression left is that of the
children rushing about their “duties,” haunted
continually by everybody shrieking “’Urry.”
“Now Violet, ’urry up with that fire and let’s get
breakfast over!” “Bill, ’urry with the pigs’
feed!” “Jack, ’urry yourself and separate the
cream!” “Eor goodness sake’urry, Jim. You’ll
never get to school.” And, after being ’urried for
two or three hours, they are ’urried off to school
two or three miles away at about 9 a.m. As they
rush away a final admonition is yelled after them
to ’urry ’ome after school, to see the sheep are all
right in the paddock as they come, and bring the
cows home with them, and not forget to ask the
Browns to send their Tom over to-morrow to help
with the thresher, and sundry other messages.
After school hours, and the five or six mile walk
involved, it is “’urry” again till after dark
(although summer-time) and then “ ’urry off to
bed ” and “be sure and ’urry up and dress as soon
as called in the morning.” Verily it is small
wonder that the farmers’ kids grow up wooden.
The wonder is that they grow up at all.
“Louis M” : “ Cockney
the Outcast” (8., 14/4/’O4) finds
fault with “War E.,” and I,
in my turn, wish to pick holes
in “Cockney.” Whether men
—without what they may be
justified in term'nj fair reasons
—ever refuse work X cannot
say, but of this I am positive •
they will throw it up on the
least provocation—in fact, with-
out any reasonable provocation.
I’m strictly in truth when I
write that I’ve known men to
quit a job because they had
not enough to do. (“Dead
slow ” is the term for this
trouble.) Further, to say that
shearers, as a rule, lack in rhos-
pitility is utterly incorrect.
“Travellers” have always been,
and still are, a big factor in
building up the tucker bill.
“Cockney’s” sneer at the
“cocky” shearer is, in a re-
mote way, suggestive of an
urchin throwing mud at a de-
cent piece of statuary. I don’t
mean that the ‘ ‘ cocky ” is per-
fect—we’re none of us that—
butat least he shears while he
shears, and doesn’t loaf on all
and sundry between times, and
all the while he’s trying to re-
move himself from the labor market—a virtue in-
deed. In the bush, from what I can see, any man
who reserves his earnings for legitimate outlay
is a “cocky,” or bracketted with “cookies,” and
the only “ white men ” are those who, whenever
funds permit, persistently provide Mrs. Public-
house with a new silk dress.
* * * *
In M.L., where every charwoman has a
bicycle and every drover is known by a linen
collar, the swagman is dying a natural death.
Ihose of him who still survive are the old-age
prodigals whose pensions have been stopped by a
flinty-hearted beak. Now and then some genius
does visit the back-country, with a new plan which
be works upon the run-holder. For instance, the
other day a sundowner successfully travelled from
Palliser Bay along the stations to Napier, with a
dog as his only companion. His custom was to
haul the dog by the collar up to the run-holder,
and state he caught the animal sheep-worrying.
He would then propose to exterminate the dog by
a quick process, take the confederate away and tie
him to a manuka, and come back and overload
himself with tucker and tobacco from the grateful
sheep-owner.
• • * *
“Caber” : When is a man drunk? The
drunkest man I remember seeing was an old
shepherd who had come into Drayton to “blew”
i c heque, way bade in the sixties. After a
skinful he wandered out on the green to sleep it
off. When we school-kids saw him his faithful
dog was standing over him, wagging its tail. The
tail was white-tipped, and the poor old jumbuck-
sentmel, with a short black cutty in his mouth,
was dodging his head to the wag of the collie’s
tail, trying to get a light from what he thought
was a waving firestick. He was drunk, I think.
SPORTING ITEM.
JACK: “I swum this crick when it was in flood.”
BILL: “ Thet's nothin’. Larst week I swum three
miles, with the pup on me hack, to ther doctor,
and it was up-hill all the way.”
At Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.) the usual humor-
ist has been dropping a harmless white powder
into his beer, saying “Good-bye, Bill” in a hollow
voice like an open grave, and drinking off the
mixture. And he struck the usual consequences,
for the Creek seized him in its alarm, sat on him,
gave him 2oz. mustard, one cup of brine out of
the butcher’s corn beef keg, some castor oil, a
packet of salts, some senna, and a horse-ball; put
10 hot bricks on his stomach; and otherwise
raised Cain. And all the time his howls to the
effect that he had been only playing a joke on the
Creek were taken fdr delirium ; and his curses
were regarded as a sign of approaching dissolu-
tion, wherefore the Creek put more hot bricks on
him. And when he kicked out furiously, the
Creek said he had convulsions and gave him
another horse-hall.
TO A SWAGMAN IN THE CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O hairy-faced, old Swagman,
I doff the cap to you ;
I, too, have been a bagman
And had to battle through
The ordeal long and dreary
Of destiny adverse,
Long, lean and worn and weary
And humping Duncan’s curse.
I, too, have scaled the ridges
For many a lonesome league,
And camped beneath the bridges
Near dead with dull fatigue ;
Have wakened, grimly groaning
O’er joints atwist with pain,
To hear the night-wind moaning
And feel the drifting rain.
I, too, have fed on messes
Not found in cookery books,
And stuffed myself with cresses
Regardless of the flukes ;
Have lain to slowly frizzle
Without a shrub in sight ;
Have slept throughout a drizzle
And waked with hoar-frost white.
b too, my wrinkled sinner,
Have tramped from shed to shed,
And seen myself grow thinner
And wished that I were dead ;
Have dossed in houses haunted,
In spite of sage advice—
But ghosts are easy daunted
And shrink to squealing- mice.
I, too, have borne the flouting,
The townman’s ugly sneer,
The furious cookie’s shouting—
His mouth from ear to ear ;
Have camped beneath a waggon
Tired-out at set of sun,
Till stalked by some she-dragon
To pot me with a gun.
1, too, with curious yearning,
Have pondered puzzles o’er :
Why, spite of law and learning,
’Tis sinful to be poor ?
Why, robed in saintly vestment,
The reverend shepherds thrive,
While on such poor agistment
Their flocks just keep alive ?
N.S.W.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.


FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Oncers and Stores.
_ Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, i Sydney.
Dr. W. E. Thomas, Modem American Dentist,
57 and 59 Swanston-street, Melbourne, and other leading
centres. We forfeit £10 if there is any pain with our new
method of extractions. As to the quality of our work,
the fact speaks for itself that, although inquiries were
made at the National Bank Australasia, Melbourne, con-
cerning our recent £1000 guarantee that only the best
teeth obtainable in any market in the world were used in
our £3 3s. sets, and that our Porcelain Gums Sets with
wafer life spurred Stence Palates were the most natural
looking and best fitting of any made, no effort was made
during the time our offer was kept open to the public ,t0
controvert our statements.*
The “Fx. & R.” Watch
The most extraordinary Watch of the Age.
The movements are on the Lever principle.
They have BrequSt Overcoil Balance Spring's.
They have extra counter-sunk jewels.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are dust-proof and water-tight.
The cases screw together or close in the ordinary
way.
They are specially made to stand rough riding and
knooking about, and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for two years.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax & Roberts, House in Sydney?*
23 HUNTER STREET.
JA_
They are 25/6 in Open-face Oxidised cates, 7 jewels
They are 30/- ~ „ „ 15 jewels
They are 30/- „ Silver „ 7 jewels
They are 42/- . „ ~ „ 15 jewels
They are 50/- in Silver Hunting: cases.
They are 55/- in Silver Half-Hunting: cases.
Any Initials in Monogram, 2/6 extra.
QUANT. SUFF.
“ Old Bob is going home early to-night. Any-
thing up!”
“ Oh, only his wife, I suppose .”
“A Zelwood” writes (Bulletin, not
having seen the map alluded to, takes no respon-
sibility) :
The large wall map of Australia, published by Smith
and Sons, Charing Gross, London, in 1877, and daily used
in many Victorian State schools, must have been drawn
by someone in the horrors, and accepted by an Inspector-
General who shared the draughtsman’s potations. Maffi a
is placed in S.E. of N.S. Wales; but in compensation
Kosciusko’s bald head rises from the Victorian uplands.
A town named Hoading occupies the site of Sale, and
Bendigo is severely omitted, while twopenny-ha’penny
places, like Buninvong and Violet Town, receive mention.
Anticipating our legislators, thedraughtsman(in 1877) gave
Melbourne direct railway communication with Ballarat.
Other errors might be mentioned ad nauseam. It was
probably during the same spree that a little “ geography ”
by G. Sutherland was placed in every State-school library.
Here is an extract“ The tea-tree grows generally on
poor soil, but is of considerable value to the colonists, as
the bark of the tree can be utilised in tanning.” Armed
with this information, I remonstrated with selector Simp-
son for burning off such a valuable asset. He thereupon
offered me 70 acres of the asset for two beers.
» * * *
“F.” : Has any aboriginaliar ever seen a
plain-turkey carrying an egg tucked under its
wing ?
PROTEST OF ASIA.
STATION CLERK (to Chow applicant for billet as
cook): “ Where you been work before?”
CHOW: “Me bin cookem for labbiter camp—allee
same Ilishman, Scotchman. By Cli, me the
only Eulopean in camp. Too plully stlong,
so me leave.”
“Rita S.” :
So "0.0.” (B.
14/4/’O4) has
nothing but
scorn for the
soft-loaf-and-
tin-of-sardines
cattlemen of
to - day, has
he? Wonder
if it is as
scorching as
the scorn auc-
tioneers and
stock - dealers
would have
for their drover-
men if they dal-
lied at the way-
side pub and hung
over the stock - rails
tickling Betsy Jane
under the gills, as in the
bad old dawdling days.
To-day, time is the essence
of the contract, and the
romance is knocked out of the game with the “move
on ” travelling stock clauses, not to mention the
drought. The successful drover must be a hustler
and as sober as his dogs, otherwise he is left idle.
But the old order giveth way to the new. The
drover has fallen from grace with “C.C.’s”
ilk because he wears collars and ties, and uses
language terse, yet less lurid, than in the days of
old. He can also talk politics, exercise his vote,
and use soap and water —three small items un-
known to the old hard-drinking cow-Ishmael.
Even the sleeper-cutters on the Murray are
Eerishing in the eyes of the old-timers because they
ave a live association to protect their interests,
with the ignoble object in view of seeing the
members’ cheques are “knocked up” instead of
“knocked down.” These little changes are “ruin-
ing ” the country out-back, and I don’t regret it.
The old clieque-scuttler of days agone has had to
close his shanty and seek an old age pension.
Billjim has taken unto himself a selection, like-
wise a wife, and is engaged raising the census and
other crops; and instead of wrestling with blue-
dragons and carpet-snakes a league long, he
dodges the mortgagee, and chases round looking
for a shower of ram. The lost romance of the
past is not much to grieve over.
* * * *
“ Elmore ” : A horse cannot buck with his
tail outstretched. When he is bucking all he
knows, his tail is tightly tucked in. A bull or
bullock cannot buck unless his tail is well
elevated. Don’t know the why or wherefore, but
nevertheless it is a fact. Will Bulletin artists
please note? [Obviously, therefore, the remedy
for the bucking disease in a horse is a sizeable
balloon tied to his tail, unless the tail can be made
to rise by means of yeast. —Ed. B.]
“ Chasselas ” : Came across
a curious case of conformity to
environment among the rosella
parrots which frequent the blue
gum plantations reared by land-
owners in S. W. Vie. plains. There
are no hollow trees in which they
can build nests, and I happened
on a parrot’s domicile, with two
young birds, in an abandoned
rabbit burrow. Mother parrot
had made her nest and reared her young ones
quite comfortably under the new conditions.
* * * *
Stereotyped letter from a man on the
sand :
The owner of a very big N.S.W. station well east of the
Darling, and not in the worst drought area, drove away
from the scene of his labors the other day. He went to
the station about 20 years ago with £BO,OOO cash ; he left
it a few weeks ago with a buggy, two poor horses, a
water-bag, and a few old one-pound notes. The station
has been blown clean away, and of the tens of thousands
of sheep that once ran over it, nothing is left but a few
white bones and old horns sticking up here and there
through the sandheaps on the plain.
A large tank at Colar Station (N.S.W.), where they used
to wash the wool, is full to the surface with sand. The
woolshed at the same station is almost covered over with
sand, and the management thinks it will pay better to
build another shed than to shift the stuff.
At Tarrawong Station (Albert Tyson’s) in the Lachlan
country (N. - W.), where they used to shear 160,000 sheep,
or thereabouts, last year 27,000 were shorn. The wool
waggons rolled over great banks of sand 12ft. high, where
gates used to be once upon a time.
Between Oxley and Banranald several of the telegraph
poles (after a duststorm) have been left without a particle
of e&rth around them, and they have to be replaced with
longer poles. The storm takes the earth in a face at
places and sweeps every grain of sand and loam before it.
At other places the sand lodges and heaps up and
becomes great sandhills.
“ M. McA.” : Have a hazy recollection of
seeing, in a recent Bulletin, some peculiar names
from Tasmania side. Do not think the following
were mentioned: —Iron Pot, Stony Steps, The
Bonnet, Fag Hill, Left-Hand Narrows, Tinder-
box, Knoeklofty, The Devil’s Backbone, The
Devil’s Gullet, Devil’s Den, Golden Valley,
Hollow Tree, The Quadrant, New Bed, Nine Mile
Springs, Paradise, Poverty Gully, Misery Flat,
The Sleeping Beauty, Blinking Billy (a small
“twinkler” light in the Derwent), Set-alight
Island, Gentle Annie Falls, Rockcod Point, Table
Top, Faith, Hope, and Charity Islands, The
Three Patriarchs, Laughing Jack, Wild Dog, Old
Man’s Head, Old Woman’s Head, Young Man’s
Head, Horseshoe, Break o’ Day, Silver Bell, The
Long Scrub, Celery Top, The Professor, The
Thumbs, No Where Else, Break My Neck,
Moore’s Pimple, Walls of Jerusalem, Coffin Creek,
The Cow and Calf, Black Jack’s Rock, Tin-pot
Marsh, Murderer’s Tier.
* * * *
Curious letter received by a back-blocks
stock owner: —
Wilotree 04
Mr. W. J. o’grady dear sir thear ar sum ov thoes
fellowers going- ov over too see a bout thear Catle they ar
ressles a bout them thirteen hedd blong to smith I left 40
(fourty) hedd wit youse mack Donal an smith ar going
Over thear ar 13 hedd of catl Tomas smiths thear lie is
thinkig a long wid mine thear is 11 (a elven) hedd ov MN
one littel spotid heffr wit X on rump no X thear is one
Littel Black an white heffr branded X blong to him thoes
ar his lott thoses c* are all to gather thoes are smith on
This pappr if He Wonts them no othe X Blong to them
oly the one heffr. Bronds an coulers Thees ar the
properrity of Jones.
Too rone cows X on one rump X on the othe 2 reds
ones one bolly strorbry all brooded X thoes Blong to
blong to J. Jomes (me) see that they do not tuck amy ov
thoes catl without me wit thoes bronds lett them tuck
nothig on This pappr tel you here from me youres
sinserely J. Jones.
P.S. I recived yore lettr nex day after I wrot I very
much oblije too you for lettn me no I thoght the ole bull
would go to the hapy land thear is a nothr bally Doon
mottle fase bally heffr x on one side x on the othe
stumpey tale J. Jones.
• * * *
The “ debased habits of the starling ” were
the subject of complaint before the council of the
Victorian Agricultural Society the other day, when
H. M. Gooch stated that:—
The numbers of starlings were increasing, and the birds
were migrating north. He had had eight acres of grapes
destroyed by them. In England the starlings be-
haved themselves, but directly they came to Australia
they gave way to misconduct, like a great many other
birds and animals. (Laughter.) In England the sparrow
was a gentleman, but out here he was a miserable nuisance.
So with the fox in Australia ; he grew three times the size
and took to killing lambs, which he did not at home.
Government Entomologist French in a letter con-
curred with regard to starlings
The starling as a fruit destroyer takes the bun and no
mistake. I have looked fairly and squarely at all sides of
the question, and in my opinion if the starling does not go
the fruitgrower must. Which is it to be ?
It was sought to urge the Agricultural Department
to secure legislation to deal with the pest, but the
motion was lost.
Ernest Favenc writes
Why have not the names of the following rivers (a few
out of many") retained their rightful spelling and pro-
nunciation ? First Of all the Murrumbidgee was originally
spelt Morumbidgee—the nearest approach to the phonetic
spelling of the word as pronounced by the natives.
The Australian newspaper of 1830, hazards the spelling
of the Murray as Murree, but this is obviously a mistake
as we know whom Sturt named it after.
Next comes the Barwan. This is what Major Mitchell
christened it, and how it should be spelled. There is no
authority for spelling and pronouncing it “ Barwon,” as
people do now. Walter Bagot, one of the early settlers on
the river, gives another rendering, namely Barwin. But
as it is in reality the Upper Darling there seems no
necessity for any of these names.
,, T1 ? e Narran was first called the Narreen and the Balonne
the Bolloon. I could give some more instances, hut the
above will suffice as samples of our uncertain nomencla-
ture.
TARANTULAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Poor Bill had been upon the booze
For the last month or so,
And meeting' Ike, his bosom pal,
Thus told his tale of woe :
“Gorblime, Ike, you should er seen
The time I had last night,
Stretched out upon me bloomin’ bed
Fair paralysed with fright.
“ Over the bed, me face as well,
An’ on the blanky wall,
Tarantulas as big as plates
Was on the blanky crawl.
“ When I was dressed (this is Lorstruth)
I daren’t leave me room
Until I’d called the missus in
To brush me with her broom.”
“ Stiffen me, Bill,” so Isaac said,
“ Come-in-an’-’av-a-wet;
The missus slummed her sweepin’ job—
They’re crawlin’ on you yet! ”
SLIDE VALVE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; ami in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Bega: The Southern Star talks wildly. (1)
The Barton Government actually did propose to sta. t
borrowing, and announced the amount of its proposed
first loan, but Watson stopped the game. (2) The Bul-
letin has never supported the N.S.W. State Labor party
in its financial policy, or want of financial policy....
H.G. : What birth-rate evil exists is not due to any
incapacity for propagation, and would not be in the least
degree affected by establishing a polygamic system. The
trouble is not that married couples can’t produce enough
children, but that many of them won’t produce any....
ASneas : Verse to your girl has one bright stanza beginning:
She says the candle brighter burns
Because it has been snuffed.
Rest of the poem now burns brightly, having been snuffed.
E.L.L. : Verse has good deal of merit; “ The Song ”is
under consideration.... Mica : Will find room later on
The Outcast: An unlucky batch J.S.B. : Too long a
yarn for so far-away an incident... .Timbarra : “Close
Call” yarns were exhausted some time ago J.M. :
Rhymes nicely ; and that is all M. : “ Grey Days ” runs
in a groove which, from constant use, has become a rut
and then a grave R. Tregarthen : Love story not snap
enough for B. ; may succeed elsewhere O.P.S. : Verse
as jagged as a Korean mountain road G.H. : There's an
incurable difference of opinion between you and this office
on that subject .. .Max M. : It’s poor prose cut up badly
into lengths Ne’er-do-weel: All right; Don’t let it keep
you awake at nights Reuben: That yam as to the
separation of the sexes in the poultry-yard for the Saw-
bath is an old gibe that was used against the early Puri-
tans.. .E.H.W.: Circumstantial yarn about a captain being
sued for his washing bill is not in our line. Poor devil 1
Poney Beir: Insufferably long-winded E.O. Von S. :
Rather weak and conventional Xela :It has the single
merit of brevity Quivis : Too crude and awkward....
Tom Tiddler: A trite subject, stiffly treated M.B.
(Vic.): Answered (8., 5/5/’O4) Eileen: A shrill little
twitter about a much-belated question Mars: Verse
has a good lilt, but is essentially unpoetical. Other items
not up to mark... .Waimea : Prose sketch unreadably
blotted. Verses only fair Dareel G.: Not strongly
or swiftly enough t01d... .Sam Cornstalk : “ Australia ”is
bathetic, and “ Stilted,” the best of the others, is spoiled
by bad rhymes—“charm” and “balm,” for instance
Wompye : Interest too slight.. ..Con : Not enough in it
’ Scrubber: Read Max Adeler’s books. You’ll find
your joke in one of them and better told.. . .Dreamer :
Rather a hackneyed idea F.A.B. : Four lines rescued
from the general awfulness of things :
For thee I faced Death
Fighting for our Empire,
Caring naught if Death claimed me
With my soul on fire.
The other 56 lines are worse Jarrah: Not bad
in its way, but too long-drawn out F.N.0,: Iridium,
which is twice the weight of lead. A cubic foot of it
weighs close on 12cwt Mattie: Your syntax is the
weirdest we’ve struck for some time Dan W.: Spoilt
by the dragged-in metaphors.... Solly : “Silly” would
have been more appropriate. When did you ever see
anything like that in The Bulletin? 1.A.R.: “Last
Chance ” begins pretty well, but when the hero reforms
it is lamentable M. : The story about tha man who
came back dead from S’Africa is very interesting. Even
when we first read it in the magazine you stole it from, it
impressed us favorably, and we still like it. Are you
aware, by the way, that you have made yourself liable to
arrest and prosecution for endeavoring’ to get money by
false pretences? Some day we will gaol a person of your
class as an example to the rest H.A.C. : Bowen article
too lengthy 0.G.L.: “ Leaves from Diary ” rather thin
humor....N. : Have doubts about “Trixie’s Cur 1.”....
H.A.O’M. : “Day Dream” too jagged for a poem, and
wants about two more teeth to make a good saw....
Myrtle : “ Youth ” good enough verse, but subject deadly
uninteresting —A.E.G. : If they are first attempts they
are very promising—except “The Corn Laws.” Bob:
Has a fine contrast incident, but you haven’t written
round it well enough... .Kybho (or something like that):
Hopelessly handicapped by a total lack of dramatic
faculty J. Lanyard: Hardly up... .Methos : A little
loose, but certainly try again....K. : You won’t be
charged for the goblin ; it was given in free to repair
a broken metre.... Wm. MacD. : Hardly up to the mark.
... .M. Blax : Not worth while noticing such arrant impos-
ture Moonamble : You will have greatly to improve
before reaching print-level A.G.J.: Idea good, but
handling not vivid enough Bushman : The bulk of it
might be omitted with advantage.... Orion : A long and
weary stretch of dry narrative in unpoetic verse....
D.S.E. : No; a consul is not exempt from local juris-
diction... .Booby H. : “It really happened.” Possibly—
but such a dull thing never should, have happened
T.S.: What a lot of small beer comes dribbling through
the post! Benjamin P. : What lunatic asylum have
you escaped from, or are you unable to read ? The article
was about the stereotyped cry that the city unemployed,
who have no money and no knowledge of agriculture,
should be put on the land, which they don’t know how to
use.... Harry A. C.: You show considerable ability, but
the subject of your verses is as ordinary as a clothes-line,
and as hackneyed as “the great natural resources of
the country.” Unsuitable: W.A.0., G. 8., J.H.T.,
Taniwha.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
V.K. : Drawing absolutely hopeless; joke too small to
be of any value as a suggestion Percy: No. 1 may do ;
No. 2 not much merit....Dai Nippon: You don’t say
so Bert H.: “Situation Wanted” strikes the top-
note of conventional, Sunday-school ordinariness
Wauchope: Hardly good enough.... Alan M. : Well
enough drawn, but of no general interest M. 8.:
Depends wholly on the assumption that U.S. birth-rate is
higher than the Australian. U.S. keeps no national birth-
rate records, but its town records are bad. St. Joseph
and Toledo, 0 per 1000 ; Scranton and Detroit, 9 ; and so
on. Out of 38 large towns only 14 show over 20 births
per 1000 people H.W.C.: Not wildly A 1 E.O.M.P. :
Joke quite hopeless. Sketch has many good points, but
humor isn’t one of them B.B.: Drawing faulty, and
jest best buried in oblivion H. 0.: “ Literally Covered ”
shows promise at all events E. Mac.: Just borrow an
average girl and take her height, waist measurement, etc.
Then take the relative dimensions of your figure and
consider yourself an outrage on anatomy... .E.R.S. :
Terrible and helpless daub... .Unsuitable: Chow, J. 8., C.
The N.S.W. Coal Lumpers’ Basket Act
will have to be followed up with a similar measure
dealing with wheat sacks. Twenty-four bags
taken from one truck railed to Sydney lately from
Lyndhurst for export averaged 3921b5. ; and the
lumpers had to struggle under this shocking
weight of nearly 4cwt. Down to a few years ago
the average wheat sack held a little over 4 bushels
(usually about 2601 b.); but the size has been grow-
ing until it has reached something that makes the
handling of it inhuman. And all to save a few
pence. It’s a shocking commentary on a country’s
civilisation that little things like this have to be
legislated upon ; but there seems no other way of
meeting the ghouls who sweat pence out of men’s
lives.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
GINGER JIMMIE: “ Yes, these ’ere ’ Orspital Satur-
days makes a man bloomin’ well dead broke.”
“ Caber ” has an idea :—
The retail storekeepers are on the warpath against the
Chinese tradesmen. The Chow is under-selling them, and
this they attribute to evasion of the Arbitration Act
and other -statutes. Well, the High Court has decided
that the Arbitration Court has no power to determine
how many hours a man may devote to his own business ;
so, as the man who works 100 hours a week has a big pull
on the man who only works 50 hours, if we want to com-
pete with Goom Chuck or Li Hung, we must work at
least 90 hours a week to keep up our end of the log.
There is one way to stop it. Impose a business tax upon
all vendors of merchandise, making the license fee £1 per
annum. The State has then the right to grant or refuse
a license ; all aliens are refused, and that little trouble is
over. Will the Liberal and Reform party make this
reform one of the planks of its fighting platform ?


ipiii w il '■ w-| * v i 'spp
IS S 0 LVED!! — : §
MEJI® RY MAN
«,,,_ _'. , ... r
WE SHALL HEER Look on H)£ '
r L m^*
Ijfl
If" Ib'e proceed wiffpfc
Bill it ny commit
farliW»r M" open W on
life eights "r Ilf 1lf be
Sanctioned by fife .
Allowed uf> wi/l b&uredli end
'in open deflate £ Tejerc\y
rupture 'V\r(mS
li )tr? is A
which.liKe * sbvW
follows % j^bottr^^
$T dinner
>vn illec'liSVj
Cp,#*.
The b* d .
* de V?Z n
of near>7 * hl '. ' n
iifo b^f^ n T ll,on >
Bent-
leP.,
Andrcrjis'
\ P,tc l)ih^
° n
] ]be jA Wn ° r^ei '
fVt' ,avSl ~
I'P^our^e
Vic- B«r f*lfc - liKe ,
Bent yes, -\J. no one will see life 'ns.de o| «"*'< After
if)e election^
’ff&en
Tutor oxJnt
Write Ibe
1 hW4."
I fa rrjornmp
i‘r)
Tutor:- "(*T? -
00i *t~ • “ - A-T|
Ttt+ar : - Wr ° n £,‘. 0 , n
Be»1- • - •• WhxP'. lie f 0 me '-ill- SfV
Tile Reform league' Jer»es
ta/'no b €Cr > des?d
ilJaiT it is now
e v»»}
THINGS BENT, STRAIGHT, AND OTHERWISE.


MEETING OF THE SELECTION COMMITTEE OF THE N.S.W. DEFORM PARTY; POLITICAL
DEFORMITIES ARE PLENTIFUL JUST NOW.


A. SAUNDERS for WEDDING PRESENTS, WATCHES, CLOCKS & JEWELLERY
A. SAUNDJKRS.
15ct Solid Gold Pearl Set
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Similar to above,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s,
£5, upwards.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold PIN,
Set Pure
White Pearls,
17a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SQUARE and
COMPASS, 12s 6d;
16ct Gold, 20s, 255.
.VWfc. r ''.- iiiiti
■
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS, all the Latest Styles and"
Fashions. Prices According to Width.
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s;
15ct Gold, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold i earl Set
Star PENDANT or
BROOCH, £3.
Gold PIN,
Set
10 Pearls,
12s 6d;
15ct Gold,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Pearl Set
Double Heart PENDANT
or BROOCH, £4.
Pure Diamond in Centre
of Bow, £6.
The LordWaich
k
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
Charm, 8s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 6s 6d.
Our Full
Catalogue
will show you 150
pages of fine
stock instead of
just one. It is
worth seeing.
Write for it.
Posted Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
■mGfirm-
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Design Heart and Drop NECKLET, 15ct Gold, Set with Beautiful White Pearls
Making a Most Exquisite Necklet, £l2 10s.
Other Styles, £5 ss, £lO, £l5. £l7 10s, £2O. £25.
Sight and
Seeing!
Do you
know anyone
troubled about their
Eyes?
Tell them to write
for our new No. 2
Home Eye Test
Chart.
Posted Free, too!
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold Heart
Floral
Forget-Me-Not
BROOCH, Pearl
and Turquoise Set,
£2 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open Face
Keyless WATCHES,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Gold, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Guaranteed for 1,2, and 3 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid 9et Gold MEDALS,
255; 15ct, £2 10s, £3-
18ct Gold, £4.
Similar Designs, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Set with P-earls,
10s 6d.
S-bar, 17s 6d. Extra quality, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9c t Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15ct Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Half Round
Single Diamond
RING,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5.
According to Size
of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Claw Set
Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Diamond and 2
Rubies or Sapphires, 32s 6<L
*sct Go 1 a Pe r' Heart
PENDANror BROOCH
Set with Pure White
Pearls, £4.
Plain Signet RINGS.
9ct Gold, 15s 6d,
20s, 255;
15ct Gold, 30s, 355:
18ct Gold, £2,
£2 10s.
Gold Wishbone
CHAIN and
PIN, 7e 6d.
A,. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Pure
Double-cut Diamond
RING, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOOH, Heart Set, Red
Blue Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS, in
Every Style and Pattern Made, £2, £2 10s>.
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6 t £7,
£B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-bar Pearl Set Scroll BROOCH, £2.
Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nellie Stewart Gold Patent Secret Snap BRACELET,
£2 16s, £3, £i, £5, £6, £7.
Just as Fashionable as Ever.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Ivy Leaf Bar BROOCH, 12s 6d;
15ct Gold, Gem Set, 30s; Diamonds and 2 Rubies, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, lOs 6d. 15ct
Gold, 15s; extra heavy, 265. 18et Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 40s, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Solid Gold
RING,
Pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s.
15/-
15/-
r
Sr
and
20/-
Startling
\ Prices
For such Watches.
\
20/-
T
Startling
Prices
For such Watches-
This is a specially fine line of Watches we have just landed. They are
called the “Railway” and “The Guard,’’ and fully merit their title —indeed,
lor strength, accuracy, and worth they cannot be equalled at our
prices We have them in two grades. Movements are f-plate ;
with jewels, the latest model, with fine bold face—all
secured, dust and watertight, in well turned Screw
case of the strongest solid nickel. Will wear
a lifetime. Price, 20s. Our practical guaran-
tee of quality goes with them. We
repair for 2 years, free of any charge
(one year in the ease of “The
Guard). Price, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Buttercup
Set Pure Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
All
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold Claw Set
8 Double-cut Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires
or Rubies, £7 10s.
Diamonds, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS’
SILVER
LEVER,
£2 10s.
PAT I.NT
GOLD
LEVEK,
£4 4s.
-#
N
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Hunting Keyless Lever,
„ £3, £4, £5, £6, £7,
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
Guaranteed 2. 3,4, 5, and
£2 £2 10s,
£B.
£l5, £2O.
6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-bar BROOCIH, Diamond and
4 Rubies in Centre, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Marquise
Diamonds,
8 Rubies or Sapphires,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Extra Strong,
2Se; 15ct Gold, £2, £2 10a.
Similar, 20s.
Monogram, 2s extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 5 Fiery
Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
£3 10s.
VI
/
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ High Grade Solid Silver
Levers, Full Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £4, . £5, £5 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s, £S 10s, £lO 10s,
to £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold 3-bar Claw
Set Emerald and 6
Double-cut Diamonds,
£7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Horseshoe
LOCKETS,
9ct Gold, 255;
15et Gold, £2 10s.
Pure Silver, 7s 6d.
18ct Gold Half-hoop,
5 Pure White Double-
cut Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller, £l2 10s.
15ct Gold 2-bar Opal and 4-diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s.
A Most Exquisite Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Diamond and 2 Rubies, £2 10s
3 Diamonds, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot 2-bar BROOCH, Set with Pure White
Double-cut Diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold Bar BROOCH, Set with Rubies and
Pearls, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, Pearl and Red Stone Set,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Amethyst Heart Bar BROOCH,
Very Strong.
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CROSS,
los, -20 s; 15ct Gold,
21a, 30s; IBct Gold,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s 9ct Solid Gold
Amethyst RING, 255;
15ct Gold. £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bell, Chain,
and Pin, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
819 811, 813, 815. 817
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station.)


QUEEN’S HALL, Pitt St., Sydney
Sole Lessee = = = = Mr. HERBERT FLEMMING.
The
Fashionable
Resort
of Sydney.
IS
,v : . . - m
//n
m
• 4k
M
til
il !
L. T
‘ h 4
■Sr 4^te*sudSSHHHHßHß&(icJHL^jsr^P
77JH STAGE, as arranged for Mel. B. Spurr’s Society Entertainment.
Ml
The
Fashionable
Resort
of Sydney*
nrHE QUEEN’S HALL has recently under-
■*’ gone very important structural alterations,
which render it
One of the
MOST COfIFORTABLE
HALLS in AUSTRALIA.
The new improvements include a spacious
and more important-looking Entrance for Re-
served Seat holders. The flooring from the
street is of white marble.
The Ceilings, Cornices and Walls are of
stamped steel. There is now a separate passage
and pay-box for patrons of the Gallery.
The Hall itself has been fitted with the
latest Exhaustive Ventilators. The Stage has
been increased in depth by 7ft. 6in., and stocked
with entirely New Scenery. Electric Light has
also been installed.
In fact, the QUEEN’S HALL has been
brought completely up to date.
EXTERIOR OF THE QUEEN’S HALL
R. HERBERT FLEMMING begs to
1 announce that =
THE QUEEN'S HALL
is now available for all descriptions of LIGHT
COMEDY and HIGH-CLASS VAUDEVILLE
Companies; also for LECTURERS, SOCIETY
ENTERTAINERS, GLEE PARTIES, and
CONCERTS generally.
The Seating Caj acity is 700. The Stage
is 32ft. wide, and 22ft. deep.
Full Theatrical License.
All particulars as to Rent, Vacant Dates,
etc., will be given on application to—
The Resident flanager,
Queen’s Hall,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone No. 4310.
a
PS*
'■
'
11
Um:-\
*\\ ■
:
The NEW VESTIBULE and ENTRANCE TO RESERVED
STALLS.
m
■ <
1
•X .
i K
m.
UtadK
THE AUDITORIUM on the occasion of Mel. B. Spur Us 50 th appearance
in Sydney.
QUEEN’S HALL
Sole Lessee - - - - Mr. HERBERT FLEMMING
Pitt St, SYDNEY


GrO TO
Mi()f,ANJ) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Btamps Bought. Price-Lists graiiv
rheumatlcuro
NEVER FAILS TO CURE
Goat, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
and Neuralgia. Of all Chemists, 2/9
AGENTS—FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE.
SPECTACLES
a
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. r„
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-acr-urate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H* A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO. :
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Prophets, False and True.
There has never been an age wanting for
prophets, but the true as compared with the false
have always been disappointingly few. False pro-
phets have been known to incidentally confer
benefits in unexpected quarters, as in the case of
an impostor in England last century, who pre-
dicted the end of the world on a certain definite
date with so much insistence, that some people
sold their property at panic prices. Needless to
say, the world did not come to an end on the day
foretold, and the purchasers secured some very fine
bargains. When it is asserted that Mother Seigel’s
Syrup will cure indigestion and the diseases that
arise from it, that is no prophecy. It is a statement
founded on the fact that it has done so in many
thousands of cases. “For years I suffered from
liver and kidney disorders,” writes Mr. Charles
Brooks, of 17 Little Church-street, West New-
castle, N.S.W. “The best that any medicine
could do for me was slight temporary relief, until
I tried Mother Seigel’s Syrup. After taking three
bottles of that remedy, I was myself again.”
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is always a bargain.*
66
WHISKY
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strife
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
,7.7/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A astral in.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is pathetic to note the efforts of Sydney
Telegraph, in its eagerness for a coalition, to
convince the dissentient Freetraders that really
Freetrade does not matter a bit.
It is significant that the N.S.W. hangman
and the public flogger are both ardent supporters
of the Carruthers party. A politician is often
known by the hangmen who vote for him.
Retiring Defence Minister Chapman left
for his successor a strong minute recommending
justice for Major Lenehan, and he also urged
favorable consideration of Major Carroll’s griev-
ance.
Early in May the N.S.W. Freetrade organ-
isation, at two different meetings, condemned
the proposals for a Reid-Deakin alliance, but the
daily newspapers, in their hunger for a coalition,
suppressed the news.
Just now, when the first Australian Labor
Government is at work devising a sane and
workable programme of Democratic legislation,
it would be a blessed thing if some one
would take Tom Mann out to the Mac Donnell
Ranges and lose him there.
This is what book-fiend Jenkins’ own
State (at a Port Pirie meeting) said about his little
abortive revolt against the Australian Govern-
ment :
This meeting expresses great gratification at the fact
that the attempt of Mr. Jenkins and Mr. Von Doussa to
foist nine fraudulent Chinamen on the Commonwealth of
Australia has proved a failure, and congratulates the
Federal Government on its firm stand.
G. H. Reid at Mosman (N.S.W.) the other
day:—
I find that in politics, as in every other human
experience, the older we get the more knowledge we
get, and the more likely we are to discover that there are
two sides to every question.
Let’s see : the Yes side, the No side, the Yes-No
side, and the side the bread is buttered on. Four
sides, George !
From Sydney Telegraph (8/5/’99) leader
on Yes-No Reid :
Trying to hold on to office by these stale and discredit-
able tricks is a tremendous come-down from the methods
which, before deserting his party, Mr. Reid was able to
employ.
Interesting to read just now, when Reid’s stale
and discreditable tricks to get back to office, have
the Telegraph’s frenzied approvaJL
TUMMY BENT GRIPS THE SITUATION.
“The taxpayers will agree that the situation is safe in
Mr. Bent’s comprehensive grasp.”— ARGUS.
About the most amusing contribution to
the great mass of coalition literature is that of
oily Joe Carruthers, who “heartily approves” of
Reid’s attitude, and says the time has come when
Reid and Deakin, in the interests of the country,
should “sink personal aggrandisement”—and
grab at office. It is so like oily Joe to describe the
proposed all-round selling of principles for the
sake of office as a sinking of “ personal aggran-
disement.”
Finding of the Victorian Commission as to
the allegation that Montague, of the Red Indian
Assurance Society, tried to bribe Peacock and
other members of Parliament, is that Montague was
corrupt and his Society equally to blame, but that
Peacock was a stainless lamb. It’s one of those
delightfully legal verdicts by which the law is able
to discover that though Mrs. A. committed
adultery with Mr. 8., Mr. B. didn’t commit
adultery with Mrs. A.
_ The Tory press is disgracefully unprin-
cipled and unashamed. Here is Hobart Mercury’s
invitation to Premier Watson to turn traitor to
honor and party :
He has pledged himself to a policy which is almost sure
to be his ruin, and he can only avoid this policy by doing
as many others have done before him, calmly ignoring the
rungs of the ladder by which he has climbed up.
That may be how Tory politicians work, but it is
not Watson’s style.
Defence Minister Dawson has given a final
“no” to the request of the rifle-shooting pot-
hunters for a subsidy to take them to Bisley. He
minuted in refusing :
Every penny that can possibly he spared by economical
administration will be spent on equipment and the pur-
chase of warlike material, and that, as a matter of extreme
urgency, has the first claim.
In short, the money is to be spent on getting rifles
here instead of in sending riflemen away.
Mr. Power, a member of the N.S.W.
State Labor party, took a prominent part in a
recent conference on the unemployed question.
His contribution to its deliberations was an assur-
ance that, if only the conference could show the
Government how it could borrow money, the
Government would be only too glad to borrow it
for the purpose of starting reproductive (or un-
productive) works. It is that sort of member and
that sort of opinion which keeps the N.S.W.
Labor party off the Ministerial benches.
The unspeakable Bent evidently intends
to abolish altogether the Victorian old-age pen-
sions. Argus report of a recent speech of his :
It might be necessary to have a better system of dealing
with old-age pensions. A suggestion has been made that
the money would be better spent by the ladies’ benevolent
societies, and he leaned somewhat to that idea.
From a national gift to the superannuated tax-
payer, down to a dole of pauper charity dribbled
out by local catmittees—the history of the Vic-
torian old-age pension illustrates the political
history of the State.
Regarding the secret and cavernous nego-
tiations between Reid and Deakin for a mutual
desertion of their principles, Sydney Telegraph
complained last Monday :
In political circles the cry of the secret coalition is being
raised to damage the movement, just as the cry of the
secret conference was used. over the Premier’s amend-
ments to the Federal Constitution Bill.
It was the Telegraph which raised the “ secret
conference ” cry above-mentioned ; so this sneer at
its old self seems to suggest that it is getting
rather ashamed of its great failure in the days of
Anti-Bill.
In Irvine’s constituency (Vic.) a poor
widow, the mother of a large family, 65 years of
age, earning a little by nursing when health will
allow, applied for the old age pension, or rather
pittance. She was told that unless she was pre-
pared to hand over her scanty home, a poor old
cottage on a small allotment, to the Government
it would not grant the application. And there
was no offer of any guarantee that the blessed
Government wouldn’t stop the pension again after
the first year, and keep the cottage, and give the
old dame 12 months for vagrancy.
Meldrum, lately defeated for Taverner’s
vacated seat at Swan Hill (Vic.) but now having
another flutter in the Bent interest, explains his
views thus: “He was a strong opponent of Social-
ism in all its forms. . . . He was a strong advocate
of a complete permanent water supply scheme in
the mallee. . . . He advocated land resumption
for closer settlement purposes, but would guard
the interest of the farmers who took the land and
the squatters who at present held it.” Bent
doesn’t know how to spell socialism, and his
followers don’t know what it means.
The word “reform” needs to be defined
anew. It is not the old respectable word of the
dictionary. It has fallen into evil company, and
is now travelling under false pretences. Every
hashhouse that serves up strips of leather when
asked for rump steak calls itself “ The Reform
Food Emporium.” Tailors who use material that
has the same tendency to slink up one’s legs on the
approach of rain as the produce of any other
tailor call themselves “reform” tailors. Even
the “ reform ” dog-stealer is coming. And Carru-
thers and Bent are “ reform ” parties in politics.
Notwithstanding a distinct promise made
by Iceberg Irvine in the House that Victorian public
and railway servants, in electing their separate re-
presentatives, would have exactly the same rights
and privileges as those enjoyed by ordinary electors,
Roaring Bent has issued regulations preventing
them from “criticising the Government, or any
member thereof, or any act of the Government.”
This is a fitting sequel to the Strike Coercion Bill—
a Bill that provided a penalty of £lOO or 12 months’
imprisonment for anyone, man, woman, or child,
who spoke in severe terms of the blackleg’s small
boy.
“Demos”: With a record only one year
short of half a century, Tasmania’s most notorious
Tory leaves the political stage. Adye Douglas
dates from the irresponsible Leg. Council of 1855,
and has suffered defeat at the hands of the most
democratic candidate ever nominated for the
House of Lost Hopes. Peter M'Crackan is an
advocate of the abolition of the superfluous Upper
House, and he polled over two votes for every one
given to the ancient upholder of privilege. Laun-
ceston has farewelled Conservatism; her other
seat in the Dead House was given to the most
progressive of four candidates.
One of the most remarkable features of
the election campaign in Victoria is the candida-
ture of M. K. McKenzie. McKenzie is the person
who had to resign from the Irvine Ministry and
from Parliament, in consequence of a report of a
committee of the House which declared that he
had used his position as Minister for Lands to
grant himself and his family valuable land con-
cessions. In his first speech to the electors,
McKenzie tried to explain away his improper
conduct by saying that he had simply mistaken
the law of trusteeship. “As a Minister of the
Crown I was a public trustee,” whined McKenzie.
“ But this position I did not recognise at the
time.” Is this a fair sample of Tory intelligence,
or of Tory principles ?
Rodney shire council (Vic.) has received a
report on the sanitary state of Kyabram, which
sets out that . “ present conditions are both dan-
gerous and disgusting.” It was from dirty and
disgusting Kyabram that the “Reformers ” started
out to politically create Irvine and Bent, and the
smell of their politics is just like that of their
town.
DEMEANOR FOR WORKERS.
“Since ‘Comrade ’ Fleming a few days ago retired
from the leadership of the unemployed that body has
been re-organised on less bombastic terms, with Mr. J.
Murray as president, and Mr. J. Exell as secretary. The
committee yesterday waited on the Rev. A. R. Edgar, at
the City Mission offices, and stated its difficulties in a
modest and earnest manner. Mr. Edgar gave them
a sympathetic hearing, and promised to interview the
Premier on behalf of the unemployed, and to report the
result to them on Friday next.” —Melbourne Paper.
FATMAN (noting modest, earnest manner):
“ Ah! —now we can talk!”
Trashworth, whom Yic. Premier Bent
shunted off to hustle for a seat in. Hampden, got
badly broken up at his first meeting. Following
the example of other State muddlers he was raving
wildly about the “incapacity” and “inefficiency”
of the Federal Parliament, when a listening clod-
hopper asked him to state exactly what crime the
F. P. had committed. Poor Trashy hadn’t
reckoned on being asked for particulars (he hadn’t
a particular about him), and hastily muttering
that he couldn’t discuss Federal politics he went
on to deal with “our vast natural resources,” or
something equally safe.
Sammy Lancaster, M.L.A. for Rodney
(Yic.), is to be tackled for his seat by Captain
M'Kenzie, auctioneer, and popular handy-man
generally, of Echuca. W. T. Webb, M.L.A.,
whose old seat of Mandurang is wiped out, will
probably retire, as Lancaster is sure to be the
Ministerial nominee, and the “go” should be an
interesting one—with a shade of odds on the
sitting member. Lancaster visits portions of the
electorates in a clandestine way, conducting ser-
vices at the outlying Bethels on Sundays, and
ends up the services with expressive handshakes
all round. Between Bent’s yell and curse and
Psalmyell’s own snuffle his prospects are pretty
good.
“ T.S.” : Launceston (Tas.) Examiner
recently published a leading article headed “ Cul-
tivating a National Spirit.” I started to read it
with enthusiasm. Thought it would be something
about promoting education, teaching the country
to give up relying on the foreign money-lender and
to get itself out of pawn, persuading it to depend
on itself for the production of its own manufac-
tured goods, and instructing Young Australia that
his whole duty doesn’t lie in tearing wool off a
sheep, borrowing, and looking to Britain for his
defence. But it wasn’t anything of the kind. It
was just a long, sickening howl about hoisting the
British flag in schools and teaching the infants to
salute.
N.S.W. iron industry seems at last to be
on the verge of birth. In response to Sandford’s
offer to put up mills if the State guaranteed him
50,000 tons (roughly £300,000 worth) of custom in
five years, the Government has resolved to call
for tenders for a contract of that magnitude,
specifying local manufacture. What Sandford
has in his mind is the provision of the Australian
Customs Act that “with the establishment of an
iron industry ” duties on ironwork ranging from
10 to 15 per cent, come into existence. With the
N.S.W. State contract he can establish his works,
and then with the benefit of the duties he hopes
to hold the local market against foreign compe-
tition.
Probably no more essentially ignorant
man than Reid ever won to a great office in
politics. (Bent might be an exception, but Bent
knew something about manure.) Speaking last
week, Reid said that Australia was the only
country in the world which had a Labor party,
and, to make his ignorance clearer, continued that
Britain, Germany and France had not such
parties. In Britain there is a small Labor party ;
m Germany the Labor-socialist party of Bebel is
nearly the strongest organised force in the
Reichstag; in France the present government of
M. Combes is made up chiefly of the Labor-
socialistic party. Combes himself is an avowed
Socialist.
Sydney Telegraph by May 11 had per-
suaded itself that Deakin was willing for a Reid
coalition on Reid’s terms, and set forth the terms
which Reid must insist on :
To remove the ill effects of that (the Democratic party’s)
domination in the past will, therefore, be as necessary as
to prevent its continuance in the future. The foolish and
impracticable “white ocean” policy which was forced
upon the late Government by the caucus will certainly
seriously affect the trade of the Commonwealth. That,
for example, will have to go. A still greater evil threatens
from the law under which the case of the six hatters
arose, and which is now being strained to prevent white
immigration to the Westralian goldfields.
And so on. The Telegraph’s instructions to
Deakin and Reid how to cut their own throats
and give Watson a reliable majority are very
complete.
If the Watson Ministry goes under, Aus-
tralia will lose the first Federal Cabinet of which
it could be said that every member of it paid his
debts, and no member of it ate with his knife.
Both the Barton and Deakin Governments con-
tained at least one notorious knife-swallower.
In their anxiety to be the first to congratu-
late Watson on his Prime Ministership the govern-
ing labor bodies of Perth and
Fremantle (W.A.), have come
to loggerheads. Perth Trades
and Labor Council, which has
never been popular at Fre-
mantle, wired away congratula-
tions, and added that it desired
the common rule clause should
apply to all mailboats from
their first port of call in Aus-
tralian waters. Fremantle has
always been in deadly earnest
the other way, and the Fre-
mantle Trades Hall Council has
solemnly decided that mail
steamers should be exempt
from the common rule clause
until such time as the Trans-
Australian railway has been
constructed, and it has also
formally protested against the
action of the Perth crowd in
telegraphingto Melbourne with-
out having conferred with the Fremantle crowd.
The Argus, in an article which professed to
congratulate Peacock that he was not found guilty
of corruption, pulled that bird’s tail most cruelly:
Alexander Peacock made two statements to Parliament
on this matter which professed to be full and frank. It is
not too much to say that those who heard those state-
ments, and accepted them as an open avowal of all that
his memory retained of the circumstances, were shocked
when they read his sworn testimony. Mr. Justice Hood
states the favorable impression which, as a witness to the
truth, Alexander Peacock made upon him. Exactly the
same impression of absolute candor and sincerity was con-
veyed to Parliament. Hence the amazement with which
it was discovered that one of the most salient and damag-
ing facts of the whole case—that Alexander Peacock had
himself accepted and retained the £5O which Mr, Mitchell
refused—was withheld on both occasions. . . The charge
that arouses the strongest resentment in Parliament is
that a member has wilfully misled the House. How can
Alexander Peacock clear himself of that offence?
A Launceston (Tas.) man about the down-
fall of Adye Douglas, after being continuously in
Parliament since 1855:
It was the making of poor men and women pay
income tax that killed Douglas politically, in the 89th
year of his age and the 49th of his political career. At a
big meeting held in Launceston the night before the
election some instances of the villainous taxing of small
incomes were given. One man said he had paid “two
quid ” income tax, while his boss paid nothing. It was
mentioned that an old woman, with 30s. a week coming in,
had got a “judgment summons” for 7s. income tax.
Douglas was afraid to meet the indignant people of Laun-
ceston. He took the Mechanics’ Institute for a night, but
when he found what the feeling towards him was, he can-
celled the engagement, and held no meeting. At the last
minute he apostatised from even his own party, and de-
clared he would vote for the repeal of the “ personal exer-
tion ” clauses of the Income Tax. So his own old sup-
porters were riled at his perversion, his old political foes
would not trust him, and he fell in.
MILITARY DISASTER.
“ Bedad, an’ the Russians are most unfortunate,
Shure, ’twas in the paper this mornin’ tellin
how they attacked ten of their own sojers an’
killed seventy!"


When
you
require
a PIANO—
Remember
They carry the
Hall mark o£
Public
Approval.
SONtfld
S«?Mn tfd
The
Prices
are
Bight.
GOOD as
GOLD.
Good Tone
Good Touch
Good Workmanship
Abcad of
ALL OTHERS
Call or
Write for
CATALOGUES.
PRLING’S
Stock also
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
AUTOHARPS
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
In
fact
EVERY KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
BAND
INSTRUMENTS
OE ALL KINDS.
»
STRINGS and FITTINGS
If you do not see the instrument you
require enumerated above, Call
or Write to us; we will gladly
show you our immense stock, or
forward CATALOGUES FREE
W. H. PALING *C° L 338
GEORGE STREET,
SYPNEY
And at
Brisbane
Newcastle
Ballistite is'rapidly displacing the other smoke-
less pdwjiers for sporting purposes. Its admirers claim
that it is stronger than any other, cleaner in the gun,
perfectly smokeless, and entirely unaffected by heat or
dampness. It can be soaked in water and fired without
any loss of efficiency. Since the professional pigeon shots
have largely adopted it,, and the weekly scores in the
sporting papers show the majority of kills to its credit,
the shot-gun fraternity, so numerous in England, have
taken to it en masse. Ballistite is made in three forms :
in cubes for cannon, in minute rings for rifles, and in
square flakes for shot-guns.*.
READ WHAT
VITADATIO
IS DOING.
— t. M
Oannington, late of Northam and York, W.A.
July 11, 1903.
Dear Sir, —I wish to tell you of the wonderful effect
VITADATIO has had on me. I suffered for eight years
with Chronic Liver Complaint and Stone in the Bladder.
Dr. , with other doctors of Northam and York, also
doctors in Perth, attended me. I was also in the hospital
for two months, but got no relief, and I lay suffering till
VITADATIO was introduced to me, and I have recovered
solely by its use. (The stone that was brought away
weighed 2 ozs. 8 grains.) I got the medicine from Munyard
and Kenworthy, grocers, of Wellington-street. The people
of my acquaintance are surprised at my recovery, and Dr.
Black, who attended me, is astonished, as he reckoned
nothing could be done for me. I thank you, and hope my
testimony will be means of help to others.
(Signed) JAMES COOPER.
Dongarra, W.A., October 30, 1903.
Dear Sir, —Please forward by Tuesday’s train six bottles
of your VITADATIO. I am very pleased to think same is
doing me so much good. I have enclosed my cheque to
cover same ; be sure and forward, and oblige,
Yours faithfully,
W. CRIDDLE.
WHY HALT BETWEEN TWO OPINIONS.
When the danger is in delay ?
To-day: is yours, to-morrow, they say, never comes.
Try VITADATIO to-day.
For further particulars ,
S, A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N* t
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
. P r ‘ce of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Tommy Bent will hang on to the tail of
any animal that he thinks has the slightest chance
of helping him towards office after next election.
Speaking at Moorabin, the loud-voiced slobberer
denounced former Governments for not having
kept their promises to the soldiers who fought for
the Hempire on Afric’s burning kopj e. ‘ ‘ Nothing
would be wanting if he remained in office to see
that justice was done to returned soldiers. He
would see that they would get the employment
promised them.” Well, Bent has been Premier
for some time now, and has been 1.1 office for two
years, and did nothing for these battle-scarred
heroes. This sudden remembrance of the poor
wounded soldier of the Hempire just on the eve of
a general election smells fishy. Also, are all the
billets for the returned heroes who believe in
Bent and Deformity ?
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS prove highly beneficial in all liver
troubles, entirely removing biliousness, and in so
doing will clear away all skin eruptions, such as
boils, pimples, and eczema.*
The annual meeting of “ the great Reform
League” in Melbourne was a mildly squashed
affair. The league claims to have 197 branches,
and yet there were not 60 places represented at
the meeting. This number includes all the Mel-
bourne and suburban branches. _ The few members
in attendance swelled around in immense style.
One of them, during the proceedings, moved
“ That we hereby repeal the Immigration Re-
striction Act.” This proposal to immediately
start abolishing Federal laws wasn’t carried out.
The treasurer of the concern reported that, during
the year, £25 10s. lid. (keep an eye on the lid.)
was subscribed by the branches, but that £633
had been given in private subscriptions (no doubt
from Flinders-lane and the Melbourne Stock Ex-
change). With pride he announced that the
credit balance was now £41195. lOd. (keep an eye
on the 10d.)
Mr. J. N. FRENCH, Evangelist, Palestine,
Texas, writes: —
“ A brother of mine contracted PNEUMONIA. No
physician being- within reach, he was treated with Jayne’s
Expectorant, and has the best reason for believing that
THIS MEDICINE SAVED HIS LIFE.”*
“ Burglar Bill ” : The religion of three
Chinese prisoners in Goulburn Gaol was entered
on the description cards hung outside their
respective cells as—“Pagen,’’ “ Hethen,” and
“ Pagin.” The Chows always smiled profusely as
they glanced at the cards on leaving and entering
their cells.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
n
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
THE CALLAGHAN
HARD TIMES BOOT
IS FULL OF
Hard Ware
.
- *,
M
17/6
Post Free
and
Duty Free
Except
to W.A.
THE CALLAGHAN French
Calf Lace Boot, Leather-lined,
in pointed, medium and square toes.
Are you seeking Foot-Comforting and
Long-Wearing Boots ? If you are, remit
us 17/6 by P.O. Order or Postal Note for a
pair of these boots. The above picture is from
a photograph, and you know the Camera doesn’t
tell lies.
The brains and hands of man never gave better value
in boots for money. We know what they are. We
want you to know.
WB SATISFY EVERY CUSTOMER, OR WE RETURN MONEY,
CALLAGHAN & SON, ass ceorce st., Sydney.


‘ ‘ Spring ” sizes up the situation :
It appears as if Young-husband is the glorified bagman
for John Bull and Son’s unrivalled Tenpenny Tea. The
Thibetan’s regular beverage is made from China brick tea,
which is the solidified dust and odds-and-ends of the
Chinese market. A lump of fat, or cook’s dripping* or a
bit of cindered bull is added to the brew. A pannikin of
this mixture is guaranteed to create a green buzz under
the most hardened bush tea-drinker’s belt. The Chinkey
Government knows that John Bull wants to force this
brick horror out of the Thibetan market and to introduce
a taste for Indian post-and-rails and choice Ceylon. Hence
the Llama’s stubbornness (due to Chinese pressure), and
hence Young-husband’s threatened interview. Britannia’s
method of tickling the heathen has changed. Formerly
she went forth with a Bible in one hand and a rum-bottle
in the other. Now she advances with a feasible explana-
tion in one hand and a tea-pot in the other.
From Grecian ages up to our own day,
Have bronchial cures appeared and ceased to be;
But this, the world admits, has come to stay,
And to be known as The Great Remedy.
The trite old saying’s right, the best will last,
And last it will, of this you may be sure,
For coughs and colds are ailments of the past,
By timely use of Woods’ Gkeat Peppermint
Cuke.*
Suburban local bodies are humorous in
their unreported moments. One of them, the
Karori (M.L.) Borough Council, got into holts
with itself the other evening. One of the coun-
cillors was erecting new premises as a future arena
of municipal wrangle. A fellow-councillor objected
to him placing a supporting pillar in a position
that would pierce the centre of the council table—
said that the job was most amateurish. “If that’s
all you’ve got to say,” said the builder-councillor,
“then I say to hell with such people as you.”
The councillors then adjourned to the back of the
hall.
Father Robinson, the engineer of the
famous Amy Castles boom and entrepreneur of the
present Melbourne bazaar, is one of the keenest
advertisers and most astute business men who ever
graced a theatre or a pulpit. Robinson was
originally an Anglican, and made a great mistake
when he became a convert to Rome instead of
founding a wild cat religion of his own. With his
shrewdness and his beauty-actor countenance he
might have been another Mahomet. As it is, the
name of Father Robinson causes J. C. Williamson
and Bland Holt to look apprehensive. In addi-
tion to his other qualifications, Robinson has for
seven years held the clerical cycling championship
of Victoria, having beaten with ease every one of
his holy brothers who ventured to dispute his
supremacy.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 108.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street;
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,330,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ~ 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,330,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackkllar, M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L 0.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in ail the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Coi respondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the-. West Indies.
T.ae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on; debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of oredit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Melbourne Branch—
W. WOOLLEY and SON,
Equitable Building:.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do you believe in NEW IDEAS
and NEW METHODS? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
They Cut down TIME and LABOR—does that
mean money to you ?
The PRINCIPAL has “grip" and control of
affairs hitherto unknown.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St, Sydney,
Sole Australian Aoent.
Shipping.
KT. r>. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To EUROPE via SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. FRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 6th JULY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
FARES TO LONDON .. Ist. £77 ; 2nd. £5O.
I Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN St CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
tMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
f Twin Screw.
FARES:
T. F. Spalding ..
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman ..
Noon, June i
Noon, June 25
Noon. Julyl6
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpflE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
- 1 - the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards' etc.
o CBANIO STEAMIS HIF COME»A.KrY.
A. AND AT LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including: St. Louie Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER TITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
#
&
as
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.S,"OT.
(Ijont deplete D.|i|.l!o.,|Std.
(Opposite/l'ivoli Theatre)
*74 CASTLEREAGH ST., >7<±
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Genkkal Manageh.
'—Till 15—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * * 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors;
The Hon. J. P. Burns, Chairman. *
The Hon. 0. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miuler,
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305- assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Poiii ies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible,
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
ravelling. Liberal Bonuses-eouitabiy distributed.
Head Office:
<l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares issued to His Majesty in
terms of Board of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ~£3,000,000
Pe Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esc.
J. P. Cannv. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250.000 ... £350 000
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
:cident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Mebks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.), Sir John Skis, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns!
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Eso
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, \V. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquijar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
OCE AIM
The Premier A
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd , is
separatey examined by experienced hands
and any found defective are discarded.
tST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERotf, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LIME
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
The Favorite Steamer, AORANGI,
Sails June 13.
NEXT SAILINGS-
JULY 11, AUGUST 8,
Cheap Excursions to St. Louis,
Niagara Falls and New York.
Grand Tour to Rocky Mountains,
£6O, including all Expenses on
Steamer, Railway, and at
Hotels. Less than £1 per day
for Journey of 16,000 miles.
Send for Particulars and Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
1,11)1 IT lil). “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,406
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,469
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Ejjwd. D. Day. Asst. Mtigr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
T - f Langham Hotel
r . : 7T.
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con«
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, GOLDS.
ASTHMA, BHOHOHITIS,
DIARHHCEA, bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS j|
Sept. 2 3 mud, says;
"If I were asked which single medicine £ should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodynu. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation."
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMIT I?!)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping Fremantle
to all North Western Pprta
S.S. Cintra, Friday, May 20,
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne.)
,S.S. Yongala (New and
Fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, May 21,
at 1 p.m. (WithoutTran-
shipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta Xorth to Ctalr ns
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, May
21, at Noon.
8. S. Ci n tra. May 28, at Noon.
S.S. War. ego, June 4, at
Noon.
Best and Cheapest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port of call with otherlnter-State Companies on all
services subjeofc to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
_______Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PAftl.l
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Cont ract with tbs
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAHM‘\ FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POltr SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Chins
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £‘27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meek
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
• • BY TUB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the (J.S. America, < r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agent*,
*7 Pitt-st., Sydney.
CHOICE TIPS.
From the famous
farms of South Africa
Black, White, or
Cream.
5/ The Buncli.
/ Post Free.
Worth 15/«
We make this special oSV tj
advertise our Ostrich l ips.
Write Now. Send Postal Note'?
or ss. Money Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
IMiller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St, Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swat ston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Lincoln, Stuart’s
is
[KNOWN!
“vs
TAS
All over
Australia
AS THE CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
MEN’S &
BOY’S
Clothing
Write for Patterns and Self fteasure
Forms
Lincoln, Stuart &Co.,
Flinders Street, rielb< urne.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Save!
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralfiic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of aU Stores.
NERVINE
“As it specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hare
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORS DELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, As,
Op all 6tores.


WHAT’S IN
A NAME?
There is a good deal in a name when it
comes to the question of saving your life ! If
you have the “ wrong name ” you stand a good
chance of losing your life, but if it is the
“right name,” you have more than a chance,
you have a certainty of saving your life. And
the right name which saves your life in cases
of throat and lung trouble, as well as in cases
of blood diseases and marasmus (wasting
away) is “Scott’s;” “Scott’s” when coupled
with “Emulsion”; “Scott’s Emulsion.”
When a remedy has achieved such a world-
wide success as Scott’s Emulsion, it is bound
to be imitated. Imita-
tions are never as good as
the original, and those
who make the imitations
seldom have the knowledge
of “making” that belongs
to those who make the
original. That is why
there is a good deal in a
name. If you get Scott’s
you get the cure that
goes with Scott’s ! If you accept an imitation
or another emulsion, you get only the result
that belongs to those things, you never get
from them the cures that belong to Scott’s!
For your benefit and protection therefore, we
print here our trade mark. When this trade
mark is upon the package of emulsion that you
buy, you get that guarantee which brings the
cure. And if you are seeking a cure you have
only to satisfy yourself that this trade mark is
there. The right emulsion with the right
name— Scott’s —can be had from any chemist.
If you want perfect Health yourself, or desire
it for your children, write to Messrs. Scott
and Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent-street, Sydney,
N.S.W., send 4d. (for postage), name this
paper, and you will receive a free sample
bottle.
AUCTION SALE.
LITHOGRAPHIC FLANS ARE NOW READY.
■ ■ ■ B
SURPLUS LANDS
By Order of THE HON. E. W. O’SULLIVAN, Minister for Public Works.
Central Railway Station Approaches
Having Frontages to GEORGE STREET, PITT STREET, GIPPS STREET,
RAWSON PLACE, ELIZABETH STREET, NEW CASTLEREAGH STREET,
and RANDLE STREET, on either side of the
NEW CENTRAL RAILWAY STATION
SALE
RAWSON PLACE, the new artery for traffic between George and Pitt Streets, will be 100 ft. Wide.
I—The GEORGE, PITT, and GIPPS STREET
AREAS.
SECTION 2 (as per plan).
LOT I—THAT FINE CORNER BLOCK opposite HOR-
DERN’S CORNER, on which stands
“The Prince of Wate3 Hotel,”
recently erected by the Government, and presently
occupied by Mr. Harry Walters AS A FIRST-CLASS
HOTEL. The frontages are 43ft. llin. to GEORGE-
STREET, 105 ft. lOJin. to RAWSON PLACE, 100 ft.
WIDE, and 109 ft. lOJin. to GIPPS-STREET, with
20ft. Lane at rear.
THE PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL is a NEW and UP-
TO-DATE BUILDING, WITH HANDSOME ELEVATION ;
Red Brick with Stone Facings, 3 Stories high, is one of the
BEST APPOINTED HOTELS in the STATE, and VERY
SOLID IN CONSTRUCTION. It contains the following
accommodation: —
BASEMENT—CompIete CELLARAGE.
GROUND FLOOR—Handsome and very large BAR, well
ventilated.
WHOLESALE DEPARTMENT, with entranee from
Rawson-Place ; 3 HALLS, 3 PARLORS, LARGE LADIES’
DINING OR REFRESHMENT ROOM, with entrance
from Gipps-street; KITCHEN, etc., LAVATORIES, and
W.C.’s. The fittings are mostly of Cedar, and the Halls
and Dadoes are tiled in good taste.
FIRST FLOOR —Large Landing, and area used as a Con-
servatory, Large Smoking Room, and W.C., Handsome
Drawing-room, 6 Bedrooms, Linen Closet, Bathroom
and W. 0., balcony round lighted area, and well-
appointed Dining-hall for 120 guests.
SECOND FLOOR—WeII-lighted Landing Area and Hall,
13 Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms, and W.C.
INCLUDED IN THIS BLOCK are the two Modern
Shops and Dwellings, fronting RAWSON-PLACE, occu-
pied respectively by Messrs. COFFILL AND CO. and
Mr. M'GRATH.
LOTS 2 to 10 each have 20ft. frontage to Rawson-place,
100 ft. wide (excepting Lot 10, which has 35ft. 7£in.
frontage to Rawson-place, and 78ft. 3|in. to Pitt-
street), by various depths, to 20ft. lane at rear.
LOT 11—That LARGE BLOCK OF LAND, presently
occupied by
MESSRS. ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
corner of PITT and GIPPS STREETS, covered with
good 2-story Brick Buildings, excepting the corner
(HORDERN’S REFRESHMENT ROOMS), which is
3-stories high. The frontages are 50ft. ljin. to PITT-
STREET, 230 ft. o£in. to GIPPS-STREET, extending
to 20ft. Lane at rear.
SECTION 1 (as per plan).
LOTS Ito s—At the JUNCTION of GEORGE and PITT
STREETS. Each block has 20ft. frontage to GEORGE-
STREET by through depths to PITT-STREET, double
frontages, excepting Lot 1, which has 27ft. 5-Jin.
frontage, with good frontages also to PITT-STREET,
and the OPEN SPACE facing South (THREE FRONT-
AGES), and ONE OF THE BEST SITES IN SYDNEY,
with Stone and Brick Buildings thereon, occupied by
the ROYAL AMBULANCE SOCIETY, and previously
known as THE LOCKUP.
*** NOTE.—It is proposed to sell the Building Materials
off these Lots, selling the land as vacant land only.
LOT 6—No. Sl2 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
Messrs. Coffill and Co. 24ft. frontage by a depth of
about 83ft. 9fin., next Christ Church, with right-of-
way at rear.
LOT 7—No. 810 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
Messrs. Wood and Company. 19ft. 6£in. frontage,
depth of about 79ft. 6Jin. to right-of-way at rear.
LOT B—No.8 —No. 808 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
the Savings Bank of New South Wales. 19ft. frontage
by a depth of about 85ft. sin. to right-of-way at rear.
LOT 9—No. 806 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied by
Mr. Bass, 19ft. ljin. frontage by a depth of about
91ft. 4in. to right-of-way at rear.
LOT 10—-No. 804 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied
by Mr. Martin, 19ft. 10£in. frontage by a depth of
about 91ft. 4in. on one side and 62ft. 3|in. on the
other, to 10ft. and 20ft. rights-of-way at rear.
LOT 11 —No. 802 GEORGE-STREET, presently occupied
by Mr. Wynne. 18ft. 6£in. frontage by a mean depth
of, say, 55ft. to 20ft. lane at rear.
LOT 12—The Corner BLOCK OF LAND occupied by
Messrs. Osmond, “ THE BUTTONHOLE,” and others.
77ft. frontage to GEORGE-STREET and 65ft. to
RAWSON-PLACE, by a mean depth of, say, 56ft.
4jin., with 20ft. right-of-way at rear. THIS IS A
FINE BLOCK, AT THE CORNER OF GEORGE-
STREET and RAWSON-PLACE.
LOTS 13 to 20 —Each 20ft. frontage to RAWSON-PLACE,
by depths ranging from 48ft. 2in. to 69ft., excepting
Lot 20, which has 14ft. 7|in. frontage to RAWSON-
PLACE and 74ft. fin. to PITT-STREET. All these
Blocks have 20ft. lane at rear.
V THE PROPERTIES EMBRACED IN THIS AREA
(GEORGE, PITT, and GIPPS STREETS) include some
of the very best positions in Sydney, and should com-
mand the attention of
TRUSTEES, CAPITALISTS, BUSINESS MEN, AND
SPECULATORS.
2—The ELIZABETH, NEW CASTLEREAGH
and RANDLE STREETS AREAS.
SECTION 1 (as per Plan). —
LOTS 1 to 24, fronting NEW CASTLEREAGH-STREET
and the TRAMWAY LINE, each 20ft. frontage by
varying depths to 20ft. lane at rear, excepting 5
Blocks of larger frontage, 2 BEING FINE BUSINESS
CORNERS.
SECTION 2 (as per Plan).—
LOTS 1 to 14, fronting ELIZABETH and RANDLE-
STREETS, each about 20ft. frontage by varying
depths to 20ft. lane at rear, EXCEPTING THE TWO
CORNER BLOCKS, WHICH ARE GOOD BUSINESS
SITES.
***THE SALE OF THESE VACANT BLOCKS, SO
CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION AND IN THE
WELL-POPULATED PART OF THE CITY, GIVES AN
EXCEPTIONAL CHANCE FOR THE ERECTION OF
BUSINESS PREMISES AND RESIDENCES.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS ARE NOW READY.
HARDIE & GORMAN
HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO SELL
BY PUBLIC AUCTION
IN CONJUNCTION WITH
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, Ltd., and RATT, ROOD & PURVES, Ltd.,
AT THE SALEROOMS,
133 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AT 11.30 O’CLOCK,
Monday, May 23, 1904
The SURPLUS LANDS of the CENTRAL RAILWAY STATION APPROACHES, as above described.
TERMS One-fourth cash, balance, 1, 2 and 3 years, interest 4 per cent.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS ARE NOW READY.
A Missed Chance.
It is not possible to doubt that the N.S.W. Labor
party, if ft had taken good counsel 12 or even six
months ago, would hold the commanding position
for the coming general elections. ihe See-
Owe’Sullivan Government is thoroughly dis-
credited and with, seemingly, a mournful con-
sciousness of the fact, drifts on to its doom. Mr.
See is away nursing an illness and holding to an
office the duties of which he does not perform,
with a desperation which hints that he knows it
must soon be snatched from him. In his absence the
party, of which he is the head but not the leader, can
do nothing. Under the circumstances, Wise, who
as Acting-Premier has shown a good deal of pro-
mise, might do something, but his hands are tied ;
anything that he might enter upon is liable to be
upset by the real Premier. In Crick the party
has another man of parts —of brilliant parts—Uut
he is quite helpless to declare a policy. The
Ministerial party thus drifts helplessly to wreck.
It embraces practically all the talent of the Parlia-
ment, and, with a firm purpose shown to change
its evil life, the electors might be induced to
remember not its past sins, and trust to it for the
future. But it doesn’t even ask the electors
for confidence ; it just slides. The second party,
that led by Carruthers, is composed chiefly of men
bankrupt of character, devoid of intelligence, and
enslaved to noisome sectarianism. Its professions
of “ Reform ” enthusiasm are not taken seriously
by anybody, because it can’t be induced to
definitely promise to reform anything ; it merely
uses large, balloon-like words about the re-estab-
lishment of true constitutional government, or the
restoration of sound principles, or the rehabilita-
tion of flapdoodle, or something like that. Its
accession to power would be viewed with dis-
may by everybody with an atom of regard for the
reputation of the State. A weak and flabby imi-
tation of the party led by Bent in Victoria, it has
not half of the brute strength of that gang; and, all
other qualities lacking, even Bent’s small measure
of brute strength is something. The most ardent
enemies of the See Government distrust the
Carruthers Opposition, and recognise it as a
party of evasions, platitudes and back numbers.
Their true view of their “great Liberal and
Reform” leader is shown in the fact that they
have tried all sorts of expedients to supplant him ;
poorold Solemn Lee was one of them, JohnStinson
another. With a Government discredited for its
past, discomfited in its campaign for the future,
and with an Opposition equally discredited, almost
equally inept in its appeals to the people and
much inferior in talent, the chance should be for a
third party with no discreditable past and which
could offer something for the future. But there is
no appearance of such a party. The Labor party
might have met the need. Had it, 12 months ago,
put forward some workable plan for ending the
policy of drift and muddle, of debt and extrava-
gance, and given, in the meanwhile, some earnest
of its sincerity, there is not the shadow of a doubt
but that in July a Labor Government would be in
power in New South Wales. But the chance
was missed. In spite of strong urging, the Labor
party refused to come forward as an entirely
different party, a Whole Hog reform party, and it
wanders helplessly to the electors, its fortunes
bound up to a great extent with those of the See-
Owe’Sullivan section. True, it decided to go a
little way along the path of Reform last January
with a set of abstract resolutions which it has
since, seemingly, forgotten, but it baulked at a
Whole Hog policy, and appeared to strive to be
as much as possible a dull grey affair, with a
desire to be nothing striking and to do nothing
out of the way. If it were a bold party, with a
flaunting crimson faith in honesty and self-reli-
ance as an Australian political creed, it would
have now the ball at its feet. Even as things are,
as a party which professes to be only moderately
virtuous and reasonably honest, the N.S.W. State
Labor party will probably do fairly well at the
polls. The discredit of the two other parties, and
the fact that a Federal Labor Government has
come into existence without a single capitalist’s
throat being cut or a single bank closing its doors,
will fight on its behalf. It may come back as
strong as before, or a little stronger than before.
But what is that when it might have won a
majority of the seats and the reins of government ?
Fortune offers to the Labor members a bald noddle
since they refused to grasp her by the forelock.
On the recommendation of its Public
Works Committee, Melbourne Municipal Council
has adopted a proposal for a sick and accident
fund and a retiring allowance scheme for its em-
ployees—both to be built up by contributions from
the Council itself and from the employees. To
provide for any claims which may arise in the near
future before the fund is fairly on its legs the
council has insured 600 employees against accident
for one year.
The claim of Tommy Bent and his crew to
be the friends of the working classes is shown up
as a cheeky lie by the inroads which they are
making on the eight-hour principle in the railway
service. On every platform that Bent has infested
he asserted that he has done more for the “work-
ing classes than all the labor members put
together.” And yet, wherever he can, he is com-
pelling men in the Government service to work
9, 10, and sometimes 12 hours a day. Many of the
engine-men are now doing nine hours a day ; the
men in the Government’s Newport workshops
work over-time at the same rate of pay as for
ordinary time. Also instructions have been issued
to about 20 signal-men that in future they must
put in 10 hours in their boxes. Some of these
boxes are on busy lines, and when a worn-out
signalman pulls the wrong lever !!!
The Mission to Thibet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Colonel Younghusband, the political head of the British
mission to Thibet, has cabled that the Thibetans are now
displaying a most friendly feeling toward the British, and
are freely ordering goods from India.
In old Thibet the praying-wheels were wont to
churn in peace—
The psalm-machines were well-supplied with
water-power and grease.
The Llama used to go to roost secure from fear and
dread,
And Lassa folks, without a qualm, would seek
their nightly bed.
The hairy yak would stalk the hills, and browse
upon the ice,
And no one sent his invoice there nor “ letter of
advice.”
In calm the years of peace revolved, secluded from
the wet,
Till lo ! at last the Deluge came—the Mission To
Thibet!
• * • •
Through Scinde and past the beetling Ghauts a
fearless Bagman went,
When rolling boulders threatened him he muttered
“ Cent per cent! ”
That charm staved off the avalanche, and paralysed
the rock;
And so, at last, at Lassa’s gate the Bagman made
his knock.
The j unior Llama scratched his head, and mumbled
to his Joss,
But harsh the steadfast Bagman yelled, “ Hi,
there—trot out your Boss ! ”
And then the senior Llama came, a prayer-wheel
in his hand,
And quick the Bagman turned on him his stream
of language bland!
He flourished socks and handkerchiefs upon the
Pamir’s crest,
He strove to sell the Dalai-bloke a fancy-patterned
vest.
He waved the haberdashery all British bagmen
wave,
While on the whole performance strange the
Priest gazed grim and grave.
He twirled his midget prayer-machine, and
solemnly said he—
“ Oh, Bagman Khan, we do not need your haber-
dashery,
We’re satisfied” —but here he stopped, and won-
dered where to run —
The Bagman from his sample-box had taken out a
gum.
“ It works like this,” the Bagman said, and then a
distant yak
Fell down with twenty bits of lead embedded in
its back.
The Llama dropped his scripture-wheel, and
mumbled in the dust—
“ If you declare that we must trade, why, then,
we simply must !
Send twenty thousand handkerchief five million
boxer hats;
Send up four tons of anchovies, and six em-
broidered mats;
Send up a case of razor-strops, or their equiva-
lent.”
Then did the bagman chant again his watchword
“Cent per cent !”
And so it comes those monks neglect their distant
praying mills
Within the wilds of old Thibet, and scan their
monthly bills !
The psalm-machines, for lack of grease, have
ceased to churn remarks
Unto the misty Deities who dwell where Sirius
barks.
The bailiff soon in Lassa-town will leave his beery
trail,
And on that ancient, dreamy land the commerce
curse will hail.
The senior Llama goes to roost in worried mood,
you bet,
For the Bagman took a rifle with his samples to
Thibet l
GRANT HERVEY.


The N.S.W. Lacrosse Association’s annual
meeting at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday was an
interesting show, but the public stayed away with en-
thusiasm. Even the deadhead ticket-holders failed to
turn up, and only the friends and best girls of the per
formers seemed to be present. The programme deserved
a better recognition. Lacrosse seems to exercise its
votaries as much as football would, without endangering
their necks or exposing them to the risk of having pounds
of meat kicked off them. Rugby, as played in Sydney, i s
Sick Headache
Cured by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
When the food is improperly digested and
becomes clogged in the intestines, sick headache is
almost sure to follow. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills strike at the cause aiding digestion—cleansing
the system and making the stomach clean and
pure. They assist Nature in the discharge of all
her functions, increase the appetite, produce sound
sleep and give elasticity to the spirits. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a permanent cure
for all diseases arising from a disordered condition
of the stomach, liver and kidneys. They purify
the blood and make it rich and red, and are a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.
Packed in amber bottles, and sold throughout
Australasia.*
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL,
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTEUfn!f„ D E ".ri; s J:
RESCH'S SELECT STOCK ALE... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES; DOWLING ST., REDEERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
R. S. Sievier, alias Bob Sutton, was the first
to start the cash-betting- system in Adelaide. He arrived
in the early eighties with lots of cheek, good looks, a
loud, voice, and louder clothes—checks that shrieked at
you in divers tones. Bookmakers didn’t yell in saddling-
paddocks those days. You got at them, and vice versd,
through Tattersall’s Club. Tattersall’s Club wasn’t
taking any of Bob Sutton. That didn’t matter a cent to
Bob. Armed with a huge bag, he betook himself to East
Adelaide racecourse the day of a big race-meeting, and
began to yell “ I want to lay 1 I want to lay ! ” The
cackling attracted a crowd. Desperately long odds he
laid for a start, and, with the luck of Nick’s own, soon
acquired wealth and notoriety. Later he took on a clerk
to jot down bettings. One day at Morphetville he lost
heavily, and the vultures came swooping for their pick-
ings. But the clerk with the bag (empty) was kept dis-
creetly out of the way. Sutton, with a “ Now then,
gentlemen—keep calm ; can’t part up till the man comes
back with the bag-. D—n him ! Don’t waste time. Any
bets for next? Six to one the favorite,” managed to fill
up the interval. Next race his wonderful luck was in
again. Sievier scooped the pool, and blandly invited his
creditors of the previous race to hand in their tickets, as
“ the clerk had now returned with the bag.”
* * * *
The bookmakers were for once able to point out,
over the Adelaide Oup, that they had laid 50 to 1 against
one or two outsiders the evening before the race, whereas
£27 was the most the totalisator could have paid. On
the other hand, Moses had some money in the bag over
three horses that were scratched on the morning of the race,
whereas the machine gives everyone a run for his money.
Where the tote really shows worst is in small fields with a
hot favorite running. Consecutive dividends on the
Goodwood Handicap day were £1 11s., £1 75., £1 25., and
£1 Is., the last a record for smallness, paid on F. J.A.’s St.
Leger. The tickets taken out for F. J.A. were 742 against
142 on the other four starters, or about sto 1. But when
£BB commission had been deducted from the total £BB4
(three-fourths of this goes to the club, and one-fourth, by
a recent Act, to the State), there was only £796 left to
pay out, or over 21s. 6d. on each winning ticket. Now
the machine never pays fractions of a shilling, reserving
them, by general consent, for a Disabled Jockeys’ Fund
and other charities. And the difference between eighteen,
pence and a shilling, as a return for a pound, is a
difference.
* * S *
Tattersall’s Welter Handicap at Randwick,
Saturday, introduced a promising three - year - old in
Tartan, half-brother, by Lochiel, to Australian Star and
Australian Colors. Backed from twenties down to fives
and fours, he made a bold bid, but was just beaten for
second place. Tartan belongs to Mr. F. Foy and was
bred'to English time, which places him at a disadvantage
of some months with others his age. Judged on Satur-
day’s showing, Tartan should more than pay for his oats
ere long, and is worth having an eye on.
* * * *
Randwick trainer-owner, Sam Fielder, has some-
thing out of the ordinary in Lamrock—a nag that can
win hurdle and flat races in good company. Lamrock,
after gathering a couple of events on the flat, won first
hurdle race at recent A.J.C. autumn meet. A day or
two later he dead-heated for second hurdles at same
meeting. Also finished third in big thing of Sydney Turf
Club meet at Randwick last Saturday week, and Saturday
last at Tattersall’s yearly fixture, won the big money
(Winter Stakes) of the programme well.
* ♦ * *
Melbourne Sportsman expired peacefully last
week, after writing its own death notice. Fifteen years
ago, and for a long time later, the Sportsman must have
been a pretty good property. It was a pink paper, pub-
lished at threepence in its palmy days. Ikey Mo’s advts.
were scattered freely among its columns, and a number
of feeble contributors repaid Ikey by buttering him
individually and collectively. Then the people of Victoria
lost a lot of their enthusiasm for the turf, and the
“ odds ” were published in vain during the “ off ” seasons,
and the demand for misleading “tips” became beauti-
fully less. A small penny rival, the Sporting Judge,
began to cut into the Sportsman’s waning connection,
and there came a sad Tuesday when the old threepenny
organ of Ikey was reduced to Id. Now it is no more.
The other penny rag has absorbed the Sportsman.
**- * *
Commenting on the appearance of Sport Royal
at the V.R.C. Autumn meeting, where the Westralian
nag ran unsuccessfully, a Bulletin par suggested that he
was a likely outsider for Sydney Cup. Sport Royal was
scratched for Sydney Cup, but he proved good enough to
win Adelaide Cup last week, in record time. Like most of
Malvolio’s stock, Sport Royal is built on stylish lines—not
very showy, but attractively racing-like. As a 3-year-old
in Victoria the gelding couldn’t win a race. During the
next two or three years he earned his corn in the West,
but since his return to his native Victoria, in February
last, trainer Hickenbotham has made a new horse of Sport
Royal. It is a lamentable fact that somebody who had
the luck to draw the good thing in a Tatt.’s sweep was
foolish enough to thrust a bit of his luck upon the stable.
This is how other stables are encouraged to demand a share
of the sweep chances as a “right.” A Juggins stands a
99,999 to 1 chance of a winning ticket in Tatt.’s, and when
he has pulled off a ticket that looks like a winning chance,
his first idea is to discount his luck by making terms with
the stable. As though the stable, having got a horse fit
to win a big stake, would be such a fool as not to have
a go without the extra inducement of a bribe.
* * * *
“W.F.E. ” in answer to “Deeby” (May 5) re
Polo: “Deeby” must have a very limited knowledge of
the game, and the only occasion that he saw it must have
been a “ knock up ” practice by some very raw amateurs.
To commence with, the players of polo are not generally
“snobs,” but “sports.” If “Deeby” loves the horse as
he says, does he object to racing ? Polo ponies are minia-
ture racehorses thoroughly trained to stand the exertion,
and, after all, a game is no longer to them than a race—
two 10-minute “spells” being all a pony does, at most
twice a week. And he thoroughly enjoys it. -I have a
pony myself who will follow the ball without a bridle,
turning and twisting as the ball is hit. Would he do that
if he was not fond of it ? A trained pony ridden by a
player is seldom hit on the leg, which is well'covered with
leather bandages in any case. In conclusion, it is the
best game known, embracing riding, racing, football,
golf, cricket. It requires more hard work from the man
than from the pony, as there is only one man and
generally three ponies to play the game, which has been
handed down thronghgenerations as the acme of “game
science.’ 1
* * * *
Though yet only a syr.-old (a time when most
others are at their best) whilom high-class sprinter Ibex
shows very much in the light of a “ has been.” Reasons
assigned for his upset in S.T.O. May Stakes Saturday
week, when backers sent him out a hot first choice, were
many, and all admitted there must have been something
wrong, as that wasn’t near Ibex’s form, consequently with
only 9.7 up in Flying Handicap at Tatt.’s meet Saturday
last he looked fairly choice goods. The thing would have
been a “moral” for him a season 'or two ago. Ibex
stripped capitally to the eye, but, in the race, and opposed
tp-certainly not a first-class lot, he cut a sorry figure after
the home turn, and never had a look in with Camira, who
streaked away from him at a great clip. Ibex was com-
pletely out of it at the death.
* * * *
Fragments from last meeting of Tatura (Vic.)
R.C. It was resolved not to join the newly-formed
Murray River Association. One speaker advocated intro-
ducing the tote. “It might purify things, but associa-
tions were useless ; swindling was done under the eyes of
officials, and could not be prevented.” “It was worse
this year at Tatura than ever,” said another. “Every
race meeting he attended he left more and more dis-
gusted.” A third remarked that he “ hoped no officer of
the club would back horses, and anyone who did so and
sat on a protest ought to be expelled. A circumstance at
the last race meeting absolutely shocked him.” A fourth
told that “the conduct of the bookmakers was scan-
dalous. Members of the club who betted should be
immediately asked to resign.”
JOHN CARKEEK, THE WRESTLER.
Photo, by Rembrandt Studios, Adams’ Chambers,
485 George-street, Sydney.
Alleged and evidently pronounced non-stayer
(judged by showings in previous events), Camira, came
very much out of his shell in two races (Farewell and
Flying Handicaps, 6fur.) at successive S.T.O. and Tatt.’s
meetings. Heavily backed, he gathered both deci-
sively, and as if an increased journey would have made
little difference to him. Remarkable how suddenly some
horses come on at times, and how nicely stable money
anticipates the improvement.
* * * *
Concerning recent cable that a son of the Earl
of Jersey had won considerable coin at Monte Carlo, Lon-
don Sportsman tells that Lord Yilliers had a remarkable
run of luck. He got away with £82,000 first, and a friend
did his best to persuade him to send it to England and
come away at once ; but young Jersey was obdurate. He
had won so much, why shouldn’t he win more ? The
friend, disgusted, left; and Yilliers spread himself out
again and scooped £BOOO more.
♦ * * *
Race between Tresidder and Towns for world’s
sculling supremacy is now assured, and will be fixed up
this week-end. Delay occurred through Towns endeavor-
ing to get his £5OO stake beforehand, and a Sydney publi-
can came to the rescue with the comparatively small
balance that seemed harder to find than the bulk of the
coin. Spectacle of a world’s champion sculler going round
begging for backing is new to the sporting world ; usually
there’s someone willing to put the money up straightway.
The challenger seems to have had no trouble at all over
the matter, which indicates how most people size up
possibilities. Years ago, in sculling’s boom days, £5OO
would have been subscribed over and over again for a
world’s champion without the asking, and the subscribers
would have considered it a favor to be in the bet. What
a falling off 1 -
* * * *
Victorian football season was initiated amid
serious troubles, and eventually the Permit Committee
stepped in with much-needed measures framed with a
view to suppressing the veiled professionalism that has
become rampant. It set to work to checkmate pirate
clubs desirous of seducing the stars in the possession of
their rivals. The new rule provides that no player who
has played with a league club or clubs in other States
during previous three years shall be granted a permit to
play with any league team, unless he can produce a
clearance from his old club. The reference to other States
was necessitated by the growing practice of “ birds of
passage ” going to the West, playing for a season, and
then returning to Victoria to play for the club offering the
highest inducement. The proposal to check this game
etoked strong dissent from one section, whose secretaries
had used “strictly moral suasion” on sundry valuable
players, and who objected to a change of rules being made
at the commencement of the season. Other delegates
expressed regret that the rule could not be made retro-
spective. The most striking result so far has been the
refusal of a permit to Monogle, the newly-elected captain
of Melbourne South, he having done the usual wander to
the West. If the permit people have the pluck to keep
going there is a prospect of the game becoming almost
respectable.
* * * *
At the beginning of the season N.S.W. Rugby-
Union subscribed £25 to a Sydney hospital, and so
great has been the damage that already footballers
have had most of the worth of it in attendance,
patches, and medical aid. Considering the work the
sport gives the hospitals, the clubs should certainly agree
to a gate tax of Jd. on eygry person paying for admission,
deadheads to pay 3d. as a special tax. Saturday last,
somewhere about 20,000 people watched football in Syd-
ney, and a £d. tax per head would have yielded £4O odd.
* * * *
The chief excitement in Rugby football last
Saturday was the match between University and Newtown
at University Oval. Thirteen thousand people paid to
watch it and shouted directions to the players to “ kick
’is ’ead in.” Occasionally, as some popular player was
sent trundling heels over head for a dozen yards or so,
some large mouth would open and breathe forth language
which entitled the owner to three months’ cheap lodging
at least. The game was. needlessly rough, but the play
was superior to anything writer had seen this season.
Both teams made good passing rushes, and dribbling and
line kicking were distinctly good. Newtown was beaten
by 12 to nil solely through the poor quality of the back
play. The backs were painfully slow ; they failed to get
away with the ball, and took so long over their picking
up that the Uni. forwards were down on them in a heap
before they could get off pace. Consequence was that
when the game was three parts over the .Newtown for-
wards were exhausted, and the Uni., still going strong
scored rapidly. The Newtown forwards played by far the
better game, and had they been properly seconded by
their backs the scores would probably have been reversed.
The most equal match of the afternoon was that
between Glebe and Eastern Suburbs, when the Suburbs
went under with three points to Glebe’s five. From start
to finish it was anybody’s game, and raged all over the
field. Glebe’s backs show big improvement, but on the
Suburbs’ side the improvement seems to be limited to the
forwards, the backs proving very weak in defence.
Western Suburbs and North Sydney drew with eio-ht
points each after an exciting tussle. South Sydney
blotted out Balmain, kicking up 20 points, while the Bal-
mainers failed to score. Strangest feature of the day’s play
was the utter absence of any attempt to score by potting
goals. Some excellent line-kicking- was indulged in, and
showed that every team has men capable of potting goals
at long range. Had Newtown backs been smarter they
might have scored in that fashion over and over a»-ain
after their forwards had rushed the Uni. well back inside
the 25 line ; but it was never done, and the Uni.
escaped by forcing. When the Englishmen come N.S.W
will receive a rude awakening on that score.
* * * *
The unregenerate pro. ped. N.S.W. Athletic
League, newly-formed for the purpose of “lifting" pro-
fessional running, held its first meeting at Sydney Sports
Ground two nights last week, but the runner was at his
old games as busily as ever. Non-triers were thick and
strong. One heat was declared “no race,” and all five
starters disqualified for three months. Attendance on
second wasn’t half that of first night, and yet the finals
were to be decided, and a second big handicap run right
through. What looked like a probable boom has been
badly pricked already.
* * * *
The proposal of N.S.W. Amateur Athletic
Association to send Dick Cavill and Nigel Barker, to
represent Australia at the St. Louis Exhibition Games,
is one that cannot be too strongly condemned. Possibly
a rabid freetrader like Dugald Thomson, the newly elected
vice-president of the Association, may have some va°me
idea that in some mysterious manner it may benefit “ com-
merce” ; or he maybe even able to justify it on the strength
of some obscure maundering of Cobden’s when the prophet
was half seas over ; but as far as physical development in
this country is concerned, the export of Australian
athletes can serve no useful purpose. We don’t want to
encourage young men to go in for athletics that they may
eventually be sent globe-trotting at public expense, but
that wholesome exercise may enable them to grow up with
sane minds in healthy bodies and make good, independent
citizens. This export business threatens to produce a
huge crop of sporting parasites, travelling round the world
in search of prizes and medals while living on the charity
of other people. The athlete who wants to gather in
foreign prizes should go abroad at his own expense.
* * * *
Huge Dutchman Harry Placke, who, long ago,
swam long distances off M.L. coast, and came to Sydney
to swim from Circular Quay to Manly, and do other mad
things if the police allowed him, but they wouldn’t,
did a madder thing, without anv interference, when
he fought Queensland giant Dick Barker at Foley’s
Athletic Hall, Woollahra. He was an inmate of Sydney
Hospital for weeks, most of the time unconscious, as a result
of that punching. Trying his hand at the bruising biz
again in Philadelphia recently, he got another unmerci-
ful thumping from light heavyweight Kid M‘Coy, which
rendered him a gruesome spectacle, till police interference
prevented absolute slaughter. The thing was over inside
four minutes, and Placke went back to his well-beloved
Amsterdam. In Sydney, Placke, Oft. sin., was the “little
fellow ” when opposed to Barker, 6ft. llin.
»** ' *
How professed judges differ ! Recent middle-
weight champion pug of Australia, Arthur Cripps, left
these parts endorsed as a forefront fighter, but no great
shakes as a boxer. Landing in London, he was tried out
and found so much wanting that he couldn’t get a purse.
Next the Australian betook himself to ’Murka, where he
landed in March, and, a few days later, was tested with a
known good man, whom he settled inside two rounds,
and New York’s onlooking sports labelled him the best
pug article that had invaded Yankeedom in recent years.
Cripps beat Soldier Thompson twice in Sydney.
* * * *
This long-suffering country has lately been the
dupe of the brassy Yank with a smattering of pugilism
and an alleged record, who introduces himself suddenly
with a bow as “ Icicle Ike,” or “ Torpedo Teddy,” the re-
nowned American smasher, and issues a challenge through
his nose at the “best yew’ve got in these hyar parts.”
Then the expectant fool-public pays high prices to see the
bounding stranger knocked out in two rounds by a husky
local man of moderate account, and it yells “ fake 1” like-
wise “ robbery ! ” and glares and talks severely over its
beer. But it rolls up again to the next “ fight ” that is
merely a benefit for a broken-down has-been or
a never-was from the shifty land where he
who asks for a nutmeg receiveth a piece of wood.
Chief among these pug wild-cats have been “Kid”
Parker, wiped out by Snowy Sturgeon in a couple of
rounds ; Jack Grace, beaten by Geo. Johns in a round and
a half ; Lundy, squelched by Blaekmore in three rounds ;
and now Al. Neill knocked out by Soldier Jack Thompson
in a round and a hit—though his case was more
or less accidental. The bright exception of recent
times was Scanlan, who proved himself a good second-
rater. Each of these men was announced as a champion
in his class in America. So hath the screaming Eagle
been made to appear as a moulty and squawky hen,
whose tail is ignominiously dragged in the mud of a
strange country.
» * * *
Al. Neill, the Californian with the white, girlish
bust, soon recovered from the mighty concussion on the
nose which ended his fight with Soldier Thompson at
Sydney National Sporting Club. 4 On the following Mon-
day night he fought E. Williams, of Port Melbourne, in
the southern capital, and after 12 rounds of artistic
slugging the local man’s seconds fluttered his household
linen, Williams being incapable of rising from his chair.
The condition of the Californian appears to have been as
deplorable as ever, but his opponent lacked the hitting
power of Thompson, and the Yankee got a chance to dis-
play his beautiful evolutions. Neill is what is known as a
“ pretty fighter,” and his side steps and ducks are as
graceful as a minuet. His left is not “ dirty,” but beauti-
ful as the arm movement of the Abyssinian maid in Cole-
ridge’s opium dream, and gives the idea that Neill has
practised many, many hours before a full length mirror.
His guards make one think of some little Jappy geisha
waving the flies off with a pair of fans, nevertheless they
are effective—Thompson’s blow was a sheer accident—
against vicious hooks and swings ; Neill’s blows, though
they fall as easily as the soft spring rain, soak in just as
thoroughly and break the enemy up. The only vicious
looking blow in Neill’s cabinet of graces (’twould be sacri-
lege to speak of Neill’s “ bag of tricks ”) is a right-handed
swing on the jaw which carries cold oblivion to the man
who stops it. This writer believes that Neill, in spite of
his prettiness, will, provided he can be got into condition,
about which there seems some doubt, break up every
welter-weight in Australia, and wipe the floor with some
of the middlemen. To see him perform is better than
watching a skirt-dance any day.
* » * *
The Shaw-Green bantam scrap at Sydney Golden
Gate, Saturday night, was a lively illustration of the fact
that Napoleon Bonaparte was speaking of pugs when he
remarked that the best defence was to be the attacking
party. Shaw seemed to have the most skill, but Green,
rushing in, smote him hard and often, and kept Shaw so
busy defending himself that he hadn’t time to make a
counter attack. Only in one round did Shaw get a chance
to assume the offensive, and then Green wobbled worse
than George Keid ever did. Realising his danger, Green
rushed things at full speed for the rest of the fight till, in
the eighth round, he landed a heavy left on Shaw’s jaw,
and the latter gentleman’s towel flew skyward. This
faculty for fighting a better offensive than defensive battle
is not peculiar to pugs, but belongs also to tigers, wolves,
bull-dog ants, &c.
* * * #
The Foran who walloped Silver at Sydney
Gaiety Athletic Club, on Saturday night, is not Harry of
that ilk—the man who used to talk what he called “ Con-
stitutional Law and History ” in Sydney Domain.
Don Walker’s appearance at the world’s cham-
pionship meeting, at the Crystal Palace, London, will be
at the expense of the Canada Cycle and Motor Co. Ltd.,
and not that of the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co., as pre-
viously stated.
* * * *
Baseball is taking root in Sydney. On Satur-
day last no less than four first and two second grade
matches were played in Sydney; and the players were
not all Yankees.
not a poor man’s game, and no one who has to live on his
weekly earnings, or has anyone dependent upon him, can
afford to play it. It is a game exclusively for well-to-do
B gentlemen to whom three months in a private
al means nothing worse than the loss of their daily
motor drive. Writer once played football in Seddon’s
land and took no thought for the morrow, although men
got hurt occasionally there ; but the way it is roughed in
Sydney someone must get hurt, and it isn’t good enough.
* * * * °
Final of rink bowling supremacy of N.S.W.,
between Chatswood and Ashfield fours, captained by
Messrs. Young and Moses respectively, was decided on
Waverley green, Saturday. Contrary to expectations,
Chatswood went to the front from the beginning, and
stayed there. When Chatswood had 23 Ashfield had only
9, but in the next six heads they notched 12 to Chats-
wood’s 3. In the end Chatswood won with 7to the good,
29 —22. In one head the ultimate winners credited
themselves wdth 6of a possible 8. Points scored by and
against the winning quartette right through the competi-
tion show a surplus of 77 ; they defeated Gladstone Park
four by 3, Redfern 21, Balmain 25, City 21, and Ashfield 7.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The Australian Home Journal (2/5/’O4) presumably
tried to say that the “ Marriage of Kitty” was “ pursuing
its course” in Adelaide, but the compositor fiend made it
read “ proving a curse,” and then the heavens fell. The
compositor has a rich fund of humor, and his mistakes are
mostly cheerful. In a recent Bulletin par about the late
Duke of Cambridge and his relations it was mentioned
that a lady had been a columbine in early life, and the
compositor made two manful efforts to set it up as
“concubine.”
A young actor who has made a hit by his rendering of
a minor part in “The Darling of the Gods” is quite a
novice on the stage. He was lately rescued from a life of
ribbon-selling in a big Melbourne chiffon shop.
Draycott, who plays the part of the Husband in the
“Marriage of Kitty,” is an enthusiastic botanist, and
spent most of his leisure hours in Adelaide investigating
strange vegetables at the Botanical Gardens. In this
respect he somewhat resembles Titheradge, “ whose
heart was with his daffodils way down in Ascot Vale.”
One-night revival of “ Lady of Lyons,” at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, recalls that it was in this play that Irving
achieved his record. He was up in Scotland, “The Lady”
was announced, and not a single soul turned up to hear
him.
Bad luck for Annette Kellermann to meet with an acci-
dent on her first appearance as “ leading lady ” at a
theatre. In the Coogee scene of Bland Holt’s drama she
turned backward somersaults into a tank dozens of times
without a mishap, but when she attempted the same feat
in her “ farewell ” entertainment, at Melbourne Bijou,
t’other Saturday, something went wrong with the diving
platform, and the bonny brown water-nymph was dropped
into the tank so helplessly that her head struck the
bottom. It was her first and last performance for the
night. When the stage-manager announced that Miss K.
had, unfortunately dropped out of the entertainment,
there was a chorus of youthful voices from the amphi-
theatre, “ Gi’ us our money back.” The interest taken in
champions by young “ sports ” of the barracking class is
not a very sympathetic interest. If the girl had hurt her-
self it was her trouble, but if she was too much hurt to
reappear it was their trouble, and they wanted their coin.
“ Melb.”: Theatre proprietors are hit between wind
and water by the Board of Health’s ukase. Why not
begin with the old churches ? Not a word can be wonned
into a Melbourne paper about their hideous unsafety.
The two examples that stick out most are St. Francis’
and Wesley Church, both in Lonsdale-street. It makes
you shiver to notice how long a large congregation takes
in coming out of those places. The porch at St.
Francis’ is a death-trap. Wesley church has rickety old
wooden staircases, which would flame up like tinder.
The Melbourne Athenaeum Hall is another shocking place,
with only one door of exit, and a long passage.
Dobler, the wizard, had for his great feat the decapita-
tion of a man. He used to appeal for somebody to come
forward, but would quickly say, “Ah ! Nobody will take
the risk, so I must decapitate my assistant.” He could
only do the feat with a confederate. One night, in a
French town, the mayor came forward, and insisted on
being decapitated. A riot ensued, and Dobler had to
return the money.
The recent discomfiture of Bob Sutton
Sievier in an English law court was made all the
more trying for Bob by the “loyal” drivel of the
judge who heard the libel case. A few of the
plaintiff’s shady dealings in Australia and England
came to light; also the evidence showed that his
presentation at a Royal levee (Holy smoke!)
was officially cancelled when the Lord Chamber-
lain heard of his having punched Lord Deerhurst’s
nose in a Melbourne pub. Sievier’s awful pre-
sumption in nearly being presented at a levee
was the point that pierced deepest into the soul of
Judge Grantham, last week. His Honor, after
summing-up the various blackguardisms of the
adventurous plaintiff, said that “ Queen Victoria
would rather have given up the throne of England
than be addressed by such a man.” Seeing that
Y.R. during her long reign was addressed by
hundreds of titled rascals and contemptible
bounders who lacked even the physical gift of
good looks, and by two or three royal murderers
of the worst description, the judge’s reference to
the old lady and her Throne call for only one brief
comment— ‘ ‘ Rats ! ” The Bulletin’s disreputable
old friend Bob was seemingly too much broken iip
to say “Rats.” He merely wept on the floor
of the court.


The Happiest Folks
V''
jail
u
*
MATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE"
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
are those who always dis-
cover the pleasant way of
doing things. They are the
happiest who have found out
that the pleasantest and
surest way of curing
Indigestion, Head-
ache, Biliousness,
Dizziness,
and other ills arising from
HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION
is to take California Syrup
of Figs, whose gentle laxative
effects are seconded by its
valuable tonic and strength-
ening effects upon the sluggish organs.
Ask for California Syrup of Figs. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIAN FIQ SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, England.
DIABETIC
Patients will hear of
something: to their ad-
vantage by writing: to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY.
RED BIRD
BICYCLES
?
Sherrin and Gilbert Footballs.
Nicholl’s Special Golf Clubs and Balls,
Egg and Pear-shaped Striking: Bags.
Corbett Boxing Gloves.
Tennis Balls.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Ltd., 357 George St., Sydney.
.TXT T
"Discovery Antarctic” No, 1 Series of Post Cards,
WE have pleasure in informing the public that we have secured at a tremendous cost to
ourselves, the right of producing these wonderful pictures taken on the spot by officers
of the “ Discovery.” Pictures represented are as follows :
“ Discovery ” Alongside the Barrier.
Page’s Dog- “ Gus.”
Head of Sea Leopard.
The Antartic Company in “ The Ticket of Leave.”
Start of the Southern Depot Party.
Ice Kidge, Seal Bay.
Armitage’s Party.
Sledging Expedition.
Seal Bay
Ski Flat Race.
Emperor Penguin Rookery.
Captain’s Sledge Party.
The Whole Series Post Free to any Address for Is.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., 861 George-street,
79 ELIZABETH-STREET. 53 PITT-jTREET.
All Branches and Booksellers.
L SUITS
to Measure
WITH EXTRA PAIR OP TROUSERS
Unequalled In the World
1000 Pattern# Post Pree
IOiOffCUIORINCDM
Opposite GeneralPostOffice
MEbBO U RftiE
ft
My Gum) My mate got a Suit] from them coves,
its just like that, and £ measured '»n> toot
measure aad cay 42-hloomirl' -bob goes to-day»
and
My
ETC
m
LUJ
m\
I'l'l
cm
itn
□. j in
mm-m-gri
1?0R the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis* King: Street Coffee Palace,”
Situated at 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
offi ce- Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
“TIVOLI MUSIC ALBUM,” »
(WINTER NUMBER). JUST PUBLISHED.
CONTAINS— “Hiawatha” (4 large pages), “Zulu
Every Nigger,” “ Doris Dear,” and 20 American
Hits for One Shilling. <2T All Music and Booksellers.
SNARPSHOOTIN6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
W. W. Creener’s New Miniature Club
Rifles, 310 and 297/230. The Best Hi lies
on the market for Kangaroo Shooting
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
W. W. Greener’s well-known Guns, Match
Rifles, &c., Reloading Tools for 310
Rifles. A large stock on hand.
Catalogues on application.
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne!
(Greener’s Representative)
If you like a Book that is pure fun
from cover to cover, buy
TWELVE EX-TANK TALES
(First published in the New York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable, Price 3S. 6d.
American.
POST
PAID.
Dymock’s Book Arcade, 428 George=st., Sydney.
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
U
E
E
N
THE “WATSON” SUIT
Every worker who cannot afford the cash nor time for a suit to measure,
should send for one of our famous Pure Indigo Blue Soft Serge Suits.
“ The Watson ” at 30s.
Any size, carriage free.
We’ve called it this because, like its namesake,
it possesses all the good qualities that make it
appreciated by every working man, be he a
bushman or an office clerk.
Shoulders built broad, flaps on pockets,
hair-cloth through fronts, ensuring perfect and
permanently smooth fit.
Money back if anything wrong about our
clothing.
y es YOU are the man that needs one.
Send for it to-day. ;
Our next mail-order competition closes
July 30th.
OWN/^
CUTV>CyANO
mm-wwtm
u«i 1 wUnrumpn’
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
* •
I WILLIAMS’
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
m
[s»■*
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
Enqlish Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
Sydney Morning Herald is jubilant
because “Flinders” Nelson has ceased to be a
Ministerialist. The Flinders man ceased to sup-
port the See Ministry because it kept him waiting
on the door-mat for something and didn’t give
it him then. At least that’s the Why put forward
by Mr. Nelson; and it is the Why which explains
nearly all the recent defections from the Minis-
terial ranks.
Some curious mews drifts across from
Fremantle (W. A.) about the methods of the Barton
and Deakin Governments. The importation of con-
tract labor is prohibited in the Commonwealth, yet
Italian contract laborers were pouring into Wes-
tralia, and people wondered why. It now appears
that the Customs official at Fremantle never ques-
tioned the immigrants. He simply asked the
purser if he had any contract immigrants on board ;
the purser said he hadn’t—and the matter ter-
minated. Possibly the same affable official, if he
saw 42 coal-black Ashantees on deck, would just
as cheerfully accept the purser’s assurance that all
his passengers were white. An excess of affability
seems to have prevailed all round in the West. -
Victorian Standing Committee on Railways
got some light on the great land-gamble industry,
lately, when getting evidence as to a line asked
for from Beech Forest to Birregurra. Speculators
who had taken up blocks along what they reckoned
the likeliest routes —at £1 an acre, payable in 20
years—had in some cases actually refused £4 or £5
an acre for the timber rights alone. Some “ selec-
tors ” admitted they were only holding till the line
came, when they reckoned to get up to £lO an
acre. Commissioner Tait, foreseeing a loss on
working expenses, reported adversely,, so they are
likely to wait.
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS will brace up the nerves, banish sick
headache, prevent despondency, and invigorate
the whole system. Much easier to take than
pills.*
The “packing” of N.S.W. Deform Leagues
formed for the selection of the Carruthers candi-
dates is open and shameless. One engineer failed
badly, however. He got names of electors to the
number of over 700 ready for the selection meet-
ing. Walking up to the secretary, he planked
down his own cheque for £35 odd, to make them
members, but the chairman ruled the names were
not in order, as they had not been enrolled by the
secretary.
Melbourne Chamber of Manufacturers has
just elected its president, vice, and council for the
year, and, as usual, the former’s address consisted
of a vain bellow about socialistic legislation,
arbitration, and so forth. The president, by
the way, is an oilmaker in a medium way ; vice-
presidents, a dyer and a shirtmaker; while the
council contains a buggy cushion manufacturer, a
galvaniser, a mirror-maker, a blacking constructor,
and a few other trifling factory owners. The
really big employers seem to fight shy of the
organisation. By the way, £ £ Smith is on the
council, though what he manufacturers, except an
improvement in the innards of the young man who
doesn’t feel well (“ £1 is enough to send”), heaven
only knows.
and
fitted
with
T
3
DUNLOP RUBBER
HEELS TOO!"
Have You Tried a Pair V
If not, do no at once. The result
will surprise you. Accept nothing
but Dunlop Brand. All Leading 800 l Shops
▼ Me O U N L O.P TV RC COMPANY
UiMUMi eocuuot. riant biiibui cko
"■ -■> -- QMaiftvoMuaoit. a.a.
N S.W. Depot:
150 Clarence St., Sydney;
Dunlop Rubber Heels
have a solid reputation
for Durability and Comfort


THE PIPE OF PEACE.
VHARBIH.
K
y
f K TIh
A N C- H (/* R /) A
V ts*
MUKDEN
V/
V f
KIR
4
Qp £ A r
Q/
SADO /.
C.NOTO „
H-
*ll/
NEWCHWAN
/V
/G*.
PEKIN
\
bay
y <S*s> dtMoALNY * 0
TE/NTS/N v \ V
TTAKU V PnnT ARTHUR _>
pW/4 SMK4
WAKSA BY
•v.*—-*./V
CHEMULPO o«£ ~
]/fd/ >/ PORTARTHUR
CULF OF PE CHIL6
In <—■''’-*» WE/HAFWE!
<o
(Js
n •
Sv'l? w 'li^Tf*^
VV
CHIFU
>N
TSUWAKO
\
KIAU CHAU
YELLOW
• o*
SEA 0
JFUSAN
tt 0
QUELPART NACASAK/W\
HA!CHAU
i/f
BUNCO STRAIT
When angry men get fighting, and when nations go to war,
It only shows what idiots those men and nations are;
lt*s betterfar(unless you’re sure the other chap can’t fight)
To never strike a fellow-man; but merely strike a light.
It s always more effectual than soldiery or p’flce
To gather round thecouncll fireand smoke the pipe of peace
And nations will not go to war, nor men each other knock,
Who smoke thesoothingcalumet, that’s filled with “Havelock”
A notice in N.S.W. railway carriages tells
passengers in an off-hand way to “ break the glass
and press the button to communicate with the
guard.” It is understood that this is only to be
done if some great necessity arises for stopping
the train, and that there are heavy penalties for
frivolous breakage, but the notice says nothing
about that. It seems rather to imply that if the
passenger feels lonely he can break the glass and
press the button with a view to having a pleasant
chat with the guard about current topics. This
insufficiency of comment on the part of the notice
got one Major Walters out of serious trouble at
Parramatta Police-court a few days ago. He
accepted the friendly invitation to break and
press because he wanted to get out, and the court
held that the notice should be more explicit, and
not so foolishly affable.
William John Smith caught a cold in his head,
But he treated his feet for the trouble instead ;
O, quaint is the humor, but sad is the tale,
For consumption consumed him, and he died
without fail.
But happy Tom Jones, when afflicted was he,
By wisdom was guided, as doubtless you’ll see,
In treating his ailments so speedy and sure,
With doses of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The effrontery of the Victorian “man on
the land,” who gets public money expended on
water schemes to improve his property and wants
to charge them to the city worker, is absolutely
immeasurable. Last year, when the drought was
on, the men on the land around Swan Hill,
Ultima and other places out from the Murray
River, clamored for a water scheme known as the
Long Lake Pumping Scheme. Irvine and Bent,
being terrible anti-socialists, of course agreed to
carry out the work. The cost was to be £27,000
and the men on the land agreed to allow their
acres to be rated for the purpose of providing
working expenses, interest and maintenance. This
year there have been good rain falls, and the
water from the Long Lake scheme will not be so
much required. Thereupon the men on the land
—the counter-parts of those eminently respect-
able firms in the city who defrauded the customs
and admit taking secret commissions in the butter
trade—flocked to Melbourne to ask the Govern-
ment not to put the rate of 2d. an acre on their
land as arranged, and to relieve them of all
liability, except for the few gallons of water that
they might use during the year. They also asked
that the distributing channels, which they had
agreed to construct themselves, should be paid for
out of the general taxpayers’ fund. Minister
Swinburne did not send for the police and order
the arrest of the men on the land as a pack of liars
and thieves. He said in the mildest possible
manner that the scheme must have a trial at least
for 12 months. And these are the people who
objected to any money being spent except “on
strictly reproductive works,” and who are at pre-
sent engaged in howling against the public servants
that they bring special influence to bear upon
Governments and Parliaments.
IMPROVE YOUR COMPLEXION.
Your complexion, as well as your temper, is
rendered miserable by a disordered liver. Bv
taking CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH AND
LIVER TABLETS you can improve both.*
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBKAOIH
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Cbromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both m and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
. Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.’
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(siniple testsfor minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How TO Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, is post’
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille Is'
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits Is • post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, is ; post is 3d
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it’
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. m~ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE QOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances
2s. Ingerboll’s Complete Works, 2g. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 3d. posted. Ohevassb’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It’
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings!
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid!
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted!
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
DO
E. R.
YOU KlVTO^r
WILL FITWELL
As still on tlie old premises ?
MORAN, 179 c Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
WHY SUFFER
the ILLS and WOES of the flesh, when vou
will be MADE STRONG, HEALTHY, and
AUGOROUS by SIMPLY WEARING one
of OUR IMPROVED and PATENTED
GLADIATOR ” ELECTRIC BELTS ?
Call or send for price list and GENUINE
TESTIMONIALS, post free. Address—
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.


Tigifcoi*s to tlve OM Cotirttry
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s &&,te 'Terr&ce,London,SiW?
CONSIDERABLY.
ENL A R GED—NO TED
FOR ITS COMFORT
& CONVENIENCE
ONE OE THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
'HOTELS IN
LONDON
ALTHAM
AT e««
'guaranteed
AGAINST ANY DEFECT
IN MATERIAL OR CON-
STRUCTION
WATERPROOF
HORSE COW RUGS
Ruff your Animals with ABERDEEN (Reg.) RUCS>
You will make Money
and save Feed by using
Our Rugs.
Universally Used.
The ‘ABERDEEN’ Brand.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER, OR WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLETS ON “RUGGING STOCK,” TO
SMITH, COPELAND and CO.,
210 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Waterproof Tarpaulins and Tents a Speciality.
fSS/jf*
rr-ap
'S&.
T
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Canz Induction Motor. 80LE agents :
The Austral Qtis Engineering go., [td., South (Ijelb.
Pi
HOTELKEEPERSI Make your own AERATED
WATERS and SAVE from £6 to £lO on every
100 dozen of Waters used in your hotel.
THE AUSTRAL
Aerated Water Machine
(Improved Patent)
Is now in use in many of the leading hotels and clubs in
Australia and New Zealand. Prospective (N.Z.) buyers are
invited to refer to :
THE WORKING MEN’S CLUB, WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
THE CENTRAL HOTEL, WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
Etc., Etc.
For Catalogues and Prices write to
ECKERSLEY & SONS, Melbourne.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
ANCHOVY PASTE
IN LARGE AND SMALL TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SONS, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE. Head Office s 9 & 10, Great Tower St., LONDON, E.C.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. id.
Post Fi'cc.
Martin's Acetylene Gas,
—♦
Our Reliable
HUNDREDS
NOW IN USE
FOR
ILLUMINAT-
ING
TOWNS,
HOSPITALS,
HOTELS,
SCHOOL OF
ARTS,
BUSINESS
INGS, etc.
DAYLIGHT,
ESTABLISHMENTS, PRIVATE DWELL-
Send for our Booklet, No. 56—ARTIFICIAL
and How to Make It. Also our Catalogue
Gas Fittings for Coal or Acetylene.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Large Stocks
Always on Hand.
JAMES MARTIN AND CO.
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
11l
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
lAfIMPOLE’3 GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
» » Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 98. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
PETTY'S HOTEL
Church ffill,
SYDNEY.
(Late Mrs. William Gannon,)
This old-established Family Hotel is now under-
going extensive alterations, and, when completed,
will be perfect in every detail for the comfort of
visitors.
C. W. CUPIT, late Oriental Hotel, Melbourne.
MADAM.
Would you like Health and
Freedom from “MENTAL
ANXIETIES ?” If so, send us
Fifteen Shillings, per Pos-
tal Notes, or Money Order.
We will send you, Post Free,
Our Wonderful MARVEL
“Whirling Spray”
SYRINGE (guaranteed 12 months)
and Book, giving Informa-
tion and Directions In-
valuable to Ladies.
THE MARVEL CO.,
284 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address— Box623, 0.P.0., Sydney.
WHY SUFFER
the ILLS and WOES of the flesh, when you
will be MADE STRONG, HEALTHY, and
VIGOROUS by SIMPLY WEARING one
of OUR IMPROVED and PATENTED
“ GLADIATOR ” ELECTRIC BELTS ?
Call or send for price list and GENUINE
TESTIMONIALS, post free. Address—
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST.. BYDNEY.
HYPNOTISM.
PERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
you to cure Diseases, Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN-
NESS, Etc., win Reluctant Affection, create amusement,
make friends and money, jind gratify your highest ambi-
tions. We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on
Hypnotism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised,
is the finest work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
teresting, and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send three stamps for Book, post
free, and test for yourself this remarkable power. The
American Institute of Science, Victoria Buildings, Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney.
%
'>l
\
A
ft"*
*
A Policy for the
Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. ; POSTED, Bd.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lhe little town of Rajool nestles on the
railway line between Brisbane and Gympie. Less
than two its extent are alienated. Yet it
can boast a 17-acre cemetery reserve, a 15-acre
school reserve, and police, post and telegraph, and
other casual reserves on the same extensive scale.
It is not going to be taken by surprise when its
tuture comes along.
New Life, New Love.
The breezes blow an the river below,
And the fleecy clouds float high,
And I mark how the dark-green gum-trees match
The bright blue dome of sky.
The rain has been, and the grass is green
Where the slopes were bare and brown,
And I see the things I used to see
In the days ere my head went down.
I have found a light in my long, dark night,
Brighter than stars or moon ;
I have lost the fear of the sunset drear
And the sadness of afternoon.
Here let us stand, while I hold your hand,
Where the light’s on your golden head —
Oh ! I feel the thrill that I used to feel
In the days ere my heart was dead !
N.s.w,
HEHRY LAWSON.
Love’s Pagan.
Our love was sweet while it lasted, dear,
How could we then do ill,
Who wantoned it not nor- wasted, dear,
Starved nor took our fill,
Chuckled at rapture and tasted, dear —
Call it a sin, if you will.
Wise you may deem them—quaint they were—
Who made of their love a thing
Pale, sickly, breathing a boudoir air,
And held by a leading string ;
Easy of cheek; too tame to dare
And have, at all cost, its fling.
For us, thank God, it were more than this,
And built of a sterner stuff.
Could wisdom ever have brought such bliss ?
Is Thought not a blind man’s buff,
Luring from Love with a Judas kiss ?
We loved —is not Love enough ?
Enough ? Ay ! child, it were all in all,
Too ravishing sweet for name ;
What matters it now what our lives befall,
Come shame as our lot, or fame.
We have heard and answered Love’s crowning call.
We have loved—it is all the same.
S.A.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
The Baby.
I lived once in a cottage
Set high above the sea—
The view from the verandah
Was living poetry.
I loved it for its cheapness—
For I was then in debt;
’Twas one of two small houses—
The other was to let.
I loved it for its quiet;
No sounds of infant life
Disturbed its fine Aloofness
With hints of squalid life.
Then cam ) a pale young couple ;
The empty house one day
They took—they had a Baby—
And Sweet Peace fled away.
They sang to it and nursed it,
And kissed it red and sore—
They might as well have cursed it,
It simply yelled the more.
I knew not what the name was
Of this sleep-killing cub—
I swore I would have called it
(If mine) Beelzebub.
And then there came a morning,
When silent was its voice—
And, with a heart malignant,
Thereat I did rejoice.
Alas, the pale young couple
Showed me their small, white dead,
With candles at its feet, and
With candles at its head.
The little form lay quiet
In its little coffin blue;
No more its voice would pierce me,
But pity pierced me through.
I think when life is over,
That sinners though we be,
God will—in spite of parsons—
Feel so to you and me.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
The Distinction.
If she makes the pace with an old scapegrace,
Who is shockingly wicked and wary,
If she flirts her eyes till they hypnotise
Like Malusine, the serpent fairy ;
If she tilts her clothes till her fretworked hose
Would enrapture a Geil or Torrey,
You can bet your shirt it’s her first long skirt,
And she’s out in the quest of quarry.
If she saunters slow in the sunset glow
With a soulful and sighful stripling,
Who lisps love lays in his lady’s praise
With the vim of a Burns or Kipling;
If her pulse is stirred at each passionate word,
As he calls her his star, his starling,
You can bet your life she’s an old man’s wife,
But would fain be a young man’s darling.
VIC.
O. CRAWFORD.


Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
The man on the land is always in trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business in
the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results, no fees is his business
shingle.
N.S.W. Juvenile Smoking Suppression
Act has already begun to breed “law points.”
r,!® otner day Louis Moss, Balmain agent for
Mick bimmons, the big Sydney tobacco merchants,
wa,s fined for selling tobacco to a boy, the tobacco
being for the use of the boy’s father. Quarter
Sessions, on appeal, upset the conviction, holding
that the Act only prohibited the sale of tobacco
to children for their own use.
rv STOMACH and LIVER
i clear the sour stomach, sweeten
the breath and create a healthy appetite. They
promote the flow of gastric juice, thereby inducing
good digestion.*
Manly (Sydney) has long lacked a first-
class hotel. Yet the seaside village is the most
popular holiday resort south of the Equator, and
is simply infested every summer by drought-
stricken squatters from the interior, anxious to
revel by the ocean, and willing to pay high prices
for accommodation on the surf-beaten beach. A
co. has now been formed to purchase the old
Clarendon, which has the finest site on the ocean
parade but very little else in the way of attrac-
tions, and to build a new modern hotel of 130
rooms. Plans of the proposed new building show
an intelligent recognition of the possibilities of the
site, and of the requirements of a first-class
accommodation house. With anything like good
management the new Clarendon hotel should
boom, and the shares of the venture should be as
good a spec, in “industrials” as could be desired.
the mutoscope.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
•nd OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Neiv Reels.
I® r " Admission FREE.
Amusements.
CITZ-GERALD BROTHERS’ CIRCUB AND
" MENAGERIE,
BELMORE PARK.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF THE NEW PROGRAMME.
The Lion and Elephant, and Tiger and Horse
SENSATIONS.
DR. CORDON, THE JAPANESE WRESTLERS,
And the Grand National Steeplechase.
itS” MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
PRICES—4s, 35., 2s. and Is.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. TOM NAWN.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o’clock
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2 p.m.
TOM NAWN’S .
POLITE VAUDEVILLE and COMEDY COMPANY.
EVERY TURN A NOVELTY.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at the White Rose.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S
Leviathan Drury Lane Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 21, THE GOLDEN LADDER.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy <& Co.’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
™r™V nder Dir ection of Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNGON at 2.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 21,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY.
in the Famous Comedy,
THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
EJjER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8, Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
First Production in Australasia on SATURDAY,
MAY 21, of the Famous Comedy Drama in 4 Acts,
RAFFLES,
THE AMATEUR CRACKSMAN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. <&T PRICES AS USUAL.
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Splendid Success of the World’s Greatest Wrestler,
Mr. JACK CARKEEK.
Brilliant Reception Accorded NAT CLIFFORD.
MISS MAY MOORE OUPREZ.
LAST NIGHTS of THE TWO BELLS.
Reappearance of Mr. IRVING SAYLES ; also, Mr. LES
WARTON, the well-known Coon Impersonator.
SILLY BILLY ELLIOTT, the Yorkshire Comedian.
Mr. HARRY LEGETT, Miss CECILE STEPHANO,
Miss DAISY SYLVESTER, Mr. JAMES OPIE.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE MARVELLOUS UESSEMS.
First Appearance BURKE, MOLLER & TELLER, American
Comedy Trio. FRANK HARWOOD, Actor Vocalist
ANCELOS, Comedy Sketch Artists. NELLIE KILBURN,
Serio-Comic.
ERNEST SULLIVAN, MAGGIE FRASER, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Miss MAUD BEATTIE and ERNEST FITTS.
Last Week of COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD FANING.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
SAT., MAY 21, LAST 6 NIGHTS in Melbourne of
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY,
including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT in
THE SILVER KING.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
•THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sub-Lessee .. .. William Anderson.
Business Manager , .. Julius Grant.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of HER SECOND TIME ON EARTH.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 21,
MR. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO., in the
Great Military Spectacular Drama,
TOMMY ATKINS.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S
Sole Lessee
Sub-Lessee
THEATRE, MELEOURNE.
.. .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
. .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. GEO. EDWARD’S LONDON COMEDY CO. in
THE THREE LITTLE MAIDS.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s ; Stalls, 4s; Amphi-
theatre, 2s. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Iu
iili
M
MM
3 "rrr
m
■
- Q
s *T^'
lit
NEW CLARENDON HOTEL, NORTH STEYNE PARADE, MANLY.
PROSPECTUS
OF
The CLARENDON HOTEL COMPANY Ltd.
3M[-A.;iNrXj'Y\
To be Registered under the provisions of the “Companies Act of 1899.”
to ho lofH C + aP iu al *7 C ° mpan * is £30,000 in 35,000 Shares of £1 each; £BOOO in Cash and £6500 Fully Paid-Up Shares
i°o VuIZZ r/;„°,! h 0 d ' *«• The oT .h. Shares, SS,EOc‘
balance as requireS. follow,ng terms: F.ve Shillings on application, Five Shillings on allotment, and the
DIRECTORS:
(To be appointed at the First General Meeting.)
BANKERS; SOLICITORS*
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Head Office, Sydney. Messes. STEPHEN, JAQUES & STEPHEN, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ARCHITECTS : Messrs. ALDERSON & GARRATT, Bull’s Chambers, 14 Moore Street.
BROKERS : Messrs. KENNEDY BROS., 29 Hunter Street, Sydney. SECRETARY : E. E. KENNEDY
... , , •fj""', "“J-" taeuvae vecicuuuu J-LUUGi, IUIUWII etS JVlillllllSterS, ’ W
\\ ill, «c., and to build a large and commodious Family Hotel in the place of the present structure. The newbuifdings will contain "over Tsn
electric light and elect™ lifts. The fact of.the very large connexion of S Hofei at the TavorUe s2S”t
irp. ! fl.lirl from rpf.nrnc r\f :±. U. a.„,i 11...1 • ± _ •n „ ~
of New South WahM, xuciacu oi.wie very large connection ot this Hotel at the favorite seaside resort
, , 10 , iV ' W soutn Wales is a guarantee of the success of this venture ; and from returns shown of late years it is estimated that it will r>av from tb«
start m per cent dividends. It may also be pointed out that there is not an Hotel in any of the seaside Sts of itf cS and conseoucntlv TiSI
attract large numbers of tourists, and country, city, and suburban visitors. The site is the best avaSeoneS whTch
cannot be excelled m these btates for a Residential and Family Plotel. As a further inducement to investors, it may’ be mentioned that the DODulation
Lllding 8 of r new“nd unto ° wing Principally to the magnificent steamer service, and which is now being further improved
and “ 1 up ' to ' date fast steamers. The tram communication is also most convenient, as it runs from the Wharf past the Hotel door,
Title Theorice to b^mid' th ? N ° rth Ste /£ e P , arade ’e lB6 , fee * sto Raglan Street, 158 feet, and to a lane at rear. The
valuators P * bP d f th Freehold Premises, License, and Goodwill, &c., is the valuation of a leading firm of auctioneers and land
The Statement showing Expenditure of Capital and the Estimated Receipts and Disbursements for twelve months’ working have been oarefnllv
prepared and checked by hotel experts, so that they can be thoroughly relied on. The working expenses andthe
estimated receipts from all sources so reduced that the figures are beyond dispute. Results will prove the accuracy of the foregoing statements and that
I m an e d?h ? % X ? 4 ;t OWn - The present W Books and
on Dy Air. A. r . 11. Mackenzie, h .5.1. A., and the returns for the last three years are very satisfactory. Taking this into consideration the New Hotel
must show handsome results, as the accommodation and attention will be of a very superior and extensive character ’
1904, Si&ZiSSt" “ d * * Ke ”“ dy ' “ d * E - K “” d? “ d I“a EobitSilfeth May,
The Company will be formed when 20,000 shares are applied for.
The plans of the new buildings are to be seen at the office of the Company’s Brokers.
Early applications for shares will be necessary, and all applications will be dealt with in the order of receipt
DirectaXtS,wd^h“c°XL*^“lThenta“?gSt d rrf. ,ideS °‘ Associ,tion Ml>mitled to * °< Applicants fo, Shares, and Provisional
(HeadOffiJ 1 e?M S arti r nPLcf^£ t i ierfo - , f Wardtheirch ® qU f S h" tog ! t t he^u th T , applications > to the Company’s Bankers, The Bank of Australasia
umce;, Martin Place, Sydney, or, if more convenient, direct to the office of the Brokers of the Company
KENNEDY BROS, 29 Hunter St., Sydney.
At Millchester, outside Charters Towers, Iden-
tity and Hope trial crushing was a failure, value being
only £1 4s. per ton. Millchester Gold Mines* shaft struck
a reef at 181 ft., which is encouraging*. Ruby M‘Donald,
one of the Ruby litter, has had a strike of 3ft. of mineral
stone, and Ruby United has recovered its reef. Other
Ruby shows are holding their ends up. Marshall’s Queen
just reaches the half-oz. ; unless the sands hold 5 or 6dwt.
where is the. promised increase? Tributors in the Bril-
hant P.C. have 80 tons of 2oz. value ; the old mine will
stand a lot of rooting yet.
* * * *
(0. Towers) is getting down, and
v. .u -°* m^ c hinery will soon help the plucky Plant to see
what his venture is stuffed with. Deep Levels are getting
out a trial crushing. Something - good in Vesuvius’ surface
bore, which is down about 250 feet, is watched for. The
market is very solid. Well-informed holders are plentiful,
and speculation is possible only at fancy prices.
* * » *
i J^ eve ™ nce ’, Kalgoorlie, in spite of treating
133,000 tons of ore during last year, has increasedits reserves
above the 700 ft. level from 383,000 to 402,000 tons. Levels
are being driven at 900 ft. and 1100 ft., but no account is
taken of the ore in reserve there. At the 700 ft. level there
is still some 550 ft. of driving to be done before the boun-
daries are reached, so reserves above that level are not
a 6 ’’, Mocked out. Recent developments on the
south lialgurli go to show that the Perseverance is likely
to have a long stretch of rich ore north. In addition to
paying for the sulphide plant out of revenue, co. has also
PyovHled £475,000 for development and depreciation, and
, /or divs. As the original working capital was
oo'y £50,000, CO. holds a record hard to beat. Most of
the big Rand mines are provided with cash
working capitals of £250,000 to £400,000, and
are fully equipped by the time they begin to
eai n revenues, and can distribute their profits practically
up to the_ hilt. A lot of disparaging reports have recently
been published about the mine. Most of them were
circulated with a view to draw the officials, but failed.
cai *'® out a t the meeting that, when co. was in
1898-1900, Frank Gardner advanced about
£125,000 without security and interest, and that, during
last year, to return the compliment, co. lent Gardner
£86,000 on security and interest, of which £50,000 had
been repaid. Manager Ralph Nichols had to admit, after
a rather severe heckling - , that the small amount of work
done below the 700 ft. level showed that “of course the
lode is poorer where we have got it than above, but the
poor zone is in'all the workings at different levels.” Co.
is estimated to have enough ore blocked out to run the
mill for three years, and to maintain present rate of divs.
What more can one reasonably want in a gold mine ?
* * * *
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie, appears to be badly
managed. In Dec., ’O2, a 10-head mill started crushing
the oxidised ore on the Eclipse, and was joined by a
second 10-head last Nov. After that returns immediately
tailed off, till April’s run culminated with an average of
2dwt. only, necessitating the closing down of the mill, and
men. In all mill has treated some
50,000 tons, much of which was simply rooted out. It is
now announced that the milling plant will be remodelled
to treat the sulphide ore. But there is absolutely none of
itdeveloped, as the shaft was stopped in June last at
300 ft., and no development has been done in the sulphide
zone. At the 300 ft, level the lode is said to be 4ft. wide
and worth loz. Thismay be so at one point, but certainly
has not been proved by blocking - out. The lode in the
Link lease at 1400 ft. is worth 12dwt. for a width of 4ft. ;
but here, again, no ore is opened up. The co. is heavily
handicapped by having most of its money invested
m such wild cats as New Chaffers Extended, and
foreign and Colonial Gold Recovery Co., the holders of
the so-far worthless May’s patent. John Bull has already
at various times, forked out £320,000 to run the show,
and must be getting very tired of sinking - his sovereigns in
such a pit. The remodelling of the present 20-head mill
to treat hard sulphide ore is practically impossible. The
plant consists of old batteries originally on the Golden
Crown (Kanowna) and North Star (Mt. Malcolm), and no
amount of remodelling will make them serviceable for
hard rock,
* * ♦ *
Golden Horsehoe, Kalgoorlie, is hustling on the
surface at present. The new 50-head mill is going up,
and on its completion, co. Will have the biggest battery
in W.A. A lot of labor-saving appliances are being intro-
duced, with the view of reducing costs. Two locally-
made rock-breakers, a modification of the Blake principle
are to be introduced, as well as a 350-ton ore bin. When
all these improvements are completed a material reduc-
tion in costs is anticipated. .Owing to the breakdown of
the new compressor the opening up of the mine is
suspended, but the old compressor can easily keep the
battery jigging pending the necessary repairs. Two 2-ton
self-dumping skips are to be installed in the main shaft.
These will greatly , facilitate hauling and do away with
truckers. Nearly all the “ silver tails ”on the mine have
either been fired out or “ docked,” and one surface shift-
boss now fills the place of some half dozen. Yankee
Loring is evidently determined to work as great a trans-
formation on the ’Shoe as he did on the Sons of Gwalia.
The sending away of rich sulpho-telluride ore to Fre-
mantle smelters to be paid for at £4 an ounce for 95 per
cent, of the gold contents is to be discontinued, and this
ore treated on the mine. This will very materially reduce
costs.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) stands a very good
chance of yet becoming a div. payer, as recent develop-
ments are highly favorable. The sinking of Morty’s shaft
on the Perseverance lode is being continued, but has a
long way to go before the rich ore located by bore is
reached. The Lake View lode, now being exploited from
/00ft. to 846 ft. levels of the main shaft, shows very good
values. Practically the whole of the treatment plant
has been scrapped, and an entirely new equipment will be
installed. Every day goes to show that past management
was very far from being ideal, and Bewick, Moreing and
Co. can gain a lot of kudos at a cheap price. Co. is in a
very strong financial position, as its cash balance is over
£70,000. It must not, however, be overlooked that, from
start to finish, the directors had £188,500 to play with,
and yet ran the co. on the rocks. If great care and
economy are not exercised, a mine is one of the most
rapacious monsters on earth.
*** / *
Hannan’s Main Reef (W.A.), which now holds a
property, called Parnell’s, at Niagara, will probably be
“pushed” soon. Co. is equipped with a 10-head mill, which
is expected to start operations shortly, but mine is a one-
horse show. New property was acquired in March, ’O3
and two parcels aggregating 400 tons were treated for an
average of 19dwt. Reef is now being opened up at 260 ft.
where it is said to be 9ft. wide and payable. People
behind the co. have been connected with a dozen or more
wild cats, and not one unalloyed success. Anyone
anxious to get rid of his surplus cash is recommended to
follow the tips of the share pushers.
* * » *
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A:), is pushing on
developments on the new property situated a mile south
of the old show. Original holders of the leases won
27830 z. gold from 1918 tons, but it is unlikely that so
high an average could be maintained by a co. working on
a big scale. New property consists of 103 acres, and four
lodes traverse the leases, but very little work has been
done on them so far. The deepest shaft is 200 ft. Menzies
has proved such a patchy field hitherto that, until the
mine is properly opened up, it is venturesome to predict
how it will turn out.
The Coalition Negotiations.
As The Bulletin went to press on Tuesday night
it seemed practically certain that a coalition
between Deakin and Reid would be effected ; the
only contingency that stood in the way was an
offer to Deakin of a coalition by the Watson
Ministry, and that seemed improbable. If Deakin
and Reid unite it will be probably found that
Reid will be Premier, and Deakin will not accept
any office in the Cabinet.
. " Si ”y , Bil, y the Yorkshire Comedian ” ! This name
isnt a fake, it is the advertised title of a late Rickards’
attraction. By-and-bye, if William of the Weak Intellect
is a success, we may have “ Agonised ’Arry,” or “ Maniac
the High Klcker?'’^^ Peter ’” ° F “ Hysterical Hetty


<#
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as " run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
v
5^
&
OINTMENT
THINK WHAT DISEASE MEANS!
IS EASE means the break-up of your Constitution, Infinite Pain and Suffering: of
the Body, Torment and Ang:uish of the Mind. It may mean the Pain that knows
no End, the Sorrow that knows no Surcease.
THE MAN that does not heed the warning: sig:n that speaks of a premature
decay of the Vital Forces of Nature, is aiding: in his own physical suicide. He courts
his own destruction. He paves his own way to Death. He cuts the thread of Life
by Neg:lig:ence and Indifference.
YOUNG, MIDDLE-AGED or OLD MEN, what is the condition of your bodies to-day?
Are you sound and healthy, or are you Weaklings, weary of Life? You should take
action while there is yet time. You should not delay in regaining: your lost strength
when opportunity affords. The Medical Experts of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
are amongst the most famous in the treatment and cure of MEN’S DISORDERS arising from any
cause, DISORDERS resulting from CO-OPERATION OF CAUSES, BLOOD DISEASES arising
from family taint, which appear without warning. These are the SPECIALITIES of The FREEMAN
AND WALLACE MEDICAL EXPERTS, which they guarantee to cure permanently and rapidly.
Weak, Ailing Men
Who are suffering from Debility, Weak-
ness of Nerves and Organs, Despondency,
Aversion to Society, Weak Aching Back
and Kidneys, and a feeling that your
strength is not what it should be, you
are invited to place your case fully before
us. We will restore your natural VIGOR
and VITALITY. Though you have been
treated before without cure do NOT
LOSE HOPE, as our treatment is suc-
cessful in every case undertaken.
Consult us, or Write in simple
language your troubles, and we
will treat you in such
cases with FAIRNESS
AND SUCCESS IN
STRICTEST CONFI-
DENCE. m" ah
letters are pri-
vately and
pun ctually
attended to.
Martyrs to Blood Diseases.
Are you negligent or careless as to your Health ? If not, you should
read every word written here. It is essential for you to commit to
memory the straight truth affecting your Life’s interests. If you are
Weak, do you want to be Strong? Do you want to feel the Vim, the
Snap, the Fire of Life? Do you Want Courage, Energy, and Ambition
to Support You in Your Cares and Troubles?
The scourge of men, common at all periods of life, is Neurasthenia
or Nerve Exhaustion. Australian men suffer from this disease, which is
an insidious and subtle enemy. Its symptoms are many ; there is a
marked enfeeblement of the vital organs and great loss of nervous power,
accompanied by some of the ensuing manifestations—ltching of the
Skin, Tenderness of the Scalp and Spine, Insomnia, Drifting Pains,
Prostration, Melancholy, Pains in the Back of the “come and go ” kind,
Bad Memory, Mental Apathy, Specks before the Eyes,
A SURE SIGN OF KIDNEY DISORDER,
Intermittent Heart Action (in which the heart often misses a beat or
two), Poor Digestion, Sallow Complexion, Dark Circles around Eyes,
Constipation, Bashfulness, Weak Sight, Headaches, Aversion to Society,
Poor Appetite, Loss of Flesh, Thoughts of Suicide, Clammy Hands and
Feet, Flushings of Hands or Feet, no interest in Life, and a
CONSTANT DREAD OF SUDDEN DEATH.
These are hut a few symptoms of this dreaded disease, which is like a
scythe of Death throughout the World. Every vital organ is injured,
the complexion is at all times sickly and unhealthy, with lack-lustre eyes
and general dyspeptic appearance, which enables the expert SPECIALIST
to diagnose the cause and the disease with one glance of his practised eye.
fEß33E&tts%sNkfctisBfc'
SMW; • ? &w£s&sj£!&l< :
-Li
[^‘/.TWR^-Cv.v
w
.i ;
>a
SBfcte . .■^wfw^K!
• .* • . * *<
•J. • • • frVaJt. •, •• ♦ v»7i
;»y-
-jj.v.V/.
/Hite *^>
: --.-v -
V
4*
a
\x\%\ <?
K
VV<fc>
-A/*
V*
*> t
•o
O *<
gpgr*Each Specialist associated with this great Institute is a Graduate from famous English and American Colleges. They are all
Experts in Nerve, Stomach and Blood Diseases, and have cured more men of their troubles than any similar association of Australian
medical men. They are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO for the faithful performance of all medical contracts undertaken, which
is a proof of faith to every patient.
A CDEE RflOK Here is an opportunity for every man and Woman.
** rncc uuun ‘ A Magnificent 570-page Medical Work, from cover
to cover filled with sound medical advice, rich in scientific fact and
pathological knowledge, eulogised by over 200 leading Austra-
lasian journals. A genuine medical work, of rare excellence
and great usefulness. Compiled by the leading Specialists
of the Institute, Sydney, and the result of much of their
scientific observation and experiment. This grand treatise
may be obtained for ONE SHILLING in stamps.
PR. RICHARD WALLACE.-^.r^V^.t'
Physician-in-Chief to the Institute, who is Registered and Certificated
by the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America. He is an
Expert in treating Men’s Diseases. He is late of Hospital Staffs,
Melbourne, and British Army Staffs. His skill and abilities may be
judged by reading the following testimonial from Sir Dominic
Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the late Queen “ J entertain a high
opinion of Dr. Wallace in respect to his professional qualifications."
BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An eight-year-old boy, charged with stealing a bugle,
was discharged by Mr. Panton.”— Recent Melbourne
Police-court item.
The world is turned all upside own, an run y oj san
women ;
There’s no part safe for man to live, or walk, or talk, or
swim in
He falls a ready prey to Boy, e’en toys are from him torn ;
ne iaus a re.«i l y j, j ~ ,
Boy’s inhumanity to man makes countless tnousanas
mourn.
He stalks at large a Terror wild, in every kind of season ;
Rends many a heart, and garment too, with neither
itenas mauy a uc<u u, fc
rhyme nor reason.
And grief to many a plate-glass front is by his “ shang-
hai ” borne •
«.»««» "e.r-word.
sworn. _ _
But ’tis not man alone that dreads, or from him stands in
danger
For no poor creature on the earth is to his deeds a
ror iiu puui umou.q
stranger.
He’s always clothed in skins and wool, from poor beasts’
His hdnijnainty has sheep in countless thousands shorn.
He perpetrate, some fiendish tricks, that h, regard, as
funny,
On dogs and cats and birds and rats ; he’s fond of eggs
and honey •
delight inr.hbi.g nets, and taking hive. *
storm;
Boys’ inhumanity to bees makes countless millions swarm,
HOMO.
The recently boomed township of Wickliffe-
road, in the centre of the S.W. Vie. “Closer
Settlement” area, strongly emphasises the neces-
sity of a different land-taxation policy. The
sharks who bought the township allotments are
lying low and watching others prove the lead and
build business premises. If the show pans out all
right, they will simply hold out their hands for the
increased increment.
Be the flunkey in “ The Admirable Crich-
ton,” this letter comes from “ Bot ” :
It is stated (B. 21/4/04) that there is no future for the
butler or flunkey. Poet Browning’s father or grandfather
(I forget which) was a butler, and he buttled so success-
fully that, on his death, a stained-glass window in his
honor was added to the Anglican church of his native
town. Also, King Murat of Naples, Bonaparte’s brother-
in-law, was a French tavern-waiter, who had answered to
the call of “ garijon ! ” hundreds of times. In Australia,
I once knew a successful M.L.A. and metropolitan-city
Mayor who had been a garbage gentleman.
Now, the ex-garbage gentleman isn’t quite a case
in point—he doesn’t come under the head of
flunkey. As for the butler who rose to such
dazzling eminence that, when he died, his native
Little Pedlington honored him with a stained-glass
window, there is not, of necessity, anything very
dizzy about his greatness. Of Joachim Murat, it
is certainly said that his father was an inn-
keeper. It is also said that he was an affluent
fanner. Anyhow, Murat had a good school and
university training, started out to be a priest, spent
all his money in Hooliganism, joined the cavalry,
rose to be a sergeant by the time he was 21, was
given unlimited leave of absence for riot when he
was 22, was again in the army and a royal guard
at 23, and a sub-lieutenant at 24. A man who was
in such a hurry as that hadn’t much time $0 wait
or buttle. The flunkey who rose to greatness has
yet to be discovered.
The following letter in thieves’ slang was
part of the plunder seized in a recent raid on a
house of ill-repute in Melbourne. It left the
court in a confused tangle of law and fact, and
with a terrible buzzing in its head :
Church Bill, —Meet me at net to darkman in blooming
slum near the old padding ken to get off the swag. I
know a lavender cove and a swag chovey bloke that ■will
toke some of the white jacks. We must get a thimble-
fakir to christen and church the red jacks. I gave a
skister’s red thimble and slang and a cat to my mollisker
for stalling while we cracked the fakir’s chovey. The
noise of milling the glaze brought tray flies. She chucked
a reeler, and was lugged before the beak and fine a bull.
I met owt old men of the world tray lightman’s ago. I
chucked a dummy while they buzzed the clys of owt old
blokes with nailcans. They made out finups, a couter, a
red jack, and jerry, and a red spark-prop. I am now flush
of balsam, but on the shallow, and don’t go near the
boozing kens. When we get off the swag and get our
regulars we will go to the Bullumrancum next week. I
met an old flame to lightman that I thought was put to
bed with a spade and shovel stretches ago. I’ll dance at
my funeral if I knew her till she said, “ Is that you, my
bear cove. Tip us your doddle.” She does not now
attend the Cock and Hen Club, as she got japanned by
the Salvos. Don’t forget net to darkman. Mum now.
Don’t let the Johns see this.
An old Yictorian pressman reminisces :
Vic. Premier Tom Bent and the late John Woods, for-
merly a Vic. Minister of Railways, visited India just 20
years ago. Bent was recovering from an accident. Woods
was running his railway brake at the time, and went
across to the Calcutta Exhibition, where he arranged for
a practice trial of the invention. The judges were unsym-
pathetic, or did not know their work, and only gave the
Woods’ continuous automatic brake a certificate of the
third-class and a bronze medal like a swollen halfpenny.
This broke poor old John financially and physically, and
he was never the same man afterwards. Tom went up
the Ganges visiting Benares, -Wa, Delhi, Cawnpore,
Lucknow &c Travelled right up to Hurdwar, the
sacredest of all sacred places, for if. is there that the great
river starts to compose herself after her wild downward
flight from the Himalayas, 13,800 ft. above sea level. The
Ganges drops over 11,500 ft. in 180 miles, after which it
flows in a majestic body of water for over 1000 miles to
the Bay of Bengal. Bent inspected and authorised the
river, and it has flowed under his sanction ever since. He
met on his journey two other Australians, Jimmy Thom-
son and the late Mr. Bosisto, of eucalyptus oil memory,
and Jimmy has still in his possession a cabinet photo.
endorsed “ With great respect.—Thomas Bent, Delhi,
Jan. Ist, 1884.” No great or notable utterances made by
Thomas as he gazed upon the glories of Indian architec-
ture have been preserved. Bent doesn’t drop into poetry
as he walks heavily amid the monuments of ancient
civilisations ; he simply perspires.
T , . , .. .., , , ,
‘ Jack bhay about the late dearly
beloved ” :
, , ~ , , , , , .
A phrase that makes me laugh is the late dearly
beloved, commonly used in death notices of husbands
and wives by the .survivor in domestic strife. I have
known many cases in which, the dearly beloved was an
unadulterated Reid financial statement. Recently a man
who had a writ out and three co-re s named died in one
of the States. His wife dearly beloved him, probably
because he was late. Men whom their wives would like
to have made ‘ late ’with an axe, women anxious for No.
1 to die to take on No. 2, and No. 1 knew it; men and
women who hated one another and parted, or swopped,
or lived a hair-rending, high-screeching and bashing life
—only let one die, and he or she becomes the late dearly
beloved. They go further, too, and perpetuate the slan-
der or perjury on tombstones. A week or two since I
visited a local cemetery to see an old friend off, and took
a walk round. Saw one stone, and know the creator.
The party underneath was his first dearly beloved. He
has had another dearly beloved recorded in another State,
and has since married a partner .Whom he left two months
after the wedding. He now lives with a fourth party.
Probably both those ladies will become “late dearly
beloveds if his luck holds good. On another stone a
man, whose wife told him to go out and drown himself, is
“ the deeply lamented and dearly beloved.” He did
drown himself when the remark above-quoted was made
once too often. Perhaps someone will call me a late
dearly beloved when I m dead. Let ’em,
(iTTpHi„„ m ■»«- „ -i
XI. it. irom IVLaoriiana
Noticeable of late years that lodges are departing a
good deal from their old millinery. One seldom sees a
Forester nowadays in the plumed hat, green jerkin and
white doeskin breeches that were said to have roamed
Sherwood Forest in the days when the world was drunk
a r>d stole its neighbor’s bull. Now the Druids of the
North Island (M.L.) constitution are discussing the ques-
tion of discarding, for sanitary reasons, the patriarchal
white billy-goat beard worn on state occasions. It is
argued that the old second-hand beard which has served
as a chin-piece on many dead citizens who ought to have
known better is not a desirable thing to dangle on the
countenance of a new and clean generation, however
an xious it may be to keep the memory of Stonehenge
white. Heaven knows what wild things might be lurking
j n mU rky undergrowth of these dingy appendages ana
keen delight with which thev may spring out upon
modern Druid, who really works on the wharf. The
beard is doomed, but the feeling is strong as to retaining
|he methylated spirit flame humbug on the altar at initi-
afcions. The candidate is led into the room blindfolded at
such times, the lights are turned out, and only the un-
healthy glow from the spirit flame throws a sickly, green
g h r i e k of illumination on a half-moon of shapes clothed in
nightshirts and wearing the left-off and infected whiskers
of past generations. The effect is astounding on the ig-
norant, who savs, like Macbeth, “ Can such things be ? ”
or wor^s that effect.


There’s dozens of remedies mother has tried,
If we hadn’t been strong, I expect we’d have died.
For weeks we’ve been moping and swallowing trash,
And when there’s a lot it walks into the cash.
I agreed with my dad, who says “Woods is a brick
For showing the world how to cure a cold quick ;
No need to be laid up for weeks, when you may
Take Peppermint Cure, and be well in a day*
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound! that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and awollcn that when yon
pres! your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
•ion ? It io, under the skin you hare poison that defies all
the remedies you hare tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will depriva you of the power to
walk. You may hava attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is do rtason for not how being cured.
Send atones for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Ilousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-atreet, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright!.
THE HIQH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
V (Kegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BEGAUSE
DURABLE.
Sec the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " * Viyella * has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
1872
1873
187?
vm
1877
1878^
1878
1888
1881
im
1883
188?
1885
1886
1887
THIRTY-FOUR YEARS SELLING RELIABLE WATCHES.
This shows a really dainty little watch, popularly
known as the “Princess.” Although we sell many of
these every year, we seldom have a complaint reach
us, and this should be a good guarantee that it is a
reliable article. We make with silver or gold engraved
cases in open face and full hunting. The movement
is keyless and properly jewelled. 18et. Gold Hunter,
£6 10/-. 18ct. Gold Open Face, £5 10/-. Silver
Hunter, £2 10/-. Silver Open Face, £2.
17
Thi» is a modem Lever Watch, with finely finished
gilt movement, exposed polished steel winding wheels
strong keyless mechanism, jewelled in 14 actions, and
guaranteed to be a correct timekeeper. We supply
this watch in four styles—Crystal Front, Polished
Steel Case, 25/- ; Hunting Polished Steel Cases 30/--
Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case, 35/- ; Hunting Solid
Silver Cases, 4-0/-.
READ THIS
LITTLE BIT OF
OUR HISTORY,
IN the year eighteen-seventy-one we occu-
pied a small store in Park Road, Liver-
pool, England, where we sold a watch
now and again, but not nearly so often as
we would have liked nor as often as we con-
sidered such reliable watches should be sold.
We were confident that our watches were as
good as could be got—the trouble was how
to get the public to know. We pondered
over this subject day and night and finally
concluded that we would try what the news-
papers could do for us. Such a thing as
selling watches through advertisements had
never been done in England before, still we
were convinced that once the general public
knew that our watches were what we said
they were—Reliable—we must succeed.
You know how it is with a man who has a
dependable watch—he is proud of it and
loves to speak of its accuracy, and naturally
the firm who supplied the watch comes in for
a full share of the credit. Well—we put
our everything into the venture. How we
succeeded our eight splendid Australasian
stores give testimony. Orders flowed in
from all over the World, particularly from
Australia and New Zealand. In fact, so
numerous were the orders that we decided
to open in Sydney. Our success was
phenomenal, and in Melbourne, Auckland,
and Dunedin we had to open shops, followed
later by Perth, Wellington, Christchurch,
and Brisbane, each being a success. What
better proof of the satisfactory performance
of our watches do you want ?
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Cased Watch,
suitable for young ladies. It has a reliable jewelled
movement—exquisitively engraved solid 14ct. gold
cases—strong keyless work, and altogether is a sound
and serviceable watch. It is possible to sell a gold
watch at a lower price, but as the time-keeping and
construction is not such as would give lasting satis-
faction to our customers, we do not stock them.
Price, £4 108.
%
/
S
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths, is
rightly named the “ Triumph,” inasmuch as, although
sold by us at such a low price, it is a gigantic
“Triumph” in quality over any other low-priced watch
already in the market. It has a very fine-finished,
full-jewelled keyless short-winding movement, and
the-case is made of a very hard nickel, beautifully
polished, fitted with unbreakable crystal glass. Price
18/6. With Silver Case, 30/-.
Our Watch Booklet,
48 Pages, entitled
“Honest Watches/*
will be sent Free
on request.
We sell all Kinds
of Watches in Gold,
Silver and Metal
Cases—except the
Unreliable Kind*
If they had not been Reliable we could not have existed.
1888
1889
1090
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895
1896
1897
1898
1899
19W
1901
1902
1903
1904
A gem culled from the report of a
meeting of the Goulburn branch of the N.S.W.
Social Gimlet Brigade :
Mrs. M'Dougall said the fountain of the stream should
be cleansed. She did not believe it was the ignorance of
the girls that was the matter, but that they knew a good
deal too much. Parents were greatly to blame in
allowing little boys and girls to roam about the streets at
night—girls of 14 in short frocks. They ought to he kept
at home to help their parents. Their parents ought to
see what sort of literature they read. The girls were
always reading something about princesses. She believed
that knowledge of good and evil was innate, and that it
was evil hearts that made us do wrong. In her opinion
the men were not half as bad as the women. She
believed that the maternity homes for unmarried women
and the children’s homes should be shut up. A raid
should he made on them, and they should be shut like
public-houses. In other days, if a girl fell she was
branded and unhappy. The homes had a well-paid
matron and a staff of nurses with nice stiff collars and
cuffs on. It took illegitimacy to keep these institutions
going on. If the Christian public rose up they could put
an end to the present condition of things in twelve
months. The fathers should be compelled to support
the children. There would not then be married men
waiting in cabs in Sydney to take the pretty barmaids
and waitresses home. She would like the people to go
into these homes when it was not visiting day. If the
mothers took the children out to work they would be just
as well treated as now, and the matrons and nurses could
go to work_ and take off their stiff collars. Sin was not
shown as sin was to the girls. As to books, there was no
better book for teaching than the Bible.
There are points about this lady’s idea of branding
the girl who fell. Would Mrs. M'Dougall accept
the job of Public Brander, and what would be the
best thing to use to mitigate the odor of burning
flesh on branding day, when a batch of unmarried
mothers was being put through ? Also, how about
a prize (say a new dress and a hat with a big
feather in it) for the unmarried mother who made
least fuss and noise over the salutary operation ?
From a man in court:—
An unusual case of wife desertion came before Justice
Hood in Melbourne lately. It was the first so far under
the Amended Marriage Act, ’Ol, by which an absconding
husband can be brought back to the State under criminal
warrant. It appeared that in ’O2 the lady in the case,
who was then working at a Home for the Fair but Frail,
at 6s. a week, advertised for a husband, and accused
applied for the vacant billet. She excused the existence
of a little girl of five by saying she was a widow. The pair
hovered round each other until it seemed desirable they
should get married in real earnest, before another grass-
orphan had to be explained away, and they married
accordingly, the lady spending the honeymoon in the
Home still toiling for 6s. a week. Then there was an
interval of affluence when her husband put her in lodgings
by herself and gave her £2 10s. a week. Next he suddenly
stopped supporting her and faded away to Maoriland,
where the Law found him looking* at a hot spring or
something and brought him back. Defendant said he
had omy married the lady to “ save her good name/* and
that it was agreed he was not to be called on to maintain
her ; also, that he hadn’t deserted her—he had merely
e u or a holida y on bis doctor’s advice as he was in such
a highly nervous condition he might commit suicide any
minute. That His Honor accepted most of this yarn is
shown by his accepting £5O bail for accused to step up
for sentence if called upon. He was an irregular sort of
man, anyhow, and perhaps irregular treatment is the best
for him. A man who goes to a Rescue Home for a wife
(and incidentally a family), allows her to toil at ss. a
week during the honeymoon, maintains her luxuriously
for a few months afterwards, then suddenly drops every-
thing with a thud, is too involved for ordinary criticism#
No known rules apply to him.
To-day has been giving its readers the
interesting information that, at a recent horse-
show, Edward VII. made use of a pocket-hand-
kerchief with a red border; and, further, that
when he had “blowed ” the royal proboscis he put
the “wipe” in his pocket, and not up his sleeve.
This latter statement was evidently intended as a
solemn warning to the gilded youth who have
been putting the blessed “wipe” of old England
in the wrong place. The scribe, who calls him-
self “The Major,” goes on to add this stirring
information:—
For the rest, the King was wearing a stick-up collar
with turned-down points rounded at the corners. It is
not a collar that suits every man, and, if it does not fit
accurately, it is apt to make the wearer look slovenly. I
need scarcely add that the King’s collar was about as near
perfection as any collar can hope to be in this sinful,
laundress-stricken world. I noticed that the King is very
conservative in the matter of gloves.
A British king was once supposed to be the boss
warrior and statesman of the land. Then he fell
to the humbler job of being the father of his
people, and as he usually wasn’t married to the
motner of his people the arrangement excited
remark. Now he is an authority as to what part
of the human clothes the handkerchief should be
carried in.
* * * •
Adelaide Critic on the recent crisis :
The Society influence has been worked for all it is worth
to impress Lord Northcote with a sense of Mr. Reid’s im-
portance, but Lord Northcote had been better advised
than Lord Hopetoun. The pinchbeck “ society ” of Sydney
and Melbourne makes a great difference between Mr.
Reid and Mr. Watson. Heaven only knows why. What
kind of a difference does Lord Northcote make, do you
think? Further than that, the Governor-General has
wisely seen for himself and judged for himself. Even
Lady Northcote has had her part. On the Thursday
preceding’ the crisis she chatted for a full half-hour across
the barrier of the Ladies’ Gallery with Mr. Watson. In
the light of after events, when we know the cables were
flying backwards and forwards to London, this public
action of her Excellency reads like a demonstration. It
was the public answer of Government House to the secret
whisper that a Labor Ministry would be a dreadful thing 1
Her Excellency never came again after the fateful motion
was moved, but the Private Secretary did day after day.
This was as it should be. Australia owns no secret
governing class controlled by a rubbishy “ society.”
• * * *
Prohibition was carried in Ashburton
(M.L.) at the last local option poll, and the sly-
grog man immediately became a leading feature of
the landscape. Some sly-grog-selling cases have
just been heard, and while the magistrate was
struggling with them Ashburton gathered outside,
armed with dead marines and the other family
relics of better days and waited for the witnesses
for the prosecution. The police got those wit-
nesses out by a back way and drove furiously for
Chertsey, 12 miles away, in order to catch the ex-
press train for Christchurch or the first boat for
Guam. Ashburton gave a howl when it learned
that it had been tricked, and broke for the railway
station, gathering blue metal on the way. Fifty
men boarded the express as it passed through,
bound for Chertsey. At Chertsey the
police had put the witnesses into a meat
van and locked it up, and they had it
shunted on to the train when that protracted
caravan arrived. The Ashburtonites rushed up
and down seeking their quarry, and at last one of
them looked through a crack m the meat van and
saw the pallid testifiers inside. Hooting and
groaning they rushed the van and climbed all over
it, and discharged blue metal, but failed to open
it. Then they ran for a crowbar and dynamite,
but while they were doing this the train whirled
off at the rate of 10 miles an hour. The baffled
electors then took complete charge of Chertsey,
and drank the contents thereof. Finally they
decided to walk the 38 miles that lay between
them and Christchurch, and slay the witnesses.
They started in great disorder, but fell down by
the way, and were found there in the morning,
being thoughtfully looked at by cows and other
produce.
* * * *
There seems to be a pretty big element of
luck even in the sentence you get. At Wagga
(N.S.W.) a few months ago, an elderly man
pleaded guilty to stealing over 100 bags of wheat
—second offence, too—and the Judge brushed
away a tear as he wondered how such a respect-
able old man had committed such an offence.
A fine followed. At Cootamundra (N.S.W.) a
few days ago, a farmer, for stealing two
bags of wheat from a neighbor, got two years
hard ! Presumably it was as a warning not to
waste the time of the court in future with any-
thing less than a truck-load.
ONE YEAR AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One short year ago
You clasped me and kissed me ;
Now witness my woe—
For, dear, you’ve dismissed me.
You clasped me and kissed me 1—
Ah, witness my woe ;
Why not have dismissed me
One short year ago.
VATU.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case ol
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, shoe-
ane, London, England.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
'.lnvigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
INDIGESTION#COMMON-SENSE DIET
HEALTH NOTES.
«
Don’t bolt your food. If you haven’t
time to eat your dinner without hurrying
over it, you had better go without it till
you have. Better be hungry than ill.
Don’t over eat. Indeed never take
quite as much as you feel you could. If
you are uncomfortable after meals it is
a sure sign either of excess or digestive
weakness.
Machinery works best when it is
cleansed and re-oiled. It is just the same
with the human machinery, the stomach
requires periodical cleansing and the
gastric juices require stimulation.
The retention of undigested food or
fermented liquids generates poisonous
gases.
Kutnow’s Powder is the only perfect
safeguard against the perils of Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Liver-trouble and Constipa-
tion.
DR. HUGH LANE, fl.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., says :
“The more I try Kutnow’s Powder in my
practice the more I like it.”
It demonstrates the value of flushing, cleansing
and throwing out the impurities from the system,
and concurrently acting as a natural lubricant to
the digestive functions and the whole alimentary
tract.
PROF. LAW50N TAIT, M.D.,
also realised the necessity of cleansing the system
frequently to remove the debris left by undigested
food. He not only prescribed Kutnow’s Powder
in his practice, but used it himself for years.
The “ Daily Express,” London, Dec. 31st, 1903, says *
“ If, among the many new resolutions which will be taken in the course of the next
day or two, the determination to introduce greater common-sense into the ordinary meals
were to find a place it would be well with the households where it was adhered to. Now it
is winter, and we wear thick clothes and overcoats; in the dog-days we shall put on light
vesture and discard all wraps. But hot or cold, winter or summer, we eat the same food ;
we stoke our bodies with the same amount of fuel. Then we are surprised by the pains and
miseries of Indigestion. This is absurd. Still more absurd is the fact that in cities, by
men of sedentary occupations, practically the same dietary is followed as was customary
when our forefathers lived in the country and were actively engaged under the open sky.”
Health and happiness are possessions we all desire to obtain ; too often failure arises from
the simple neglect of suitable food and the correction of excesses in diet. Every other
person you meet nowadays seems to suffer from Indigestion in some form or another.
Every man, and every woman, can, however, so regulate the digestive functions as to defy
this modern terror of our civilisation. Every stomach requires cleansing occasionally,
especially after rich living. Every liver requires periodical stimulation, whilst it is obvious
that to flush the bowels must perforce be beneficial. Kutnow’s Powder is the only perfect
exponent of this cleansing treatment.
Test This Treatment
At Once.
A Note of Warning
In order to derive the same satisfac-
tion as others who use Kutnow’s
Powder see that the fac-simile signa-
ture “S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd.,”
and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirsciiensprung, or Deer Leap,”
are on the carton, and also on the
label of the bottle. This signature
and trade mark will alone ensure
your obtaining the
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S
POWDER
can be obtained from all
Chemists and Medicine
Vendors throughout the
world. If any difficulty
should be experienced,
communicate at once with
the Proprietors.
GRAND RESULTS
4.
BENEFICIAL IN LIVER ATTACKS.
“ 10 Grosvenor Hoad, Broadstairs,
“28th Dec., 1903.
“Some four years ago, I took a course of
Kutnow’s Powder, for a severe liver attack, with
most beneficial results ; since then, both my wife
and self have taken it, and think so highly of it
that we are never without a bottle in the house.
“S. H. Cardwell.”
GIVES SATISFACTION.
“4 Wilson St., Liverpool, 9th Deo., 1903.
“Dear Sirs, —I beg to acknowledge the receipt
of Kutnow’s Powder, which I have used, and am
pleased to say it has given satisfaction.
“Yours faithfully, A. Thornton.”
CONTROLS GOUT & RHEUfIATISM.
“Linden Villa, Cherry Hinton Road,
“Cambridge, 29th Oct., 1903.
“Dear Sirs. —I am pleased to bear my testi-
mony to the good I have derived from using
Kutnow’s Powder. It is a valuable medicine
and by no means unpleasant to take. I suffer
from eczema, also symptoms of gout and rheu-
matism, together with uric acid troubles; the
Powder controls them. Yours truly,
“Margaret Thomson (Mrs.).”
KEEPS THE LIVER IN ORDER.
“ Metropolitan Opera House, New York.
“Dear Sirs.—Please send me a supply of
Kutnow’s Powder. I need same very urgently
to keep my liver in order and enable it to do its
duty. Yours truly,
“Ernest Goerlitz.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER KEEPS ALL THE ORGANS GLEAN & ACTIVE.
Proprietors; S. Kutnow& Co-, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
Proprietors in US A.: KUTNOW BROS.,
Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[l-7.]
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from It.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTIII MIME i C 6„ REEBBURHE.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
The London Medical Record
says :—“ It is retained when all
Otner foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says “ Benger’s Foot! has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
The N.S.W. Deform League has been
carolling round for about six months now. Its
favorite epithets have been ‘ ‘ moribund Parlia-
ment ” “old and useless legislators,” “ party
hacks ” “ M‘Gowen’stools ” and other politenesses
SSying iB intention to have a clean
signnying JL»erorms lineiiuiu i hricht and
sweep of things and make them as brignt ana
pure as a new milk-can in a hygienic aairy. mow
the Carruthers selections in 50 electorates are
announced, and over 40 of them are the old retiring
hacks who sat in the late Parliament. The mem-
bers who followed Reid blindly for five years while
he grovelled to Labor are selected to a man.
N.S.W. Chief-Justice Darley bit savagely
thp other dav at Judtre Hevdon’s monumental
the other day at d g y n d
consolidation of the statute law. On the gro
that the proposed consolidation would be cheap,
the offer of Mr. Heydon, then at the Bar, was
accepted, and notwithstanding many warnings the
work was carried out till somewhere about £15,000
was absorbed, and a hash made in many instances
of the tense of Parliament. The 0.-l, dealmg
with a particular point, said :
What had occurred in this Act showed the evils and
dangers of consolidation when it was not properly done,
words showing what the clear intention of Parliament was
Ctousohdation'was really not what Mr. Heydon’s
bunch of junior barristers set themselves to
accomplish. They apparently threw parcels of
statutes to one another, and used scissors and
paste-pots with very little regard to relevance or
coherence. Instead of being cheap the work
toned out to be dear-and would have been dear
if done absolutely for nothing.
An interesting extract from a sermon
recently delivered in London by an unusual kind
of Anglican parson :
Recently I watched a lady pay a call. She drove to the
door in a motor-car, a chauffeur on the box, and a foot-
man in attendance. One man laid down a carpet so that
she should not soil her shoes, another brought an
umbrell . another held the door open, and altogether
Beven men were engaged in getting this one woman into
jj er friend’s house. And yet dire poverty and sore dis-
tresa are rampant through the land,
<< g aRe e ” from Adelaide :
& there any denomination (barring the Salvarmy) that
beats the ordinary specimen of Methodist at pushing the
collection box? The Wesleyan people here have an anni-
v«wary about once a month, to celebrate the foundation
of the church, ditto Sunday-school, and the day the
new bell-rope was put on, when the new parson came, and
ofcher in t er esting occasions, to say nothing of harvest
festivals and missionary meetings in between. On each
occasion they make a round of the tradespeople and
farmers collecting donations “ anything is welcome, you
know ’’-and ffettingprovisionsfor the H-tea-fights and
pillaress of the church comes up with : “ Our charge is
eighteenpence for meals, please." The Army is a little
more reasonable ; when it asks you to pay for what you
bave already given it only charges you 6d.
Apropos of the renewed activity of the
Social Purity Brigade, a wealthy and cantankerous
citizen, whose character is not above suspicion,
and who is liable to be denounced any day,
has prepared vengeance in advance. He says
that no Gimlet Society is going to hit him with
impunity. As a precaution, he employed a
broken-down Gentleman Oneto lookup amultitude
of birth and marriage records, and find out how
long an interval there was between the marriage
and the birth of Gimlet, junior. He says that
when the Gimlet push denounces him as a social
outcast (which he frankly admits he is), it will
have to select its assailant very carefully.


TATTE RS ALLS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
T^« eVeijr Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vie., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 13, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
T’TT'F!
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Fates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s
Cnre.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those wlio have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness ill the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumption has
hever been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient
find ft Complete Cure is certain. s
BEWARE OF COUGHS *
Remember that evert disease has its commencement, and consumption is no exception to this rule
CONSUMPTION.
£OO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearnp.—Dear Sir, —I am writing' to tell you
hbout the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
tny Case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
hnd I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
Several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
inatter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
tny case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS' CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, bub derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold, i
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a.week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain’and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M.' MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady ta
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicineshaving been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,'
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A rive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the-
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
1 PREPARED only and sold wholesale and retail by the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong 1 , Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Sniclll Size, 2s 6d, Ecirg’e, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists cind Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.


HAIHA! HA!HA! HA!HA! HA!HA!
m
;ss7 ft
1 sA'Uo
v^vW
V
Your good man is
happier when you save
his clothes by washing
them with Sunlight Soap.
Your own mirror will
show a happier expres-
sion when you use
Sunlight Soap.
You may be happy even
on washday if you use
Sunlight Soap.
For Sunlight Soap is
made for a purpose—
to wash clothes—and it
does that well.
Dyspepsia.
Indigestion:
Thb torments endured by a person who suffers from Ind gestion .are, unfortunately, so well known to
most of us that it is not necessary that the symptoms of that modern scou ge should bo described here.
\V nat sufferers want to know is how to become Permanently cured, end they can be enlightened
by reading this article.
There are several kinds of indigestion : Gastric Catarrh, in which the food becomes covered
with mucous, and consequently withstands the action of the digestive juices ; Gastric Platulency,
the development of wind or gas ; Gastric Diarrhoea, caused by the food being hurried through the
digestive organs too fast; and Constipation, which is a very prevalent and obstinate cause, which
must be removed, or digestion cannot be expected to proceed.
Food must be digested and converted into blood. Nature makes this one of her most imperative
laws of life. During the process of digestion food is entirely changed in composition by the action of
the juices of the internal organs through which it passes. In the mouth it is thoroughly mixed with
saliva. Then it is swallowed, and enters the stomach, where it is acted upon by the gastric juices and
becomes partly liquefied. From the stomach it passes to the smaller intestine—which is about 18 feet
in length—and there certain portions of the food are liquefied by the bile and other juices. The food
thus made fluid is in a condition to be absorbed into and become a constituent part of the blood.
The indigestible portion of the foo.d is discharged into the larger intestine, whence it is in turn
expelled from the body together with other refuse matter.
Just as certainly as that it is necessary to life that food must be absorbed, so, likewise, it is
essential that the blood must be in a condition to absorb the food. Torpidity of the liver is the chief
cause of nearly every case of indigestion, and when the liver is torpid, the kidneys are always sympa-
thetically affected to a greater or lesser extent. The blood, which should be transformed, cleansed
and filtered by the kidneys and liver, then contains urinary and biliary poisons, and is there-
fore a feeble absorbent of nutriment. This condition of the blood reacts upon the nervous system of
the digestive organs, and prevents the flow, and alters the quality of the digestive juices.
The entire nerve energy of a parson suffering from indigestion is weakened, owing to this con-
taminated Condition of the blood, and the general feeling of mental and physicakdepression, which is
experienced during an attack of dyspepsia, is due to this cause.
The blood must be continuously purified by the action of the liver and kidneys, or good digestion
cannot be expected to occur. °
Warner’s Safe Cure
cures indigestion and dyspepsia simply because it restores the liver and kidneys to health and activitv
and, as a consequence, the blood becomes pure, it absorbs nutriment freelv. and conveys this nutri-
ment to the nerves throughout the body. Nature is merely aided in her efforts to preserve a balance
m the manifold and complex processes of waste and renewal by which life is maintained.
Remember, constipation or irregularity of the bowels must be overcome. Warner’s Safe Pills
Should, therefore, also be taken in sufficient quantity to ensure one free movement daily.
Do not overload the stomach. Avoid tea, coffee, alcoholic stimulants and rich or fat foods Do
not eat generously of any solid food.
From Mr. John Gair, Tentmaker, 48f> Bourke Street,
Melbourne, 13tli February, 1903.
foil; "'^. many y ears I was a martyr to Dyspepsia and great debility. I was aware of a great,
falling off in mental activity and vigor, but, like thousands of others, I neglected to pay attention to
Attributing my condition to overwork, I resorted to stimulants, but, after a time, these
nCe o disagree with my stomach, and I was compelled to seek other means of relief. I tried
\arious remedies, but obtained no real relief, the distress of my stomach was as bad as ever, I suffered
i !?“’ ' cou H ?TiT S quite feverish. Upon the earnest recommendation of a
friend 1 decided to see what Warner s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills would do for me. At first I
noticed no perceptible improvement, but, as the medicine did not distress the stomach, I persevered,
pnrprl d W ® e . ks ~ coul [ l f !* l R marked change for the better, and in two months I was quite
andpam»u”iftml W lv“iow i»^lS7 ; 1 “““ S '“ P Wel ‘> “ nd *» of
[2l
A Night in Colombo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE appearance of a white man in the street
is as of a worm flung into a fowl-yard.
From all points of the compass ’rickshaw
men converge. Dark corners of seeming respecta-
bility give birth to the human beasts of burden,
and the white man who wants to stretch his legs
has a lively time.
It requires but very few moments in Asia to
convert a man to the policy of a White Australia.
One’s black brudder grows less lovable every
moment; and here, after 18 hours’ residence in
Colombo, I am beginning to regard the late Simon
Degree as a great and good man. We tell the
’rickshaw men we don’t want them, in the tones
and phraseology which we learned years ago from
friends who drove bullocks along the Darling.
But language which would make the most hard-
ened Australian bullock wither into dust only
excites our fellow British subject of Ceylon to
further feats of grovel. He has a profound belief
that the more abject he is the greater is the respect
he will command with the ruling race, and the
result is that the ordinary garden slug is a fine
manly upstanding creature as compared with the
native of Ceylon.
As we walked along the red roadway heavily
charged with the smell of Ceylon—which is the
smell of the Cingalese—a body of satellite rick-
shaw men followed in the rear, fan-wise, making
extra endeavors towards abasement. Every now
and then pedestrian darkies stepped up to start a
respectful conversation, with backsheesh as the
objective. A disgusting old dodderer flaunted a
gnarled and deformed arm before our eyes until
we were blackmailed into securing its removal.
A strange object scampering over the roadway
materialised under the arc-light into a legless boy
who ran on his hands as fast as we could walk,
until we stayed his speed by the usual method
of making it worth his while. But these were
mere amateur beggars. The real trained ex-
ponents of the advantage of technical education
we found at the corners of the small lanes, howl-
ing dismally for the amusement of a score of
spectators with a thoroughness unknown to the
perfunctory methods of Australian mendicancy.
Their stands were illuminated with naphtha lamps
set on the ground, so that every facial contortion
expressive of extreme woe was seen to the best
advantage. When a shriek of peculiarly heart-
breaking intensity broke upon the air, or a face
was turned into some remarkable contortion de-
noting terrible anguish, the audience signified its
approval by casting small coppers to the beggar.
I would like to take one of our Australian musical
critics to Colombo and let him have a free hand
describing the timbre, the cadence, the lower and
upper register, and other details of the beggar-
men’s voices. One man who might have been a
beggar, but wasn’t, was a dwarf scarcely three
feet high—a splendidly proportioned little fellow
and an old man for Colombo —he must have been
quite 50, with his gray beard hanging on his chest,
fie looked like a gnome stepping from a story of
German folk-lore, and my commercial instincts
immediately impelled me to think of taking him
to Australia in bond and sub-letting him at a profit
to some sewing-machine people.
A lanky nigger with a native mandolin slung
across his shoulder approached. ‘‘Me no Mahom-
medan, master; me no Buddhist, master,” he
said, persuasively. “Me Christian —you want
see nice lady ? ”
We were touched at the evidence of the refining
influence of the Terewth upon the poor idolator,
and refrained from sending him away. He told
us he knew we were from Australia, and offered
to show us complimentary testimonials—presum-
ably professional—from many of our fellow-
countrymen, including the President of a Legisla-
tive Council and a very eminent Melbourne clergy-
man. He told us that he used his mandolin to
accompany himself with when he sang hymns in the
mission church on Sundays, but more often to
supply the music for Colombian damsels to dance
for the amusement of tourists. It was an instru-
ment that served God and Venus with equal
facility. He and his family, explained our
Christian friend, had been musicians since the
days of the old Kandian kings.
“Do you know Professor Peterson?” my com-
panion asked him.
“ Oh, yes, master ; he say I play beyootifool.”
“And Professor Darkhole Hale ?” I inquired.
“ Yes, master,” he replied.
“ And Professor Bland Rignold Bent Reid Cole
Book Arcade?”
“Yes, master; all Australian people know me.
You want see nice, pretty lady ? ”
We told him this was a demand that was never
fully supplied. “ But where are they ? ” I asked.
“We’ve been walking about for an hour and
haven’t seen any sort of girls, pretty or otherwise.”
“ Oh, no, master,” he replied in a shocked tone,
“ no go about the street.”
“But where we come from,” explained my
friend, “there are more girls than men in the
streets.”
“Oh,” he said in pain tempered with patriotic
pride, “ all good girls Colombo.”
Before we had time to resent the remark the
scoundrel’s black face brightened.
“But me take you nice, pretty lady—dancy
lady.” Then we decided that a Nautch dance was
an experience not to be missed.
_ Our Christian friend led us down dark, filthy
rights-of-way, squirming with black naked hu-
manity, along streets that were really passages,
with trays of decomposing, insect-covered food
jutting from shop-fronts on either side ; past
factories where naked men drove sewing-machines
and hammered tinware, and even constructed
coffins in the middle of the congested, noisy
thoroughfare. We pushed into a street compara-
tively wide and comparatively empty. Our guide
paused to tell us that the house he was taking
us to was the most select in Colombo, in all
Ceylon, in all India. Had we waited another
moment it would have been the most select in all
Asia. Its houris represented the very aristocracy
of beauty and vice.
We paused at the door of a dingy, two-storeyed
stucco building that reminded one of the oriental
splendors of Flinders-street, Melbourne, opposite
the churches. “Vare nice lady—nice pretty
lady,” hinted our guide as he knocked. My
companion interrupted that it was up to us, and I
handed over half a rupee (Bd.). “Thank you,
master, thank you, de good Christian. May
God’s blessing rest upon you. Vare nice lady.”
The door was_ opened, and a darkey wearing
European clothing, which is the insignia of
opulence and culture, stood before us. “Come
in, gentlemen,” he said: “nice lady here.” He
led us through a room where a respectable nigger
family was making its evening meal—father,
mother and children—and up a ricketty set of
stairs. True to the traditions of Asia, the
“ strange woman ” still lives in the high places of
the city, while unfortunate respectability has to
take her rejects. At the head of the stairs was a
room furnished like the kitchen of a humble
Australian laborer, and in the chairs were four
fat-faced black girls, about equal in facial and
physical beauty to the average black gin. But,
unattractive as they were, they seemed a quar-
tette of Venuses beside two horrible French
harridans who emerged from a couple of hutches—
they could be called nothing else—partitioned off
from the room,
“We want a Nautch dance!” we hurriedly
explained to prevent misapprehension,
“Vare well,” said the master of ceremonies;
“’Ow many girl—six girl?”
“No,” we cried, “a couple of girls will be
plenty, if they do the dance properly.”
“White girl more,” he explained.
“ But we don’t want white girls,” said my
companion.
“ Wouldn’t have them at a gift ! ” I added, with
a sudden feeling of nausea at the thought of the
two French wrecks in the throes of a dance.
The master of ceremonies did some rapid mental
arithmetic : “Two black girl—one pound.”
“Get off the grass!” yelled my companion
indignantly.
“We don’t want to buy them —only to see them
dance.”
“ One poun’!” persisted the man.
“Let the galled jade wince!” murmured my
companion, and we gathered up our hats and made
for the stairs. The place was none too alluring,
anyhow, and the prospects of the dance were not
encouraging.
We had gone two steps when: “Three girl—
one poun’! ” yelled the master of ceremonies over
the banisters. “Four girl, master—four girl,
gen’lmen—four girl, no clothes on, one poun’.”
We continued our descent. “Six girl,” he was
almost pathetic. “ Six girl, no clothes on, one—
-10 rupee. We stepped into the street and looked
for the ’rickshaws. One approached. There was
a clatter on the stairs, and the door dashed open.
As we spun away in our ’rickshaws we heard on
the air the hysterical shriek of the Christian of
Colombo crying pathetically after us : “Sah,
genelmen, sahibs, all de girls, no clothes on, five
rupee.”
M‘G.
Dogs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE BULLETIN and other papers have
been jesting lately about beer and counter-
lunch. I don’t see much to jest at. The
only thing wrong with them is that a bloke
can’t get enough of them.
One rainy night I was sleeping under a ledge of
rock in the Domain. Two wet dogs came in and
woke me. I put them out, but they appeared so
miserable I let them return. Next day, about 11
o’clock, when I strolled over to get my pint and
counter-lunch, they followed me. If ever you
have been in a 3d. bar about that time
you know there is rather more tucker on
the floor than on the counter, so the
three of us did well and went home to the Domain.
We became great friends, and in my leisure
moments (which are numerous) I began to teach
my dogs. First I christened them : I called one
Dry Dog (he wasn’t very dry the first time I made
his acquaintance), and the other Yellow Pup (he
happens to be black). The system I adopted is a
sort of telegraphy of the tail—a certain number of
shakes for each letter. The intelligence of Dry
and Yellow is wonderful. In less than a fortnight
they were able to read all the old newspapers in
my cave. When one wants to speak to me he
barks twice. Then I look, and his tail does the
rest.
Passing St. Mary’s Cathedral once we met a
strange dog, and Yellow went for him. Before
closing with his enemy he barked twice. I looked
to see what he was saying, but couldn’t under-
stand a word, and told him so. He looked round
and said he had made a mistake, and told me not
to notice his tail any more until business was
over. Then he resumed operations.
It was near 12 o’clock before I went into a pub.
one day, and we had passed several. Yellow
said “What’s rp? Pm hungry.” I said “No
money.” “ Dickm !” was his reply, as he walked
into the nearest pub. While in a bar I let
a little beer fall on Dry’s nose for a trick-.
I’m sorry I did it. He said he liked it,
and asked for more. So did Yellow, and they
have become awful drunkards. They don’t wait
for me to go with them now ; they go out for a
spree on their own, as they call it. However, as
they usually bring me a couple of bottles of beer
and some newspapers, I don’t care much. They
came home tight, the other day, and had a row,
and called one another Dill and George. I don’t
know what they were driving at.
The only thing they can’t do is write. One
tried it with a pencil in his mouth, but it was no
good. There seems one way of getting over the
difficulty. If the Society for the Prevention of
the Heathen will send me money enough to buy a
typewriter all will be well.
O.
“ Asiatic traders own property in Durban
to the; value of £500,000, and nearly half the retail
trade is in their hands.” — East Rand Express.
Prime Minister Watson’s brief definition
of Socialism is about the best yet given. “Roughly
speaking, socialistic legislation, as I understand
it, includes all laws that tend to restrain the
stronger from taking advantage of the weaker
members of society.”
Maoriland supports in some kind of way
6GI lawyers—one to every 1324 of the population,
or one to every 331 male adults. Forty-eight we. e
admitted last year, but a great many ambitious
youths who pass their exams, don’t apply for
admission immediately, preferring to remain with
their employers to get a deeper insight into the
art of having a shortage in the trust funds. So
Maoriland is probably even more lawyered than
appears.
A letter from Townsville (Q.) :
Ex-State Premier Philp “ Jeremiahed” at Townsville
against his successors t’other night, and offered as his
panacea to sell or give the State away to anyone at the
buyer’s own price. Philp left some nice legacies behind
in the historic dredges, the Seaforth estate, the tank
engines, and other evidences of “business” capability,
ltobert of Townsville (where they have spent about
£2,000,000 in trying to scoop up the -bed of the ocean)
objects generally to the Morgan - Kidston policy, pro-
bably because Morgan and Co. are trying to pay as they
go. This causes the ex-Premier to paw the air and sa3'
things. lie was especially aghast at his successors even
thinking of building a railway out of revenue; borrowing
or syndicating—there is no other way, says the discredited
prophet. Syndicates are the thing to save the country,
for evidence whereof look at the Chillagoe Railway Co.
for a shining example. The syndicate microbe and the
borrowing germ seem to have got into the very marrow
of some of the alleged politicians on this island.
Seeing the Northcote barouche drive up to
St. Paul’s Cathedral on Sunday morning one is
impressed for the moment by the reverent
demeanor of the bald-headed coachman on the
box. He takes off his hat and holds it before his
face, as though he were praying inwardly, whilst
the footman (also bare-headed, of course) is open-
ing the door of the carriage for their Nibses. The
coachman’s attitude is so suggestive of official
reverence for the sacred building that one is rather
shocked to see him replace his hat the moment
the G.-G. and his Lady pass through the cathedral
gates. They are the holy institution the coach-
man has been paying his respects to.
About that transient Victorian so jfc of a
year or two back, the Flitterers, “ Jaybell ” writes
from Brisbane:—
A person with a withered eye and a mournful cast of
countenance knocked at my front door, the other day,
and informed me (as clearly as a heavy drape of whisker
would permit) that he was one of the Lost Ten Tribes.
Then he whirled three times on my door-mat and sat down
as suddenly as anything that ever happened. He said
that he was a holy Flitterer, and the last survivor of the
sect, the others having relapsed into sin and cut off then-
long, fervent hair. When he flittered from my humble
home the hairy freak’s innards carried a fairly large
supply of solid refreshment. Two days later he whirled,
sat down, and discussed aliment at a friend’s house in
another street. I await a return flitter, and am armed
with a lathe-turned pie and a smile worth framing.


FOR-—.
20 Years
Many Treatments Prove Useless.
.j.
TJ
m
“ about twenty years,” says Mr. Henry Speer,
| 1 a Blacksmith, of Lynch-street, Young, N.S.W.,
“I have been greatly troubled with Itching
Piles. The irritation at times would almost drive me
wild. As you may imagine, during those twenty years
I tried many so-called cures for my distressing com-
plaint. Some would give me temporary relief while
using them, but the piles would return as bad
as ever when I discontinued the treatment.
Four months ago I purchased a pot of Zam-
Buk and applied it to the piles as directed,
with the happy result that the piles have
entirely disappeared, and I am confident they
will not return again. I never lose an
opportunity of recommending Zam-Buk to
f ellow-sufferers. ”
ZAM-BUK is a speedy cure for PILES, RINGWORM, ECZEMA BOILS,
RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, BARCOO, RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA,
Etc. As an EMBROCATION for SRAINED MUSCLES and ZAM-
BTJK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is unequalled. As a BAJLM.
for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS and ROUGH SKIN,
ZAM-BUK is invaluable. From all Medicine Vendors, PRICE 1/6, or 3/6 large pot
(containing nearly four times the quantity), for general family use, or direct from THE
i,,,r„TT?r I'-' - Sydney. A FREE SAMPLE POT will Ha sati* nn rAnmnfc
Address Zam-Buk Co., as above.
of Penny Stamp for postage.
m
m
m
I
1
am
NO HOME CAN AFFORD TO BE
WITHOUT ZAIT-BUK.
mm
i ik -As
MI
St?;
II
11
Ml alt
Ssfl
3iKi
SSI
Sgs§
; --;
'm?,
m i
* <-
■Vi-
ii
m
m,
. m
m
wm
m
m
m
The Editor’s Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE sat on the front verandah cool on a
summer eve gone by,
The Editor of the Tintarabin Times,
the Editor’s wife, and I ;
The girls and the boys in the room behind made
melody weird and wild.
“ Classical music—Tintarabin style,” the Editor
said, and smiled.
The level rays of the setting sun through the
vine-clad trellis came,
And touched the white and the red wine bright
into topaz and ruby flame.
“ Hermitage both, you may take your oath,” said
the Editor with a grin ;
“I got them in lieu of subscriptions due from
Vigneron Patsy Finn.
The Editor’s face was brown and lean, and his
face was scored and lined,
But his dark grey eyes were merry and keen as
his wife’s were blue and kind.
“A toast!” he cried, and he bowed to her.
“ You'll drink this toast, I know ;
It’s ‘ A midnight ride with a stolen bride a score
of years ago.’ ”
They looked at each other, laughing low at a jest
unknown to me;
As happy a pair, as they sat there, as eyes might
wish to see.
“ Mary, my pride, shall I tell of that ride?” with
a dancing eye in his head,
The Editor asked of his wife ; she smiled, and
“Yes, if you like,” she said.
“In sixty-eight, and God bless the date!” the
Editor then began,
“ I was light and lithe and young and blithe, and
cared not for any man ;
Ah, those were days ! There were no gray hairs
like these you see on my brow,
When spur on heel had a homelier feel than pen
in the hand has now.
“ But though I was proud, with a head unbowed,
some weaknesses I must say
I wasn’t above, so I fell in love with the daughters
of Morgan Shea;
They were but two, but I vow to you that which
of them—Mary or Anne—
I wanted to marry I knew no more than the least
interested man.
“Mary was fair, and Anne was dark, and both
were the country’s boast,
Though now” (with a wink) “that I come to think
it was Anne was admired the most;
And both were kind and both inclined to like me
—but chiefly Anne.”
“ Conceit! ” said his wife, and fondly smiled on
the little grey-bearded man.
“But I was only a printer then, with only a
printer’s pay
To keep myself and a hungry horse,” the Editor
said, “ while they
Were ladies of rank, with coin in the bank, their
father a squatter proud,
When squatters were all of the aristocrats in this
country-side allowed.
“ And Morgan Shea had all the pride of his class,
and a trifle more,
And he gave me to understand one day that if
ever I crossed his door
He’d shoot me as sure as sudden death ; and he
had a quaint grim way
Of keeping his word, however 'absurd, this same
Mister Morgan Shea.
“But Love, they say, has its own fine way of
piercing its own way through.
How much more so with a love like mine that was
ample enough for two ?
And thus, perchance, to my veering mind it
suddenly did occur
That Anne was the girl who was meant for me—
and I settled it so with her. •
“ So it came to pass, on a night like this, when the
moon rose late and large,
That I rode to the homestead of Morgan Shea,
with a swift led horse in charge.
The horse that I rode myself—ah, well, I have
seen some Horseflesh since,
But seldom a breed with the stay and speed of the
breed of old Black Prince.
“That’s always excepting Shea’s own horse—a
terrible great red roan—
And his cream-white mare ; there were none to
compare with the Prince but these alone.
But these there was nothing to catch or match,
nothing to tame or tire :
The wind in their wake on the coldest day was a
breeze that burned like fire.
“ Strong language, this ? Well, perhaps it is; but
remember I tell you—l
There were horses to ride in this country-side a
score of years gone by.
But the roan and the mare, I could safely swear,
were secure in their stable, so
We had nothing to fear on that midnight ride so
long and long ago.
“ Across the bridge at Gulliver’s Creek, and over
the Frenchman’s Hill
We swept, and down to the long grey flats—and
there, in the moonlight still,
Row after row the ring-barked trees rushed by us
on either hand,
Like files of phantoms and sheeted ghosts swift-
flitting across the land.
‘Galloping there I became aware of the sound of
hoofs behind,
And ‘ Anne,’ I cried, ‘we have #dden fast, but
now we must burn the wind.’
For answer I heard a laugh ; I turned—and there
was a sight to see !
As I am a man, instead of Anne it was Mary who
rode with me!
“‘ A printer’s error,’ you’ll say. It was, but I was
an easy man,
And I was in love with Mary, too, though I had
arranged with Anne.
And so.” . . . But his wife interrupted here:
“You see, it was this way. Jim
Had taken so long to make up his mind that we
made it up for him."
The Editor said : “ Having gone so far, you can
very easily see
There was nothing to do but keep going on—a
thought borne in on me
With special force, as over the coarse, dry creek-
bed rubble, the grind
And clatter I heard, and grew cold to hear, of the
galloping hoofs behind.
“ For I knew, without turning head to see, by the
insolent easy way
They were hauling us in, ’twas the roan and the
mare belonging to Morgan Shea.
But the road was clear, and the goal was near,
and I muttered to Mary—‘Ride !
I'll rein up here —and good-bye, my dear —say
‘Jim in his stirrups died.’
“Of course this was bluff, and she laughed
enough, and ‘Die if you must and will,’
Touching my horse with her whip, she said—‘but
first to the church on the hill.’ . . .
And there on the Old Man Hill we were met, full
face by the golden dawn,
And behold, in its light like amber bright, the
tresses of Mary shone.
“And I felt that, in time, I might bear the shock
of the change of sweethearts, when
I heard, like thunder of waves on the rock, the
roan and the mare again !
And, oh, if for Mary and me it had not been a
tragic and dreadful thing,
It would have been joy to have gazed, just then,
on the fierce space-cleaving spring
“ Of that wonderful pair, as, like Crested waves in
the dawn, up the hill they came,
As though a challenge of speed to bear to the
morning’s coursers of flame.
Mary said ‘ Yes—they’re a handsome pair. It
was settled long since. That’s Anne
You see on the mare, and the red roan there is
ridden by Dan M‘Cann.’
“’Twas so. The woman, woman-like, thought of
the human pair ; while I
Thought of the horses—so we are made —but
under the morning sky
Marriages twain took place, and I had for grooms-
man Dan M'Cann,
And Mary for bridesmaid —laughing at me—my
other lost sweetheart Anne !
“ And Morgan Shea ? What had he to say ? He
hid much to say, indeed ;
Too profane and vain to hint in print, but lurid
enough to read
In the dark. However, it all came right—-Dan’s
master now at The Limes
(Shea’s station that was), and I’m on deck of the
old Tintarabin Times.”
The Editor slowly winked his eye, and “A
printer’s error, ” said he,
“It was.” And he fondly smiled on his wife, and
we drank to her health, did we.
And I thought as I gazed at the pair—well,
there, I know all about the leaven
Of error one finds in printing on earth—but this
error was made in Heaven.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
“A Fool There Was-."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE man was old enough to have known
better.
He made his first mistake in wearing
the wrong clothes (heavy boots and a “sympa-
thetic” coat, etc. Nan knew he had better
clothes) and in making a door-mat of himself,
metaphorically speaking.
Phil was the only “possible” man on the out-
back station where the girl was paying a pro-
tracted visit.
She didn’t bother about him at first, except to
wonder why other men thought so much of him.
Gradually they drew together. The b all gathered
as it rolled.
He had studied women, but he didn’t know quite
enough. Her first letter to him ran—“ I miss
you, miss you dreadfully. Do you remember the
night, the roses, the stars, and tile far-off tinkling
bells helped you to tell me how much you cared?”
Phil answered: “As I draft my sheep across
the dust-stricken plains I curse the inevitable that
binds me. Little love, little love, there is only
you, and ever will be, world without end.”
Then the other man came along. Nan thought
him the grand finale.
Eventually he married another woman.
After his advent her next epistle to Phil began :
“The band is playing the ‘Lucia’ music, softly,
exquisitely, under my window. Last night we had
a little harbor tea. Frank”
Then Phil came down :
“ When the apple reddens,
Never pry,
Lest we lose our Edens,
Eve and I.”
Had he waited a little longer things might have
been different. As it was, that’s where he made
part of his mistake. The girl drew comparisons,
and resented the result.
Phil, being a brave man, had dared the leap.
His pride told him he had failed. He made a
hobby of his blighted life.
The other man wants Nan now, because it’s too
late.
Just at present, she’s playing a somewhat tenta-
tive serpent in the other man’s wife’s Eden.
S.M.


Cured the Children
f.7.ma Blotches on the Skin, Severe Itching, Sleep Disturbed,
Health Impaired. Now Healthy and Lively.
■ -
Mrs. E. Isaacs,
Caulfield, Vic-
toria, sends the
photograph, of
herself and chil-
dren, and says:
w I have used
Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for three of
my children who
were troubled
witth eczema,
which, as you
well know, is a
troublesome itch-
ing disease,
breaking out in
blotches on the
skin and causing
no end of trouble
and discomfort to
the children by disturbing their sleep and upsetting their general health.
However, knowing of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I deeiaea. to use it, and now the
children are entirely free from any sign whatever of the complaint, and are
as healthy and lively as could be wished.”
Ayer's Sarsaparilla cures skin diseases because it removes their cause. It
takes out all impurities from the blood, and then the skin quickly heals.
For sixty years Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been doing this grand work. There
is no other Sarsaparilla like it. When there are impurities in the blood,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will promptly remove them, and will also make the blood
rich and red. Only be sure you get •‘Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Prepared by DS. J. O AYER COw Jewell, Mass.. V. S. A.
MARCUS CLARK & CO., Ltd.
Combination Coach and Bed*
A Marvellous Invention.
This is a COMBINATION COU'CH AND BED—a long
looked-for want —which can now be supplied at our
Newtown Emporium and Branches.
ITS SPECIAL MERITS.
Simplicity and Usefulness.
The Most Comfortable of Couches.
Convertible by a wave of the hand into a Luxuriant
and Substantial Bed.
Apiece of Furniture of Highly Artistic Finish and
Design.
An ornament to any room, in addition to the above
useful advantages.
At prices within the reach of all.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
! i
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Patent J¥o. j
Upholstered in Cretonne, from
In Tapestry and Plush, from
Upholstered in Cretonne, with box, from
In Tapestry and Plush, „ ~
Can be upholstered in any material: Leath. ' Cretonne,
Tapestry, etc., and invaluable to Hotel ana ioarding-
House-keepers in times of extra influx of visitors.
As it is convertible into a double bed at a moments
notice, any room can Ue turned into a Bedroom where
one of these admirable Combinations is placed.
SOLE RIGHT held by and obtainable only at
Marcus Clark & Co„ Ltd* Uni NEWTOW^. tOrS
£2
£3
£3
£4
18 6
12 6
18 6
10 0
... TAKE ...
BEECHAM’S
PIUS
TO AVOID INDIGESTION.
That distressed feeling is simply a poorly-
working stomach—it needs a little help—
but no matter how bad it may be, a dose of
BEECHAM’S PILLS will SPEEDILY
GIVE RELIEF Take BEECHAM’S
PILLS for a few days and the trouble will
disappear.
TO CURE SICK HEADACHE.
Sick headache means an overtaxed stomach
and a derangement of the digestive organs.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have proved them-
selves a boon for removing that distressed
feeling and discomfort. A dose will remove
the immediate cause, and if repeated for a
fow days will enable your system to work
normally.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price Is. l|d. (56 Pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills).
[3
HAMMERLESS DOUBLE BARREL SHOT-GUNS
Arc made at all prices to suit every purse Each Gun Guaranteed.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO QUOTE YOU PRICE.
REMINGTON ARMS CO., iLION, NEW YORK, U.B.A.
■
if
B
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CARD.
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P.,E., L.R.0.5..E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ ELM LEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting- Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women.
The only Leg-ally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDLNT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded. Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebliug, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so suocessful during his 2i years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach Of medical skill. NOTE address-
OR MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing
AT POVERTY POINT.
(Contmned.)
Madame Bodda Pyne, better known as Louisa Pyne,
died some six weeks ago, at the age of 76. In her prime
she had a very high soprano voice of beautiful quality.
Somewhere in the ’so’s, in conjunction with William
Harrison, the finest acting-tenor of his day on the Eng-
lish stage, she established the Pyne and Harrison English
Opera Company. Probably no finer co. has ever existed.
It comprised, besides the two principals, Miss Pilling, an
excellent contralto ; George Perrin and Henry Haigh,
tenors ; Santley and Wharton (the latter once well known
in Australia), baritones ; Henry Gorri and Aynsley Cook,
basses ; and George Honey, who as a lyric comedian had
few, if any, equals. At Drury Lane and Govent Garden
they produced for the first time Balfe’s “ Rose of Castile”
and “ Satanella,” Wallace’s “Lurline,” and many adapta-
tions of foreign works, such as Auber’s “ Crown Dia-
monds,” Donizetti’s “ Figlia del Reggimento,” and
Meyerbeer’s “Dinorah.” In this last the singing of
Santley, as Hoel, created a furore.
“Grevillea” : Someone has said that the word “agent”
is derived from the Latin agere, to do, and employment
agents have done their best to prove the truth of the
remark. For instance, a theatrical agent was approached
by a stage-struck youth I know. Youth was told that the
registration fee was 55., and if a “shop” eventuated a
further charge of 2s. fid. would be made. He was then
sent to a “ manager ” who was taking out a co: for a four
days season only, during which four pieces were to be
played. Terms : Board and lodging, ana ss. per night.
The misguided infant was engaged, and turned up to pay
his 2s. 6d., which was refused, and a demand made for £l,
He paid 15s. Wild horses will not drag from me the sex
of the aforesaid agent.
“C”: Maoriland received a series of shocks from
John Snorting-. The gentle John gave Sunday dis-
courses in the cities on the question of Chinese labor
on the Rand. I attended his meeting in Wellington,
which was rushed by thousands. John made no charge
and paid for the whole show himself. This meeting was a
fairly rowdy one, John supplying most of the rowdiness,
and it was, on the whole, a fair compensation for the non-
arrival of Dowie. Occasionally some rash man would
make an interjection, and John would instantaneously
hurl a large and appalling oratorical rotten egg at bin),
which would splash all over his intellect, amidst the wild
enthusiasm of the audience. The crowd kept on making
interjections,’ for the pleasure of hearing John’s forensic
dead cat, and the eloquent cat and verbose rotten egg
arrived every time with great precision and velocity. The
most striking fact was that the crowd, which was mostly
flabbergasted and hypnotised by the unerring precision
with which the gentle M.L.A. shot at it with his poly-
syllables and alliterations, was fascinated into cheers for
Kruger and wild approval of the Boers. For two hours
John stormed and steamed, and punched holes in the
furniture, and plunged into a flaming jungle of oratory,
and ploughed his way through the forest, hurling up
showers of sparks, and emerging triumphantly with
blazing festoons in his hair. Finally the crowd emptied
itself out, and mopped its brow, firmly convinced that it
had heard the greatest orator of the age, and vainly trying
to express its amazement that the dull old dictionary had
contained such a large quantity of first-rate cursing with-
out its ever having known it.
“C.N.” : Be par. suggesting visit of wrestler Hacken-
schmidt to Australia. When I was in London, eight
weeks ago, t sounded Hackey’s people regarding the
possibility of such a trip, and found that this country
could not raise enough money to tempt him for many
years to come. It is the regular salaries drawn from
three or four music halls simultaneously for nightly
exhibitions that form the Russian's solid earnings. The
gates of matches are mere side issues. The big match
with the Turk attracted only 6000 people, and, although
excellently advertised, nobody outside the regular
athletic crowd took the faintest interest in it. A world’s
championship in an Australian capital would shake every-
thing—even the Presbyterian Assembly—to its founda-
tions, and any speculator would insure the attendance of
15,000 at least, if a suitable arena could be found. But
Australians would soon tire of nightly exhibition shows
on a stage, and Hackenschmidt showing at Manly at
eight, Balmain at nine, and the Tivoli at ten would earn
a very poor salary for his trouble.
Wilfred Draycott, the leading man of Williamson’s new
comedy- co., will remind old theatre-goers of Walter
Everard, who played breezy lover parts in the original
Brough and Boucicault Co. long years ago, before
Titberadge joined it. Draycott’s “jammy” decorative
style is very like Everard’s, though his work shows more
finesse.
The late Nellie Farren (Mrs. Soutar),was the mother of
two or three children before she achieved celebrity as the
“ principal boy ”in Gaiety burlesque. She had been the
ward, it was said, of “Bob” Soutar, and was not more
than 16 when he married her. “ Bob,” a bright, humorous
comedian and a man of some literary ability, was more
than old enough to be Nellie’s father, and as soon as his
young wife became the idol of the johnnies, she—er—played
a free hand with the tacit approval of her liege lord.
1 ‘ Bob ” didn’t mind. Nowadays the name of Nellie Farren
is associated with the Fred Leslie period of Gaiety frivoli-
ties, but her first successes were made in extravaganza of
a much earlier type than “ Little Jack Sheppard,” “ Monte
Oristo,” &c. She played in “ Robert Le Diable,” which
was only an afterpiece, lasting less than an hour. Subse-
quently she was the Ganem to Edward Terry’s Ali Baba
in a panto-burlesque version of “ The Forty Thieves.”
Fred Leslje had not been heard of —he was a schoolboy—
at the time when Nellie Farren began to blaze with dia-
monds. Leslie brought a new kind of talent into the
Gaiety burlesque business, and gave a new lease of popu-
larity to the old established “ principal boy,” whose tricks'
of archness and vivacity had begun to pall a little upon
her loyal admirers. Nellie Farren was not an unrivalled
artist of her class in any one particular. Her singing
-voice was hoarse and ragged ; she never frivolled in a par-
ticularly funny way; her clever step-dancing had no dis-
tinctive character. She was bright, alert, mercurial,
magnetic, and in the words of one of her songs, “a jolly
little chap all round.” Off the stage, as well as on it,
Nellie was always a goer. She ate, drank, and was
merry. In Melbourne she got her first serious attack of
gout. A few years later a stroke of paralysis befell the
imprudent “ Queen of Burlesque,” and then her London
subjects gave her a benefit which yielded £lO,OOO.
There is deep anmity between the German and Czech
subjects of Austria. It culminated recently at Lintz in
a brutal attack on Kubelik, the famous Bohemian violinist.
The Germans stormed a concert at which he was playing,
and stoned him. Kubelik manfully continued fiddling for
some time, but was finally compelled to retreat to his
hotel, followed by a howling mob. And yet the Germans
pose as a musical people, which, as a matter of fact, they
are not.
“J.F.D.”: Attended a silver coin show in a suburban
hall a few nights back. Luring the intermission the villain
brought round a basket of peanuts and retailed them
amongst the audienee. I bought a penny bag, and while
waiting for change complimented him on his aeting.
‘Just wait till the next scene,” he replied, “I’m going
to murder that bloomin’ dandy.” He did it, too, and the
corpse went out of the piece and hunted small boys away
from the door during the rest of th# performance.


A GOOD MACINTOSH.
Is worth its weight in
gold to you. It’s macin-
tosh time just now.
These are the best
Macs, made stylish-
full of wear, and abso-
lutely waterproof.
GENTLEMEN’S MACINTOSHES—
-355, 425, 50s.
LADIES’ MACINTOSHES—
"With Cool Ventilations under Cape—
-355.
Perdriau Rubber Co.i?
(Late Perdriau & Co.)
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George St., Sydney.
LADIES'
wmm
AITKEN*
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for failing hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
SHSVSAN
-v v
PRICE Is
BUCCANEER,
and
Post Free
H . ikS .di!#fe* .
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK-
\ —X
Compound Jet Condensing Pumping Engine,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd „ London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd a London.!
Warren Webster <& Co. Newj e r»ey.
ENQUIRIES INVITED FOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
ms, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
■«
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK-
WOLF
0?
AX
J. & J. MAXFIKLD l’Eorns., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showroom*—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
AISO At—
“TKCin BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Syaney.
Woodworking Machinery, All Steel Pulleys, Shafting, Plummer Blocks,
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rolls and Crushers.
PARKE & LAGY CO. LTD.
as wen as mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
HiLVB IKT STOCK.
All Kinds of Engineers’ Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting:
Hangers
Valves
Plummer Blocks Drills
Collars Reamers
Coupling's Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves
Osier Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
‘-i
i'i:
WM
HI!
' " -l:
r:x- <
129 HAY ST., SYDNEY
Sp @g&
i,f i
- IN -? TOCK AND TQjsssizfr- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
and
Plants a
New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
• ■ i
■ -U v, v
Size, SJ" x 3i" x 5".
are Direct Importers
and have
f*r Sale-
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
B
ON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLARBMCE STREET, SYDNEY
NOTHING EQUALS, afc
METAL SOLARINE POLISH
For GLEANING GOLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL, TIN, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and LESS MATERIAL TRAN ANY OTHER POLISH
ON THE MARKET. Sample Tins on application.
Sole Agents:
I I
1
V?y-.N
71 Clarence Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
