

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
]££. G. GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
290
PRIZE
MEDALS
AND
GRAND
PRIX
PARIS
1900.
dshgdsh
SOLE AGENTS FOB
85 Pitt Street,
Co.,
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
vertical; FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
ST
Sooeutrio
Machinea,
Send for Price* and Particulars.
AND P U
Saw Beaolxea
•_ vv;. „
S.
&o.
&0.,
'' H
26,000 Steam Engines Sold
AMUSEMENTfmTt^ai^^
WONDERFUL VALUE.
PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good eatch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
71U ueorge Svreet, Sydney.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
WiBM
HOBART.
—-Sps?
(jadleys Orient jjotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
0
(inwKju^
1* to 1000 Units,-—OUR ENGINEER VISITS EVERY SHOW.- — ECI&H CLASS, LOW FRICE.
ROBIY’S
Electric Light —Mining-
Gas—Oil—Fixed—Portable
—Traction —Air Compres-
sors—Thrashers—Pumps
ENGINES
Ja*. McEwan & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
Brisco* & Co., Ltd.
Sydney.
Porwood Down a Co., Ltd.
Adelaidv
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
! Smellio & Co.,
B^iibane.
The Nation*! Mortgage Jc Agency Co., Ltd. I LINCOLN,
Dunedin. ENGLAND.
•*r*
%
ERGO MI’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
K
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddler*
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
O I Q
Of ? PO
£
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
0.1 o
THE WC
Bdiswan - Lamp,
sdg
sdh
ECONOMY IN .
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations,'
THI SDttJ pi
United Electric "Light
Go., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WVNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot— Common wea ,th Buildings
Adelaidje Street. Brisbane.
THE
‘PLUM’
.V . ,
sdh
‘PLUM’
(TJENTLEMEN. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
•nlge that is required ro ensure an easy shave, and, having hail them in use for a number of vears, can testify o
i heir merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Prick
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather date, 210.
\Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Ist. on Intercolonial Cheque!.
e Agents: CRAIG & ABTKEIM, 654
A-
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVE !0/3TWEC E 3
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Post
ANG
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Colonial Hospital writes : “Our patients have
__ v Hospital writes
greatly , benefited by the
use of Joshua’s
Boomerang Brandy. It is a very Nourishing
and Beneficial Stimulant.”
BRAN DY.
ALCOCIDE
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
STEicTiiT Confidential.
A. C. LUMSPEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD,
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
so
3>
<Rflc
A
23
ca
HERVEYS
RfICKAROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
©4
tears dyeing
for the ladies.
w. c. IFJT.TDireiIDG-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOiiK STRELT, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Connery Orders .by post freim all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Btftrtucts' throughout Great Britain and Colontts.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
1 produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return o£
symptoms- Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched: nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
R lief a* or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hav Fever patients. •■'Es-
tablished IXB3. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address; Dr. P. HAROLD HAYES’ ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE.
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
AUT H ELI DOW AUT NULLUS."
The Bulletin
1 ol 25.—N0. 1254.]
[Thursday, February 25 1904.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Seymour, Practical Lithography, 6s, postage 6d.
Mievzinski, Waterproofing of Fabrics, 6s, p. 6d.
Francis. Asthma in Relation to the Nose, 6s, y>. 6d.
McCarthy (J. H.), The Proud Prince, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Welsh, In Relief of Doubt, cheap edition, 6d, postage 2d-
Volk, Haulage, &c.: Appliances used in Mines, 10s, p. Bd.
Mann, Gran’ma’s Jane, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Tynan, The Honourable Molly, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
v . ;Send to us for any Hook or Magazine you Want.
We are always pleased to answer inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
SUCH IS LIFE
Being Certain Extracts from the Diary of Tom Collins.
A unique Australian book of Bush adventure and Bush
philosophy. “There is amusement and instruction
hidden away here enough for many a long winter ni
and all booksellers. ~’
."-The Manchester Guardian. From The
4s. 6d.
For the LUNGS,
. . THS . .
(treat Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
'• A'jVv-
A. The Larysx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
I). A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SING ERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HOPSON’S EUMENTNOL\ JOJOBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poison Jus Drugs fc ff
All Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or from Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswu;h,
stamps. Sydney Depot: 5& 7 Queen's Place. Agencies m all Australian States, !>-*■» _ -- -- -
THE RED PAGE.
Of all the prophets that are smart,
There’s none like pretty Bowie ;
Be is a master of the art
Of proftts-I, I vow—he /
. The ancient prophet stuck to prayer ;
The modern is a fly’un.
He lets the heathen rage and swear
And sticks to deeds in Zion.
Of all the names in Holy Writ
I love best Adonijah,
For that’s a name that rhymes to fit
The name of sweet Elijah :
He has the grace, he has the face—
Of Scotland’s tribe the Lion,
And Zion is his dwelling-place :
Come, let us go to Zion !
When I get on the Public Works
Committee, I’ll have money ;
I'U hoard it up, with all my perks,
And give it to my honey ;
But when to Heaven he is called
His mantle I will try on,
And if you say l 'rn getting bald
Look out for bears in Zion !
IT was It. H. Stoddard, the American verse-
writer deceased last year, who wrote in a
haunting stanza that
There are gains for all our losses.
There are balms for all our pain ;
But when youth, the dream, departs.
It takes something from our hearts,
And it never comes again.
Last week found us gravely doubting whether
that was the matter with Moore. This week cer-
titude has come by the English mail. Much, so
much, has been taken from Moore’s heart. When
the heart was young he delighted, how he
delighted in Mallarme’s celebrated barrel-organ—
that decadent instrument which chanta languis-
samment et melancoliquement in the avenue of
poplars (so dejected even in spring since Maria
went away) [and if you call her—O horror !
“ Marai'a ” you will not merely adulterate “the
concrete essence, the osmazome of literature, the
essential oil of art,” but you will d n
everlastingly your pretensions to Taste in
the minds of the “ten superior persons scat-
tered through the uniyerse ”]. When the heart
was young, he translated, how he mistranslated
Mallarme’s “ miniature marvels of diction.” Yea,
he listened to the prosing of the organ (or versing,
rather, since “There is really no such thing as
prose,” said Mallarme gently, firmly: “every-
thing is verse”— “though,” remarks a wicked
commentator, “when you read the poetry of
Mallarme’s disciples, you feel inclined to believe
exactly the opposite”), and he asked exquisitely,
“ Why do its flourishes go to my soul, and make
me weep like a romantic ballad? I listen,
imbibing it slowly, and I do not throw a penny
out of the window for fear of moving from my
place and seeing that the instrument is not
singing itself.
But now the heart is old—ade, ade, the heart is
old, and
On 28th December two organ-grinders, hailing from the
clime from which such musicians usually come, were
brought before a Dublin magistrate, charged with
creating a nuisance (!) by playing in front of the house of
Mr. George Moore, the novelist (!!) and refusing to go
awav (!! !)
Mr. Moore narrated how the twain placed an organ in
front of his windows while he was engaged in his writing.
He had already warned one of them.
Asked by an interpreter why htf’did not go away, this
man said he “only wanted to finish the tune” [poor
artist-fellow with a feeling of his business].
The magistrate : You must stop this ; and in the mean-
time you must- find bail in 5 1. to he of good behaviour
and to desist from what seems to have been a deliberate
persecution.
Ai for the plainte d’automne and the orgue de
Barbarie ! at for Maria ! ai for Moore ! and ai, ai,
ai, ai for Mallarme ! But dream of that heroic
ghost attendant, 'searching vainly for the appro-
priate and faded word—him who has “ trop oru
aux mots ” ! But hear him at last falsifying his
art, verifying his emotion, with le mot trop cru...
de Cambronne !
J*
Several things are suggested—whether Moore’s
admiration of prose about a barrel-organ logically
implies admiration of a barrel-organ ; what is the
aesthetic use of “d n”; what should be
answered to distant Bill, turning over to ask
Jim “Who is this Mal-something that this
Bed Page bloke is gassing about?” Inviting
topics for a more spacious day !
I*
The Athenaeum reviews Such is Life, by “ Tom
Collins,” in a liberal space and spirit. _ It is now
an open secret that “Tom Collins” is the pen-
name of Jos. Eurphy, an Australian of Irish
descent, born at Yering, on the Upper Yarra, in
1843. So that his work falls under The Athenaum’s
alternative 6f “ the book of a man past maturity,
with consequent regrets. His own account of
himself says that he “ has maintained a stirring
and unprofitable career in Central and Northern
Victoria, and in Baverina. Has had experi-
ence of many occupations—chiefly of an
arduous and thankless character —and has
followed each industry through all its
ramifications and details. Has nevertheless
realised nothing more tangible ” —he forgets a
wife, two sons, and a daughter i —“than a broaden-
ing interest in the general welfare, and a narrow-
ing solicitude for the personal concerns of Number
One. Is especially impressed with the conviction
that the first public duty of every born or adop-
tive Australian is to bear a hand in building up
an independent and common-sense civilisation;
while sis first private, duty is to pursue Australian
virtues and vices, in contradistinction to those of
the Northern Hemisphere, And the yearning of
pseudo-Australians toward European usages and
institutions too rotten to bear oversea transference
is more trouble to him than all his financial
investments.”
This is in the large, irreverent manner that The
Athenaeum, (Englishly) objects to, and omits
details of a youth and manhood spent in farming
and as machine-artificer and as bul-
lock-driver, until Furphy settled as general
mechanio in an agricultural-implement works at
Shepparton, Vic.—to be called “our modest
townsman” by the local papers. The Athenaeum
speaks of bis book well and critically (Jan. 9).
Such is Life
is as essentially Australian in its every line as the
wattle, the wara’tah, or the Sydney Bulletin. To the
literary mind there is a special interest attaching to
fiction or other matter written in and of Australia.
There are not many English-speaking lands left from
which we may look for new developments in English
literature. Australia is one of the few, and very interest-
ing it is to watch her progress in letters...
Such is Life is a book of another sort, long, extraordi-
narily' long, close packed with reflection, realistic in
most of its grim detail, clever, undisciplined, pseudo-
philosophical, and genuinely bitter ; a really remarkable
book, and well worth the rather serious effort which is
required to peruse il from end to end..
After two columns *>f a commentary that some-
times can be endorsed, and always is reasonable
from an Englishman’s point of view, the writer
sums up that, “ In any case, the book as it stands
is purely Australian and exceedingly interest-
ing ”...
A bookfellow strolled by mistake into the
Senate-hall of Sydney. University, the other day,
and before he could retire dreamed he was assailed
with this conversation:—“Eh, mon, an’ hoo’s a’
wi’ye?” “Juisfc middlin’; an’ hoo’s yersel’?”
“Verra weel the day. Ye’ll be speirin’ aboot
the Russell money ?—a gran’ thing, yon ! ” “Ay ;
an’ a gran’ mon ; yon’s aguid auld name, Russell.
Maain sister was married on a Russell.” “Ye
dinna tell me! ’ “Ay; an’her bairn’s juisfc ta’en
his degree in pheesics at Aberdeen.” “ Mon !
but we’ll be needing him: ye ha’e ma worrd.
Noo, I thochfc to speak to ye aboot yon medicine
school. There’s an auld freen o’ mine sends a bit
letter frae Auchtermuchty to say his boy wad
like weel to come to Australia ! ” “ Mphm !
an’ his name ? ” “ MacDougal, no less.” “ Mac-
Dougal! Say nae mair; I’m wi’ ye. We ken
ane anither fine ! A MacDougal! Did ye ken
that ma great-grandmither ”
Scotch professors, like Scotch fleas, are noto-
rious for esprit de corps.
&
H. I. Hancock’s book on Japanese Physical
Training (Lond., Putnam’s; ss. net) can be
warmly commended to athletic young Aus-
tralians. The muscular illustrations arp uncom-
monly good and interesting. Incidentally, the
author traverses our meat deduction, in affirming
that despite the Mikado the Japanese still live on
rice and fish, and thrive on it to the point of
being “the strongest, most enduring, and hap-
piest people on earth.” But perish a thousand
Japanese rather than one deduction.
Japanese physical training is called jiu-jitsu,
which means literally “muscle-breaking.” Ifc
means practically much more, and includes diet
and breathing as well as exercise in methods of
attack and defenoe—the whole system being
directed to the attainment of perfect health.
One of its specialties is the use of what may be
called centres of nerve- and muscle-paralysis. For
example,
Take a point about midway between the elbow and the
shoulder, of some one else’s arm. Employ the grip in
such a way that the fingers dig into the muscles behind
the middle of the bone. The thumb’s tip should press
into the muscles over the front of the bone. Without in
any way relaxing the grip, both fingers and thumbs
should be vigorously pressed over the parallel lines
of muscles and nerves. Any experimenter can readily
find on his own arm the exact .locations of these muscles
and nerves, and a little practice with a friend will teach
him rapidly how to seize an antagonist’s arm and to
render that arm momentarily helpless.
Of course, “it is a principle of fin jitsu that a
weaker man should be able to attack a stronger
opponent, and to defeat him by aid of the latter’s
own greater strength.”
When you haveacquired the arm-pinch, you start
hardening the edgeof your hand—which is useful to
hit an opponent across the throat with. Then you
harden the solar plexus so that it will resist any
ordinary blow. Meanwhile, you have been
breathing deeply until deep breathing has become
a habit; you have used water galore internally
and externally ; and, stomach, heart, and lungs
being at their best, 'the muscles gain strength
daily. “ There is no difference whatever between
the physical training of one sex or of the
other. A Japanese woman, well versed in
jiu-jitsu, is able to encounter a burglar in
a dark room, and to hold him powerless until
help comes.” And the author gives full details
of the grips, the holds, the finches and the blows
which may be used to bring about this ideal
power. He takes the wide view, too —“Health
is not created by mere combat. Physical training
does not consist alone of the creation of swelling
muscles. Nor does the possession of a few easily-
learned tricks of attack make an athlete.” Alto-
gether, one thinks the intelligent reader of his
book is bound to profit by it.
It will be useful to count some early traces of
Japanese ambition. Later Jap diplomacy has
been suave and careful, biding its time.
If England were to make Japan her enemy, it would
mean a sweeping of her influence from the East... In
•one sense, England is China in Europe. What she
depends upon is no more than the bequests of her
ancestors and of historical glory. Even that historical
glory was not obtained by fighting with equal powers. ..
Our'navy will be increased after the present war, with
a view to cope with combined squadrons of European
powers as our object. .. We are ready to sacrifice our
country,for its own dignity, honour, and right, and we
do not fear Europe.—The Japanese paper Kokimino-
Tome, translated June 21, 1895.
Should Japanese rule dominate China, it will result in
a process of civilisation and education of China’s millions
and the adaptation of their latent strength for occupa-
tion as a producing nation in open competition with the
other indqstrial countries of the world. The question
arises, pregnant with import to the labouring classes,
How will this competition affect the manufacturing and
producing countries of Europe, America, and Australia?
—W. Griffiths in The Empires of the East, reprinted
from The S.A. Register, 1895.
Mr. Coote relates that he was travelling on one of the
railways in Japan with a friend, who had been for thirty
years residing in the country, when his attention was
attracted by a loud conversation going on between several
Japanese military officers, who were seated in ttlbsame
carriage. “ Would you like to know what those fellows
are talking about?” asked Mr. Coote’s companion.
“ They are referring to your country, Australia, they
say that Australia has great pastoral lands, great forests,
and soil that will grow coffee, tea; rice, and every other
tropical product. The Australians, they think, are act-
ing in a dog-in-the-manger fashion in not allowing other
people to settle on the land, and, by doing so, develop it.
They consider England a capital ally in case of war with
any other nation, but should anything arise of an un-
friendly nature between themselves and the English, the
best thing for their Government to do would be to at
once send down some of their warships, and capture a
good slice of Northern Australia.”— Aodley- Coote, inter-
viewed by The Brisbane Courier, 19 September, 1896.
The Napoleonic craze has reached Japan. Tsabonchi,
a leading Japanese novelist, has made him the hero of
one of his romances, and prints of the great Corsican
adorn the walls of almost every Japanese cottage. The
historical essay, by the way, is a form of literature in
much favour among the Japanese, monographs on
Bismarck and Caesar being only second in demand to
those on Napoleon. —The Spectator, London, 1897.
Japan is not onlj' building more ships than any other
power except England, but she is building better shipsm
English shipyards than England herself is constructing
for her own navy... It must... be assumed that Japan s
purpose is the general one of predominant sea-power in
the Orient-.—C. H. Cramp in The American Magazine,
October, 1898.
Colonel J. F. Maurice, an expert strategist, writing on
the results of the peace conditions of the China-Japan
war, says that if Japan obtains the control of affairs in
China she is certain to demand the free admission of
Chinese into Australia.—London cable, 1898.
Asiatics as we are, we have made our Empire a banner
State, and have written the word- ’‘Civilization” in
glowing hues on our standard. China, Korea, Japan, the
Indian States, all look to Japan as the modern represen-
tative of Asiatic power and national vitality. With every
other Asiatic land looking to Japan for aid, we firmly
believe that it is our beloved country’s exalted duty to
lend a helping hand to one and all; to act as the friend
and saviour of those once powerful States now cowering
under European menaces ; to raise the Asiatic standard
of civilization, and to prove to the world at large that the
Orient is every whit the compeer of the Occident. —Prince
Koxoye, president of the Japanese House of Peers, in the
Japanese magazine Toyd, translated by The Daily Tele-
graph (Sydney) correspondent, June 15,1901.
All these footprints lead into the cave. _ One
wonders if at the end of th# cave there will be
found a
... radiant land ! o'er whom the sun’s first dawning
Fell brightest when God said, “ Let there be light" ;
O’er whomthe day hung out its bluest awning
Flushed to white deeps of star-lus-tre by night !
as the local rhymester rhetorically puts it.
J*
A distinguished Irishman is dead in W. E. H.
Lecky ; a distinguished Scotchman in Alexander
Bain ; a distinguished Englishman in Herbert
Spencer; a distinguished German in Theodor
Mommsen. Many of the illustrious are approach-
ing their end. By 1910 we (?) shall have ceased
formal lamentation for Ibsen and Tolstoy,
Bjomson and Swinburne. The nineteenth century
will have delivered its last message and retired
down the back-entry of Time. The twentieth,
with the fire of youth in its eyes, will be fling-
ing a new challenge to Oblivion. Already “8.1 i.”
has tuned his virgin lyre. These are the tunes :—;
The proof is complete. Britain is Heaven-born ;
and Joe Chamberlain is the walking-delegate of
the Almighty.
LITTLE WILLIE WAGTAIL.
His coulars are a Magpie
He seen upon course
He rides upon wether
Then upon the Mane
A Pilot to the Horse
Is Little Willie Wkgtail.
In Stringy Burk Hut on the Hill
Doun is the valley is Dark and still
The Hen on nest is Brooding
Nightly Bunyip shrills heard on Hill
The Childcrn cry with fearin and Say
Its only Little ivill Wagtail.
B.L.
COMO.
Come let us go to Como
The sceanes are ever Grand
The Bridge across the Biver
The Boates are tied beside
The Christmas trees in
The tides are gliding out
Their Oysters on Rocks
And Baronias on shore,
1 Love to go to Como
The scenes are ever Bright
The Brigde across the River
The Boats are tied beside.
That will fitly herald the next paragraph,
B. L.
Alfred Austin—the Poet Laureate who em-
bodies the last word of English satire—is reduced
to parodying Tennyson’s “ Vastness ” for a New
Year piece. (Yet somebody remembers that it
was A. A. who declared thirty years ago that “ In
Memoriam will assuredly be handed over to the
dust as soon as a generation arises which has come
to its senses.”) “Moving Onward ” tells the world
through The Times that twice two.are four, and a
door must be either open or shut, and though the
great Encyclopaedia opportunity has fled the
wonderful Dictionary invitation is open, and flesh
is grass, and grass is hay, and Russia is creeping
up, and mastodons have become marine animals,
and Russia is marching 1 on. But (with a flourish
of patriotic trumpets)—
.. .British sentinels stand erect at the fortress gates of the
Aridthe British Flag is on every sea, with its splendid
symbol unfurled ;
And the Lord of Right still sits on His throne, still melds
His sceptre and rod.,
And the winds, and the waves, and the years move on,
doing the Will of God.
(Witness to the Will )
ALYRED AUSTIN.
MEMORANDA.
The phantom millions in Mme. Humbert’s safe—those
(says Maurice Allard in La Raison) represent the
securities for the religious Paradise. As long as you take
the theological swindler’s word, all’s well; but when you
use reason, and open the safe, there’s nothing'there. The
imaginary Crawfords and the mythical will complete the
parallel. Clearly they stand for the blessed saints and
all the miracles.
“ f je t us,” says D. S. Mac Coll with a fine scorn, “ let U 3
leave it to the people of the Mortimer Menpes stamp to
describe the details of Whistler’s toilet and tailoring
with a zeal that leaves little for the valet to add.
to the rifle-shot, raconteur, etc. (“ Painted, too, dip ~ .
he?”) who was “ inartistically born in Australia i
’S-s-s-death! _
“ She has that wistful air of greeting every man with.
Art thou he that shall come, or look we for another r
Mrs. Herbert.
Another injustice? Another outrage! “One of the
most insoluble .enigmas in literature is the failure or
Ireland t o produce a great poet,” commencesan Athenceum
article calmly. Surely, as Pistol remarks, “ All hell snail
stir for this ! ”
In Eng. Church Times an Anglican clergyman dis-
cusses the ingratitude shown to the Kaffirs who assisted
the British in the African war. No mark of Britain s
gratitude has been given to these valiant men. Shall
their heroism go unrewarded ?...“ Let us found a
South African bishopric ! ” “ Gods, what humour .
Comments G. W. Foote.
“ How,” asks The Saturday Review, “can English be
well spoken when some of the greatest ladies speak the
idiom of Massachusetts through their noses, and a large
proportion of the men cough the idiom of Frankfort
from their throats ?”
The O’Ruddy, commenced by Stephen Crane and
finished by Robert Barr, starts serially in The Idler.
America already has the book, and describes it as holding
little of Crane’s characteristic value—that little wet-
blanketed by Barr.
Prof. Lounsbury, in Jan. Harper’s, points out that in
sounded we use a word-form precisely similar in character
and origin to drownded. Drownded “ was employed in
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries by reputable
writers. Had during those centuries the form been
generally adopted by authors of the highest grade...
every educated man at the present day would be saying
drownd and drownded for drown and drowned, and
withal be ignorant that he was using what was in its
origin a corruption of the worst kind.” Let us be humble
Critics, therefore.
Lynching is by no means a forsaken pastime in the
U.S.A. According to a writer in Jan. N. A.. Review the
annual average for hen years to 1902 was 143 cases ; and
in eight and a-half months of 1903 there were 76 cases.
Thrice, in 1903, they lynched the wrong man—and apolo-
gised to the corpse ?
G. A. Sala (or Sarcey, or Max Beerbobm —it is a father-
less anecdote), failing on one occasion to receive his first-
night ticket, called at the theatre-box office, and was
handed a voucher for stall K 9. Ah,” (said Walkley, or
Lemaitre, or W. Winter), “ I always suspected that criti-
cism was going to the dogs.”
Some of London’s city missionaries are scandalised at
th* maiden tribute to Stead’s modern Daily Paper.
Five hundred young girls, at ss. per week, deliverthe
papers ; and the missionaries scent moral danger. “We
like them best at fourteen years of age,” says W. T. Stead,
jun., quite innocently. “ Mr. Stead loves employing
women, and would not have a single boy to work for him
if it were possible,” adds his lady representative, quite
too innocently. It is natural to chuckle, however base.
“ We shall always think of him as Bedstead,” wrote The
Bulletin when The Bulletin was a wicked paper, long time
ago.
Recollections and Impressions of James McNeill
Whistler, by A. J. Eddy, is published in America. The
author is said to declare that Whistler’s purity of colour
was a reflection of his puritanical soul : ergo, he was
American to the palette and spinal marrow ! Printed, by
the way, that Whistler had no baptismal right to
“ McNeill ” : the whim took him to add it, and he added,
in the airy fashion of his declaration that he was born in
Petersburg, though really in Lowell.
A. G. Bradlev, in Canada in the Twentieth Century,
tells N.S.W. Birth-rate Commission that the province of
Quebec has recently re-enacted an old law giving 100
acres of land to every man with twelve children.
Marinoni, the famous French printer and inventor,
died recently in his 81st year. He was chief proprietor
of Be Petit Journal, the Parisian halfpenny daily which
claims 1,000,000 circulation. “ Work is the whole of life,”
he said. “To live surrounded by one’s family, to employ
one’s money usefully, to do good, to be agreeable to one’s
friends-that is the whole of pleasure. So I count my-
self happy.” , "h
J. L. G6r6me, the celebrated French painter and
sculptor, died on 10th January. The N.S.W. Gallery
contains a fine example of his work in Promenade de
Harem. Visitors will find it hanging next to the
Whistler, in the same court as the Rodin statue.
RECEIVED
Buddhism , No. 2 (International Buddhist Society,
Rangoon; 3s.—annual subscription posted, 10s. 6d.)
From an exceptional article by Ananda M., upon “Trans-
” —with the intellectual stimulus of Poe’s
Eureka—it will be necessary to make lengthy quotation.
This article and other notes lift the maga. from the ranks
of doctrinaire publications, and subscription is justified.
The Literary Sense, by E. Nesbit (Bond., Methuen ; 2s.
6 d.) Singly, these sketches, of literary self-consciousness
held fa ! nt interest; collected, they are rather tedious.
The point and attitude were well taken, and deserved
more forcible treatment in a longer story.
Two Sides of the Face , by A T. Quiller-Couch (Bond.,
Macmillan ; &. 6 d.) Agreeable, magazine-work that
scarcely deserved reprinting. Vis has gone from the
anima of A.T.Q.O. : remains Noughts and Crosses, and
there you have the whole of him at the best of him.
Sea-Wrack, by Frank T. Bullet) (Lond., Macmillan ;
2s. Gd.) This fine, rhetorical, religious, veracious writer
is another tolerable magazine-man whose books now can
be missed without being missed. A recent piece of his
fiction told how he was whaling on Christmas
Dav, and fired a harpoon from a gun (not
a " long-bow), and hit a whale in the belly.
The whale smashed the boat, died, and floated. The ship
had vanished, and Bullen caught the line from the fortu-
nate harpoon and clambered on the whale’s back. There
he sat till rescued, drinking rain-water collected m a
hollow of the whale, and living on whale-beef dug out
with his sheath-knife. But he did not fear, for Cod was
with him. “Then came a blessed vision. Out of a
lowering squall the ship emerged haloed by the setting
sun; beautiful beyond all knowledge, a mighty angel of
deliverance, and we were saved.”_ It is a matter for
regret that The Spectator did not print this yarn.
The Growth of the British Empire, by M. B.
Synge (Bond., Blackwood ; 2.5.). Fifth and concluding
volume of a previously-noticed series of school-hooks,
designed to relate simply crucial episodes of world-history
up to 1900. The plan has merit; but the compilers
execution of the plan, though possibly as effective as
could bs expected from a single individual, is not entirely
satisfactory and his comments are frequently inept. In
Australia, we have reached a point at which no school-
books planned and executed beyond Australia can be
entirely satisfactory. Universal school-history must be
re-written with regard to the Australian outlook. One
or two of the illustrations in this little volume are well-
handled : but, as before, there are too few illustrations.
The picture of the death of Burke is meaningless or
ridiculous.
His Master Purpose, by Harold Bindloss (Lond.,
Bong ; 2s. 6 d.) Romance of love and engineering in
British Columbia. A good piece of realistic workman-
ship, with fresh scenery and some dramatic episodes.
Worth reading for relaxation.
The Bdion Sinister, by George Gilbert (Lond.,
Long ; 2s. 6 d.) Claims, in the guise of historical novel,
to give a more faithful picture of Eng. Crown-pretender
Monmouth ; but fails to amuse.
A.G.S.


B.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
ARE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices i 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTM ENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI ELVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
Leading: House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
MEN'S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICK iST BALLS, 54 oz.—'Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS-
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WJSDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.— 6d, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATS / Cd, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’BATS, \ No. 3 4 5 6
Cane— / 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s Pd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
All Cane— J9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN'S CANEI
and RUBBER V
BATS- J
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d,
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s,
16s 6d
25s
Send for Oatalogue, Poet Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers,
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s fld, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, BSs 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
Derby Hanbicab Stanbard
Ss 6d 5b 7b 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the beet value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 80s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 60s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, Ac.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation ...
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered ...
AYRES’ Champion...
4s 6d doz,
9s 6d
... 10s
... 16s
8s 6d
12s Gd, 15s
... lGs
TAYLORS
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted lGs 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped ly the
N.S. W. Boivling Association.
Remittance, including; payment foi
freight, must accomp ny each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
*485
: -
B
->
<!
>."0
if
'i f
v
m
EY
SE
T
Wm
DYSPEP-
SIA
LIVER
TROUBLES
m
A TRAIN
Are you a Weak Man ? Are you Nervous, Fretful and Gloomy ? Have you a
Haggard Look, eyes sunken, or a listless, indifferent feeling ? Is your rest broken,
appetite bad, or have you lost all interest or ambition in life ? If you have any or
all of these feelings get a DR. McLAUGHLIN ELECTRIC BELT!
Don’t let these first symptoms of Decay and Weakness go on ! Don’t let them
turn to the more serious disorders that afflict mankind ! You can be cured
speedily by the use of this world-famed Electric Appliance, and thereby save yourself a lot of misery and suffering. There is no greater remedy on
earth to-day than Electricity, as we apply it, for all ailments of the Liver and Kidneys, Indigestion, Weak Back, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Bad Joints, and all Weakness and Decay in Men and Women. Thousands have been cured when Drugs and other Treatment has failed. Why !
Because Electricity is a Natural element of the body. Your Weakness, your Want of Nerve Power and Vitality is due to a loss of the amount
Nature has placed in
the power to run it.
Health and Strength,
has done for them,
and explaining the
make so many cures.
Belts and attachments
OF EVILS
your Body. The system is like an Engine, it requires
Until you get sufficient of that power you cannot have
Many men and women will tell you what it
Write for our Free Books giving full information,
method by which we treat various ailments and
These books are beautifully Illustrated, showing the
and how they are applied to any part of the body or
limbs. In addition they contain photos., names and addresses of a great many cured patients. They should be read by every sick person.
We send them, closely sealed, in plain wrappers Free and post paid to any address on application. If you can call, our ADVICE
is given FREE, and the working of the Belt explained. Our Consulting Rooms are open daily from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
CAUTION".—Beware of “Free” Electric Belts. Write to us for full particulars. If anyone has wasted money on frauds
He was a Cripple for 17 Years.
READ THIS TESTIMONY.
Ml*. CHARLES SHEPHERD, JAMISON TOWN, N.S.W., writes—
CURED BY
write us and we
will see that the
money is re-
funded.
Dear Sirs—There is nothing gives me greater pleasure than showing or
speaking of the great benefit I have received from wearing one of the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belts.
For seventeen years I was a cripple, almost a burden to my people, and a perfect misery to myself, in
fact, I was what you might call a useless man. I tried a good many doctors, but got no benefit from
their treatment; lotions and drugs were the order of the day. Rub this into you three or four times
a day ; take one tablespoonful of the medicine every three hours, etc., were the principal pictures in
my house. I at last became so weak and sore that I often longed to die. I begged hard of one
doctor to apply Electricity to my body, but he would not, for he said I could not stand it, as I was too
weak, one shock, he said, would put me in eternity. I then told him that if he could not get inside
and rub it out, I should not have any more lotions rubbed in, neither did I. My boys subscribed £5
for me and got me to Sydney, where I soon got the Belt. That was on the 9th day of last June
twelve months, and from that day to this I have not taken one dose of medicine, neither have I had
one drop of lotion rubbed into me. I wore the Belt pretty regular for from five to seven hours each
day for about three months. My neighbors, like myself were more than surprised at the great good
I was receiving frcsa the use of the Belt. For near y 17 years I could not stoop to lace my boots
neither could I put my socks on. I then weighed only seven stone, to-day I weigh about ten stone!
I have not once had an occasion, during the last 12 months, to ask any person to lace my boots or put
my socks on. lam 54 years of age, and lama b( tter man to day than I was when only 40 years of
age. lam always ready for my meals, and I would think nothing of a walk of 30 miles any day I
thank God my footsteps were directed to the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Institute, for I am positively a
new man altogether. Before I got the Bek I was like a clock that had run down, but after I had worn
it a few times I was like a clock just wound up, and, thank God, I have been so ever since.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
167 E. Swanston Street, Melbourne.
N Z. Office—s‘4: Willis Street, Wellington.
ELECTRICITY


THE
GOLINTON ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane River, hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
40,000 Acres
of Rich River Flats, and well-
grassed Ridges, cut into Dairy
Farms,
Zn Areas of 100 to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the HEAD STATION BALL-
ROOM, on
EASTER MONDAY,
at XI o’clook each day.
Mr. John Cameron, M.L. A-. of Kensington Downs, a Director of the Q.N. Bank
and of the Queensland Meat Export Co. reported on Colinton on 7th April, 1900:
“It is impossible to ride over the rich lands of Colinton without coming to the conclusion
that no Just or aopurate idea of their value can be arrived at by merely treating them as
grazing estates, as the large proportion of arable land embraced in them justifies the
belief that In the future a very muoh enhanced value must attaoh to them for cutting up
jJUrposes.’*
CO&XNTON is composed of a variety of sloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid percentage of Lucerne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Runs, as well as one of the best fastening Runs in Southern Queensland.
OOXiXNTON la magnificently watered by XS miles double frontage
to the Brisbane River, as well as by upwards of AS miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
OOXiXNTON has been kept free from pests suoh as lantana, thistle, and
burrs, ana there is no nut grass and, above all, no ticks.
TBS MAGNETIC TERMS:
One-Tenth Cash, no payment® for 2 years, and the balance
up to 20 years at 4* per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
OVA profusely illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may be
obtained from the office of this paper, or from
ISLES, LOVE & Go., Auctioneers, Brisbane
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oQly pay for wbat they actually bavc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying; for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEOROE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
£
'4
i
X
\
32
\
(Cut this out and send it
to us and we will send
■ you free, postage pre-
paid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the new edition of our splendid, invaluable
and standard illustrated Medical Work, which
acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
FREE
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
Is an up-to-date appliance, whereby electricity in a gentle and
continuous current saturates every nerve, muscle, fibre and organ
of the human system. It absolutely cures all cases of Nervous
Disorders, weak back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney and
Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that tired feeling.
We don’t ask anyone to take chances on onr in-
vention. If we fail the loss is ours, all you lose is your time; all
we ask is, give us security that you will pay, and you can have our
appliances, and
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to you fairly, and carry it out fairly.
You don’t have to pay till you are cured. We could not do this if
our Belt was nof the very best. We warrant that it gives a strong
current and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from
grateful patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delay no
longer. Write at once. We can help you.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DEPT. M.,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
HTettr Zealand Branch: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
PURE UME-FRUfT jJICB
00 you DRINK LIME JUICE ?
sdh
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agatts- Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
O. Cohen Co-> Newcastle.
ffIJSPME/w
COROIAI^'%S..
sdh
r.' ii S 50H N\U DD S -
r ;N v\^ iON toii (/it^
/I Ninos’
'4
CTOPS t\ AIR FA LIIN C O U f
> - PRt V ENTf BA L CHR3S •
pr?ici' r five
G-IVEA LIFE #ToLoH■ : -0 -GSEY:h>JB;
/• j - cosrlfNl no aO5;-
*
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sd
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
FRESH HERRING!
IN 1-lb. FLAT ROUND TINS.
Man ttfrs. —JOHN MOTR A SON, ltd-, LONDON, ABERDEEN and
I SEVILLE. Head Om.ce: g A 10, Great Tower St., London, E.C. a
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION— See Capsule marked ENt’S 1 FRUIT SALT;’ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. G. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNG..
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
I
There’s SECURITY In
Carter's
P ITTL
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
kFURRED TONGUE.
’)
[ INDIGESTION.
1 CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price;
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
■Hi
2®
;^%"V.Y.Y
rntf-'W x 1
\
■:#jrS x '\\\'.••*.',»«\
£#v‘#‘.V.\»
v* Ms':*
gg|
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE:—
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**S T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform uif
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address :
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St, Sydney.
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Moran
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free,
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards; Dunlop & Co., Sydney


I Colds often hang on.
Tou try this thing and
that thing, every kind
of home remedy and
cheap cough mixtures,
and yet your cold con-
tinues to hang on.
You must not deal
lightly with these old
colds. You must get
rid of them just as
soon as possible. You
must take something to
break their hold.
55-
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
soothes irritable throats, heals inflamed
bronchial tubes, and quiets congestion
in the lungs. This is why it so quickly
controls these old coughs and pre-
vents pneumonia and consumption.
“I was troubled with a very hard
cough which I could not get rid of.
When I read of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
I sent to Johannesburg and procured
a bottle. It completely cured me, and I
have many comrades here who have had
hard coughs cured in the same way. ”
WM. Sessions, Company C, Second Royal
Berks. Reg., Nel’s Spruit. Transvaal, S. Africa.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer 4 Co., Lowell. Mass., U.S.A.
-rT«3-«T| - Mtr -
SPOONER’S
hsd
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturer* of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
hfd
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
£2-10 to £5-5-0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia*
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , Accessories , Sporting Goods &
Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
•Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
r - - rer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD GYGLE GO- Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U.S.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
$
BaO Smells
are Danger Signals!
f“SANITAS”
'Disinfecting
Powder
i Spreads the Healthful Aromatic
j vapours of Eucalyptus and Pine
I forests wherever it is used.
Destroys” ill bad smells,
3s a Splendid Deodorant,
Better than Carbolic jlcid
“f e . Closets Stables, Kennels, Cattle-
Sheds, Urinals, Ash-bins, Drains, Cesspools
etc., can be kept entirely f ree from offensive
smell and disease.
Possesses Powerful Qxydising Properties.
the strongest
disinfecting
POWDER on the Market.
THE “SANITAS” CO. LTD
IBEIHNAL GREEN, LONDON, E.j^
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold o-
Leasehold City or Suburbs i
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of ripaving up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Fne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A.'w. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombe Esq M ]•'
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Tbece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S S. ’ ■
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
21/-
/
11. F. SMITH
BRJSBAHI
'T
tea
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
HJLIIAIS ‘d *H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
gdf
*WMCff£STM
RIFLE AND PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
gfd
“ It’s the shots that hit that count.” Winches-
ter Rifle and Pistol Cartridges hit, that is,
shoot accurately, and strike a good, hard, pen-
etrating blow. They are loaded with great
care and precision, and made in calibers
suitable for all kinds of game, from rabbits
to grizzly bears. If you want reliable ammu-
nition, buy the time-tried Winchester make.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
%
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity pf
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Canz Induction Motor. BOLE AGENTS i
The Austral gtis Engineering go., [td., South fljelb.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works: Birmingham, Eiis , land«
ghfd
These series
of Pens neither
k scratch nor spurt
IThey glide over
|the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
IF YOU WANT IT
** CET IT WITH A
KODAK
ghf
S£*U rO«
CATALOGUE
Or.AU DEALERS OR
: 0 : , d4.T£)llJ.N# : ST
umrvL'; - me^Tbourme,
Mf (SJI :os THIS PAPER
GfcfßflNZ JOSEF
the best natural'
Aperient' water.
JOsIF
dx
the besf natural
A peri en I- wafer.
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
AperienF water.
JOSEF
<gn
the besf natural
A peri en I* water.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Vogue la Galere.
A woman gazed on the sea, with eyes
Hard and fierce with a deep despair,
The moon looked down with a cold surmise—
Vogue la Galbre !
The sunset-light from the sky was gone;
Spectral stars with an ioy glare,
Like drowned men’s eyes in the water shone—
Vogue la QaUrt /
Good folk to their homes were walking fast—
Never one with a thought to spare
For that dark form and face aghast—
Vogue la Galbre !
She whispered low: “In that golden Past
Life was good, and I had my share,
But I have done with Life at last—
Vogue la Galbre !
Ah, where are all my Lovers brave—
Lovers who kissed my lips and hair ?
The dearest lies in a bloody grave—
Vogue la Galbre!
My hair was golden, my lips were red ;
Life was gay, and I had no care.
Now I shall soon be cold and dead—
Vogue la Galbre !
I know the story of Magdalen,
She who found forgiveness fair;
But Christ on Earth was living then—
Vogue la Galbre !
They found her body on Sunday morn,
When church-bells rang the folk to prayer.
And whether they rang in grief or scorn—
Vogue la Galbre!
N.S.W.
V. J. DALEY.
Winter.
Winds of Winter ! Wildly wailing
As they pass unheeding by.
Clouds of Winter! Sailing, sailing—
Reckless rovers of the sky—
Of the bleak, untempting snowlands,
And the rolling fog-draped lowlands
Where my kindred love and marry, where they
dream and drudge and die.
Winds of Winter ! Shouting, shrieking}
Brutal, biting, bleak, and blind.
Clouds of Winter ! Sailing, seeking
For the haven none can find.
Clouds of sorrow, lurking, lifting,
Ever drenching, dreaming, drifting,
With the Barren Lands before them, and the
snow-capped peaks behind.
Winds of Winter ! Bore ye seaward
Woeful whispers from the West;
And ye bore a message me-ward
From the lands I love the best,
In your sobbing, sighing, droning;
In your mirth, or maddened moaning ;
From the holy homes of comfort to the scenes of
my unrest.
Cloud and tempest! Ah, they saddened
And they shrouded Life in gray ;
But the golden sun has gladdened
Me, dear distant one, to-day.
And the clouds are lightly lifting—
See them drifting, drifting, drifting
Out beyond the ranges golden—outward, down*
ward, and away.
N.s.w.
GILROONEY.
Dies Irae.
The last great day, it may be near,
Or Man may pass ere it comes here.
There may be nothing but weeds and flowers
Over the Earth in her dying hours ;
Men, beasts, and birds may all be gone
Ere the world’s disaster shall come on ;
Or there may be neither grass nor trees,
But stony wastes round the ashen seas—
No life to take when the days aie dead,
And God is doing the thing He said ;
Nothing but Desolation’s wing
Like a sunless mist o’er everything !
And all the millions long, long gone
To ashes turned in Oblivion ;
And the last great day shall but consume
The bones of a world in its fiery tomb,
As God puts by for ever and aye
The thought of the sorrow that’s passed away!
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Forgotten.
Over the mountain white with snow
All day, all day the great clouds go,
The sun above and the shades below.
And down in a nook by a garden gate
While shadows lengthen and day grows late,
A woman waits —how women wait!
’Tis a treasured place—a trysting spot
Of the blissful days of a brighter lot—
She waits for one, but he coineth not.
Behind the mountains white with snow
The great red setting sun sinks low,
A woman sighs and he*
N.S.W.
JOHN PHILIP COOK.
Glasgow Evening News :
It is not generally known that Captain Kossitch, who
commanded the Servian palace guard on the memorable
night of the murders, had his debts paid three days pre-
vmmdv by Queen Draga out of her private means in
order that he might marry the girl of his choice. His
gratitude was to open the gates to his comrades, and
join in the actual murder.


GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS ITOW TO CURE IT.
*,\Jur§
** GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
anv address in Australia one of our Handsome
Set. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
in 15ct. G.P. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
m
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELECTRO-GALVAN 10
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and other
DISEASES in all STAGES,
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
I paid.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing’, we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LTAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
dh
“ ACTS I.IKE A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CtIRR
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
29. 9d. PER BOTTLB
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
. THE RHEUMATICURO CO.
I Cape Town,
■ and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourni
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SUAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hand 3, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the shin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. POTTER DruO
and Chem. Corf., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
bi-.Tted"liquid CoTicußA Resolvent, as well as for all other blood
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. CUTICURA _PIL s
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tome-digestives.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
Tha Healthiest -.and most Comfortable Underwear for Met* Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under 'similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as “ju:t as good as Aertex."
E-!
SOLE AGENTS :■
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 Ki n% Street*
I
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Fregnancy.
DINNEFOR
MAGNES
fgh
* >
fgh
i
VANISHED VIGOR
From any cause Speedily
and Permanently
RESTORED.
YOU WRITE. 1 CURE.
LI
IMPROVED
fgh
Has completely
Cured Thousands of
SUFFERING MEN.
IT IS NOT A BELT.
IT WILL NOT BURN YOU.
Here is Nothing to Wear]
It is Sure,
Speedy, Secret, and Simple.
For All Forms of
NERVE, BLOOD, AND
SKIN DISEASES
Consult the Only Qualified
Specialist who has no Record
of Failure.
Let me give you back your
Manliness.
VARICOCELE CURED
Without Operation or Pain.
SUR6EOH LHN&STON
M.R.C.S , ENG.,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
NERVOUSNESS.
£■oBB of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, -will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking 1 .
WRITE to me and I will forward you my sclentin'
book, which will show you how to cure disease an I)
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of yoi u
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you wi t
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it co i
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will!
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted' free. Wvi'rt
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
fgyh
EUa-
IUJ'
mm
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
SCompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAIIT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
BEFORE GOING TO BED
USE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth
Powder
instead of leaving your teeth exposed
ail night to the spread of decay. '
It is antiseptic, pleasant an d
refreshing, and has the largest
of any dentifrice.
CALVERT’S
Prickly-Heat Soap
(10% Crystal Carbolic)
is a pleasant antiseptic soap, specially suited
for bath and toilet use in hot climates.
P. G. CALVERT & Go., Manchester
ENGLAND.
WILL ANDRADE’S
LIST OF
g
BOOK OF NATURE and lI-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amatedrs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancino, Is. Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 23. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANt> ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3;
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
WORSTCOUGHtS.


A LIVERS VAGARIES.
Nervous Weakness and Exhaustion.
A Great Change for the Better.
The Case of
Mrs (E. SHEWANj
(BS O UR RKPORTER.)
Mrs. Elizabeth Shewan. of No. 8 Little
Ed ward-street, Pyrmont, was recent!} in-
terviewed by a press representative, and
gave her views on various matters of in-
terest.
“I am given to "understand that you
created a great surprise amongst your
neighbours a little while back,” said the
newspaper man. “ Will you kindly tell me
what it was all about ? ”
“ With the utmost pleasure,” was the
hearty repl\s- It was by shaking off a
long-standing 'complaint that I surprised
everybody, myself included, for I had been
suffering for many years from dyspepsia.
The reason why my recovery was unex-
pected was because X had been under the
care of several doctors, taking their medi-
cines till I positively loathed the sight of it,
besides being treated as an out-door patient
at a hospital for live months, and no good
came from all the physics which had been
administered to me. What else could I
think than that I was incurable ? And to
be in such a hopeless predicament was really
awful. Earth and heaven were both blotted
out of my existence, as the ineffieacy of the
medical treatment I had received left me
alone in the world with nothing but physi-
cal suffering to endure. For years there
was scarcely a day passed bub that 1 felt
intensely tired and so weary and weak that
1 had to let my work go undone because I
was unable to do it, and often I could hardly
get about for the terrible pains in my chest
and between my shoulders. It seemed as if
something heavy was preventing me from
getting my breath, and if the weather was
at all warm the smothering sensations were
frightfully distressing The whole of my
system was out of order, the consequence
being that I was hardly ever without a de-
pressing headache, and a feeling as if my
eyes were swollen also troubled me. When-
ever I made an effort to do a little work the
exertion made me feel lightheaded, and at
times I was afraid to go outside the door on
account of giddiness, which used to seize me
and make me powerless to stand on my feet.
Another reason why I deemed it prmle.it to
keep as still as possible was that any exer-
tion gave me palpitation of the heart. It
might be through getting up from a chair
rather too quickly, or, perhaps, through a
little agitation caused by sounds in the
street that the palpitations came on : but in
every instance I felt greatly distressed, to
say nothing of the fears about what might
be wrong with me which entered my mind
bo many people in this country die from
various affections of the heart that anything
wrong with that organ is naturally alarm-
g, ut I now know that it was my liver
which causes those serious symptoms to
appear.”
evidence 6 ?' ,herC ° ther Uver s y m P toms in
.1 ''Y I f ll, gall-like taste in my mouth
and the furred condition of my tongue
pointed to the fact that my internal organs
required renovating, while to digest my food
was an utter impossibility. Try what I
would in the form of light diet, it was all
of „A e ’ a /. ter eatln g being violent spasms
of wind in the stomach which almost drove
me frantic, and often I felt inclined to roll
the floor in the excess of agony, which
was making my life insupportable The
ood I had eaten was not taken from choice,
because I had no appetite for it, and it was
continuous loss of appetite which
grieved me as I knew that I could never get
strong so long as I was unable to take
nourishment to give me strength. And as
y VJ a ity wasted away, so did my loins
and limbs ache. I felt as sore as if I had
been beaten from head to foot, and no won-
der that my bones were racked with aches,
i my jody and brain seldom got any rest.
fhYn' rY H hts I P assed in profusion, al-
though if I slept at all I dreamed in such a
terrifying manner that wakefulness would
have been far preferable. What a nervous
wreck I became, to be sure ! My nerves
were so weak and highly strung that if any-
body knocked at the door I nearly jumped
out of my chair, and then it took them a
long time to get steady again. A dread of
something happening tormented my mind
both day and night, but did I not have good
reason to be like that, considering that my
disease stood defiantly against my medi-
cines ? ”
“As you are so well now, Mrs. Shewan,
that statement is scarcely correct.”
“I mean up to the time of taking
Clements Tonic ; then everything changed
for the better. X made a great mistake in
not heeding the advice of many of my friends
who had repeatedly urged me to take
Clements Tonic ; but I thought if doctors
could not cure me, nothing could. When at
last I became persuaded, Clements Tonic
soon showed what a mistaken notion this
was, for after taking two or three bottles I
felt quite different, my improved appearance
being the subject of general comment
amongst my neighbours. The appetite I
gained through the medium of Clements
Tonic was, to say the least of it, remark-
able. I was always ready for my meals,
and how could I enjoy them ? That dull
and heavy feeling after eating passed away,
and when my food ceased turning to wind
and creating pain, I could soon go about in
comfort and do a little work, for I always
woke up feeling fresh and vigorous after the
sound sleep which came through using
Clements Tonic. In time my chest and
head pains disappeared, and nothing gave
me greater satisfaction than the b uiishment
of my heart troubles. I could walk about
quite briskly without there being any pal-
pitation or dizziness, the only incoin enience
which I experienced after three weeks’ use
of Clements Tonic being from nervousness,
for I still trembled a little if I had been ex-
erting myself very much ; but in a few days
later .that trouble was entirely remedied,
and it has never come back again. My
digestive system was thoroughly restored to
order, and from that day to this I must say
that the weary aches in my limbs have been
strangers. The acute pains in my head and
shoulders were also carried away by
Clements Tonic, which regulated my in-
ternal organs to a nicety. Such a catalogue
of human suffering as mine was could not
have been more severe, yet Clements Tonic
relieved me of every pain, besides pouring
into my system the invigorating and disease-
curing qualifier it possessed, so that I was
left with the full vigour and health of my
younger days. The return of that alacrity
and cheerfulness of spirits that I was wont
to have made my recovery complete, and I
am not likely to forget that it is to Clements
Tonic that my gratitude is owing.”
“ Will you make that admission through
the press ? ”
“ Willingly, for I recognise the fact that
many people are suffering in despair like I
was, and for their benefit you may publish
my testimony in any way you choose.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Elizabeth Shrwan, of 8 Little Edward-street,
Pyrmonc, Sydney, in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic ; and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without re-
ceiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oath*
Act, 1900.
S
da \
lei
JAS. McDOUGALL, J.p.
'■bsTd.od and declared at Pyrmont, this tenth
ore me ’ one thousanfl nlne hundred and two,
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID "UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
° OOM3PJQTIXXOKT.
WINES
27ie Best Brands Otily of
&c
SPIRITS.
MAJNUJACIUIiIvRS OP MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
M. JL£ JL'* Q 5 NkiT 4•a MV ‘ KIU
Policy for the
Pri oe, Qc3L. -
Commonwealth.
Posted, Bd.
JJOTIO® TO nSfIE3.BOUR.NSI VISITOR!!
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL.
Kllda Railway Station and Cable Trams.
Aooommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lot
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
opposite St.
Largest Hotel
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
7 elejihone No. 10hS. •^.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIiiiQ FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRISCXTIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, flelbourne.
&or Elitist Highfc
'ffleccLthy JnfeiiiU
RIDGE'S
FOOD
Pc fuss a// Z/n/faf/ons
i Slrengfhening. Soothing for Infant
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGfflrS POP SYDNEY
SAYEPS AIIPOPE & POTTEP
RIDCES FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Enc
THE VERY" LATEST
FUNNY BOOKS
Hot Shots, 112 pages, full of
Quaint Pictures and Funny Yarns
Drummer’s Yarns, Piping
Hot, 112 pages, fully illustrated.
Side Splitters, 112 pages with
94 Comic Pictures.
Just for Fun, 128 pages, with
125 Racy Illustrations.
The Boss Joke Book, 112
pages, with 116 Funny Pictures.
A Barrel of Jokes, 128 pages
of Sparkling Wit and Comic
Sketches.
A Bushel of Laughs, 112
pages, full of Good Things and
Funny Pictures.
Price, Ninepence each posted to any
address, or any Three Books for 2/-,
or the Entire Series (Seven Books) for
4/« post free.
Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins St., Melbourne.
DEBILITATED
WEAK NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
"trial eourse of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
h n rT s d^ e fo . r , a , few weeks until y° u are permanently
(JUJttiLD. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In iars, 2s. and 3s. 6d If
ind r fun e pameut e r S S to° fc keeP * B‘end 8 ‘ end 2d - free sample
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ri cord's Marvellous Medicine
Sh Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourne
( Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne’
l Faulting & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
Sub-Agents
mm
Engineman’a Master Key
Second Edition.
AH Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
3CO Pages ever 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. K. SCHN ABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
4-13 BOURXE &T., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
ba rne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
ICRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout. ’
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d ,Is
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d. ’
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPECIAL.-Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Root. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DOEfiAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLI? AGKNTS.
The Remit.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Solo Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
fi m “ l •' w^ er and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
furl °i ffiC Jr- ; °S urches 5 Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use.— Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
fa&oua*
Beware of Infringers of our PatenST
.J n s P ite of t he fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withoix
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England. “
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
» NOTICE
1 Lunibacrn FS from G o utßh e umatism,S c iatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, oi
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
: PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
»» f
Renowned for over a century for quick
partsTf thVW° V m by r testimonials from all
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy,
all Parasites of Head or Body. y
sold in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
LOT?OW InSi ? Up ,° n havin S TRUMAN’S
and no disappointment can occur.
71 P 01d a Kfnt b R P ? Ii T GO ' CSTrUS & 1 aUMAN,
n Uld Kent Road, London, and sold bv all
Chemists m the Australian Colonies 7


9
MBIT.
Insist
Upon
Having
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
LiilEJI
niSi
pa
S
£1
S 5!
au";'
JM
J J 4.
m
ffl
r-yjti
n
■jt.vr
W'%
M
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
. ii. i '■pwwwpw i 1 I'lisaii 111
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
JJeuls as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
Ss. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
to live Old Country
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s Ga.te ierra.ee,London,S.W.
CONSIDERABLY
£NL A R GED—NO TED
FOR ITS COMFORT
A CONVENIENCE
°* fl fIOYAL
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
•HOTELS IN
LONDON
3 3
are
the best
s
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
e>
V*
■*>
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T“n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- 4. 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Mgents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grlmwado & Co.,^M elboume.
Queensland Agents:
Concerning Elgin Watches-^
" — '
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Eyery “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4OB, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
i*V>v
ai
H 1
nm
K II I
i»
III I'M
I I
Pr»l *
ffl
m
af'W?
m
m
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SH JEFSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay specia
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendere
promptly. ,
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
TO THE TOBACCO TRADE.
n order to extend business and establish Branches in the various Australian States,
Messrs. J. Kronheimer and Co. Proprietary, Limited, Melbourne,
«nd W. D. and H. O. Wills (An
Have -formed a Wow Oonpany the name of
W. D. and H. O. Wills (Australia), Limited, Sydney,
lor trie or
KRONHEIMER, LIMITED.
. . . , fT mvjiTTi'TIVTF'R and CO PROPRIETARY, LTD., as well as the Distributing
» *" th * - its
Receipt on to™° 3 d wV/eatry on under the SAME MANAGEMENT as heretofore a Merchandising Business including the distribution
of Tobacco, Tobacconists- Sundries, and evil! be Agents in Australia for the Products of (amongst others)
THE T. C. WILLIAMS CO., RICHMOND, VIRGINIA;
DAVID DUNLOP, PETERSBURG, VIRGINIA;
W D AND H. O. WILLS (AUSTRALIA), LTD., SYDNEY ;
HAVANA TOBACCO COMPANY, HAVANA CIGARS, includ-
ing such well-known brands as Flor De Murias, Henry Clay, Floi
De Naves, La Corona, Aquila, De Oro (Bock Y Ca), J. S. Muiias.


The Bulletin
Registered; at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as-a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1254.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1004.
Price 6d.
THE SITUATION IN THE FAR NORTH. —(From The Bulletin’s Own Correspondent.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by WntiAM Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Adrance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ® 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 ISO
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Thb Bulletin Office 'Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications wiU be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand i that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mu tears i n lilaoJe unci White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
.— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions. under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
ff^^xxlleZz/Ti.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1904.
The Commonwealth and the State Debts.
The recent conference of Treasurers, which met
in Melbourne to discuss the transfer of the State
debts to the Federal authority, dissolved without
really doing anything. It didn’t even say any-
thing very definite. Its best feature was that it
didn’t disagree quite so violently towards the end
as at the beginning, and that it decided to consider
matters again in a future conference, at which it
seems fairly probable the parties will be sufficiently
united to avert personal violence. The objects for
which the late gathering held its disturbance were
twofold —to decide upon some method whereby
the State debts could be taken over by the
Commonwealth on fair terms, and to consider
whether it is possible to regulate and reduce
future borrowing. Nothing was really decided, but
Federal Treasurer Turneii, after thus insinuating
that State borrowing required regulation, got away
alive, which may be held as showing a spirit of
compromise on the part of somebody. And if he
brings his axe with him at next conference he may
manage to go further into the matter and still get
away alive.
• • • •
The position, as it exists now, is somewhat as
follows :
(1) It is advisable, for many reasons, that the Common-
wealth should take over, renew and consolidate the State
debts, and provide a sinking fund for their repayment.
(2) It is advisable that this process should apply to all
the debts—not merely those existing at the beginning of
the Commonwealth. To take over the later liabilities in
the ordinary way would require an amendment of the
Constitution, but the debts that existed at the beginning
of the Commonwealth have been so tangled up with later
loans that it is difficult now to sort them out.
(3) It is necessary that the Commonwealth should see
its way to meet the interest on the debts when they are
taken over. Its present revenues are not sufficient, so it
must either levy direct Federal taxation to make up the
difference (and there seems to be a curious reluctance to
do this) or it must get some reliable assurance from the
States that they will make up their respective deficits
out of their State revenues. The State Governments
seem very reluctant to give anything more than an off-
hand promise that the thing will be all right, and it is
questionable if that is good enough.
(4) If the Commonwealth takes over the State debts it
will have, even if it keeps reducing the debts by means of
a sinking fund, to float a very large renewal loan every
year for the next 48 years, and it wants some guarantee
that the States won’t mop up all the money available
with new State loans, and burst up the credit of Aus-
tralia generally with new extravagances, and thus make
it impossible to float Federal renewal loans, except at
ruinous interest.
(5) If the Australian Government sets to work to reduce
the country’s total indebtedness, or at least to prevent it
iucreasing'at an extravagant rate, by establishing a sink-
ing fund, it wants some assurance that the States won’t
nullify its efforts by borrowing on a still larger scale, and
that the fire won’t spread at one end faster than it can be
extinguished at the other.
The Australian Treasurer, in short, looks on the
transfer of the State debts to the Commonwealth
as a means of reducing the aggregate debt of
Australia. On the other hand, some of the State
Treasurers apparently regard it as a means
whereby the State Governments, having got rid
of their old debts, may haye a better show to pile
up new ones. These two views are so incompatible
that the necessity for Treasurer Turner to bring
an axe with him to the next conference is very
apparent. Before anything definite can be done
it may be necessary to explain to the State
Treasurers that they are an unreliable lot of
profligates, and the man who does that had
better be armed.
Meanwhile itis necessary to face the possibility—
if not the probability—of the present negotiations
falling through. In that case the Australian
Parliament can either let things slide, or start new
negotiations on the same old unpromising lines,
or make an effort on its own account. The last
idea is at least worth considering. The Australian
Parliament couldn’t make any very large imme-
diate effort, but that is no reason why it shouldn’t
do something. To save 10s. at once, and keep on
saving other half-sovereigns regularly, may be a
small thing, but it is better than to do nothing
and merely sit down in a hazy dream about saving
£lOOO by Highly improbable means in the highly
indefinite future.
• • * •
If the State Governments won’t come to any
terms that are agreeable to the Australian Govern-
ment, and if the State Parliaments won’t restrict
their borrowing, it is still in the power of the Aus-
tralian Parliament to achieve by other means
everything that Turner or any other honest
financier can desire. It would require a very strong
Parliament to do it, but it is impossible to say
for certain that the present Australian Parliament
isn’t that kind of Parliament until the proposition
is laid before it. It would take much time, but
time and drought are both plentiful. The central
fact is that the Australian Parliament can take
over the State debts whether the States agree or
not, and it can prevent the States increasing the
aggregate debt of Australia whether the States
agree or not. The process might be slow and
circuitous, but still the thing is possible.
• • • *
The most obvious method is for the Australian
Parliament to decide that it will constitute itself
the States’ creditor. It has unlimited powers of
direct taxation, and as a first step it must get rid
of the absurd theory that these powers were only
given it to be looked at—not to be used. It
should decide to raise, by the least oppressive and
most useful form of direct taxation it can devise—
say a graduated land-tax and an absentee-tax —a
sum of, say, £500,000 a year, to be set aside for
the purpose of buying up in the English market
whatever State securities happen to be the
cheapest at the moment. The interest paid by
the States on the securities thus hpld by the Aus-
tralian Government should also go into the fund
and be similarly applied. Assuming that, when
State loans fell due, the Australian Govern-
ment renewed the portion held by it at
per cent., at the end of 30 years nearly
£26,000,000 of State debt would have been bought
up by the Federal authority by this means alone;
the amount available for the re-purchase of State
securities would have risen to £1,260,000 a year;
and £26,000,000 of debt would be virtually ex-
tinguished, since it would be merely a sum which
the people in their State capacity owed to them-
selves in their Federal capacity.
* * * *
Furthermore, it would be a wise thing for
the Federal Parliament to borrow such sums
as it can raise on fair terms by the sale of
3 per cent, securities repayable only at the
option of the Government, and apply the
proceeds to the re-purchase in the English market
of depreciated State securities, always provided
it could do the transaction at a profit, and what-
ever profit was made should be added to the sink-
ing fund. Also the Australian Government, as it
now controls the Post Office, should establish its
own Post Office Savings Bank, and further con-
stitute itself the States’ chief creditor by applying
a portion of the deposits to the repurchase, in the
English market, of the States’ depreciated
securities. Again, it should seriously consider the
advisability of adopting the Canadian banking
system, whereby the banks are required to hold at
least 40 per cent, of their cash reserves in Federal
paper money. This method, which has been
successfully employed for many years in one of the
most conservative of British States, would give the
Commonwealth a perpetual loan without interest,
of some £8,000,000 or £10,000,000. Assuming
that a portion of this was set aside for the
construction of a capital city, it would still
be possible to devote, perhaps, £4,000,000 to the
repurchase of State securities. The interest on
these would bring another £140,000 a year or so
to the sinking fund. Further, whatever net
income in the shape of ground rents could be
derived from the Federal city and territory
(acquired at practically no cost to the country by
the method already described) could go into the
same fund. By all these devices there is a very
fair probability that, in 30 years or so, the Com-
monwealth could be the chief creditor of the
State Governments, and even if, in all that time,
no agreement was arrived at, a great deal would
have been done in the way of taking over the State
debts. But by that time the State Governments
would almost certainly have a yearning to come
to terms with their principal creditor—an over-
whelming yearning.
* * * *
If, meanwhile, some definite agreement were
arrived at for taking over the State debts bodily,
the fact that a large Federal sinking fund already
existed would be so much to the good. Even if it
could be made reasonably sure that the debts will
be taken over next year, that is no earthly reason
why a sinking fund should not be started this
year. It is never too soon to begin reforming,
While waiting for a definite agreement, the Aus-
tralian Government would be under no obligation
to find the money for the renewal of the
State debts. The States would have to struggle
with the monster they have themselves created
until they came to reasonable terms with
regard to future borrowings, and yet the
reform would be going on all the while. And
if the States, by extravagant borrowing, still kept
the aggregate debt increasing at an unreasonable
rate it would be in the power of the Australian
Parliament to double or treble, by increased taxa-
tion, the amount paid annually into the sinking
fund, in order to give the fund a fair chance of,
at some not too distant date, yielding enough to
counterbalance the increase of debt. In other
words, the Australian Parliament has in its power
to lay down this rule of conduct:
(1) That the State debts are as much its concern as the
concern of the States, because, whether the 4,000,000
Australians owe their debt in a State or a Federal
capacity, it is Australia’s debt all the time, and whether
they are impoverished in their State or Federal capacity
it is Australia’s poverty all the time, and whether they
go bankrupt in their State or Federal capacity it is Aus-
tralia’s bankruptcy all the time.
(2) That it has every right to do what it considers best
to prevent its taxpayers being ruined, either in their
State or Federal capacity, seeing that it depends on these
taxpayers for its revenue.
(3) That it represents Australia quite as much as, or
more than, the State Governments, and it has as much
right to buy Australian securities as the States have to
sell them.
(4) That it has even larger rights of taxation than the
States, and is quite as much entitled to impose taxes in
order to buy up Australian securities and reduce the
country’s foreign debt, as the States have to dodge taxes
by selling Australian securities and adding to the
country’s foreign debt.
(5) That, having these powers, it decides that it is its
duty to set to work to reduce the country’s liability, ana
it has as much right to that opinion as the State Parlia-
ments have to the contrary one.
An Australian Parliament which took up that
attitude would leave a footprint on the sands ot
history that all the wash of the seas of Time would
never quite obliterate. And the Australian
Government which fell through trying to assert
that principle would have greater honor in its fall
than any previous Australian Government would
have got by retaining office for a century.
Dowie.
It is partially regrettable that Sydney should so
publicly have thrown the defunct cat of scorn at
Preacher Dowie of the alleged city of Zion. Also
it is partially not regrettable. It is a pity for the
sake of Sydney that it didn’t simply express its
feelings about the blatant prophet by staying
away; the proceeding would have been more
dignified. At the same time, Sydney was never
very strong on its dignity, and moreover Dowie
is the kind of prophet who, unless the personal
and obvious dead cat of protest is thrown very
straight indeed, would probably go back to Zion
to boast that he had carried a wicked community
by storm, and that his progress through the Corn-
stalk capital had been a long and dazzling
triumph. That would have been a worse
shock to Sydney’s dignity than even the
record of last week’s proceedings. Dowie is
a brassy prophet, and the only certain way
to prevent him putting permanent disgrace on
the city by holding it up as a fool of a place,
which believed in his wings and his reincarnation,
was by Sydney publicly stating its opinion of him
at the top of its voice. To chase the weary pro-
phetic fragment round the city in a cab was a
strong measure and only justifiable under extreme
circumstances, but it at least demonstrated that
Sydney had an intellect which didn’t talm kindly
to wild cat religions and reincarnated Elijahs.
If it were a choice between being a larrikin and
throwing mud at the waistcoat of an elderly
apostle, or being suspected of a belief in the cult
of Zion city, The Bulletin isn’t at all certain
that it wouldn’t rather throw mud at a dozen
elderly apostles. The question is a difficult one,
but there may be times when it is justifiable to
clear on© ?^ character with a half-brick and dissi-
pate base aspersion with rock. It would take a
learned casuist to decide where Christian forbear-
ance should end and rock begin, but that is
another matter.
* • • •
Another view of the case is that when the Law
provides no remedy for a serious wrong the public
is under a great temptation to be a law unto
itself. Dowie and persons of his class have no
claim to the immunities and the consideration
which attach to the ordinary clergyman. The
man who simply preaches the doctrines of the
Bible, or the Koran, or any other alleged
sacred book, has a certain recognised right
to all the protection the Law can give him. He is,
in a general way, a person honestly expounding a
moral volume in which he honestly believes. If
there is anything wrong about the signs and won-
ders and miracles reported in the volume, he
isn’t responsible, and no one can fairly ask him at
this late hour to produce those signs and wonders.
He doesn’t profess to have personally fled round
in a partially nude state in Samaria or to have
“ sassed ” Baal on Mount Carmel. But the man
who professes to personally work by faith the
miracle of healing the sick may be justly asked to
produce his miracle, and if it isn’t forthcoming,
there is nothing in the Scripture against treating
him with the metallic laugh of derision. And the
man who passes a plate with the bald and unsup-
ported statement that he is Elijah, has come
out of the dim and holy hazes of the Scrip-
ture and climbed down into the business
arena, wherein souffle the “doped” horse,
and the confidence man with an uncle in Fiji,
and the wart cure, and other modern money-
making propositions. If he can’t show cause,
then he ranks with the person who floats a mine
on the baseless assurance that it is a reincarnation
of the Mount Morgan or the Garden Gully—the
difference being that the law provides some
remedy if the mine is bogus, but supplies none if
the Elijah is bogus. There is a statute to deal
with the man who passes a bad cheque, but none
to deal with the one who passes a bad pair of
wings or utters a counterfeit halo.
* * * *
To condense the situation, Dowie, as a preacher
of a recognised gospel, and an expounder of the
writings of men who, so far as we know, labored
earnestly with a view to making the world better,
has every right to toleration so long as he ex-
pounds decently and doesn’t bring discredit on his
office. The community has decided by a large
majority to lend at least an outward respect to
those writings. The Statute of Limitations is in
their favor, and the respectability of hoary an-
tiquity is gathered round them. The old prophets
and evangelists showed their honest belief by
living poor and often by dying miserably for their
faith, and the man who disinterestedly expounds
a disinterested belief calls at least for toleration.
But the man who steps right out of the Scriptural
picture, and collects money with stories of faith-
healing power which apparently doesn’t heal, and
passes the plate with yarns of a reincarnated
prophet of whom there is no evidence, is modern
circus—not ancient gospel. The tacit and general
agreement to speak kindly of a venerable tradition,
which is said to have been borne out in its own
day by good, solid evidence, doesn’t apply. When
the public is offered a new gospel it has a
right to ask for the evidence, and to decide,
when it isn’t forthcoming, that it has parted with
its hard-earned twopence under dubious pre-
tences. And if the law won’t give it satisfaction
it has some excuse for trying, in its own undig-
nified way, to get its own satisfaction. The
general agreement that modern religious ministers
must not be disturbed in their services doesn’t
say anything about disturbing ancient prophets
who died 3000 years ago. A reincarnated
Elijah is outside the bargain, and doesn’t come
within the four corners of any recognised gospel.
• Even if the public cast doubts on the solvency of
the Zion Bank, no Dowie has any right to
complain on religious grounds; when a creed is
partly religion and partly bank and building
society, it must expect to be treated like any
other bank or building society. If the public pays
for a motor that won’t mote, or a horse that proves
to be dead, or a faith-healing creed which
doesn’t heal, or a gold mine that contains
no gold, or an Elijah who, on inspection,
seems to be only Dowie, it can’t be severely
blamed, in the absence of legal redress, if it makes
a row like the crowd at a remnant sale howling
for the honest delivery of its remnant.
* * * *
Even the common law right of public meeting
doesn’t cover the case. A meeting at which
admission is by ticket isn’t a public meeting in
the ordinary sense of the term. There was no
legal or recognised right of public meeting, so far
as we are aware, in Elijah’s time, anyhow—at
least, Naboth was dispersed in his vineyard in a
fashion which seems to point that way. And
though it is assumed that at a public meeting the
audience must be cpiiet, and moderately respectful
to the speaker, it is equally essential that he
should not be abusive to the audience. The
short, violent, bad-tempered old prophet from
Zion is a whole riot in himself, and some of
his nasal lieutenants, who fly round before the
show commences, and call the audience “curs,”
“sluts,” “she-devils,” and other larrikin names,
and threaten to throw the public out on the
smallest provocation, are persons whom a really
lawless community would put under the pump.
Moreover, Sydney is strong on trades-unionism,
and it is partially justified in its wrath by Dowie’s
assault on that valued institution. The clerical
profession in general offers, on certain terms,
which are much the same in all churches, the
blessing of eternal happiness. No one can prove
that it doesn't keep its word, and the average
clergyman no doubt honestly believes that his
church is able to keep its word. Downs and his
kind bring the nefarious coupon system into the
church business by offering also faith-healing, a
bank, and a reincarnated prophet. This is equiva-
lent to sweating or working overtime; it tends to
make the churches so many hustling concerns all
trying to outbid the other; it leads to piecework
and under-selling. The world doesn’t want to see
a time when the churches will hang out a sign:
“ This sect gives more for 3d. than any other.”
The religion, so far as it is the same old religion,
may claim to pass muster on the ground that it
has already endured many centuries of inspection,
but the public has every right to scrutinise the
new coupon that goes with it. The unseemly
crowd which said things to Dowie last week
wasn’t satisfied with the coupon.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cataleptic Hostilities.
Supposing Ruusia goes down before the Japs on
land as it has done on sea, there should be room
for a quaint, though not wholly unprecedented,
development in war. If Russia’s land defences
prove as unready as its sea defences it will
obviously want time for consideration and repair.
It is splendidly situated for both. It can go back
to the Ainoor if necessary, or even further back it
it is driven to it —and then it can sit down ana
wait and re-organise. It can spend five years
reorganising if it wants to. The Jap can hardly
tramp all that distance across Asia in search o
it; it would be an immense proceeding, and
one that would absorb almost all the money
Japan has got, to pursue the Bear into Ins
own strongholds, and the Monkey’s tail would
freeze hard in those wastes. There the Russian
could set himself to repairing, strengthening
and duplicating his Asiatic railway to make it the
military machine it ought to be. He could con-
tinue pouring settlers into southern Siberia, and
spreading cultivation, to make the country more
fit to support a large arpiy. Meanwhile he coul
build more ships in the Baltic and elsewhere, and
train new officers, and set himself to acquiring
those coaling stations he so much needs to support
his fleet on the long voyage to Asia. If the Japs
pressed for a definite settlement he could simpiv
say: “Go away, little fly ! ” If the Japs presse
very much he could say: ‘ 1 Come and look for me
in Moscow if you are in a hurry.” To all demands
for a settlement he could reply that he was coming
back some day, and that when he did every land
title granted by Japan in his temporarily-
abandoned territories would be cancelled and
every Japanese settler ejected. If China took
a hand in the war he might be able to smite
Western China, where the pigtailed one would be
hundreds of miles away fiom Japassistance. 1 j lO
Jap couldn’t force things to a conclusion unless be
sent his fleet round to the Baltic, and that would
be a very large and hopeless undertaking. jhe
Bear could do all this with very little more than
his ordinary expenditure; his army on the ordi-
nary peace footing would suffice for this kind or
warfare. And Japan, if it continued to occupy
On the Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There’s a joyful prospect golden,
On the Land;
There’s a humpy sand-enfolden
On the Land;
There’s a halo in the hazes,
There’s a cure for all the crazes
In the brassy sky that blazes
O’er the Land.
There’s a drought that slays the dingo,
On the Land;
There's a frightful lust for stingo,
On the Land;
And the wrecks of half the cities,
With their million woes and pities,
Come and warble woeful ditties —
On the Land !
There are sheep in every boghole
On the Land ;
There are huts much like a dog-hole.
On the Land ;
There’s a parched grey existence,
’Neath a scorching sky’s insistence,
With no outlet in the distance
But the Sand!
Come, 0 pale and puny townies,
Seek the Land 1
Come and bake the festive brownies
On the Sand !
Come and make you men o’ muscle,
Bare your brea ts for many a tussle,
Crown your work with beery guzzle,
On the Land !
There’s a dearth of fine emotion,
On the Land ;
There’s a wealth o’ curious potion,
On the Land;
There’s a wild mirage before us,
There’s a cloudless sky bent o’er us,
And a dirge-like, cawful chorus
O’er the Land.
So, it’s fill the joyful flagon—
Here’s —“ The Land ! ”
And it’s load the festive waggon,
For the Land;
Leave the town, her daintinesses,
Brimming cups and wanton tresses,
For the life that waits to bless us
On the Land !
P. LUFTIG.


the Asiatic mainland, would be struggling under
heavy extra expenses all the time. Over all bub a
fragment of the Russian empire industry and
commerce would go on as usual, and in the end
the Russian could start afresh where he left off.
In the interim there would be a state of frozen war,
or petrified hostilities, or cataleptic animosity, or
somethingof the sort. Meanwhile the Cossack could
shoot at the Jap at long range, and Russia could
gently stir the pot of European complications in
search of allies. It would be an interesting situa-
tion, something akin to that of 1812-13, when
Russia simply sat down on its snowball and
refused to speak to Napoleon I ; and also some-
thing akin to that in Egypt, when Britain sat
down for ten years preparing for the recapture of
Khartoum. If Russia were defeated on land, and
then simply went away to a safe distance and
camped and boiled the billy while it repaired
damages, and in answer to all demands for a
definite settlement professed that it had never
heard of such a place as Japan, and said that, till
it was ready, it declined to be aware of anything
it didn’t want to know, a very curious deadlock
would arise.
«
The Cry of Cohen.
Thk other day there returned to Sydney Mr. G.
J. Cohen of the firm of David Cohen and Co.,
and the S.M. Herald interviewed Mr. G. J.
Cohen in a serious spirit. Mr. G. J. Cohen took
the matter also in a serious spirit, and said various
things like this:
In England they feared that Australia had gone mad
with socialistic legislation. The fact of the matter was
that the country must be well governed first of all, and
then more people should be brought into it. It was
WRONG TO STOP IMMIGRATION.
The last remark is one with which The Bulletin
cordially agrees. To stop immigration is sinful
and foolish. And Mr. Cohen might also haveadded
that cannibalism is wrong, and that it is almost
impossible to speak too severely of infanticide,
usury and dog-stealing. But why G. J. Cohen
should throw this useless platitude at Australia
isn’t at all clear. If he simply meant to say, in a
general way, that it was wrong to stop immigra-
tion, then he ranked with the unwise old woman
who remarked sternly that there were milestones
on the Dover Road. If he meant that anybody in
Australia had stopped immigration, then he was
either a shamefully ignorant person or a slanderer
and a speaker of untruths. In the last nine years
before the Commonwealth started, Australia and
lasmania lost 1022 people by excess of departures
over arrivals. In the first two years of Federal
control, under the regime which produced the Six
Hatters incident and other things that the
Cohens of Australia have maundered about at
great length, it gained 6187 by excess of arrivals.
G. J. Cohen s State of N.S.W. shows an even
more remarkable result. In 1902 and 1903 it
gamed 11,446 people by immigration—this after
ten years of heavy loss by excess of departures.
It certainly would be wrong to stop this influx of
desirable immigration which has set in under the
democratic policy of the Australian Government,
and if any remote place, such as Bolivia or Thibet,
lias ixdopted the foolish policy of stopping immi-
gration, G. J. Cohen is right to speak severely to
that place. But he should make it clear what
place he is talking about. If he means to imply
that Australia has done the unwise thing he
alludes to, then he is saying what isn’t true, and
the S M. Hekald, in repeating the remark, is the
purposeful disseminator of a lie.
>
The N.S.W. Election.
Ihe coming session of N.S.W. Parliament will be
the eleventh hour m Cornstalk polities so far as
the See Government is concerned—possibly so far
as the Eabor party is concerned—almost certainly
so far as the Labor-SEE-OwE’SuLLiVAN combina-
tion is concerned. The dying 'Parliament has a
dismally bad record—but for the badness it might
be said that it has no record at all. Unless the
Labor party and the Owe’See party can do some-
ttnng large and conspicuous—or rather, unless
the Labor party can drag the bogged elephant of
Owe See and co. out of the mire and make that
helpless mass of loan-meat do something large
and beneficial and conspicuous—in these last few
hours, then it seems as if the crowd of dull
mediocrities, platitudinarians, Sunday - school
teachers, Tones, and pious ox-merchants
w j'° follow Joey Carrgthers will take the
odd trick at the coming election. It is no
longer a question of constructing a good pro-
gramme on which to go to the country. The
C ° u n A ry \u full of P ro & ra mmes. What the Labor
and Uwe See combination has got to contend with
is the growing belief that it is incapable of carry-
ing out any programme at. all—that it can only
maunder and drift-that it has lost its construe
tive power—that a policy is of as much use to it as
an on painting is to a whale. It can only get rid
, that impression by doing something in this last
brief session—something that can be done in the
time, and something so striking that it must
arrest the attention of everybody and send the
party before the electors amid the curses of the
lories, and the rage of the Telegraph, and the
shrieks of the Herald, and the cheers of the
reassured democrats. It is proposed that an
attempt shall be made to establish that all-
round system of Local Government which has
, Promised to N.S.W. for 40 years without
anything coming of the promise. If that can be
done it will be a great thing, but a Local
Government Bill is necessarily a large matter,
and the present Parliament is so ill-led and so
verbose and irrelevant and disorderly that it will
take much better management than there has
been m the past to get the measure through in
the time available. Certainly the effort should be
made. But even if it is successful the Local
Government Bill isn t enough. Something mot*
is wanted, and Providence has given this Parlia-
ment the chance to push through a short
measure which would be the beginning of a
revolution in N.S.W. politics, and whiclwnight
be a large enough to even save the
Labor-o we’See comomation at the election
ruifout Pr ?i ent N - S ' W -’ s credit has practically
iun out. It can apparently get very little loan
money on anything like reasonable terms for a
long time to come. It has come up hard against
the fact that N.S.W. must eitlier Team to
construct necessary public works without loans or-
do without necessary public works, which means
giving up progress as a bad job and drifting back
lino barbarism. If the Labor party will insist on
the passing this session of measures providing for
a heavy graduated land-tax on bigestates a heavy
absentee-tax, a legalised totalisator with a heavy
tax on the money that goes through it and snf
ficient other imposts to provide, sav £6OO nnn „
year in all, this £500,000 not to go into the cSolt
dated revenue but direct into a Public Works Fund
for the construction of new works exclusively it will
do something to save the situation, and it can
promise to do more on the same lines next ParlG
ment, if it is returned. There is nn ar i a
the Labor party shouldn’t do this It
absentee or a big landlord itself fneither is Owe?
bULLiVAN. If it can’t find a way of keeping
public works going to some extent without loans,
then hundreds of its constituents must be
sacked, and that won’t help Labor at the coming
election. The party has had the graduated land-
tax and the absentee-tax more or less on its pro-
gramme for years without doing anything worth
speaking of to carry them out, and if it doesn’t
make the effort now, when the proceeds of these
taxes are so much wanted for public works pur-
poses, a great many of its constituents won’t be
on speaking terms with it on election day. Even
if the Labor party demands this concession, and
the Owe’See Government won’t grant it, there
will be advantages. There is still time for the
Labor party to part from its evil genius, and if it
can part on a large question of honest finance, and
go to the country without any big, dismantled
craft towing behind it, it will be a gainer. If the
Labor party drives the Ows’See Government
into financial reform it will do well. If it
parts from the Owe’See Government because that
lamentable and water-logged concern is incapable
of financial reform, it won’t do quite so well, but
still it will do something. If it lets things slide,
it will probably do darned badly. And if it can’t
do anything definite, it had better set Sydney on
fire the day before the election, in order to divert
attention from the Owe’See Government.
—♦ :
Playing 1 the Boers’ Game.
The Boer manifesto against the importation of
Chinese labor to the Rand is the first emphatic
indication of how blundering is the anti-imperial
policy of the Jingo-Imperialists in England, who
have allowed themselves to be bound to the
chariot wheels of Israel. It is complained in
English quarters with some bitterness, but little
sense, that the Boer leaders refrained from saying
anything at all about the Chinese labor scheme
until an irrevocable decision had been come to.
But it must be remembered that the Boers,
though beaten in war, are Boers still, and
almost certainly retain the hope of one
day regaining their independence. With that
idea in view, they look upon it as their
business not to prevent, but to profit by, the mis-
takes of the Imperial power. And in this case
the blind following of John Bull to the Johannes-
burg financiers’ lead has brought him into a most
awkward pit, for it has thrown white Africa into
the arms of the Boer party. There were three
parties in S’Africa before—the British whites, the
Boer whites, and the colored people. Now Jingo-
Imperialists re-cast parties into the Boer whites,
the colored men, and the mean whites. No reason
existed why the Boers should have sought to pre-
vent this, though there was every reason why
British Imperialists should. The only possible
“Empire” solution of the S’African position is
the granting of representative Government to the
newly-acquired States under conditions which
will ensure that the British vote will outnumber
the Boer vote. That solution is only to be
reached by an influx of British labor to the mines ;
and “ the Empire ” proposes to drive out British
labor by importing Chinese slaves. Nothing
could be more pleasing to the Boer “ Bitter-
ender.” He sees the Empire sapping its own ram-
parts.
♦
Those 90 Members.
The N.S.W. Commission appointed for the pur-
pose is groping into the tough task of re-dividing
the State. into 90 electorates, and the quantity of
advice it is receiving is large enough to stock half-
a-dozen commissions. If the State had to be cut
up again into 125 districts, each with an equal
number of electors, the figures which have been dug.
out of the last rolls show that the metropolitan
and central area, with 62 members hitherto, would
have 72 ; the eastern district, losing 6, would
have 38; and the west, losing 4, would have 15.
If each of the three districts were given the
same proportion of the 90 as they have had of
the 125, the metropolitan would have 45, the east
32, and the west 13; but if the electorates had all
the same number of electors, the metropolitan
part would gain G, of which the east would lose 4
(leaving it 28), and the west 2 (leaving it 11).
Yet, curiously enough, if the country were cut up
into divisions according to the number of adult
male bread-winners, the present general distribu-
tion would be almost exactly correct; the only
difference would be that the east would lose one,
which the metropolitan area would gain. The
explanation, of course, lies in the fact that
the farther away from the metropolis you get, the
larger the proportion of adult bread-winner you
find, because the outback Billjim either isn’t
married or keeps his wife and encumbrances near
the seaboard. The chances are that the Com-
missioners will use the limit which they are allowed
to come-and-go on with the object of making the
divisions tally as nearly as possible with what
they would be if they were made on the adult
male bread-winner basis; and in that case, as the
metropolitan districts, which grow the fastest,
will be nearest the maximum of electors to start
with, they will be pretty certain to soon get to
twice the size of the outermost district, which
doesn’t grow at all, but is rather inclined to
dwindle away ; and so the present problem of lop-
sided representation will present itself again
within a very few years. The only way out of
that difficulty would be to give the outermost dis-
tricts the biggest number of electors to start with
(in other words, to give them for a start less mem-
ber per head than the metropolis); for that
inequality would soon right itself. The trouble
of the larger representation of the country would
crop up eventually, but it would take longer before
it did crop up. Certainly it might be a rather
rough way to handle Billjim of the Western
horizon, whose complaint even now is that his
own member, having to live alongside Parliament
House, becomes in course of time as much a
representative of the suburb wherein he lives as
he is of Billjim’s electorate which elects him ;
wherefore the suburb gets a member and a-half,
and Billjim, at the best of times, gets only the odd
half. Altogether, it’s a tough problem, which
can best be solved by making Billjim less
dependent on the State Parliament through
dividing up its powers and its duties between the
Federal House and the local governing body.
*
Depopulation.
“ Filius Crcois ” writes under this title, which
is rather inappropriate, seeing that no country
that we know of, except perhaps Ireland and
Polynesia, is being depopulated :
In a recent Bulletin its leading article commits itself
definitely, in at least two places, to the authoritative
statement that religion has been tried, and tried in vain,
to cure this evil. . If you apply that assertion to Aus-
tralia only, there is even then only a partial truth in it,
the immense majority of Australians being Protestant or
Infidel; the minority of Catholics is to some, of course
regrettable, extent influenced disastrously in the Malthc*
way by their surrounding neighbors. Still, as a
rule, they have large families, thanks to their Arch-
bishop’s fulminations against abortion, to Confession, and
to the teaching of their Church. lam a two-years-old
convert to R.C.-ism, but before that was a Protestant of
the Protestants, even an Orangeman was I, and I quite
literallj' never failed attending church twice a day, yet
never once did I hear my Anglican preacher utter a word
against abortion. Since ni}’change I have very often,
though, listened to vehement denunciations of it. As
the average bushman treats Bulletin statements as
being only a little lower than (statements of) the angels,
he will confidently adduce you as being on his side when-
ever he contends that religion should be kept out of
schools, or that it is powerless to conduce to a nation’s
prosperity. This is such a serious responsibility for Tub
Bulletin to incur that I hope you will insert this protest
of- mine. Looking at other countries we find Protestant
ones with dwindling birth-rates and small families,
Catholic and Greek Church ones rejoicing in high birth-
rates and overflowing quivers. My figures are from Mul-
hall, and the only exceptions to this, France and Ire-
land, can be accounted for thus : the former, as to its
cities, is largely Infidel, the latter sends the flower of its
population just at its best procreating period to America.
Catholic and Greek Church, Birth-rate per thou-
sand, Census 1896 ' Russia 47 "1, Hungary 41 "1, Austria
39-0, Italy 351, Portugal 31'2, Ireland 23’7, France 22'7.
_Protestant Birth-rate per thousand, Census 1896,
Germany Qof which is Oath.) 37‘3, Holland 32 0, Scot-
land 30‘8, Denmark 30.4, Norway 30 0, England 29 2,
Australia 291. Total per 1000, Catholic and Greek
Churches 239 9, Protestant 219 'B.
Births to Ten Marriages in Greek Church and
Catholic Countries : Russia 65, Roumania 49, Hungary
47, Ireland 46, Italy 46, Austria 44, Portugal 42, Switzer-
land 37, Belgium 36, France 27.
Births to Ten Marriages in Protestant Countries :
Queensland, 58 60 ; N.S. Wales, 47 90 ; Norway, 44 ; Vic-
toria, 43‘90; Holland, 43 ; Germany, 43 ; Sweden 42 ;
Scotland, 40; Denmark, 38; England, 36.
Catholic total, 444; Protestant total, US9-90. Now,
quite apart from mynatural personal wishes that you
would print this, is the desire that you should thus
evince your thorough impartiality ; and, apologising for
seeming to lecture you, do you not think that consigning
my plaint to the w.p.b. lays you terribly open to the
charge of being ready to burke anything that does not
lend itself to previously-made allegations of yours?
“Filius Crucis,” in addition to being gratui-
tously offensive in his concluding remarks, and in
addition to figuring out that there are more
births per marriage in Protestant than in Catholic
countries (he only shows the contrary by including
non-Catholic Russia among the Catholics), some-
what misses the point. Any country can have a
high birth-rate if it is dirty enough and backward
enough to have a high death-rate. If its people
die off, as a rule, about the age of 50, and there is
a very small population that is past the reproduc-
tive age, the birth-rate may look high ; if the
country is so healthy that a large proportion of
the people live far past the reproductive age, a
larger birth-rate may look low. Where there are
1000 people, of whom 333 are past the reproduc-
tive age, the birth-rate may be 20 per 1000. If
these 333 old people were killed off by a mode of
living which ensured early death, the same
birth-rate would be 30 per 1000. Again, in
a country where most of the young children
die through dirt, poverty, ignorance or neglect,
parents cheerfully go on having more children.
In a country where children mostly live they are
reluctant to do so, because there is a limit to the
number any average parent can support. The
virtue of a large birth-rate is often merely the vir-
tue of filth, ignorance, poverty, and wholesale
child-murder. There is room for this year’s child
because last year’s child has dropped into the
grave. As throwing some light on the case,
Coghlan gives recent figures which follow
(“Protestant” and “Catholic” simply signify
that the States are mostly Protestant or mostly
Catholio): —
Annual Annual Annual
Births per Deaths per Increase
100,000 100,000 per 100,000
inhabi- inhabi- inhabi-
tants. tants. tants.
Maoriland (Prot.) .. 2622 .. 984 .. 1638
Commonwealth (Prot.) 2862 .. 1270 .. 1592
Prussia (Prot.).. .. 3682 .. 2208 .. 1474
Holland (Prot.) .. 3220 .. 1792 .. 1428
Norway (Prot.) .. 3013 .. 1596 .. 1417
Germany (Prot.) .. 3596 .. 2194 .. 1402
Denmark (Prot.) .. 3052 .. 1729 .. 1323
Scotland (Prot.) .. 2991 .. 1806 .. 1185
England (Prot.) .. 2939 .. 1759 .. 1180
Hungary (Oath.) .. 4030 .. 2922 .. 1108
Austria (Oath.) .. 3727 .. 2636 .. 1091
Italy (Cath.) .. .. 3453 .. 2377 .. 1076
Sweden (Prot.) .. 2690 .. 1622 .. 1068
Belgium (Cath.) ..2889 .. 1870 .. 1019
Switzerland (Prot.) .. 2803 .. 1859 .. 944
Ireland (Oath.) .. 2317 .. 1808 .. 609
France (Cath.) .. 2207 .. 2123 .. 84
Seventeen cases, and the nine best net results are
in Protestant countries. Five Protestant coun-
tries and only three Catholic ones show a birth-
rate of over 3000 per 100,000. Average birth-rate
of Protestant countries 3043; Catholic countries a
fraction higher—3lo4. But this is far more than
accounted for by the extra death-rates in Catholic
countries—and any country can have a high birth-
rate on paper if it has a high enough death-rate.
The verdict is that Filius Crucis hasn’t proved
his statements. Case dismissed with costs.
♦ - ■
Justice Stephen, in the N.S.W. Full Court the
other day, took the occasion of an application in
the Stelling case to speak of a section of the
Aliens Immigration Restriction Act as outrageous
and tyrannical. He “could not possibly con-
ceive” of anything more wrong than that the
Commonwealth should exclude a man by the
subterfuge of objecting to his want of
knowledge on some subject, instead of say-
ing directly that his criminal habits or his
race made him an “undesirable.” Justice
Stephen, when he is in this vein, should
exhibit that directness and honesty of speech
and method, the lack of which he so much
deplores in the Commonwealth legislation,
and say that the British Government and the
blessed British Crown are low and despicable
characters, seeing that it was they who forced on
Australia the indirect way of excluding objection-
able persons by an education test, when Australia
would fain have taken more direct methods.
Then, even if the British Crown was so angry
that it never gave Mr. Steehen a title as long as
he lived, he would have the satisfaction of know-
ing that he had honestly put the alleged saddle on
the right horse. Meanwhile it is about time Mr.
Stephen was reminded that he is paid to
administer the law only, and that if the country
had thought him qualified to make laws it
would probably have offered him a very different
kind of billet. The opinions of the Government
tinsmith at the railway workshops about the
methods of the Government botanist may be
interesting, but the Government tinsmith isn’t
paid to express them in working hours. And
neither the Judge nor the gaol turnkey nor any
other part of the hired machine for administering
the law is paid to discuss the work of the hired
makers of the law either, in his working hours,
when he is supposed to be doing the work the
Government pays him for, and while he is
wearing out Government property by sitting on
it. Probably if the court policeman, who has
just the same right as his Honor to criticise, in an
official capacity, the country’s legislation, had
stood up and cordially endorsed his Honor’s
views, the impropriety of the situation might
have dawned on his Honor. It would assuredly
have dawned on the policeman. His Honor
would have attended to that.
+
A wages case of come interest cropped up at Port
Adelaide last week. A sailor sued the master of
an American ship for wages. Counsel for the
defence protested, under orders from the U.S.
Consul, who urged that the matter was beyond the
court’s jurisdiction, and should be left to the
decision of the consul. The magistrates agreed
that they had no jurisdiction. That may be all
right as far as it goes, but, supposing the master
and consul agree not to pay, rightly or wrongly
what, remedy has the seaman got? And if this
decision holds good all round—well, there are
some very small, cheap, unpaid consuls in
Australia, representing little jumped-up States,
wmch lend their flags to cover all manner of
cottin ships, and when the battered old vessel
which, for some reason or other, flies the banner
ot the Empire of Wild Cat coir.es in with a
healthy commotion on board, and the only court
of appeal is to some person with few visible means
of support who represents Wild Cat on the cheap
solely for the sake of the uniform, and if the cap-
tain offers a reasonable consideration, what mav
happen ?
+ —•
The foolish scattering of energies in the matter of
establishing a decent democratic daily in Mel-
bourne proceeds merrily. The People’s Daily
has already appeared, with daily appeals for
capital. The National Independent is still in
the prospectus stage, and is busily canvassing the
State for more capital ; and the Trades Hall
paper, Progress, still in embryo, is placarding
the town and country with its debenture proposals
for still more capital. And the appeal is to prac-
tically the same people in each case—-to the for-
ward democrats disgusted with Age misrule.
Why can’t forward democracy get some level-
headed business man to frame a compulsory
amalgamation scheme of the three ventures, so
that in a year or so said democracy shall have at
least one press organ, instead of, as prospects are,
none at all, and only the recollection of three
failures ?
+
The Bulletin doesn’t pay any great attention to
Book Arcadian Cole and his pamphlet, “What
Forty Eminent Japs say of the White Australia
Act,” but it hereby invites those nigger-loving
Australian papers that already barrack for the
brown man against the white to ponder what
Cole’s 40 eminent men openly aver. “ Japan’s
population is increasing at the rate of 500,000 a
year, and this increase must go and settle some-
where. ... It is absolutely necessary for the
Japanese to go and settle in Australia. . . . The
Japanese must go down to Australia by-and-bye.
... It is quite natural to go from one country
which contains many people into a country that
contains very few; so we have a right to go to
Australia .” Seeing that these are the opinions
of such as Japan’s Minister for Finance, the
President of the Nippon Yushen Kaisha, the
Governor of the Northern Island and others
equally highly-placed, it is evident that when
Japan has time and opportunity it will go in for
real business. The barracking of the aforesaid
papers will do neither harm nor good, but that
doesn’t make their treachery to Australia, in
whooping for the people who are preparing to
swoop down on this continent, any the less.
A short time ago the Melbourne rabbit export-
agents formed a ring to “ regulate ” the price to
be paid trappers for the rabbits. Buyers had —so
it was alleged—forced up prices to a point that
left the agent only the crust of a bare existence,
and the oppressed agent took steps to save him-
self. As soon as this price regulation was dis-
covered, the rabbit trappers’ association took
retaliatory action. Arrangements were made to
receive the rabbits of members at a central Mel-
bourne depot, and a representative was sent to
England to arrange for their sale. Since this
rather unlooked-for development, the Melbourne
papers have printed pathetic wails from the
agents in which it was “ conclusively proved ”
by the agents—that their profits were miserable
in the extreme. One desperate middleman,
indeed, over-did the business by quoting figures
which showed that the agents were losing money
badly, and were in the business from motives of
pure philanthropy. The stony-hearted rabbiters,
however, are determined to try the experiment of
selling their own rabbits. Possibly they are con-
sumed _ with grief over the losses they have—
according to the agents’ figures—inflicted upon an
•honorable body of men, and can’t bring themselves
to run the risk of repeating the shameful deed.
No honest rabbiter could go on employing an
agent when he knew the latter was being steadily
ruined as a consequence. A rabbiter who hoped
to ultimately get to heaven would shudder at such
a deed.
»
Unscrupulous lie from the S.M. Herald leading
article (18/2/’04):
There can be no doubt that those displaced by the
minimum wage may be counted sometimes bv the thou-
sand. They go to swell the unfed army of unskilled
labor.
The minimum wage, so far as the private em-
ployer is concerned, applies only to manufactures,
and in them it only commenced about 1897.
These are the results as regards the Common-
wealth :
Employees. Increase per year.
1885 .. 105,265 ..
1897 .. 151,775 .. 3876
1902 .. 200,017 .. 9648
Not only was the increase of employment far
larger under the minimum-wage law than under
the system the Herald admires and advocates,
but the increase of employment was largest in
Victoria, the State which first adopted the mini-
mum-wage principle. During the five years 1897-
1902 the number of employees in the manufacturing
industries of the Commonwealth (the only ones
subject to the minimum-wage law) increased by
48,242, and of that increase 20,413 was in the
little State of Victoria, which (under Premier
Turner) invented the minimum-wage idea. It is
on these grounds that this paper calls the S.M.
Herald a liar—and a very unconvincing liar to
boot.
; ♦
An episode which was reported last week is a
whole essay on the hopelessness of British military
methods. In Britain the small class of the Rich
practically monopolises all military commands,
lo be an officer in the British army a man must
have from £l5O to £lOOO a year over and above his
pay, or else he goes bankrupts— so enormous is the
extravagance of military Johnnydom, and so
elaborate the system of freezing out the impe-
cumous officer. As a result, the military genius
who hasn t large private means is shut out, while
the noodle who has is retained—where there is
oruy a small class of the Very Rich to choose from
P°® to eject even the very bad
noodles, else the supply of officers would run
short. And the British officer, in the aggregate
doesn t attempt to learn his trade; when he
can keep his place by virtue of his money he
doesn t need to. The pitiable showing which
.British officerdom made in the Boer war was
so eloquent a commentary on the rottenness of
something in the British military system that
there were vast promises of reform. But the
British aristocrat is sacred and the rich British
noodle is holy. The idea of suppressing all the
costly frill, and putting the British army on such
a footing that an officer could live on his pay,


The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York,
SETTLEMENT BASED ON PRESENT EXPERIENCE.
The following policy has recently matured, and the result will be found worthy of the
consideration of persons seeking a safe investment combined with Insurance: —
Policy No. 568,531. 10 Year Endowment; 10 Year Distribution.
Age at Issue, 40. Single Premium, £443 11s. 6d. Amount, £5OO.
Issued in the Year 1893. Matured in the Year 1903.
SETTLEMENT.
Policy £5OO O O
Bonus 103 12 6
Total Amount Paid .. £603 12 6
Cash gain to Policy-holder £l6O Is., being a return equal to over 3 per cent, compound
interest on Premium paid, and insurance for £5OO during 10 years, free of cost.
Accumulated Funds exceed £80,000,000
Surplus above Liabilities exceed .. £15,000,000
articulars of Policies to meet every requirement may be obtained at the Head Office for
Aus alia, or at any of its Branches.
COMPANY’S BUILDING .... Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
so that a mere military genius might be an officer
even though he had no money, and wouldn’t have
to give place to a browless imbecile with wealth,
never struck anybody. Yet somethingwas done.
A board was appointed which is to write down a
statement every year that the army is quite
efficient, and the Duke of Connaught, who never
saw a real battle, has been appointed Inspector-
General. Irony could hardly go further than
that. The Duke of Connaught !1 !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “San Toy.”
Her Majesty’s... “Resurrection.”
Luieum “ The Best Must Win.’
(Criterion “ Lady of Ostend.”
Tivoli f Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Mania’s New Husband.”
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
There is actually on view at Sydney
Criterion a modern comedy in which the comedy
doesn’t consist either of people saying “Damn!”
or of Smith being mistaken for another Smith. It
isn’t all fresh paint, of course. Made in England,
and in London Punch office, there had of necessity
to be the mother-in-law joke in “The Lady of
Ostend ” —the large, overpowering, beetle-browed,
pince-nez’d mother-in-law, who wouldn't interfere
between man and wife for the world, yet tells her
poor, dear daughter what she would have
done if ever she had found herself in such a
position. As to that position, it’s just this.
Gregan M'Mahon, who is Dick Wortles, who is
the beetle-browed lady’s son in-law, has been in
the habit of going to Berlin on business—several
sorts of business ; part of it has left him very
bald. At Ostend he had a small affair on
the beach ; a really harmless affair, though
as far as it went it looked highly promising.
Unhappily, for just as far as it did go, it was
followed by a cinematograph ; but M‘Mahon
didn’t know that. A bit later, having been out
till an absurdly early hour in the morning—reach-
ing home, in fact, almost at the moment when the
awful inother-in-law arrives by early train —
M‘Mahon gets into trouble, and tries to smoothe
matters by taking the two ladies for a day in the
city. Dying for a wink of sleep, he inveigles
them to a cinematograph show, where in the dark-
ness he thinks he will get it. And the infernal
machine re-enacts, as picture No. 9, all that
promising little affair at Ostend. It splutters out
just when things had become promising ; and not
all M‘Mahon s explanations will satisfy the
dragon-in-law that the machine had not stopped
just there from motives of modesty.
* * * *
So far, W. F. Hawtrey isn’t in the
“plot.” He comes into the cinematograph busi-
ness when M‘Mahon buys himself up, driven to
the purchase not only by visions of divorce, but
by the just-acquired knowledge that the lady
of Ostend is the comparatively new wife of the
Tipton Slugger. Hawtrey, disguised as a French
baron, speaking with a North-of-England accent,
has been to Ostend, too, as a chum of M‘Mahon’s ;
and he also has had a small and promising affair
with the lady ; and now that film replaces the
other. When (the Baron having his eye on the
dragon’s niece) that one is also bought out, still
another is shown—the dragon-in-law’s own hus-
band this time, also fooling with the same female.
The explanation is that, before she married, the
“ lady of Ostend ” was engaged by the cinemato-
graph people to work up a series of “comics”;
and when at 10.30 or so, she explains this in a
bright-red frock and awful grammar, and says
that everything stopped just when the machine
stopped, everybody accepts the explanation, and
nobody gets either the black eye or the rule nisi
that was threatening.
* •* * *
Mostly the dialogue is smart, and the
humor more or less real. Certainly here and
there an old-fashioned Punch pun bumps up
against you. “I’m a perfect Jonah,” M‘Mahon
whines when some new sample of hard luck comes
his way. “ That’s why you’re always wailing, I
suppose,” says someone. But it is not all like
that. Gregan M‘Mahon’s part is really the big
one of the piece ; Hawtrey (Oft. some inches high)
couldn’t very well compress himself into the sort
of small, nervous son-in-law that a stage
mother-in-law requires. Miss Mabel Lane is the
wife, and Miss Brenton the dragon ; and in the
dragon’s husband, old and gay and shy, Oily
Deering has a fat part that suits him admirably.
In fact, there are no misfits in the cast; no
doubt the co.’s long season in Maoriland accounts
for the smoothness of the first Australian per-
formance.
** * *
Some years ago, before the Easter card, let
alone the Xmas card, had lost its vogue, there was
one beautiful frosted and ornate bit of cardboard
bearing a peal of bells, some sheep-faced angels,
and a verse that ran: “A voice grows with the
growing years. Earth hushing down her bitter
cry Looks upward from the graves and hears
‘The Resurrection and the Life am I. ’ ” This
specimen was the favorite of the season, and all
young and old ladies sent or received a duplicate
and found the lines as soothing as a noonday sleep
in a hammock. There is a flavor of that old
Easter card sentiment—a sort of holy sediment of
the ancient hymn—in the Tolstoy play, “Resur-
rection,” now dragging along its moral length at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney). In addition to rousing
a good old Easter remark from its grave, the play
incidentally draws attention to the Russian penal
system. There are whip-cracks and shrieks, and
the warders haven’t the manners of aides-de-
camp ; but remembering the tales of our
own system we find that the Tolstoyan
harrow is minus teeth. The dramatisers of
“Resurrection” were concerned only about the
fashioning of a play that would hold a many-
sided audience, and they succeeded. Roys and
lust and religion and humor and superstition are
the threads of its tapestry, and behind it sounds
the Easter hymn, and a lot of often lugubrious
but always Slavonic music. There are two on-the-
edge-of-the-moral-precipice scenes, but the audi-
ence looks on unabashed instead of through its
fingers. Eastercustoms, Eastereggs,andtheEaster
holidays of Prince Dimitry are in the foref ron t of the
play and one is rejoiced to see the samovar without
which no Russian story is complete. The humor-
ous seene is that of the jury-room, and the audi-
ence promptly christened two of the jurymen
Dowie and Larry Foley respectively, so true to
life was the possibly intentional make-up of the
actors. Julius Knight and Maud Jeffries and a
long caste of other seasoned artists, uphold the
drama’s considerable Weight with great apparent
ease. j
* * H* #
The Palace is seeing the last of Stephen-
son’s American Musical Cbmedy Co. this week ;
“Mama’s New Husband” is being revived for an
evening or so. After that Stine will carry his
jokes to the coaly city of Newcastle, opening
there on Saturday nigljt.
* # sfe He
“ The Best Must Win,” produced at
Sydney Lyceum on Saturday night, hadn’t a
single horse in its composition, but made up for the
lack, in a way, with hearses. It contains, pro-
bably, more murders to the square yard than any
other Lyceum horror to date, and, as its most at-
tractive feature, offers a sort of combination of girl
and electrical machine. You are tempted to kiss
the girl, and an electrical current promptly slays
you; also the girl vanishes and a skeleton appears
and grins over your dead body. The grin is under-
stood to prevent the victim being resurrected
by Dowie or any other prophet in the faith-healing
or raising-from-the-dead line. There is a rich
profusion of villains in the piece. H. O. Willard
is a smooth villain, who remarks that he will
strangle a few people next morning in the same
tone as the average man Uses to say it’s a fine day;
Lawrence Dunbar is an inferior villain, who occa-
sionally gets slightly excited when the murders
are more than ordinarily atrocious ; and Stirling
Whyte is a third-class, cheap-doss-house sort of
villain. With this glittering array of monsters
the clown of the circus gets little show, and
Bert Bailey’s funniments prove rather wearisome;
he disturbs the happy progress of the battue.
The various womenfolk act as brightly as they are
allowed to, Miss Ada Guildford, Miss Ethel
Buckley and Miss Ivy Gorrick in particular. As
the hero Robert Inman rolls his tenebrous voice
around unctuously and confounds the murderers
in the last scene of the last act with satisfactory
completeness. For those who like their horrors
neat and raw with plenty of blood and groan
“The Best Must Win” is cordially recom-
mended.
He He He He
“ Florodora,” with its charming lyrics,
has been attracting good houses to Sydney Royal
during the week, but will be withdrawn to make
room for “San Toy” on Saturday. The cast of
“ San Toy ” will be somewhat different from that
at the last presentation in Sydney, but Fred
Graham will again be the humorous Chinese ser-
vant, and that is sufficient ground for attending.
** * *
Yulcana’s sun is setting in golden glory at
the Tivoli, and Clarke and Hamilton have arrived
to keep the Rickards empyrean in its proper state
of illumination. Clarke draws most of his fire
from the piano, and Miss Hamilton from her feet
and her throat. In plain Lower George-street
language, Clarke is a musician and his partner a
song-and-dance artist, only a. different kind of
song-and-dance artist. With the grotesque
Dumonds still on hand the bill is unusually strong
in music just now. Herein is seen the patriotic
statesmanship of the management, which, having
lately glorified handcuff-smashing, iron-breaking,
and the development of a mighty muscle, now
calms the savage breast and the uncultured back
(muscle-shows seem to be mostly back) with sweet
melody. Certainly it is many a day since the
Rickards house has had a more artistic turn than
that of the Dumonds, from whom the audiences
want more and more every night.
* * He *
Miss Maud Dalrymple’s benefit at Sydney
Town Hall, on Saturday night, attracted a full
house, and the popular contralto ought to get a
cheque for about £2OO out of the proceeds. Miss
Dalrymple really looks as if she enjoys herself
when she sings ; and she ought, when she gets a
surer grip on her big voice, to hold her own fairly
easily in Fogtown. The rest of the programme
included Misses Usher, Mount, and M’Kenzie,
and Messrs. Gooud, Campbell, and Syl es.
He He He *
At Sydney Town Hall, on Saturday,
Arthur Pratt’s Concert Co., supported by Ma-
dame Slapoffski and other singers of note, will
try to give a hand to the Queen Victoria Con-
sumptive Homes and the Fresh Air League. The
object in view is so commendable, and the chance
of breathing in the same atmosphere with a
number of eminent social lights is so bright, that
the public ought to roll up in multitudes and give
two deserving charities a lift such as they have
never had before.
** * *
Bland ljjolfc’s cyclodrama promises to run
another week at Melbourne Royal, what time
“ The Flood Tide ” is being made ready for pro-
duction. The bicycle race at the Exhibition Oval
is not the only feature of “Riding to Win ’’ that
excites a warm, neighborly regard, for Bland’s
amazing show. As a work of fiction, it is about
as unconvincing as ’Lijah Dowie from Zion, but
although the narrative is a target for scorn the
scenes of action are rich in local truth. Faint
odors of the Yarra come floating o’er the orchestra.
Slumbering memories of Richmond Reserve and
Studley Park are awakened in many a wrinkled
soul. The Botanical Gardens are brought so near to
the audience that an “ engaged ” girl in the back
row of the d.c. furtively pinches the arm of her in-
tended victim. This is to remind him of the fatal
Saturday afternoon when she lured him into the
fernery at the aforesaid Gardens and wrung a
definite proposal from him. “Riding to Win”
appeals to local feelings, and Brunton s stage
pictures of the surrounding district are accepted
as an ample apology for the sins of the dramatist,
whoever he may have been. The programme
conceals the dramatist’s identity.
* * #
The next Druty Lane drama on Bland
Holt’s list, and the one with which he will
conclude his present season in Melbourne, differs
essentially from “White Heather,” “Great
Ruby,” “Price of Peace,” “Great Millionaire,”
or any other of the Drury Lane plays produced of
late years. This forthcoming novelty “The
Flood Tide” —is described by author Cecil
Raleigh as a melo-farce, and its fattest part falls
to the low comediaii. Bland Holt will play the
foremost character in “ The Flood Tide,”
speaking only the lilies allotted to it, whereas
in some of the previous plays by Raleigh, and
Hamilton and Raleigh, the low comedian's
part has been altered or padded (in Australia) to
give Bland a promihbnce which marred the effect
of the work, though it probably pleased the
gallery. In “The Great Millionaire” this was
absurdly noticeable. The omission of the old-
fashioned “comic relief” from the modern Drury
Lane melodrama, and the introduction of a
grande dame coniedy character, written for
the inimitable Mrs. John Wood, has put Bland
Holt’s show at a double disadvantage. He played
his own part in the wrong key, with interpolated
variations as a rule, and thereby put the whole
performance rathet* out of tune. The parts
intended for Mrs. Wood in London have been
undertaken here by Mrs. Holt, who treats them
quietly and pleasantly, but is not able to give
them their proper value. She lacks the florid
dignity, the humorous mannerisms, and the trick
of pointing pungent lines in a pungent style. Mrs.
Holt imparts the necessary kindliness to those
serio-comic grande dame characters, but her suc-
cess otherwise is only negative. She is better
than many another might be, if called upon to
take her place. All the same, it is a pity that
such fine parts should be only moderately well
displayed while the most versatile and accom-
plished “old woman” actress in Australia —
meaning Mrs. G. B. Lewis —is mostly out of
engagement. Always a trifle overwhelming, i.e.,
a little too much of the old-school actress in
modern comedy, Mrs. G.B.L. would give all due
color and importance to a congenial character in
literary melodrama. One would like to see her as
Lady Janet in “ White Heather,” for instance.
** * *
Florence Young, with her valuable voice
in good going order, re-appeared as “A Country
Girl” last week. Also sundry new items were
introduced into that standard attraction on
Saturday night. One item was a common or
garden sort of comic song, from which the humor
had been carefully omitted, and another novelty
was “Hiawatha,” a song and dance for a double
sextette. The merits of this alleged “maddening
melody ” may reveal themselves later, but on
Saturday the united efforts of the twelve damsels
made no impression to speak of.
*« * *
At the Opera House, a new ventriloquist
is doing his best to differ from a long series of
previous ventriloquists. In some respects, the
hard-working stranger is successful. Prof. Dewar’s
educated dogs and cats, late of Sydney, made a
triumphant first appearance last Saturday. The
Empire Girls have changed two of their songs,
and the second edition of the Amateur Cake-
Walk is even stronger than the first edition in a
certain element of pathos. Two of the competing
couples are very young, and their air of anxiety
touches a thoughtful observer to the soul.
*# * *
“ Beauty and the Beast,” at the Adelaide
Royal, had the misfortune to strike a week in
which all Adelaide felt more like going out and
sitting with its feet in the sea, and with the husk
of a water melon on its head, than crowding into a
theatre. Therefore, the excellent promise of its
first night was hardly fulfilled. Shine has worked
hard as the amorous widow who, thoughtfully
padded with ice, can sit on a fire and remain un-
moved. And there are other bright spots. But
the general verdict seems to be that of Pinero’s
Frenchman: “Splendid ! Magnificent!! Pretty
good !!! ”
ife & *
Howard Vernon, with Victor Prince as
funny man, finished a season at Launceston
Mechanics’ last week. They arrived from Hobart
in the nick of time, when Bain had to leave the
Academy of Music, and Spurr hadn’t arrived, and
Launceston was without a show, and they did
fair business with a company of four girls and
four men, who, in pieces like “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin” and “Maid Marian,” multiplied them-
selves by four and made a huge bill. On Sunday
night the Lord High Executioner was seen stand-
ing at a little table in the lobby, plate in hand,
taking up the collection as the crowd passed in to
a “sacred concert.” The night after Vernon
left, the Calvinistie Presbyterians took the hall to
feast the Moderator of All the Australias, who,
in cutaway coat, lace, frills, knee-breeches, silk
stockings, and a braw Scotch brogue, was a pic-
turesque figure between the wings, with a nice
bit of scenery in the background.
The new-chum’s story in brief : Chap. 1.,
swell; chap. 11., swill; chap. 111., swag.
“H.”: Sick man Shiels has apparently
decided not to stand at next Vic. election. Ewen
Cameron, who sat for Portland under the old
order of things, is out for GUenelg, which was to
be Shiels’s constituency. The Portland district
had been rolled into Glenelg, and it was under-
stood that Cameron was going to step aside for
Shiels, and give him a straight run against young
Burke, who is standing in the Labor interest.
There is now no doubt that Shiels is suffering
badly from heart trouble. The doctors are inject-
ing nitro-glycerine and administering same in
tabloids.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
[A further £500,000 of Treasury bills have
been placed in London . . . Mr. Waddell, the Treasurer,
says that the State’s financial position has wonderfully
improved, and is now stronger than it has been for a long
while. Financing is now causing him no trouble.—
Daily Paper.]
The Advances to Settlers Board is the nearest
approach that N.S. Wales has to a State Bank ; it is, in
fact, supposed to be doing the same work as the Agricul-
tural Banks of Westralia and Queensland and the State
Banks of S. Australia, Victoria and Maoriland. But
while all these latter issue reports as ample and clear as
any private bank, and in some respects more ample, the
only information available regarding the N.S. W. Ad-
vances to Settlers institution is contained in the annual
report of the Bands Department, which devotes a few
casual paragraphs to the subject. There is nothing m
the way of either a profit and loss account or a balance
sheet; and even the figures that are quoted are conflict-
ing and apparently incorrect. Year by year the advances
are said to have been as follows :
1899 .. £121,834 I 1901 .. £35,865
1900 .. 81,109 | 1903 .. 98,847
This makes a total of £337,655. The last report says,
however, that £338,005 has been advanced. There is a
discrepancy of £350 here. In the report for 1901 it was
said that the total amount advanced was £239,218. Is
the past year (1902) it is said that the advances were
£98,847, which, with the amount previously advanced,
indicates, it is reported, a total advance of £338,005.
But it doesn’t do anything of the sort—the total of these
figures is £338,165. There is a discrepancy of £60 here.
Last year there was a discrepancy of £413. There is
always some discrepancy, and it does not even have. the
merit of being the same ; there is a new one every time.
As to receipts the position seems to be : —
Principal
Repaid. Interest.
Paid in 1901 and prior
thereto .. ,, £34,031 £9063
1902 .. ... .. 27,313 6394
If the advances have totalled £338,005, the amount out-
standing at the end of 1902 was £276,661. Apparently,
therefore, the work of collecting the interest was none
too successful. But exactly how much interest and in-
stalments of principal were overdue is not shown, nor is
anything said as to the cost of management. As to
whether the institution is a success or a howling failure
it is impossible to judge, though it is pretty hard
to believe that a concern run on these slipshod lines can
be anything but a failure. Surely a money-lending
concern which is mopping up £100,000 or so of public
money annually ought to be run upon business lines, and
should be compelled to furnish the public who are
supplying the funds with some reasonable information as
to its proceedings.
The New Zealand Accident Insurance Co.
(Auckland, M.L.), looking at things more or less as the
co. presents them -
Dividends on Added to Re-
Profits. £5000 capital. Reserves. serves.
1893 .. £1,758 124 p.c. = £625 £1,133 £18,712
1894 .. 5,592 124 „ „ 625 4,967 23,679
1895 .. 6,118 15 „ „ 750 5,368 29,047
1896 .. 7,286 15 „ „ 750 6,536 35,583
£5000 reserves transferred to capital 30,583
Dividends on
£10,000 capital.
1897 .. 8,080 10 p.c. = £1000 7,080 37,663
1898 .. 12,210 10 „ „ 1000 11,210 48,813
1899 .. 11,898 10 „ „ 1000 10,898 59,771
1900 .. 9,082 10 ,, ,, 1000 8,082 67,853
£15,000 reserves transferred to capital 52,853
Dividends on
£25,000 capital.
1901 .. 15,465 7 p.c. = £1750 13,715 66,568
1902 .. 15,385 10 „ ,, 2500 12,885 79,453
£12,500 reserves transferred to capital 66,953
Dividends on
£37,500 capital
1903 .. 27,674 10 p.c. = £3750 23,924 90,877
The situation isn’t any too clear, but that is apparently
how matters stand. The profit isn’t represented in the
profit and loss account as being anything like so much ;
but the balance sheet shows these movements
1902. 1903.
Paid Capital .. .. £25,000 £37,500 Inc. £12,500
Reserve Fund .. 30,000 30,000 ~
Reinsurance Reserve .. 26,000 30,000 Inc. I,*30
Contingent Liability Fund 5,500 11,400 Inc. 5,900
Undivided Profit.. .. 3,158 5,147 Inc. 1,989
Various Reserves .. 14,795 14,330 Dec. 46.'
T’tal Shareholders’ F’nds £104,453 £128,377 Inc. £23,924
Add dividend 3 >' 5<l
Profit for 1903 £27,674
And all that the remarkably lucky shareholders put into
the business originally' was £2000 ! Calculated on that
actual investment of £2000 the co.’s later history shows
up as follows: —
Dividends on Added
Profits. real Capital to Re- Re-
of £2000. serves. serves.
1898.. £12,210 50 p.c. = £1000 £11,210 £56,873
1899.. 11,898 50 ,, ,, 1000 10,898 67,i/ 1
1900. . 9,082 50 ,, ,, 1000 8,082 75,8a.'
1901 15 465 874 ,, ,, 1750 13,715 89,568
1902 15*385 125 ,, „ 2500 12,885 102,453
1903.. 27,674 1874,, .. 3750 23,924 126,3"
The £35 500 difference between the present total reserves
in the two lists represents the amount of piofits which
have been capitalised at various times during the co.s
24 vears’ life. On total shareholders’ funds the protit
last year was at the rate of about 264 per cent ; how it
was made this paper doesn’t profess to know The
chances are that it wasn’t actually made at all, but that
the co has an inner reserve, portion of which was
brought out into the light year.
The position of the Queensland National Bank
in relation to the £1,038,000 or so, representing the last
fourth of the total amount due to private depositors at
the date of the suspension, appears to be a good deal
misunderstood by some correspondents. The depositors
were, it is true, to take 15s. in the £ n
payment, and that amount was secured to them,
the other 5s. is not therefore mentioned in the
balance-sheet, notwithstanding that it is payable out- of
profits An idea seems to prevail that this latter amount
Come, join in a chorus of joy,
Our Treasury troubles are oyer ;
I’ve been to the pawnshop again,
And now we’re in pastures of clover.
Let the cymbals be banged, let the trumpets blare
I’ve been to the pawnshop. Begone, dull Care 1
Come, ring out the chorus of joy,
And list to the jingle of money.
Was there e’er such a prosperous land,
Plowing knee-deep in milk and in honey ?
For I’ve been to London, and Cohen was there,
And he didn’t refuse me. Begone, dull Care 1
Loud sing our chorus of joy,
Our coffers are nigh overflowing.
And if we have debts —ha ! ha !
We can leave such trifles still owing.
A hundred millions—but who shall dare
To talk of such nothings ! Begone, dull Care 1
Swell, swell ye the chorus of joy
And of praise for Prosperity’s dawning ;
And what is Prosperity for
If it isn’t to help us in pawning !
Bull-Cohen’s still biting. Good friends, put it there ;
Let’s drink and be merry 1 Begone, dull Care !
N.S.W.
S.H.P.


hfg
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
IF INTERESTED, write
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
a. e. leplastrier, Manager. 40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
a T^ e „A ustral Gfcis Engineering Company of
South Melbourne, were the successful tenderers for the
two new pumps required by the Melbourne and Metro-
pohtan Board of Works. Each of these pumps weighs
about 60 tons, and the contract is of some magnitude.
Ihe Austral Otis Company were successful in their
tender for similar pump ends some time ago, and their
experience will enable them to rapidly turn out the work
Five out of the six pumps that handle Melbourne’s
sewerage will have been turned out of this foundry, which
also built the majority of the motive power plants
operating the Melbourne Tramways.*
* * * *
It is recognised that much of the loss in con-
centration is due to the feeding at the same time of
many different sizes of ore particles, and while to a
certain extent the loss is obviated by the installation of
hyaraulic classifiers, the constant addition of volume of
water in the various stages of classification practically
always entails a heavy loss in fine mineral carried away
ln overflow,, thus, though a more or less regularly
graded product is obtained and the percentage of saving
over the concentrators, calculated on the value of the
material fed on to them, has been increased, yet the
aggregate loss has not been diminished. The McDermott
Sizer differs from other classifiers from the fact that the
separation into various sizes is effected by means of a sub-
merged screen. Careful tests have proved there is an abso-
lute freedom of movement of thfe particles under water,
and that the pulp can pass in succession through a series
of screens each finer than the preceeding, thus permitting
effective separation into sizes most admirably adapted for
close concentration work. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company of South Melbourne, are the Agents and Sole
Manufacturers of the “ McDermott Sizer.”*
* * * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W,
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgans Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
±.408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, INew Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposde Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
- E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented Trade
Marks registered throughout the world *
* * * «
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
cy, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * »
Lachlan Goldfields, near Forbes (N.S.W.) is a
sterling mine, owned by an English co. The report for
1903 states that 9643 tons of ore yielded £20,252 worth of
gold The net profit was £5965. The credit at profit
and loss was increased from £3643 to £9608, from which
three divs. of 6d. each (£5475) were paid, leaving a
dhmwfl 4 !, 33 ' S ‘ nGe t^ 6 accounts closed, another6d.
“iv. (*1825) has been paid. At this rate the mine will
s,Vh/ et Th n - 1 the Ca - Sh c . apital put into it, and it is all in
sight. There is no mine in N.S.W. which presents better
indications of permanence, and why the co. does not
erect appliances for the treatment of the mineral con-
mystery!’ WhlCh 00nstitute the bulk of the ore, is a
* * • ,
Cobar stands out prominently in the State’s
value £266 < 355 f °7 s 9o3 ’ itS f°“ -turn bring ToTmXL®
a j 66,355, or 25 per cent - of the yield of the State
a nd 45 per cent, of the total increase. The steady and
and S n!wie - t , urns fro” 1 Mt. Boppy, Cobar Gold Mines
Occidental account for the increase. The big- im-
piovement m copper production must also be credited
principally to the Cobar district, the industry beino-
almost moribund in other parts, excepting Burraga.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soria,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald, "‘JKSgj*
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
PPES
record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834.
fe something in the shape of a debt of honor, which the
or may not pay, as the directors please, and
which, if they do pay at all, they may pay when they
Torvr Se ..? u b 4be scheme of arrangement sanctioned in
' 7 didn’t leave the matter in that state of
uncertainty. Clause 7 says that, after interest on
the Government debt has been paid, '“5O per
cent, of such balance, or, after payment to the Govern-
ment of the sum of ss. in the £ as aforesaid (the ss. of
Mate funds which carried no interest), 75 per cent, of
such balance shall be carried to a special fund, and shall
from time to time, and at such time or times as the
directors may think fit, be paid and distributed to and
amongst the registered holders of stock ratably until an
aggregate amount or bonus equal to ss. in the £ upon the
principal moneys secured has been made good out
of 6uch balance of profits.” The profits are thus
to be paid into a special fund for a special
purpose it shall be done —there is no dis-
cretion in the matter.' And not until the stock-
holders have got their 55., may this 50 per cent, of
the profit (or, after the Government has been paid
its 55., this 75 per cent, of the profit) be devoted to
any other purpose. “ After the sum of ss. in the £
hereinbefore referred to has been made good to the
Government and the registered holders of stock respect-
ively .... such 75 per cent, of such balance may be
dealt with in any manner authorised by the regulations
of the bank.” So the ss. must be paid before the share-
holders can touch a dividend out of this 75 per cent, of
the profits, anyway.
* * * •
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank
(Sydney)
Added to Re-
Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1896.. £660 £3676
Profit.
June, 1897 .. 119 £ll9 3795
Dec., 1897 .. 2 2 3797
1898 (year) .. 1 18 p.c. = £1,237 2561
June, 1899 .. 506 606 3067
Dec., 1899 .. 510 6 „ „ 204 306 3373
June, 1900 .. 616 3 „ „ 102 514 3887
Dec., 1900.. 641 4 „ ~ 136 505 4392
June, 1901.. 653 40i„ „ 1,372 3673
Dec., 1901 .. 659 76£„ „ 2,610 - 1722
June, 1902 .. 4,471 6 „ „ 204 4,267 5989
Dec., 1902 .. 456 6 ~ ~ 206 250 6239
June, 1903.. 2,552 42 „ ~ 1,442 1,110 7349
Dec., 1903 .. 385 6 „ „ 205 180 7529
The figures for the half-year to June 30th, 1903, are not
given above as they appeared six months ago, because after
the balance-sheet and report were issued it was decided
to pay a bonus of Is. a share in addition to the ordinary
6 per cent, dividend. The erratic movements are due to
sales of property on time-payment. When a property
is sold the society puts most of the profit aside until it is
reasonably sure that the goods will not fall back into
its hands ; and when it is thus reasonably sure, it takes
the money out of its private hoard in a lump and puts it
into a “ contingent account ”in the balance sheet. But,
though the amount may then be pretty safely reckoned
as profit, things occasionally go wrong, as happened
during the past half-year, when this contingent account
had to be drawn upon. In the past six months £223 has
been written off, bringing down the net profit to £385.
Even that, though, is at the rate of 11J per cent, per
annum on the paid capital of £6843, or of 5£ per cent, on
capital and reserves combined.
• * * *
A Mr. Bottomley is roaming Queensland in the
interests of the British Cotton-growing Association ; but
he carries no authority with him in the way of offering
guarantees or prices. Minister of Agriculture Denham,
who is something in the produce line himself, reckons
that if a price (say lfd. per lb. in the seed) were fixed for
three years, it would be possible to do something; and
Bottomley has sent back asking whether the Association
will do business on those terms. Meantime, the Depart-
ment has sent to America for a quantity of the best seed
that can be got; experimental plots, planted with the
few grains that were available in Australia, are already
springing up all over the Central district; and “The
Cotton Industry ” has reached a permanent place among
the headlines in the daily papers.
* * * *
.The Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.):
Bonus Added
„,,„ .. . to Written to Re- Re-
i«oo Dividend Suppliers Off serves serves
1 oyy £9489
mo? £ |, 4 S? 10 p ' c ' =£92 12 p- c - = £685 £4Ol £1282 3771
ino9 om? In ” ” o 4 15 ’’ ” 1010 397 959 4730
* 992 3482 10 ” '» 94 25 •> »2313 390 685 5415
1903 2241 10 ~ ~ 95 25 ~ ~ 2000 146 5561
Of J t^, l^ t . ye, y’ sprofit£lo6B ' vas made in the first half
and £1173 in the second. The reserves are all used in
the business, which maintains a credit balance.
* * * *
le TL sugar mills which were erected
with State help in Queensland, mostly under Philp’s
business administration, have (under the same “ busi-
l!? s ? administration) drifted so far into arrears that the
state Solicitor is now carrying through the foreclosure of
one of them, and something will certainly have to be done
wuh a few of the others. Only three-the Isis, Mulgrave
and Mossman—have met all obligations ; several of the
others were quite surprised when the Morgan-Browne
Government seriously asked what they proposed
J.™ ln u th , e "ay of paying-up. The “business”
Mimstry had allowed them to drift into the
idea that the debt to the Government was a
myth, of value only for parading before Bull-Cohen as an
asset, and that demands for payment were things to be
merely winked at. In these mills £411,109 of borrowed
money has been sunk, of which £41,497 has been repaid
(to the Government—not to Cohen), leaving £369 612
arrears redemption money alone amount
to ±34,305. In numerous cases it is ascertained that,
though the law said that there should be no advance
unless there was sufficient land to keep the mill going
there was not anything like enough land for the size of
the mill. A null a fourth of the size of that at Proser-
pine, for example, would have answered all requirements.
as matters stand, the cane-farmer-; are being bled to
death in order to pay interest on this absurd capitalisa-
uon In every such case the Morgan-Browne Govern-
ment is about to insist upon its rights as an active co-
partner, and will put into the management of these mills
?.?“! tbe economy which it is putting into the manage-
ment of the public departments.
* * ♦ *
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
Unex-
plained Total
Additions Added
Apparent to Re- to Re- Re-
Dec.' 1960 Pro l ts - Dmde ‘ids. serves, serves, serves.
June, 1901" £3733 7 p.c.=£3719 1' 4U4 465
Dec., 1901.. 3776 7„ „ 3719 - 57 5 522
June, 1902.. 3742 7„ „ 3790 - _ 5471
Dec., 1902.. 3953 7 „ „ 3937 £2500 2516 7 990
n Une ’ Inn 3 ■ 4157 7 ” ’• 4153 567 571 8 561
Dec., 1903.. 4994 8„ „ 4997 1501 1498 10,059
The reserves now consist of reserve fund £lO,OOO and
undnuded profit; the reserve fund has been built up by
nit !?£fi^ dl u° lC before declaring the amount of
"®„ fi proflt - For , the pa st half-year, therefore, the total
profit appears to have been £6495, which would be equal
tL”!* 10 t per . oent -. per annum on the paid capital.
iilnM°i, nia - 10n . g ! ven 1S > however, extremely meagre ;
It would be simply impossible to put less into the profit
and loss account without issuing it as a blank sheet. The
co. now proposes to make a fresh issue of shares.
* * * *
Roma (Western Q.) has a bore which emits
both gas and water, and as the Government hydraulic
engineer has separated them, the town is to be supplied
with light and water from the one source—a novelt3' for
Australia and for most other places. Roma’s natural gas
has been tested, and reported to be 30 per cent, better
than the manufactured article. The local Council has
fought shy of syndicates that have wanted to get
control of the supply, and proposes to itself raise the
necessary capital through the State for the undertaking.
* » - *
The Davies-Franklin Cycle Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.):—
Deficit
(Prelimi-
Added nary
Net to Expenses)
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. £277
Reserves.
1900.. £1375 10 p.c. = £541 £834 £557
1901.. 1953 10 „ „ 636 1317 1874
i year to
June, 1902.. 760 Nil 760 \
New Share Premiums added to Reserves 90/ -
June, 1903.. 544 18 p.c. = 1258 2010
This is a belated report and a curious one. In the previous
report the directors announced that they had decided to
pass a dividend, the whole .year’s profit being required as
additional capital. Six months afterwards, nevertheless,
they not only paid a dividend, but a bonus as well, the
two together absorbing £905 ; and another at the rate of
10 per cent, followed. Together these mop up a great deal
more than the .year’s ordinary trading profits. But, in addi-
tion to that, the contingency account was drawn upon to
the extent of £376, apparently through losses which could
not otherwise be provided for. No allowance was made,
either, in the profit and loss account for wear and tear.
In these and other ways it is made to appear that the
balance brought forward from the previous year was
£1214, when, as a matter of fact, it was £2119 ; the divi-
dend and bonus paid in February, 1903, is made to appear
as though it were paid for the previous year(which ended
on June 30th, 1902); and a profit of £iolo is shown for
the past year instead of one of £544, which is the correct
figure after all proper deductions have been made. Alto-
gether an unsatisfactory state of affairs is disclosed.
* • m ip
J.M. (Auckland): It is the same co.—an English
concern. No information as to how it is getting on is
available in Australia.... Moate : The Dee certainly hasn’t
averaged tucker so far ; the other is a fossickers’ field....
Mac. : The Widows' Fund issues policies of that sort.
* * * *
The New South Wales Fbesh Food and Ice
00. :
Added Nominal
Profit. Dividends. Written to Re-
Off serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1899..9,256 8 p.c. = 6120 3,000 136 32,726
Dec., 1899..7,327 8 „ ~ 6120 1,400 32,533
June, 1900..5,465 6 „ ~4693 1,500 31,805
Dec., 1900.. 2,587 2,000 587 32,392
June, 1901..4,510 4,510 36,902
Dec., 1901..4,541 4,541 41,443
June, 1902..5,340 5,340 46,783
Dec., 1902.. 727 2,500 45,010
June, 1903..5,906 2,000 3,906 48,916
Dec., 1903..6,609 500 6,109 55,025
Of the nominal reserves £47,750 consists of depreciation
fund. Formerly a specified part of the profit was transferred
to this fund, and whatever amount was written off was
taken from the fund. Latterly, however, the evil habit has
been contracted of bunching two items together like this,
dealing with appropriations of profit“ For de-
preciation, including provision for writing down
N.S.W. Creamery Butter Co.’s shares, £5750.’’ This item
appeared six months ago, and we have to wait until now
to find out that £2OOO was written off and £3750 added to
the fund. For the past half-year there is the same
bunching ; but, as the Creamery Butter shares stand at
only £5OO, presumably that is the amount which is to be
written off, leaving the balance to go to the nominal re-
serves. There ought not, however, to be any need of
these presumptions in regard to a balance sheet. Profits
show a still further recovery, and are now back to the
level at which they stood in the dividend-paying days of
the co. Moreover, the financial position shows very
marked improvement. The overdrafts have been reduced
handsomely during the year ; deducting cash and credit
balances, the totals have lately moved as follows:
June, 1899 .. .. £8,106 Dec., 1901 .. ..£15,054
Dec., 1899 .. .. 12,643 June, 1902 .. .. 20,839
June, 1900 .. .. 22,149 Dec., 1902 .. .. 22,057
Dec., 1900 .. .. 21,394 June, 1903 .. .. 22,213
June, 1901 .. .. 26,540 Dec., 1903 .. .. 11,260
During the previous 12 months heavy additions to plant,
totalling £5690, were made; an expenditure of only
£76 on this account during the last half-year, accom-
panied by an increase in profit, is mainly responsible for
the change of complexion in the overdrafts. A sub-
stantial reduction in amounts due to the co. and a slight
increase in bills owing, have also helped. On the
paid capital (£165,114) the half-year’s profits were at the
rate of just 8 per cent, per annum. The reserves in the
table at the top of this are referred to as nominal,
because a goodwill paper item is included in the assets.
Being bunched with other things—the co. has the
bunching habit rather badly—it is impossible to state
the amount or the real position.
* * * *
Broken Hill’s present talk is mostly of zinc-
production. Potter’s chemical process, which brought
the B.H. Prop, into the field with the Delprat process, is
now in the hands of a Melbourne co., with enough capital
to sell licenses on a royalty basis to mining eo.’s, but not
enough, it seems, to put up plant itself and handle stuff
for customers. The magnetic-separation people have, so
far, proved themselves a good deal more confident about
their process; they have themselves put up a large
plant, and come into the field of zinc “ mid-
dlings.” Ullrich, manager oU these works, is satisfied
that the magnetic system is the right thing, particularly
so far as the ore from the northern mines is concerned.
That ore suffers more from the presence of rhodonite
than the southern or B.H. Prop, ores do, and the magnets
get the rhodonite out without much trouble. The Sul-
phide Corporation is working with a magnetic plant,
which it is increasing ; but beyond an official statement
that results are profitable, nothing has been made known.
The B.H. Prop, has a plant under construction to work
the Delprat process, which depends upon chemicals ; and
a subsidiary plant to produce sulphuric acid (the chemical
required) is going up on the mine. This plant will be an
adaptation of the Carmichael-Bradford plant, which was
intended originally, not as a producer of acid, but as an
oxidising plant—to get rid of the sulphur, and convert
the sulphides into a smelting ore. It was found, how-
ever, that the gases could be easily and very cheaply
saved ; hence this new use for the plant. But the
trouble with all these zinc processes is that they don’t
produce metallic zinc ; they only produce a concentrate
of comparatively low commercial value, for shipment to
Europe, where the actual zinc-smelting is done. And it
is the zinc-smelting that Australia really wants, because
it is in that process that most of the coal, labor, etc.,
which make zinc worth £2l a ton are absorbed. A bonus
of £20,000 to be given on the first 20,000 tons of zinc
produced would probably put £1,000,000 into Australia’s
pouch within seven years.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.’s recent
history :
Ore, Silver, Lead, Gross Divi-
tons. oz. tons. Profit, dends.
May, ’97.. 202,556 3,615,954 12,430 £178,346 £144,000
Nov., ’97.. 182,460 3,248,586 10,917 145,507 144,000
May, ’98.. 204,731 2,873,684 15,803 177,567 144,000
Nov., ’98.. 204,067 2,691,546 15,190 152,876 144,000
May, ’99. 202,693 2,218,234 17,823 142,180 144,000
Nov., ’99.. 206,193 2,502,463 17,831 144,492 96,000
May, ’OO.. 232,487 2,175,422 15,472 129,576 96,000
Nov., ’OO.. 293,451 2,780,937 21,855 167,795 120,000
May, ’Ol.. 296,389 3,009,164 27,869 102,505 120,000
Nov., ’Ol.. 305,628 2,683,946 30,457 56,293 48,000
May, ’02.. 308,878 2,554,169 32,289 68,236 48,000
Nov., '02.. 334,709 2,798,020 33,522 73,459 48,000
May, ’03.. 289,263 2,419,367 32,029 77,963 48,000
Nov., ’03.. 283,282 2,462,776 30,808 91,999 48,000
The gross profit shown is the profit without deduction
for depreciation ; the amount thus deducted varies
considerably; last half-year it was £19,916. The price
realised for silver was 2s. 2 27-32 d. per oz. fine, or nearly
3 ? d. more than in the preceding half; lead averaged
£9 19s. 10d., or 11s. 4d. per ton less. This is the lowest
average for lead, with the exception of one half-year,
since 1894. For silver the price obtained is about the
average for the past 10 years. Basing the gross profit on
the lead output alone, it is equal to £2 19s. 9d. per ton of
that metal produced. That is to say, if silver were to
maintain this average, the co. could pay its way with
lead at £7 os. Id. per ton. Or silver could fall to Is. 9|d.
fine (equal to about Is. Bd. standard), and lead
could at the same time fall to £9 before the
co.’s operations would show a loss. These prices
are net to the co. The market quotation is, for lead,
10s. or 15s. higher; so that profit would disappear
when the market quotations reached, say, Is. BAd.
for silver and £9 15s. for lead. The co.’s liquid
assets, including reserve funds, show a surplus of
£426,706 over current liabilities, as against £401,304
six months previously. But of the reserve fund £40,000
is invested in the Iron Knob flux tramway, which
can’t be regarded as a liquid asset. Splendid progress
has been made in the way of eco lomies during the past
three years. For the corresponding half of 1900 silver
(fine) brought 2s. 6 27-32 d.„ and lead £l6 9s. Bd. ; the out-
put then was 2,780,937®z. silver and 21,855 tons lead ; the
gross profit £167,795. But if the past half-year’s prices
had ruled then, an actual loss of £14,002 would have
been shown, assuming that the same ore was handled.
Yet, in consequence of various economies, the co. can
work on present prices now, and show a gross profit of
£91,999. This means that the whole of the present pro-
fit, and a little more, springs from the economies which
have been introduced during the past three years,
notably in the re-treatment of “slimes/' the oxidising of
the sulphide ores, and in the local production of coke.
* * *
In the old style gold mine, equipped with the
primitive battery, in which little change was made in a
generation, it wasn’t so necessary to write large amounts
off the value of machinery as it is in connection with the
modern mine, whose complex appliances are scrapped
every year or two. Take the case of the Broken Hill
Prop. In 18 years its entire plant has been re-cast about
five times. Some huge and costly machinery—the amalga-
mating mill, for instance—had less than two years’life.
The old concentrating mill had less than that. The
smelting works have been re-modelled wholly, or almost
so, on the average every three years. From the first to
as far as it has gone, £1,290,093 appears to have been
spent on construction, of which £875,328 has been written
off. The present outlay is at the rate of about £40,000,
and the writing-offs average the same.
* * » *
South Blocks Co. (Broken Hill) has got its
credit balance down to £1650, and estimates that the ore
at grass is worth £1450. It is doubtful whether anyone
would give that many pence for it as it stands. If it
doesn’t pay the North and the Junction, with their own
mills and the railway right under their bins, to work, it
certainly would not pay to cart the crude South Blocks
ore away in drays to be milled. The mine’s value is
purely speculative ; it will only be worth anything when
something more is found out about sulphide treatment
or when the metal markets boom again.
Broken Hill South’s recent record :
Ore Lead re- Silver re-
treated. covered, covered. llivi-
T tons. p.c. p.c. Profit. dends.
June, 1899 .. 43,150 -- £15,686 £20,000
Dec., 1899 .. 48,137 61'89 47'60 29,731 15 000
June, 1900 .. 48,004 67.39 50'51 29,207 30,000
Dec., 1900 .. 49,007 69-22 49\83 30,807 30,000
June, 1901 .. 51,091 69-08 50-24 15,337 10,000
Dec., 1901 .. 51,650 70-29 51‘71 8,695 Nil
June, 1902 .. 67,359 70 -22 54-90 23,622 10 000
Dec., 1902 . . 68,948 70 42 53’95 8,647 10,000
June, 1903 .. 66,743 66'57 48'90 25,504 10 000
Dec., 1903 .. 59,279 6687 50'37 21,298 10|000
The water-famine, involving nearly- seven weeks’ stop-
page, was responsible for the reduced tonnage. Costs
have been brought dow-n to 10s. lOd. per ton for mining
and development, and 3s. for milling; together,
14s. 2|d.. or just about half the costs with piebald labor
on the Rand. This is done \yith miners’ labor averaging
10s. a day. The recoveries of metal show a slight im-
provement on the previous half-year, though methods
which get out barely two-thirds of the lead and one-half
of the silver leave a great deal to be desired.
* * . •
N.S.W. Hull Court has unstrung a millstone
from the necks of managers who run wild cats that don’t
pay their miners’ wages. The idea has always been that,
not only could the manager be sued, but he might also
be cast into prison in default. Tub Bulletin doesn’t
know a case in which a manager actually has served a
term on this account, though a western manager got as
far as the waiting-room before his friends put up the
money-. But when, a few weeks ago, the manager of the
Great Lucknow Joke, outside Orange, was ordered to pay
or do three months, J. Bull having failed in his remit-
tances, the matter was taken to the Full Court, which set
the order aside. It is certainly very severe on a manager
to gaol him for the yemissness of a co. which, in most
cases, leaves him in the lurch as well as the men (often
further in the lurch, in fact) ; but while gaol was possible
he generally took care to see that the funds were avail-
able. If they were not, he would not take the responsi-
bflffy of keeping the men at work. Probably the most
effective way out of the difficulty which the Full Court
has created w r ould be to assume that men who haven’t
been paid haven’t worked—in other words, that the labor
conditions have not been fulfilled, and that the leases
are consequently liable to forfeiture.
* * * *
Reported that the big Cobar (N.S.W.) deal
which failed a few months ago through the promoters of
the co. opening their mouths too wide, may even yet
come off. The same people are moving again.
* * * *
N.S. Wales’mineral output for last year, and
the figures for the previous year and for the corres-
ponding years in the two previous decades to compare
them with^
„ .. 1883. 1893. 1902. 1903.
.. 458,530 651,286 1,080,773 1,692,363
o-? al ,’4 ..1,201,942 1,171,722 2,206,598 2,319,660
Silver-lead .. 18,113 3,031,720 1,440,179 1 626 576
Copper .. .. 577,201 58,426 308,923 431 186
Tin .. .. 824,552 229,743 53,706 124 893
Coke .. .. 20,233 89,605 108,764
?ii • 12,315 140,000 100,000
All minerals ..3,204,809 5,456,160 5,638,145 6,059^486
But there is a thing or two to be said about these
figures. As to gold, the plan officially adopted has
been to include all gold produced in the State whether
from this States ore or not; and occasionally some
tens of thousands of tons of other States’ ores
have come over for smelting. This very absurd
plan has now been dropped, but in order to make the
h mf 'k m t !. e i 7°TP ” gold produced in 1903
m bee " added - The actual local Product was
£1,080,029 as against £684,970 in 1902. As to silver-lead
formerly the smelting was done wholly in this State, and
a quantity of metal which was then returned at £lOO 000
would now, when sent over the border in a raw state be
returned at probably £7o,ooo—the £30,000 difference re-
presenting’ coke, coal, labor, &c., used" in the smelting
process. As to opal, the figures are only rough estimates.
Moses Eokenstein and the other gentlemen with similar
names who handle and export nearly the whole of the
gem don’t take the Government much into their con-
fidence.
. * . * * *
N ?w dging * S ma king some progress in
Goid Won. Value. Tin Won. Value.
1901 .. 23,5850 z. £89,628
1902.. 25,4730 z. 97,891 110 tons £8,300
190/1 .. 27,2370 z. 104,303 244 tons 20,100
one dredging plants were in commission at the end
of the year; 32 were on gold alone, 3 on gold and tin, 6
on tin only. This is a total increase of six as compared
W’lth 12 months ago. Araluen division, working 14
plants, gave 53 per cent, of the gold total, as againlt 52
per cent, with 12 dredges in 1902. This division includes
the areas of the Jembaicumbene, Araluen, and Grown
mat co. s.
* * * *
The Australian Financial Gazette and
If™CE Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903'
When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
(Continued on page *30.)


PAVIP JONES ANP COMPANY,
The “DJ, Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
fgh
NARKOW
OB
ROUND TOES.
Special [
Value.. J
16/6
Carriage Free to any P*o. in the States*
& Barrack-sis., Sydney.
From Melb. Age, 13/2/’O4 :
qPINSTEK, middle-aged, large income, wishes to
correspond with gentleman, Scotch pieferied,
means not necessary ; genuine. Urgent, Age Office.
Time is apparently the essence of the contract in
this case.
THE METEOR, 15/
FUBE;
THE VICTOR, 30
HARRINGTON’S
Popular Price
CAMERAS.
THE METEOR
is a thoroughly reliable Ma:
Camera, for taking Portia
Views and Moving .Objects, making pictures 4|in. x 3|in., and
simple to operate. Fitted with good Lens, Adjustable I)
View Finders, Time and Rapid Shutter, and Magazine for
Plates, with reliable lever changing system. With Bools of
Price 15/-.
gazine Hand,
its, Groups,
is extremely
iaphragms, 2
carrying 12
Instructions,
THE VICTOR
Quarter-Plate (4$ x 3}) Magazine Hand
Camera—unquestionably the most popular
Camera in Australasia. Suitable for Lady or Gentleman: Very simple to
operate, and gives most excellent results. Pitted with latest impioved
Working parts, with Magazine for 12 Plates. Price 20,-, with book of
simple instructions.
OUTFIT for Meteor or Victor Cameras, comprising all Appliances
and Materials for making finished Photos, Price 7/6.
POSTAGE in N.S.W. on Meteor or Victor Camera, 1,3 ; other States, 2/3
either Camera with Outfit, 2/2 , ~ ~
Latest Style Cameras, from 6/- up to £5O.
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
HARRINGTON & CO.
Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS ..
66 King St, SYDNEY, and 93 Queen St., BRISBANE.
Society
[?]
[?]
Whicky
THE OLD MAN HAD HAD SEVERAL FIRES ALREADY.
ISAACDTEIN : “ Ikey, my son, I’m avraid you'll nebber make a yoot bisneth man, so
I’m going to inzure your life vor a dousand pounds! ”
MY SON IKEY : “ Nod me, vader! I don’t quite cotton on to the idea of being
burned alive.”
rpu- 7i,-,niutq if the com tfainta of Nicholas
- • YY t U . S ’ 1 ,• -.1 ” „ oliiftw
Willis, M.L. A., are reliable, seem to be a sniity
lot. He had two of them hauled up at Sydney
police court, one charged with threatening to
<< shift ” his head if he wasn’t careful, and the
. i “chiff, ’’ his par if he didn’t
other with offering to shilt ms ear it ne man r
lookout. Also, both were charged wit t e<
ing to shift Nicholas into the street in a neap.
* * * *
Dowie’s officers have a table to themselves
at the hotels where they roost. They don’t drink
anything with their meals except the usual tee-
total stuff—tea, ginger-ale, lemonade, &c. But
the appetites of these people, whose eyes are fixed
upon the good things of the Hereafter and not
upon the flesh-pots of Egypt, are something tre-
mendous, and they keep the waiters on the run
the whole time. Much-travelled people say that
nothing in the world compares with the appetite
of a Yankee saint, except the appetite of the
advance agent of a Buffalo Bill show. Elijah
himself is credited with having a perfect ‘‘freak”
appetite, but he doesn’t make it public. His
meals are served privately in a suite of rooms
costing =£3o per week. That is £3O for the suite
and the meals—not £3O for the meals alone.
* * * •
Elijah Dowie uttered an awful threat at
Sydney Town Hall the other night:
If there ia any more trouble I shall call on Governor
Rawson ; and, if necessary, get the military placed around
this building.
There is a large, off-hand sound about that sort
of thing, but probably if Dowie’s pale, disconsolate
whiskers did wander up to Government House in
the moonlight to “call on Governor Rawson,”
his Ex. would simply send the assistant
flunkey to say he was out, and didn’t expect to be
back till next April. And as for lending Dowie
a cannon to point at his congregation, if a preacher
can’t scare his congregation with Sheol he should
go out of the business.
* * * •
“ Hermes ” on an urgent matter :
If Dowie is Elijah, then Elijah was Dowie, and this
being granted, the question arises why was Dowie not
excluded under the Undesirable Aliens Act? On his past
record Dowie is not a fit person to he at large in any
decent, law-abiding community. According to the
accepted account, Dowie’s first appearance in the pro-
phetic business was somewhere about the year 929 8.0.,
when he informed Ahab, sometime King of Israel, that he
had effected a corner in the natural rainfall of the coun-
try. He made no offer to supply wtt on fair terms,
but cut it off in a brutal, illegal manner
without any warning whatsoever. Having committed
this outrage on a community that had done him
no harm (his own community in fact), he retired
into hiding by the brook of Oherith, near Jordan,
and so prevented the Government making any terms
wifi him for the break-up of the drought. The result
wag one 0 f j be mos t horrible famines in history'. This
f ac t, alone proves that Dowie Is a dangerous man to be at
large in Australia. The w'hole of his career was a record
of crime and bloodshed. Even at that remote period
Dowie’s language was calculated to lead to a breach of
th a " nd had he had his deserts he would have been
fined heavily in the police court at Samaria. Also, he
was a s intolerant as a human being well could be. His
hatred of rival sects caused him to proceed to shocking
lengths. After a demonstration on Mt. Carmel, 450
clergymen of the then Established Church fell into his
hands, and by his orders were massacred by the
push. For this atrocity Mr. Dowie was never
placed on his trial, and although the crime was
committed outside of Australian jurisdiction, it
warrants Mr. Dowie’s immediate expulsion from the
Commonwealth. In or about the year 896 B.C. a warrant
was issued for Mr. Dowie’s arrest, and instead of using
his scientific powers for the temporary disablement of
the soldiers who were sent to execute the warrant, this
bloodthirsty person actually destroyed them by fire.
Two officers and one hundred men perished. By some
means Mr. Dowie, though eventually arrested, escaped
the just reward of such an outrage. Williams and Mont-
gomery were hanged for a much smaller edition of
the same action in N.S. Wales. The whole of the
legal machinery of the country seems to have been
paralysed by Dowie. Since his re - appearance, he
has continued to be a disturber of the peace, but, owing,
presumably, to the stronger establishment of the law,
Elijah has not been able to take the ministers of the
Presbyterian, Baptist, Anglican, Roman Catholic and
other rival denominations out to Muddy Creek and wipe
them out as he did at Carmel. But, as a matter of
high public policy, a man who is able to make a corner in
the national rainfall should certainly be expelled. As the
scene of his former lawless doings is now under the juris-
diction of the Sultan of Turkey, he might be handed over
to the police of Abdul the Damned for trial.
• • * *
Certain sheep have been wandering in
and out of N.S.W. courts for the past two
years or so, and are still wandering ; in fact, they
don’t seem much nearer the final slaughter-yard
than they did at the start.
The trouble began at
Bombala, where they
wandered on to a
selection which was
not properly fenced.
The selector im-
pounded them, and
next morning they
weren’t there.
They were tracked,
so it was said, to
a farmer’s pad-
dock, where they
were identified as
the sheep that had
been in the pound.
Then a local police
sergeant arrested
the farmer ; and
next day the
sheep gob into
the local police-
court, where the
farmer was ac-
quitted. After
that the farmer
wanted compen-
sation, and the
sheep wandered
in and out of the
courts in Sydney
while prelimina-
ries were being
fixed. By March
the mob had
reached Justice Pring
and a jury; and, after
acres of argument as to the
powers of the police to make arrests, tho sergeant
got the verdict. After that the mob turned up
on an application for a new trial, and the same
points were argued all over again, and the new
trial was granted. By this time the sheep had
begun to die of drought and old age; but the
Acting-Chief Justice wrestled with what was left
of them towards the end of last year, and gave a
verdict for the farmer for £350. Last week the
hoary remnants of the flock got as far as the Full
Court, where it was argued by a large number of
lawyers and three Judges that some other Judge
ought to have allowed someone in the past to ask
a question concerning a lock, and the Full Court
said it was probably so, and decided that the
whole business might be gone over again. The
ease will, according to present appearances, be
over by about 1907, by which time what is left of
the sheep that have been causing all the row
will be almost old enough to be killed for prime
lamb.
* * * *
The latest marriage in the British Royal
Family promises to aggravate its consanguineous-
ness in a considerable measure. Bride and bride-
groom are respectively the granddaughter of
Queen Victoria and the son of her first cousin
(Duchess of Teck), and they are, of course, other-
wise related on more distant and more German
lines. Their children, when they arrive, will be
nephews and nieces on the paternal side to the
present Princess of Wales, and first cousins on the
maternal side to the Princess of Wales’ husband —
little York. The King will be their uncle on one
side and their third cousin on the other. Like-
wise His Majesty will be the father of their
father’s brother-in-law and the second cousin of
their aunt. And when these unborn offspring in
due course marry some more cousins, all their
uncles will be nephews to their aunts.
• • • *
Ex-Gov. Brassey has been “up" in
England iur Uncuig at night without a light. His
son-in-law fined him Is., after formally asking
the policeman if he had been previously con-
victed and if anything was known against him. In
that respect Brassey had more luck than aMenzies
(W.A.) police magistrate did the other day.
Charged with biking on a footpath, the local J.P.
told him that he ought both to know the law and
to obey it, and fined him a crown. But perhaps
the fact that Brassey for once didn’t fall off was
counted in his favor. The day when Brassey
doesn’t fall off is like Christmas—a festival which
covers many sins.
As usual, the peaceful Asiatic has been
making things hum in Melbourne’s Chinatown.
A mangy building down there was occupied by
two secret societies —the Gee Hing up above, and
the Bo Leong downstairs. A squabble alioufc
ownership led to the Bo Leong throwing the Gee
Hing out on its ear and casting its vegetables and
its bamboo after it, but the Gee Hing promptly
returned in force, and threw out the Bo Leong and
its cauliflower and bamboo. There the matter
rests at present. The Gee Hing is in possession,
but it is afraid to go out and charge the usual
exorbitant price for the spling callot for fear the
Bo Leong should take possession in its absence.
And the Bo Leong is getting its customers, so it
is difficult to say if the Gee Hing has done much
good for itself after all.
• * • *
It is not fashionable nowadays for women
to kiss in the street; they shake hands.
It is not that they hate one
another less, but that the color
comes off. There is a great
d eal to be said for the Maori
habit of rubbing noses.
Nobody paints the nose
—at least not with any
color that is liable to
come off.
NOT TOO OLD.
THE PURIST : "Aren't you ashamed to he seen
smoking cigarettes at your age, hoy?"
BOY: "Oh, I dunno; they's lots o' fellers bigger 'n
me smokes cigarettes'
THE FADED INVALID.
HUSBAND: “ You'll have to tale care of me, my
dear, or I’ll slip through your fingers."
AT THE BALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Last night my wife, who dances well,
With me attendant, reigned the queen
Of all the ball—l cannot tell
How many men there may have been.
But one there was who once applied
(Before I gained her willing hand),
To make her heart with his allied,
And claim her bride, you understand ?
She waltzed with him. How often ? Well,
At first I did not seem to see—
I danced myself with Mrs. L ,
And thought she fascinated me.
But, ah, when Lucy floated by
Upon his arm with eyes a-shine,
I somehow thought, I don’t know why,
Her jest was miles ahead of mine.
’Tis true I’d danced with Mrs. L
A dozen times, and whispered low,
But she had ne'er proposed, and—well,
I just marched Lucy home, you know I
N.S.W.
WILL CARTER.
A THOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Day by day she said with a sigh
“ In the whole wide world there’s nothing new,”
And as the days went swiftly by
She lingered not with the ones that flew.
Till once, when Love was passing nigh
He threw o’er her his rosy hue ;
And she said no more with a little sigh
« in the whole wide world there’s nothing new.”
Nor ever thought as each day flew,
And each its flag of love unfurled,
That what to her was strange and new
Was the oldest thing in the whole wide world.
Xas.
NEVILLE GOYDER.


WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY*
ADAMS’ HOTEL
nEET HE AT THE HARBI.R RAP
' ' 'll
PITT STREET.
At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from G-eorge-street to King-st.*
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality,
Last act of the great Melbourne Wren
tote comedy was the discharge by the Col ling wood
bench of Brown, Ryan and Wren, charged with
evicting the police from the w<:od-yard, alleged
to be used for running a tote. For the defence,
it was urged
that the policemen were nothing else than trespassers
on the premises, and that they had no right to remain in
possession, as they did, so long after the warrant had
been executed on November 3. A constable might, it
was argued, as well stay at a public-house to see that no
trading was done after hours.
Which was obvious enough—except to a “cool,
calm, strong Equity lawyer.”
“SO THAT BELIEF MIGHT COME."
“I believe all you married men would be glad to
be widowers!"
“My dear, you wrong us—many would be satisfied
with a divorce .”
The See Government in N.S.W.—perhaps
urged thereto by the new police inspector-general
rashly enters once more upon a campaign
against the Sunday banana. Against that mild
and squashy fruit the arm of authority has been
lifted again and again, and has prevailed not.
1 here is something Asiatic in the methods of the
Sabbath banana when attacked. It bows its
speckled crest as the legions of the law thunder
by, and then rises again, over-ripe and unabashed,
and sells 12 of itself in a bag for threepence in the
same old way. Henry Parkes was pulled by the
beard and flouted at the hands of this pertinacious
fruit, and that holy cow-merchant, Brunker, bore
the dint of its scorn on his halo. All pr cedent
justifies the forecast that John See will also be
routed in the forthcoming struggle, and the pulpy
horror will continue to be retailed seven days a
week at the old price.
Boccacio’s story of the lady who married a
pious merchant, who religiously kept all the fast
days, and who, to her great satis-
faction, was carried off by a
wicked pirate destitute of all such
holy practices, was, in a dim sort
of way, recalled by a Melbourne
divorce case last week. The
lady, who appealed to a sympa-
thetic Court for a decree nisi,
showed that the first cause of
marital unhappiness was that
respondent, who was a lay
preacher, wanted to pray all
day and the best part of the night.
The prayers lasted for two to
four hours a day, and she ob-
jected. That was the first rift
in the lute, and as the prayerful
husband was a bad-tempered man,
he threatened to shoot her.
When they were parted tempor-
arily, his letters to her were
mostly made up of religious ex-
tracts and pious advice. Justice
Madden recognised that it was
not human nature to stand so
much devotion, and he referred
to respondent as a humbug and a
a scoundrel, and granted a rule.
The divorce court has already
grappled with the problem of
how much ill-treatn.ent eonsti
tutes legal cruelty ; it must now
face the question of how much
prayer constitutes neglect ?
* * *
When the Bush veldt Car-
bineers’ case was first discussed
in Australia, General Hutton in-
sisted on the dismissal from
N.S.W. Forces of Major Lene-
han, who had been commander
of the Carbineers. “It was im-
possible for Imperial officers to
serve here otherwise, ” said Hutton
loftily. “Then they can serve elsewhere,” said
Bill Lyne, then acting as Defence Minister. “I
am going to have all the papers in the case before
condemning the man.” So Lenehan was not dis-
missed, and his commission has been in a state of
“suspended animation” since. Now that he is
to be restored to his rank, the attitude taken up
by “ the Imperial officahs ” will be interesting to
note.
• * * *
A good part of Westralia’s “ missus ” still
lives on the t’otherside, evidently; last year,
£436,551 was sent away by money-order, of which
£221,119 went to Victoria, and the next most to
S. Australia. But the figures, though large, don’t
come within a long way of some past records. In
1897, for instance, £867,441 was sent away.
* * * *
At a Bathurst (N.S.W.) auction, a pair of
wooden heads, by turner Henry Parkes, presented
to his old friend Webb, M.L.C., went, the other
day, for 10s. To offer an M.L.C. a present of a
wooden head was Parkesian.
A clergy-
man who shep-
herds a Wes-
leyan flock in a
N.S.W. town
deals in photo-
graphs as well
as in religious
ceremonies.
Wedding
groups are a
specialty with
hi m; the cere-
mony and half-
a-dozen cabi-
nets of the
bride, 2s. 6d.
Baptisms, with
six p]atinotypes
of the infant,
18s. 6d. Spon-
sors are catered
for also, special
rates being
quoted. And
the elders, the
organist, and
Sunday - school
picnics are his
legitimate prey.
* *
As N.S.W.
tram officials
are supposed to
have taken the
gambling
morals of their
“ hands” under
their care, with
suspension or
dismissal for in-
dulging in two-
up and its kin,
there is likely
to be a bigger
rush than ever
of anonymous
informers. It is
said the latest
raid followed pn
information
traceable to
candidates for
the post of con-
ductor or
driver.
• *
There is a
small prohibi-
tion area in Vic-
toria. At Ascot
Vale, a 40 or 50-
acre triangular
block bears the
thirsty name of
“ Temperance Township. ” It is held by the execu-
tors of a deceased temperance man with the wholly
inappropriatenameof Murphy. Murphystipulated
in his will that all pubs were to be kept off the
property, and that no grocer should sell or store
wines or liquor within the prescribed area. The
triangle is bounded by three roads. It contains
four grocery establishments, which get over the
difficulty by keeping their “hard tack ” in a joint
store across the road. Also, opposite each corner
of the triangle, is a large and flourishing pub.
* * * *
Sydney Evening News prints this pretty
picture of what long pursuit of its fiscal faith has
brought N. S. Wales to :
There are in Sydney probably no fewer than 50,000
people living below the waterline of human existence,
whose fare is the minimum that will keep body and soul
together ; who abstain from going to church because
they cannot afford even a humble coin for the plate ;
who cannot write to distant relatives because it costs
twopence for postage ; who, if they want to go to the
seaside, are obliged to walk, otherwise the expenditure
on tram fares would dislocate the affairs of the household
fcr a week, and who rarely have a change of attire ;
whose position, in fact, is worse than that of the meanest
serf of the mediaeval cities, and in whom the spirit of
hopelessness has so developed that never in their wildest
flights of imagination could they indulge the prospect
of becoming the possessor of a spare half-crown weekly.
Melbourne held its usual inquest on a
consumptive the other day. The evidence was to
the effect that a friend had sheltered the man for
about a year, till he became so alarmingly ill that
it was thought best to have him taken to hospital.
Accordingly a constable hustled round, and, as
usual, found not a vacant bed anywhere, so, in the
kindness of his heart, and with the consent of the
patient, he ran in the approaching corpse on a
charge of being ill in Bent’s State, so that he
might get medical treatment in the gaol infirmary.
There is no economy in providing aged wrecks
with hospital space in gaol instead of outside, but
when the wrecks are scruffed into gaol it makes
Bent’s Ministry feel that it is a strong Govern-
ment, and that the mighty arm of the law is
keeping order. The feeling is so strong that the
Bent Cabinet may yet make all the hospitals
gaol hospitals, and arrest the whole of the patients
in one act. It would at least make things uniform
and symmetrical.
The downfall of David Chenhall, the
Sydney solicitor, sentenced last week to two
years gaol, was almost the most complete and
sudden thing in the annals of Gentleman One.
Chenhall was a dreadfully smart young man with
something of a Japanese cast of countenance —at
least he somehow suggested that there had been a
chrysanthemum in the family a few generations
back. He built up a very large business in an
amazingly short time, though it was a scrambling
kind of business, and other Gentlemen One used
to speak disrespectfully about it, and profess that
they wouldn’t be Seen dead in the same law
court with it. Chenhall’s firm never kept
any proper cash-book or ledger, and neither
he nor his mild and apparently harmless
partner seemed to know that such things were
necessary. Accounts seem to have been kept
partly in the firm’s mind, partly on the back of a
disused envelope, and partly in a whirlwind. A
great deal of the money entrusted to the firm was
apparently kept in notes on the window-sill, and
blew away when the window was opened. When
the collapse came the firm simply said that it
“dunno.” No firm ever seemed to have less
definite information about its own business. So
David Chenhall was passed out. Then there was
more trouble, and David Chenhall was passed in.
* * * *
A smart question of infantile Faith was
discussed at Melb. Practice Court last week, and
is threatening to loom larger anon. Three years
ago Ellen Kay, aged two weeks, was committed
by a suburban bench to the care of the Neglected
Children’s Department in Melbourne. The Depart-
ment passed its ward over to the charge of a Pro-
testant foster-mother, who subsequently decided
to adopt the child in place of her own deceased
baby. Previous to this decision, infant Ellen had
been temporarily transferred to the custody of a
Catholic married woman, but she was unwilling
to support Ellen without fee or reward, and so the
State transferred its ward back to the Protestant
adoptress, from whom restitution is now claimed.
Ellen Kay, at three years of age, has no spiritual
convictions that she knows of. Her mother—as
Chief Justice Madden remarked —showed her
regard for religion by “ practically pitching the
child into the gutter, where the State picked it
up." The only evidence forthcoming re the
“ real ” religion of Ellen Kay is in the svvorn in-
formation of one Annie O’Connell, a midwife, who
states that the child was Catholic from birth. The
Neglected Children’s Act, whilst providing that all
wards of State shall be brought up in whatever re-
ligion suits their views and accords with their school
experiences and former home life, makes no pro-
vision for the sectarian classification of babies in
arms whose mothers have deserted them. More-
over, there is no evidence that Annie O’Connell
is an infallible authority as to the faith of the per-
fectly new child she washed in February, 1901.
She may be endeavoring to sneak a born heretic
into the bosom of her own church. The one thing
certain is that a Protestant woman acquired Ellen
Kay from the State gratis, while the rival Catholic
applicant wanted payment. All things con-
sidered, the State should be called upon to explain
why it has issued a writ of habeas corpus against
the estimable matron who took a neglected baby
off its hands. What particular influence has
been working the State in this matter? How did
the State become entitled to allot any particular
faith to an official orphan committed into its care
at the early age of 14 days ? The State will do
well to drop little Ellen Kay before she becomes
too hot to handle.
* * *
A Jap Jingo in Sydney D.T.—the Jap
in Australia nowadays puts on as much frill as a
worm in Westminster Abbey :
When the time comes Japan will guide the yellow
whirlwind and direct the yellow storm, and I am prone
to think that certain nations will find it a veritable
sirocco. In that day, not so far distant as may be
imagined by those who have not been through China of
late, Japan will feed fat on territory.
But the Bear is not finished with yet; in fact, he
has only had his front hair disarranged so far.
» » * *
The Victorian Railway Commissioners,
who intend running mortuary trains to Mel-
bourne’s new Necropolis, at Spring Vale, 15 miles
away, next month, have been running special Sun-
day excursions thither lately—with poor results.
Melbourne likes its cemetery full, and sticks to its
love for the old crowded bone-yard. When, about
the century end, the new planting ground begins
to get crowded it will be a veritable Necropolis ;
allowing five bodies per grave its 800 acres will
then contain some four millions of population.
So far about 100 acres have been cleared and
plotted off; paths are being made, and shrubs and
flowers planted, and about a score of departeds
have taken up a permanent residence. The trust
that controls the place seems to be as grasping as
most of its kind—Bft. by 4ft. is allowed for each
grave, but there are hardly any spare plots for
trees, though borders for shrubs are plentiful; and
a cemetery without trees is no more beautiful than
a stone-mason’s yard—and a lot less healthy. The
trustees have put up a dream of a fernery, with
seats whereon bereaved relatives may rest and
ponder; but, take it all round, the institution is
bare and moist and weepful, and when about a
million grave-stones accumulate on its surface it
will look like an immense insurrection cl false
teeth.
• • •
Victoria seems to have got some hardy
constables from the ex-cohentingenters it has
drafted into its force One of these lately told a
magistrate that a too lively Flossie “addressed
me in a insulting manner, and I gave her a
clout with a bit of a stick, I might tell you.’’ The
swashbuckling methods that got a certain type of
Australian such a bad name in S’Africa are getting
him into just as evil odor here.
THE BARMAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Oh, beauteous Barmaid with the Yellow Hair !
Your fingers white bear gifts from many lovers,
Or friends, as you would call them, and I dare
Say they were very friendly. One discovers
From these and other jewels, rich and rare,
It pays to be a Barmaid with such Hair.
In sooth you are both beautiful and fair ;
Although, no doubt, a trace of Art is seen,
Almost a Dazzling v ,sion ’neath the glare !
To me you’re fairer far than any queen.
You might have filled my heart with love and car#
Some years ago—you and your Yellow Hair.
It is indeed a very busy night ;
Somewhat retired, I watch the folk that come
To make their spirits and their pockets light,
With copious draughts of brandy, whisky, rum,
Olaret or port, all served them by the fair
And lofty Barmaid with the Yellow Hair.
They call her “ Lottie,” “Tottie,” “ Dolly,” “Dear,”
It really does not matter much, you know ;
She smiles on all impartially, to cheer
Them up, and help to make the money go.
She has her joke for every sinner there,
My Dream of Loveliness with Yellow Hair 1
The sharebroker, the dentist, journalist,
The auctioneer, the betting man, the clerk,
The soldier, and the peaceful pugilist,
At their most valiant task I do remark ;
All trades and all professions she serves there,
My beauteous Barmaid with the Yellow Hair.
Of all the many drinkers I behold,
The men who are most villainous and free
(I much regret to saj' it) are the old !
The young are bad ; but, O ! it sickens me
To see these men with grey, or with no hair
After my pleasant Barmaid dangling there.
But oft she gives to me a pleasant smile,
Thinking of me, 'mid all this thirsty crew.
Now, when she told me she would love me, while
She lived and after, it was surely true ;
Or so I think—it’s doubtful, you may swear,
When it’s the Barmaid with the Yellow Hair.
S.A.
WM. M'DONALD.
THE QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
r Jf GAZE into my lady's eyes,
“Reflected there the azure skies ”
(I make this mental note) ;
• Wells from my heart the fateful vow
Of constancy. I sigh, “ Wilt thou?”
(I hesitate. I ivonder how
, The little wretch will vote I)
HOP.
A GARDEN OF FLOWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
At Sunset, when shadows come creeping and falling
On the green of the lawn half-way, and then over,
When the dying sun glints through the treetops, and
tints
Rosy red at our feet the sweet carpet of clover,
Oh, dearest and sweetest but rarest of hours
When I walk by her side in a garden of flowers.
Oh, 'tis well to be you, oh, lily so stately,
Madonna-like, pure in your regal repose,
Just to live for a while in the warmth of her smile,
Then to die —giving place to your rival, the rose.
For you’ve dwelt for a space where each sweet thing
embowers
Her presence itself—in a garden of flowers.
Q.
K. SMYTH.


NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
Finding the need of more commodious
premises, we desire to intimate that, from
Monday, 15tb inst., our business will be
carried on at
32 O’Connell St, Sydney,
formerly occupied by Messrs. J. I. Falk &
Co., Ltd., and immediately opposite the
Australian Drug Co., Ltd.
SWIFT & COMPANY.
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Japan, it seems, like Russia, has a strong
Socialistic party. Writes a local observer :
A city like Osaka, with millions of spindles, is a plague
centre of public unrest. I believe that war would tje
welcome merely to offset the desire for further changes
in the body politic. Karl Marx and Ferdinand Lassalje
are the idols of the Japanese factory worker, and, when
you couple their teachings with our notorious racial
impulse to experiment with the new and untried, a ope-
eyed man can see the possibility of barricades. In I
country the agrarian element is still soundly Conserva’-
tive, though Socialism is spreading. At present the
working classes have no protection under the law from
the injustice of employers. There is no labor legis-
lation in Japan. The employer is well looked after
legally, but the employee has no statutes to appeal to in
the matters of hours of labor, child labor, the employ-
ment of women, light, ventilation, lavatories, employers’
liability, and the like, which are now commonplaces to
the British workman and workwoman. Mere babes toil
terribly, twelve hours a day, in the big factories, for a
sum that would not buy a single good cigarette in
London. Night and day the work goes on in twelve-
hour shifts, and the degeneration of the unfortunate
factory hand is pitifully fast. The lower classes are
really in a sorry plight in Japan, for the rich are rapidly
growing richer and the poor poorer. The public has
become greedy for scores of articles unknown a genera-
tion ago, and happy, satisfied existence has become
fatally costly, inasmuch as the wages and earning
capacity have increased very little, while desires, if not
actual necessities due to superior education, have
increased tenfold.
Miss Nellie Stewart writes: “ * Yalaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “ Valaze,” Djr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
s
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
; a ™‘kTHE varnished board
NEW
THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS
5jj
gh
RD,
$
*t #
PD.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 23,1904.
My Dear Arini,—
Mrs. Venables Kirk, Lady Rawson’s sister,
with her daughter and Miss Rawson were in
town for a little while last week. Then they
went on to the Blue Mountains—that region
whioh Mark Twain declared, in the most labored
joke of his life, to be really a heap of rabbits.
Governor Rawson’s cocked hat still hangs on a
tree in Sutton Forest,‘"whilst himself strolls about
in carpet slippers.
A scheme is said to be “in the air ” to turn the
unsightly wool store now disfiguring Kirribilli
Point, North Sydney, into a large and dignified
residential hotel. Kirribilli was once the prettiest
point in Port Jackson, but its symmetry was
ruined by the vast, square, pale pile aforesaid,
which (to the joy of the people on the boats pass-
ing by) has never been much of a commercial
success.
Surely the proudest moment in Japanese Consul
Iwasaki’s life occurred last Saturday night at the
first presentation of the Russian play “Resurrec-
tion.” When he entered the manager’s box at Her
Majesty’s a section of the audience applauded
him. He didn’t “catch on” to the significance
of the glad hands until some better-informed of
his countrymen prompted him, when he arose and
bobbed like a cork on a calm sea. The applause
was started by seven feet of red pressman stand-
ing at the back of the about a
fourth of the d.c. audience joined in. If only the
opposite box had been reserved for a Chinaman,
and he had risen with his bamboo on his shoulder
ahd his vegetable baskets dangling therefrom, to
beam on the audience and typify the good feeling
that prevails between the yellowish empire and
the brownish one, the picture would have been
complete. By Monday last, no doubt, the Fuji-
yama Herald and the Evening Chrysanthemum
and the Daily Geisha had cables, telling how the
great audience at the principal theatre in Sydney
rose when the representative of the Mikado
entered—rose during the progress of a Russian
play, and sang the Japanese National Anthem,
and waved its kimono and its straw sandals till it
was hoarse.
The box with the four Japanese gentlemen was
an interesting objective for the audience. His
Consulship has little English, and the points of
the play must have gone astray on him ; but his
companions, who were evidently flushed with
news of battle, were intensely appreciative,
especially over the jury-room scene, with its
comments about women. When Maud Jeffries,
as Katusha, came on, looking mighty desirable in
her peasant frock and pretty cap with the scarlet
bows below her ears, they must have thought
long brown thoughts about gallant Jap officers
and Muscovite maidens.
“Resurrection”—its name really ought to be
“ Regeneration”—is not such a Doomsday play as
I had imagined from reviews of the book. The
dramatisers have left out much of Tolstoy’s tears,
which are composed of holy water and nitric
acid. If one is out after Fate and Duty,
one will get a fill of both by following
the play from those aspects, and come to the
quite unoriginal conclusion that crime and
punishment often go together. But the majo-
rity of us don’t worry about stodgy, ethical
values at the play. One of the vivid memories I
brought away was of scenery the prisoners’
halting place in Siberia. A silent, soundless
waste of snowy landscapes glimmers green and
ghostly under the moon. A few pine trees, look-
ing as if their very sap was congealed, grow at
lonely distances from one another. They make
you think of Heine’s lines about the solitary pine
(rooted in ice-bound earth) which was in love with,
and always dreaming of, a palm tree that grew in
a far country on a strip of burning sand.
The “submerging” of Miss Jeffries’ appearance
in rags and squalid environment, leaves Miss
Pendennis the beauty of the play. She acts the
fiancee of Prince Dimitri after the Jeffries’ fashion.
But did anyone ever see such extensive hips with
an ingenue ? Is physical culture played out ’
Audience showed symptoms that Persons are
drifting back to town. In the box opposite the
Japanned one—the box where the vegetable John
should have been—were Mrs. Philip Morton and
Miss Irene Marks, with considerable young man
escort. Mrs. John Hay is back from Coolangatta,
and Mr. B. R. Wise has closed his holiday in the
Kosciusko district. All the time of his absence
he was giving opinions, and untying legal knots,
so he must holiday with the other end of a tele-
graph line at his ear. According to Mr. Wise the
scenery of the Alpine range, which he crossed on
horseback, is as fine as that of the Southern Alps
in M.L.—the “land of the jaundiced tussock”
as a recently-returned Australian calls it.
Sydney will curse the Japanese alliance yet—if
it meets with many adventures like one of last
week. Between 1 and 2 a.m. an ancient
person with a voice like the crack of doom rent
the atmosphere of the opulent waterside suburbs
with cries of “Extry speshuU tremenjous
Japanese victory.” I forget whether the Chrysan-
themums had taken Moscow or St. Petersburg, or
both. Anyhow the Points poured out in their
pyjamas and bought the papers at 3d; each, and
there was nothing at all—not even the news that
Admiral Togo’s dog had barked at Admiral
Alexieff’s dog in Corea. If the old man had been
overtaken one of the great battles of the war
would have been fought on the cable-tram line,
but he got away before the pursuing forces were
dressed.
Five thousand pounds was given to Sydney
Children’s Hospital last week by an anonymous
donor. Some persons make good use of their
wealth. If this good giver has still a few pounds
left, he might bestow them on the Women’s
Hospital, which has to scratch hard for a living.
Curious thing how often prayerful people-
people in whom the love of praying almost
amounts to a mania—are very mean in money
matters. That recent divorce case in Melbourne,
in Which a wife brought the action, is a case
in point. Respondent had prayers four
times a day, and when in absence he
wrote to his wife, his letters' were mostly
extracts from sermons. But he didn’t send
her any money. I know a “ religious ” man
who left his wife and daughter without means
whilst he went on an eigfiV inonths tour to
“ furrin ” parts. But he wrote, from every port,
letters inculcating the love of God and fear of
Sheol, and eloquently descriptive of the various
churches in which he had prayed—for them. In
the seventh month of his absence he sent his wife
£2 ; and on his return, after he had offered up a
long prayer of thanks for his restoration to the
bosom of his family, he asked her what money
she had in hand. Also, I have heard of another
well-to-do man who, whenever his wife asked him
for money, used to back her against the wall and
ask her in dreadful tones of reproach what she
had done with the 9d. he gave her last Tuesday
fortnight—but he wasn’t religious, so this is a
digression.
Mr. Hugh Dixson, jun., who was associated
with his father in their big tobacco concern, died
at a private hospital last week. His widow, who
was one of Sydney’s prettiest married women, is
in England. The home of Dixson, sen., “ Aber-
geldie,” at Summer Hill, has some of the finest
gardens and conservatories to be seen around
Sydney.
Mr. Arthur Pratt’s concert, in aid of the Q.V.
Consumptive Homes and Fresh-Air League,
occurs next Saturday, at Sydney Town Hall.
The Test match will be on during the afternoon,
and the Test audience couldn’t do better than
adjourn afterwards to the charity concert.
Madame Slapoffski will make her last Australian
appearance (for a long time) at the entertainment.
A correspondent draws my attention to the
fact that in naming the principal wars of the last
hundred years the loser has always had the doubt-
ful honor of being mentioned first. Franco-
Prussian, Spanish-American, Chino-Japanese,
the Greco-Turkish, and even when but one
name is mentioned the coincidence holds good,
as Crimean, Indian, Soudan. Now, there’s the
Russo-Jap war, which arrives in time to be the
exception and so prove the rule. There was also
the Russo-Turkish war which helps to prove that
the rule doesn’t apply to the Bear.
By the Sonoma, last Monday, Edward Farley,
the operatic basso, left for America and work.
His steamer-ticket and a purse of 65 sovs. were
among his presents. An engineer son of Mr.
Justice Inglis Clark, of Tasmania, also went
Statue-of-Liberty-wards to learn somewhat of
Carnegieland. Minister of Lands P. Crick, whose
large silk, tie was of a most beautiful blue—the
tint to suit a baby girl—went on board looking
already sea-sick. He goes as far as M.L.
. Average age for matrimony as proved by statis-
tics is rising so steadily that widowed grand and
great-grand mothers and fathers of the future will
not be ineligibles for matrimony. P’raps—p’raps
not. Between the years ’76 and ’BO the number
of men in Britain who married whilst under age
was 77"8 out of every 1000 marriages, and of girl-
wives under 20 there were 217 per 1000. But since
then the number has been dropping like a plum-
met. A girl who goes to numbers of weddings,
tells me that. she is in an almost chronic state of
astonishment at the—well, the very mature
appearance of the brides. She thinks that this
“appearance” is increased by the uncompromising
bridal robes and blossoms, and the veil which does
not veil the face at all. After 30, complexion is a
rare grace. Amongst the very poor and the very
wealthy, under-age marriages are still numerous;
it is in the middle classes that marriage is being
postponed until the limited income is on the way
to surplusage. The new order of things has its
drawbacks, of course. Something of the “ne’er-
will-come-again-the-hour-of-glory-on-the-leaf-and-
rapture-on-the-flower ” feeling of regret must
attend the sedate lovers.
Private letters from London bring news of the
marriage of an Australian woman who once pro-
mised to be a singer of note, or, through marriage,
a society somebodj r . I never saw her, but I’m
told she was very beautiful and virtuous, and
assumed more frills than a river hat. Her voice
went early, and her beauty waned, and fora living
she took to rearing some small breed of ponies in
an out-of-the-way Irish town. She is very abusive,
in her letters, of Fate for not fetching along
her husband when she wasyoungerand more gifted
and pretty. He is just the sort for which she was
then on the look-out. Forty (she has three years
more), rich, clever, handsome, with ever so many
quarterings on his shield. Now she writes: “I
had learned to do without romance, and he doesn’t
like small ponies. Providence is inscrutable.”
Gregan MacMahon, who plays leading young
man in the Hawtrey Co., is a Sydney Uni.
graduate. When well into his studies for the
bar, lie scared his friends by renouncing law
for stage. He thereby took a big risk, seeing
that he had very little means, a child of about
the same dimensions, and a nice-sized wife. He
has panned out a capital comedy actor, Mabel
Lane, who re-entered on Saturday at the Criterion
with the Haw. Co., exhibits some orchid-fire frocks.
One is a pale primrose pink with stole ends
and lace and plenty of soft swirl effects. The
stage hour at which she wears it is 7 a.m., and as
the frock is far too fine as a dressing-gown for
anyone who doesn’t own the Kremlin, one is re-
lieved to find that it was put on at 7 p.m., and that
Mabel, who play 3 the part of wife of a gay
Lothario, has been up all night in her sunbeam
tea-gown waiting for her night-owl hubby.
The Haw. Co. women are all very well dressed,
but if you want to see a gown that looks as if it
spelt Intrigue, that fairly prints the word Danger
{to the male person), you will see it in the red
robing of Miss Mary Bancroft, who plays the
Lady of Ostend. There is Device in every
acoordeon-pleated flounce, and Flirt in the big red
hat, and Mercenary Character in the red velvet
florins of the transparent yoke. Leonard Davis,
who was treasurer in the man-of-war Macdonald
tour, pilots the co. and keeps the curl in his hair.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Linlithgow (formerly Hopetoun) writes
to Australia, privately, that he has now re-
nounced public work, and ‘means to find his
happiness in his own home with his wife and
family.’ Mamma and he are delighted at their
new baby (a daughter), and Hopetoun also men-
tions gratefully that he himself is now ‘ able to
enjoy his meals and a glass of wine.’ Local
sentimentahsts, commenting on this epistle, lavish
pity upon the writer, baffled in his ambitions
through weak health. It is disappointing,
undoubtedly. Still, I prefer to cast my compas-
sion upon that other sickly man (lots of him,
hereabouts), who, ill or well, is debarred from
‘renouncing’ his graft, because to do so would
entailj renouncing ’ at the same time home, wife,
family; new baby and meals. The ordinary
toiler, laid aside from work and pay, sees no
‘ happiness ’ ahead of him —unless he finds it in
the grave.. <
“ There is to be a. formal beginning of the much
talked of ‘ Henley on the Yarra,’early in March.
The Northcote Excellencies and suite and a
swagger afternoon-tea are promised for the
occasion. Somehow the theatre ground of so
much sordid suicide and floating doggie strikes
one as rather an incongruous course for a fashion-
able boat race, but a determined set of English-
minded Johnnies have frozen on to the notion of
a Henley fete and they mean to have it.
“ Ex-Premier Irvine’s friends smile, sub rosa, at
the accounts of his ill-health. One woman gives
a genuine smile above board, and that is Mrs.
Irvine, for she gathers the sick (?) man up and
takes him on a voyage of some length. No poli-
tician—not even Bigjohn Forrest —has a more de-
votedly interested wife than Irvine. She stood by
him all the time of the railway strike, and had to
be carried out in a dead faint by Treasurer Shiels
(himself on the sick list) at the crisis of the move-
ment. Mrs. Irvine always had a gallery seat
when hubby spoke, cheering him up and bearing
him off for a good meal and a pick-me-up after.
William alwayshas been apampered and spoilt per-
son. Probably what he most suffers from is a sorry
neglect of the spanking department when he was
infantile. A neglect of that sort can only be re-
paired, later in life, by a wife of the sub-acid
order; and Irvine struck a particularly sweet and
petting sort of mate.
“News comes that Clara Butt—the Juno with
the mighty organ-notes—proposes to try her
cavernous rumble on Australian audiences. A
baritone, Andrew Black, scouts ahead first.
Admirers say he has great art, a fruity warble,
and the bump of reverence so largely developed
that his singing in oratorio always provokes
tears, and sends hearers groping for a thripenny
as if they were in church.
“ Toorak has a fresh diversion. Flocks of girls,
squired by their smart chums, do the Nudoscopes
of the city—those penny in the slot affairs which
show girls mostly undressed or undressing. It is
called ‘ doing the peepers ’ !
“Premier Bent, as he waddles down Collins-
street, brolly in hand, and the corner of a grin
breaking out of his stubby whiskers, reminds one
of the smug philanthropist in Bleak House—the
flabby gentleman with a moist surface. Just now
Tommy looks extra moist with gratification. His
moistness seems to gleam and twinkle and say—
‘ What do you say to Tommy now ? ’
“The Alexandra Club, which was denied its
wine license, is yet able to hold its own, and
provide high-toned meals for any number of
mixed couples. There is a movement on foot
to ‘reciprocate’ with the Empire of London,
so that civilities may be the more equally
exchanged, and touring members be accommo-
dated at one or t’other.
“About the most fetching of ‘Country Girl’
chorus girls is a sister of barrister Billy Williams.
She dresses up her brunette looks with rose-red
ribbons and bright dressy etceteras, and is so
inexperienced that she blushes the same rose hue
when the facetious Barry calls her out by the
name of Eugenie Duggan and presses a warm
motherly kiss on her blooming cheek. The chorus
battler who can blush atfa stage peck deserves to
come under the chaste notice of Elijah, junior—•
the unkissed freak of the century.
“ Rev. George Robinson has secured a fine
residence in one of the most salubrious suburbs of
Sydney for a first prize in a big art-union which
he is engineering. With the house and grounds
goes a first-class return trip to Europe. The
enterprising priest hopes to clear over £lO,OOO by
the bazaar and art-union.
“A jolly actress who agreed to an economical
trip to England with her jolly spouse on a cheap
liner, writes in a bitter vein of the nerve-racking
time aboard. She sends word that she let loose
on her unfortunate partner all the annoyances,
regrets, disappointments, and trials of her whole
matrimonial career, and said all the unpleasant
things she had ever been aggravated into think-
ing, but had suppressed under more cheerful cir-
cumstances. Cheap travelling was never meant
for the luxurious. It is all right as a Lenten
exercise for the sackcloth devotees, or the neces-
sitous. If a man wants to know his wife’s honest
opinion of him, let him take her on a sea voyage
in a low-priced steamer.
“A Melbourne erstwhile cabman named Nimmo
is wanted to pick up £lOB,OOO, left by his father
in England. ‘Cabby’ is known to have driven a
vehicle between Sandridge (Port Melbourne) and
the city. Long years ago, one John Nimmo re-
presented Emerald Hill in the Victorian Legisla-
tive Assembly. He was Minister for Works about
1886, and a dredge was named after him. This
Nimmo went back to Scotland some years ago,
after the ‘ boom ’ break, and is said to have
opened a small shop. Possibly he is a relative of
the lost cabman.
“ Elijah Dowie brings his ‘ healing ’ fakes to an
overstocked market here. There are already enough
faith-healers, clairvoyants, and self-styled ‘pro-
phets ’ on hand to cater for the class of invalid
who likes to be doctored through its imagination.
Last ‘ seance ’ I attended was conducted by a
cheeky little Yank, who rummaged out alleged
diseases from the anatomical fastnesses of his
hearers and then passed on the patients to his
‘doctor’ colleague. Fat Mrs. Fool, in the
audience, would place on his table for ‘ test ’ a
kid glove, several sizes too small for her. Yank
watched her place the glove there, so he knew to
whom it belonged, When its turn came to be
identified, he picked it up and said : ‘ This belongs
to a female with small hands and feet.’ (Murmur
of surprised assent from owner.) Then the
schemer pretended to forget that he had already
said the owner was a female, and went on, in a
dreamy way : ‘ This glove—paw-bag, we call it in
my country (laughter)—belongs to someone fuller
here (patting his own chest) than I am, and
dressed different somehaow—l can’t see clear
yet, but someone seems to be whispering to me
that there’s a yaller waist and a black skirt
in the environment of this article. Seems to
me _ this person hollers in her sleep—am
I right ? Think again. Don’t split hairs
with me and I waont with you ! Don’t holler in
your sleep? Something seems to tell me of
giddy-head. Ami right? I thought so.’ Best
of it was, the plausible mannikin posed as a saint,
boasted that he could make fortunes if he would
only give racing-tips and information re wills.
‘ But if he couldn’t make clean money, he’d ruther
make none. ’!
“ A moneyed widow who, for a conspicuous
period, wore the garb of a golden sorrow, has now
launched out into a dozen charitable schemes,
opened house in a swagger quarter, and bounced
into all the gay movements afloat. She lets the
world know plainly that she is taking notice
again.
“ One of the few flower-paintings in the Fenton
collection is a dark Egyptian bloom, the work of
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, who, by the way, has been
telling some interesting incidents in her career.
Once she spent some months on those pin-prick
islands shown on the map between Papua
and Australia. The diet had plenty of local
color, for it consisted solely of sea-cow, yam, and
turtle. Another time she led an expedition to
the Chillagoe caves. She has pierced the very
heart of Dominica via a wild bridle-path, to see
the last of the Caribs, and plied her brush on the
sides of Mt. Pelee just before it burst. She has
seen the midnight sun, and weird sights beyond
the Himalayas; has painted colossal flowers
whose centres held the bodies of rats and
millions of insects. In short, she has seem an
interviewer.
“ A gorgeous black-and-blue ballet has come to
enliven ‘ A Country Girl ’ —the Girl of late show-
ing signs of wear. It flashed on a full house last
Saturday and was recalled three times.
“ Now that it is known Lady Northcote is an
ardent pianist, Toorak rolls its pianola aside and
exercises its white hands in daily practice. Same
thing happened when Lady Silverlocks began to
sort out the souls well skilled in music. But as
soon as the Clarkes sailed away, Toorak had the
machine at work once again. Now, why shouldn’t
a Governor’s wife, one of these days, be sqag-
shotted at the wash-tub, just by way of suggcsf jug:
healthful domestic industry to Toorak ?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


NO APPETITE.
Every person who starts taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills finds that their first effect is to sharpen the
appetite. The secret of this is simple. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People actually make new blood—
and this fills and tickles the tiny veins in the stomach-walls. This produces that uneasy inner craving which
people call Appetite. And so, no matter for what blood disease you may take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, their
first result will be to make you long for meal-time and to eat heartily. But, of course, Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills do more than that. With new pure rich red blood, they stimulate the flow of gastric juices, give the
stomach strength for digestion, steady the heart, brace up the liver, tone the nerves, stiffen the spine, and
put the whole system in the pink of condition. This is exactly what they did for Mr. John Kemp,
Lily-street, Hurstville, Sydney.
“ Until four years ago, I never knew what it was to
have a day’s sickness,” says Mr. Kemp, “but about this
time I began to be troubled with nast.v sick headaches.
Nearly every morning I woke with a dull throbbing ache
in my temples, and a horrible bitter taste in my mouth. I
lost all appetite—the very thought of food made me sick.
Often I felt too weak and languid to drag through the day.
It was nothing new for me to have to knock off work for
days. And my back was very bad, too. Sometimes I
could hardly get out of bed owing to the awful stabbing
pain that caught me right above the hips, as soon as I tried
to get up. I got dreadfully thin—my coat hung on me like
a sack. For two years I felt the most wretched man alive.
No medicine did me any good till I bought some Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People from Pattinson’s,
chemists, George-stteet. One box did me so much good
that I kept right-on with the pills until I had finished 10
boxes. Then I was as right as ever. The headaches, back-
aches, and nasty sick feeling left me, and they have never
returned since. It’s two years now since my cure, so I
know my health has been built, up for good—thanks alone
to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
Medical Advice given Free.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydneyy-N.fi. W. Get the Genuine, 2s. 9d. a box.
I
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bent, whom Victoria has for its sins as a
Premier, has a brother, John Bent, who is Mayor
of Hay (N.S.W.).
The German Kaiser, long time the most-
talked-of person in Europe, is now the subject of
an ominous silence. Cancer ?
Of the descendants of late Justice Win-
deyer there are practising the law in N.S.W.
three as solicitors and one as a barrister.
Devon and Exeter Gazette (Eng.), Dec.
18, remarks that Lord Northeote is well fitted by
his knowledge and tact “to deal with the Labor
Party ! ”
The late Dean Cow per was a Sydney
native, yet, from force of habit, the Cathedral
chapter sent to England for a tablet to be erected
in St. Andrew’s to bis memory.
The Owe’Sullivau lias publicly denied that
he aspires to the presidency of the Water and
Sewerage Board. He will, he says, stick to politics
as long as politics stick to him.
Several of G. H. Reid’s followers describe
his influence over them as like that of an elderly
female relative. In the old days Dibbs dubbed
the monocled fat man “Charley’s Aunt.”
Names of those who subscribe to the
Irvine testimonial fund are to be kept secret. Is
it that Mr. Irvine is ashamed of his benefactors,
or are subscribers ashamed of their benefactions ?
Latest about our brown friend, Johore of
the glaring teeth, is that he will settle down in
England : it seems to be certain that his
“dominions” are to be formally annexed by
Britain.
Poor old Graham Berry left but £460 for
his widow. It is not too late for the Victorian
Parliament to make some provision for her now,
but with Thomas Bent as Premier such a thing is
not likely to be even thought of.
Archbishop Smith (Sydney) has evidently
been studying Mr. John Snorting’s style. His
Grease advertises a Special Series of Lenten dis-
courses on “Sin, its Reality, its Remedy; its
Resistance and its Relinquishment.”
J. E. Mackey, who gets a place in the Vic.
Bent Government as an hon. Minister, is a bar-
rister. He started life as a compositor, and is
reckoned the most saturated Herbert Spencerian
in Victoria. Also he began political life as a
Libera] and land-taxer, and threatens to become a
land-tax hating Tory.
A wandering Australian brings back word
that Ernest Govett, who drudged for years as
sub-editor of Adelaide Advertiser, next part-
owned and edited the defunct Silver Age at
Broken Hill, and afterwards went in for more
profitable mine-promoting and directing, has set
up now in one of the finest villas in Florence, Italy,
and as an art collector has developed a remarkable
nose for bargains,
THE FIRM MAN’S RETREAT.
“Mr. Irvine has arranged to leave for a trip to England
for the benefit of his health.”— Daily Paper.
IRVINE: “Strikes me this is a good place to get
out of.”
BENT: " D-! who’s afraid! ”
Eady, the tall Tasmanian cricketer, has
the strange distinction of being brother-in-law to
his own father-in-law. He married the daughter
of the handsome middle-aged Hobartian who took
his (Eady’s) sister for his third wife.
Recently deceased veteran Victorian jour-
nalist Reuben Quarril was, as a boy, a very popu-
lar public soprano singer in Great Britain. He
served on the Melbourne press in the middle
sixties, and succeeded the late Graham Berry as
editor of Geelong Advertiser.
John Gavan Duffy, of Melbourne, has not
had a birthday for eight years, but he will this
month. J.G.D. was born in Dublin on February
29, 1844, the year in which his father (with Daniel
O’Connell and seven others) stood his trial for
some alleged political offence—lack of applause
for the viceroy at the Castle or something of the
sort.
Lord Monk Bretton (whose real name is
Dodson) has come to Australia for a week or two
“ to ascertain the public feeling in the Common-
wealth with regard to preferential trade.” The
man who thinks he can gather the opinions of
4,000,000 people scattered over 4,000,000 square
miles, in a week or two, must imagine himself a
dredge or an octopus.
An American description of Elijah Dowie :
“A short, grandmotherly tub of a man, with the
shoulders of a piano-mover, the corporation of a
London alderman, the legs of a jockey, the head
of a philosopher, the accent of a scholar, the
authority of a general, and the emotional versa-
tility of an actor, with a facility of shedding tears
that Clara Morris might have envied.”
Died at Brisbane, Walter Hill, botanist
and ex-curator of the Botanic Gardens there.
Hill, many years back, introduced the dreaded
si do retusa into Queensland in the hope of found-
ing a gigantic hemp industry. The project failed,
although there seems to be no reason why it should
have done so—experiments in the direction of
starting the industry on a commercial basis were
made quite lately up Mackay way. The weed is
now one of the scourges of the man on the land
up North. Hill died in the firm belief that, given
the capital, there was a big fortune in his idea.
THAT CORDIAL RECEPTION.
“I would he an ingrate indeed if I had already forgotten the cordiality of my reception on reaching your
shores.”— Gov.-General Northeote in a recent little speech.
Well, it’s some comfort to know that His Excellency is easily pleased.
Iceberg Irvine gets out of the indecency
of accepting a monetary reward from his Tory
friends of Flinders-lane and Queen-street by
allowing his wife to take the money. A big effort
is being made to raise the sum to £2OOO. Irvine
declines to say whether or not he is going to con-
test a seat in the new Parliament. As he has
booked his passage to England and intends to be
absent for six months, the chances are that poor
Victoria will have to rub along somehow ©r other
without its great, strong, cool man.
Dowie was badly “stage-managed’* in
Sydney. He was not strong enough to appear as
a star on “ bare boards, ” and there should have
been some pageant or some stirring music to lift
the show along. The addresses or discourses
should have been written for the maudlin old
man, and he should have been taught a few tricks
in stage deportment. The worst blunder of all
was to allow John Alexander to “go on” in
evening dress. In his robes he passed as a pro-
phet of some sort, but in evening dress he looked
like a combination caricature of Dan O’Connor
and Paul Kruger.
“War-E.”: T’other day ran against a
very serious Parliamentary candidate in a River-
ina town. He assails
‘ every cockie that comes
in with “Do youowe any-
thing for seed wheat ? ”
&c. When the cockie
says “ Yes,” out comes a
notebook, and full par-
ticulars are demanded.
“ Kidd and me are great
friends, an’ he’ll do any-
thing for me,” he assures
his victim. Blocked him
in the street, but he
brushed me aside —he
had an important depu-
tation on hind. Later,
saw him outside a pub.
wildly gesticulating to
three swaggies. Then he
fled to collar a cockie and
ask him if he owed any-
thing for seed wheat,
and one of the swaggies
threw a curse afttr him,
“Been listenin’ to his
skite for ’arf-an-hour,” he said, “an’ he never
asks if a cove has a mouth on him.”
Another case of the creaking door hanging
long. The valetudinarian ex-Judge Bundey is
now the sole survivor of Blyth’s “ Progressive ”
S.A. Ministry of 73-5. Blyth, Mann, Glyde,
Hawker, Everard, and Bray passed out years ago ;
Bright, the Works Minister, has just gone;
Bundey, the man who was always sick, remains—
with fewer enemies and more friends, perhaps,
than any other South Australian.
“A.M.”: The vehement temper of a
certain much-advertised preacher is not a recent
development. People who knew him in the long
ago tell a story of how he once invited a fellow
parson to dine with him, in order to discuss a new
paper which he intended to start. Their opinions
on the editing differed, and a heated argument
ensued, which ended in the reverend host hurling
a dinner plate at his visitor’s head.
A political career in Australia does not
seem to be a particularly healthy one. In
Victoria just now two members of the Ministry
have retired for more or less genuine health
reasons; in N.S.W. two members of the See
Ministry are said to be on the point of giving up
politics by medical orders ; and what a number of
M’s.P. one sees sadly sipping milk and repentance
water at lunch !
Tam See, a leading Chinese merchant of
Gerald ton (Q.), offered the other day to indenture
1000 laborers (Chinese) from the Northern Terri-
tory to take the place of Kanakas in the canefields
as the Polynesians disappear by deportation.
Tam See was one of those Northern Chows who
once sent in a petition to Premier Philp asserting
the Chinese were “the backbone of Cairns.”
For years the late William Hart, of the
Tasmanian House of Dodery, enjoyed the rare
distinction and profit of being chairman of
directors of the State’s three greatest mines, of
tin, silver, and gold—the Bischoff, Western, and
Tasmanian. But he missed the Lyell boom,
though there wasn’t much else going in the Speck’s
financial way that he didn’t have a finger in.
Jack Maslin, one time partner with Barr
Smith at Hummocks (S. A.), is said to have passed
practically all his cash over to his
sons, and kept only £50,000 for
himself. Even £50,000 is too much
for simple Jack Maslin, who talks
broad Cousin Jack, and walks
round with his hands in his pockets
like Dan Moran in “Robbery
Under Arms.” In cold weather
he wears three coats of varying
newness—worst out and best in-
side. Used to, feel flabbergasted
when he came to town to see Barr
Smith, whom he regarded as
“flash.” He knows everyone in
the districts where he made his
money, and everyone knows him,
and he is probably treated more
familiarly than any other man of
his wealth in existence.
Melbourne suburbs boast of
“councillors” named Coon, A.
Voice and Bluefitt. Councillor
A. Voice, by the way, is not the person who
makes so many interjections at public meetings.
Dr. R. M. Sly, of Sydney, a man of very
few inches, has just “taken silk,’’and ranks as
K.C. next after Mr. John Armstrong, commonly
known as “Jumbo” and sometimes as “The
Elephant.” The position has some elements of
safety about it. If the newest K.C. had ranked
immediately before “Jumbo” that personage
might have stepped on him unconsciously. Now
he is quite safe, unless “Jumbo” sits down sud-
denly.
Melb. Argus has suddenly found out that
business at the Law Courts is in a dreadfully
congested condition. The pressure is due, as a
matter of fact, to the unusual coincidence of
several long cases. The Argus, however, paints
the congestion as chronic, and alleges that there
is an obvious remedy. The old lady then points
a bony finger at Irvine, who, the Tories reckon,
deserves some reward for his reactionary efforts.
An English magazine points out that three
Premiers of New South Wales were poets—Henry
Parlies, William Forster, and W. C. Wentworth.
The date when Wentworth was Premier of N.S.W.
has not yet been fixed.
Canon Smith, whose widow died last week
at Petersham (N.S.W.), was incumbent at St.
Barnabas’, George-street, Sydney (the ancient-
looking building between two undertakers’ shops),
and built at least a portion of the structure by a
racing gamble. The Canon was an even more
inveterate beggar than the average for “ my poor
church.” One day, meeting Governor Hercules
Robinson, he pleaded for his partially built struc-
ture, alluding to the then rumor that the Governor
had pltmged on a coming event. “It is true,”
said the Governor, “ I’ve backed the double at
Raudwick, and if I win you'll have 5 per cent, of
the pot for your church, and God bless you!”
“ Amen ! ” cried the Canon. The Governor won,
and the ill-gotten money is invested in St. Bar-
nabas’.
The shockingly wasted figure of C. D.
O’Halloran passed out of Melbourne life last week
after a three years struggle with Bright’s disease.
In his jolly-and-fat days O’Halloran owned race-
horses, and was thought to pull a good many
strings at Caulfield and the minor Melbourne
meetings. He was a steward of the V.A.T.C.
when he sued H. H. Champion for libelling him
in the Champion newspaper. Plaintiff scored a
record in criminal proceedings for libel. He
prosecuted his suit until Champion’s allegations
of dishonesty had been widely advertised and in-
directly proved, and then he (O H.) backed out of
the mess, claiming that his honor was fully vindi-
cated. O’Halloran belonged to the hearty, happy,
popular class of “sports” who persuade them-
selves that roguery is “ tactics ” and straight
dealing impossible on the turf. Such men
as he are the deadly enemies of straight dealing.
With their jovial remarks and genial winks they
demoralise their more honest-minded associates.
About a recently dead R.C. bishop :
Xmas Day of ’B4, accompanied a friend at Arniidale to
11 o’clock Mass in the K.C. church. Just at a moment
when all heads were bowed a man, wearing a long over-
coat and holding a bunch of greenery in his hand, walked
up the aisle of the cathedral and opened the gates of the
sanctuary. The bishop was kneeling at the foot of the
altar, his back to the people, and knew nothing of the
man’s approach. A young girl in the front pew was the
first to detect the reason for the coat, so remarkable that
warm day. Through a rent in the side she perceived a
big cavalry sword, sharpened back and front, the hilt of
which the man held in his covered hand with the bunch
of leaves. A scream escaped her. The man walked
quickly to the sanctuary, and, flourishing the weapon
about his head, struck the bishop with the flat, and loudly
demanded the key of heaven. The congregation rose in
confusion with hoarse shoutings of the men, and
piercing shrieks of the women. Dozens of men leaped
the sanctuary rails and made for the assassin, pluckily
enough, for he confronted them with a revolver in his
left hand and was fiercely waving the sword with his
right. He then fired point blank at the bishop, the bullet
going through his vestments. Then he made a grand
defence with his sword, retreating to the sacristy before
he was pinioned. A good deal of blood was shed.
The comic element was not wanting from the scene
A big Irish woman, Julia by name, heaped a storm of
invective upon the pinioned man, belaboring him with
her gingham, and hitting with equal fervor at the police-
men who sought to prevent her. The bishop resumed
the service without a word.
THIS TWENTIETH CENTURY.
“And how do you account for being in this
terrible condition? ”
"If—if—if you please, your Honor, I have been
merely attending a religious meeting .”
More Smith literature :
Died recently, in a Sydney suburb, Mrs. M. S. Smith,
aged 75 years. The deceased was the widow of Canon
Smith, of All Saints’ Cathedral, Bathurst, a church that
somehow has always been quarrelling with its Bishop.
Canon Smith used to admit that his early life in London,
where it is said he kept an East-end pub., was of a
particularly “ rorty ” character. He came to Sydney in
1857, and was ordained in 1858 for “ Blackwattle Swamp ”
parish, a neighborhood that smelt strongly in every
sense. He built St. Barnabas’ church and schools. In
1873 he went, to Bathurst but failed, after many efforts,
to agree with Bishop Marsden. Then he retirad from
church work and lived at Manly for some years. Dr.
Marriott succeeded him, and his quarrels with Bishop
Camidge are public property. Apparently the microbe
of dissension and cantankerousness was buried in the
foundations of the old Bathurst church.


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season
The innumerable visitors who have staved at
“ The Australia ” during Summer months, have
nothing but praise for this famous Hotel.
Ladies with families obtain every comfort and
attention at a very reasonable cost. The rooms,
furniture and appointments of “ The Australia”
are unsurpassable. The general coolness and
airiness of the building are remarked by every-
one.
Th« winter garden is very popular with guests
and their friends.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Wavei’ley Brewery, Agents.
g
MARjOY 8k O TM€RS.
GEM MERCHANTS, JEWELLERS.
ARTISTIC SILVER FOR THE TABLE
Pierced, Chased and Embossed SWEET DISHES, from 9s. to £5 each.
Cases containing 2,3, 4, and 5 SILVER DISHES, from 425. to £3O.
Write for
HARDY
BROTHERS’
Large 1904 C
CATALOGUE,
containing over
1000 Illustrations.
Solid Bilver Sweet Dish, 58/-
Selections of
Goods sent on
appproval to any
State in the
Commonwealth
without trouble
to customers.
HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY,&ATBRISBANESLONDON
Aboriginalities.
During a bush fire in Bingara (N.S.W.)
district, the other day, Bangheet station hayshed
caught alight, and when men reached thescene it
was found impossible to get near enough to
release two sheep dogs that were tied up there.
It was decided to shoot them to prevent them
being burnt alive. One was shot dead, but the
bullet intended for the other just grazed its face,
severed the collar, and thus released the animal.
Many clever things are done by accident ; and
probably in his old age the man who fired that
shot will contribute to the world’s miseries by
telling the “boys ’’ how he intentionally saved his
pup’s life, and by lamenting that the good old
days, when a man who could shoot through his
dog s collar at 100 yards was quite an ordinary
thing, are gone for ever.
CURIOUS EFFECT OF A CYCLONE
UP NORTH.
“Ku Klux”: Regarding artists. Have
seen one drawing in an English magazine where
a milking-shed was portrayed and every milker
sat on the wrong side of the cow. I have in my
possession a first copy of the Commonwealth
Annual. An illustration of one of Will Ogilvie’s
poems depicts a young girl resting against a three-
rail fence with the left elbow on one post and the
right hand on another. What length rails in that
fence ?
* * * *
V Ed.” : Three miles out of Moe (Vic.) is
a hill over which winds the road to Morwell. The
hill, a stringy-bark ridge, is called “haunted.”
No animals or birds are ever found on it; cattle
camped in the vicinity invariably break away and
horses are always uneasy in the vicinity. A dull
rumbling is often heard on calm nights. The
rumbling is presumably the ghosts. I never met
a ghost that didn’t rumble.
“Vinco ” : The kooka-
burra (laughing jackass) is
almost extinct in Central
Queensland. During
the drought thousands
were mercilessly killed
by mutton birds, which,
as soon as they sighted
a jackass, flew round
it in a swarm and
pecked it to death in
mid-air. I havenoticed
that even the distant
laugh of the bird at-
tracts the muttoners,
and they fly off
speedily to put it to
death. Directly the
kookaburra falls the
flock leave it and
hasten after its mate,
for the jackasses gener-
ally fly in pairs. I have
seen 500 mutton birds
shot in one day at M‘Gee’s
cornfield near Yeppoon, and
during the season mutton
birds may be seen hanging
dead for miles along the wire
fences of Perron’s orchard,
M‘Gee s selection, and Adelaide
Park station. When the starving sheep
were on the coast, one no sooner
stumbled than his eyes were picked
out with lightning swiftness by the
mutton birds. The mutton bird is
black and vvhite—more black than
white—and is well known to all bush-
nien. It is altogether different from
the magpie or the butcher bird, though T
have often heard people say they are identical.
“ Snell ” : Be the sheep-like nature of the
sheep, I am reminded of an exhibition of cussed-
ness made by a flock in
Sturt-street, Ballarat,
in the days of my early
youth. The mob was
being driven towards
the east, and at one
point spread upon the
path. There a pugi-
listic ewe suddenly be-
trayed a dangerous re-
sentment towards her
reflection in the win-
dow of a large pastry-
cookery, and, backing
off to get impetus, she
led with her left, and
went straight through
the plate glass and in
amongst the buns. The
second ewe had no in-
terest in the quarrel,
but having every con-
fidence in the other she
followed suit, ditto the
third. And now the
whole idiotic flock be-
came possessed of an
inexplicable craving to butt and flounder
through the ruins of the pastrycook’s win-
dow, mingle with his perishable stock, and
join the flock rapidly accumulating in the
shop. Sheep poured into the establishment, and
made a holy mess of fragile fittings, and trod
pounds’ worth of buns, tarts, seed cake, jellies and
etceteras into apfcfmrny mass on the floor. The
invasion only ceased when the place was jamb full
of sheep, and placid ewes stood two deep all over
the shop, and the drovers who went to rescue their
mutton found the proprietor, a German, tree’d on
his counter, tearing his scant hair.
* * * sjj
A mob of 14,000 wethers, from Manuka
(Q.), have just been delivered at Killar-
ney Station, Narrabri (N.S.W.), by drover
Harrison, without the loss of a single head. The
trip of 900 miles occupied six months, an average
of 6| miles a day (half-mile over the regulation).
Harrison had with him six shepherds, and though
many difficulties were met with in the early
stages, such as want of water, prevalence of burrs,
long grass, scrub, and grass seeds, the mob was
delivered in the “best order and condition.”
How is that for a record clean trip ?
* « * *
“Jim Pan”: There is going to be real
trouble yet over the friction between the rival
Afghan camps at Broken Hill. Three camels
belonging to a team bound for Queensland were
recently shot when about five miles out of Broken
Hill. This is supposed to be a sequel to the feud
which now exists between the camps. The pity
is that the whole beastly batch of Afghans and
other aliens (O ! the admirable Asiatic !) cannot
be deported to take part in the Rus-Jap war
This country has no room for Ghunny Bhag
Abdul Soojee, Ram Jam Singh and co.
* * * *
At the Vic. Government’s experimental
tobacco-farm, Hedi, where, so far, little progress
has been noted, an attempt is being made to raise
a few sample-plants for cigar leaf. The plots
include Comstock Spanish, Sumatra, and Con-
necticut Seed Leaf, which are grown under cheese-
cloth, and are at a serious disadvantage in being
grown in heavy soil. The result of this experi-
ment (under the supervision of the locally-raised
expert, Temple Smith) is being watched for with
interest by “ weed ’’-growers throughout the State
* * * .
“ Nymsie ” : Can any Bulletin reader say
when the first Chinaman landed in Australia, or
if that is too large an order, in N.S.W. or Vic. ?
An old Eureka Stockader tells me that in ’55, a
year after the riots, he was sinking a shaft’at
Ballarat when he broke into a drive where there
were six dead Chinamen, laid away in their clothes
between sheets of bark, and quite fresh by reason
of the current of cool air passing from one old
drive to another .*
AT SOUTHAMPTON (ENG.).
"Aw-any shooting in thar beastly cawlomes?
Did you — er—bag any deer?”
"No, deah boy. Only went shooting once, and
then had the beastly bad luck to wing one of
the cookies. Only wounded him, doncherknow.”
“ What a beastly pity. So you didn’t— aw—get
his antlers? ”
“ S.B. ’ : In this part (Swamp Oak, Tam-
worth district), caterpillars are killing the forest
before them. There are millions of them, and I
know they are at least 12 miles N. by S. and six
miles E. by W., and goodness knows how much
farther either way. They have a decided prefer-
ence for stringybark ; then peppermint and apple
trees ; then gum. They seem to fight shy of iron-
bark, nor do they appear to relish too well white
box. Old bush hands have never seen them
before. A few years ago the large, long ladybirds
went along in millions and killed thousands of
acres of timber along Nowendoc. They were
named Laurie's ringbarkers, as they killed an
immense tract of timber ou Laurie’s Nowendoc
Station.
# * * *
“Ne’er-do-Weel ” writes :
Re “ Alba’s ” picturesque fiction (B. 23/7/’O3). Bid not
know that Hindus can die to order, but I do know' that
West Indian blacks can. Have seen a strapping young
fellow, apparently in the best of health, suddenly de-
termine to give up the ghost and announce that he is
about to do go, because some infernal old scallywag of a
West African has stuck a broken ginger-beer bottle with
a few mangy feathers in it and some fragments of
crockeiy on his bed. He has “put fetish ”on the man
about to die, who will thereupon go to the hospital and
be refused admittance as being perfeetlv sound. The man
will, however, commence to fall away then and there, and
will return to the hospital daily until admitted, and
will actually die in an incredibly short space of time. A
post-mortem will reveal no diseased organs—nothing, in
fact, to cause death. I have asked such a one why
he did not consult an Obi man and have the fetish re-
moved or counteracted, but have always been told it was
impossible,—Obi man not strong enough for West African
fetish. We used to think the Obi men and the West
Coast operators worked together. Besides, most Obi
men were West Africans. The mortality in the West
India regiments in the old days was so great from this
cause that recruiting on the West Coast of Africa was
stopped years ago. “Starlight,” if he’s knocking about
Sydney, could tell all about it (if he wonld)-he was a
corporal one time in the Ist. West India Regiment.
* * * *
“Pyalla”: This is from Sydney Tele-
graph of 16/2/’O4: —
Yesterday, at Dry Creek, near Merrendee, a woman was
cooking at an open fire, when a spark ignited her dress.
She rushed into the tent, which caught fire, and set the
grass alight. The flames spread with great rapidity, and
were not mastered till five square miles on the Burren-
dOng and adjoining holdings were burnt out.
In its grief about the burnt grass the paper forgets
to even mention whether the woman was burnt to
death or not. Cows eat grass, and they don’t, as
a rule, eat women, and the loss of valuable cow-
sustenance blots out everything else.
“ Periwinkle ” : The average mission-bred
aborigine—half-caste or full-blood—seems to know
just as little about the bunyip as his superstitious
forefathers. Was on the Murray last season
moving my sot-lines, as a freshet was coming
down stream, and had a black from the
local mission station giving me a hand. We
were just finishing when we heard some-
thing snorting and groaning up the
stream. Suddenly a black object
appeared in the current round the
bend. My pal didn’t wait to pull
ashore. With one yell—“the
Bunyip ! ” —he sprang overboard,
and breasted the flood to the oppo-
site (N.S.W.) side, and made a
beeline for the source of religious
consolation. Pulled to my side, a
bit nervous, and got back to my
tent to call my white mate, who
was cooking. Cautiously we recon-
noitred, and found the bunyip afore-
said was a prime fat sow. We lent
her a hand to get ashore, and had splen-
did smoke-cured bacon till a week ago. We
watch every flood now for another bunyip.
* * * *
“ Vigilans ” writes :
The Orow-eaters are making a great noise just now over
an insignificant little place called Esperance, on the S.E.
coast of Westralia. “We will not sanction the transcon-
tinental railway,” they say, “ unless a line is run from
Esperance to the goldfieids.” A more dismal, God-for-
gotten place it would be difficult to find in a God-forsaken
land—a sand patch that wouldn’t raise a potato, situated
on a desolate coast without one redeeming feature. One
marvels how the inhabitants live. There are four
“ hotels ” there, three of which pay no rent. Four stores
are still in existence. A butcher tries to sell mutton at
Is. 4d. per lb., and a baker disposes of a 21b. loaf at sd.
Most of the buildings are untenanted, and the only people
who know the feel of coin are the Afghan camel-drivers
about the place. Perth land-sharks are endeavoring to
boom the patch, and ridiculous advertisements are to be
seen in the papers concerning the land. Why, the
nearest land suitable for any kind of cultivation is a mere
flat of a few acres owned by a sheep man 50 miles west,
and another strip on the Thomas River (called a river bv
courtesy) 80 miles east. “The railway must come,” a
sleepy citizen remarks whenever you meet one ; but they
have as much chance of getting one as our old friend
Buckley. The name of Esperance is misapplied. There
is no hope !
* * * *
“Trotter”: The northern portion of
South Australia is mostly in a bad way. Draw a
line at the head of the Gulf across the continent,
and the country north is usually as dead
as Golgotha. Some of this country has been
given to cookies to try and raise wheat upon,
which for the past six years they have not been
able to do. The rainfall averages lOin. : the land
is covered with stones, and the cocky slings his
wheat about in a half-hearted fashion, and trusts
to Providence, and there is no Providence beyond
Quorn. The Government supplies seed at from
3s. to ss. a bushel to be thrown away in this
wilderness. lam going to write a book and call
it “Seed in Hell.”
* * .
The early extinction of the lyre-bird—the
most distinctive of Australia's feathered tribe
and its champion mimic—is threatened by the
devastations of foxes throughout the fern glades
of Gippsland. Any bird that doesn’t roost high
is liable to come, sooner or later, to Reynard’s
maw, and the lyre-bird, unfortunately, "doesn’t
roost at all. When a fox wants a meal, he has
only to go softly to a lyre-bird’s lair, and then the
prettiest tail feathers in the southern hemisphere
are mauled by a smellful red animal that is
neither useful nor ornamental.
MRS. ADA TOBELL, the first lady to receive
the degree of Licentiate of Dental Surgery in
Victoria. [Photo, by Talma.
Drivers of Western Queensland coaches
often execute peculiar commissions for residents
along their routes, and have extraordinary re
quests made to them. Recently a Jehu on one of
the lines that traverse the Never-Never was asked
by a rouseabout to delay until he had “tried on ”
a pair of pants (just received by parcels post).
The “trial”—made by the roadside —proved
satisfactory, and His Majesty’s mail resumed its
dignified progress.
A SPRING IN THE GRASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The squatters have flitted and fled,
They sing of their woes by the sea,
The ’hoppers have sprouted and spr ad,
They clamor tumultuously ;
In billion-battalions of glee
The flies of Beelzebub pass
And impress the great fact upon me—
Behold—there’s a Spring in the Grass !
The land that was land of the dead
Now beats in a new energy ;
A ripple is heard in the bed
That was dry as a desert could be;
The crow is a-perch on the tree,
And wailing in sorrow—” Alas !
The Drought is my festivitee —
But—mow there’s a Spring in the Grass ! ”
The ’hoppers they woo and they wed,
And the hawks pick them up as they flee ;
The swaggie he scratcheth his head
And he dreams of a dead-and-gone spree ;
Eternal the life that we see
Spring up from the soil that was brass,.
To the tune of a mad melodie—
Behold 1 There’s a Spring in the Grass 1
Envoi.
The tender bull-ants riot free,
And, fearing the bard and his gas,
They charge like a wild Cherokee—
And, Jo ! there’s a Spring in the Grass !
P.L.
A BATTLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Gaunt and wan, like a stricken gum,
With his “ blue}' ” at his head,
They found him lying by the track—
A recruit for the Dead !
The lamp of Life was flickering low,
And ’twas graft for him to talk—
“ Here, give my dog a lift! ” he growled,
“ Or I’ll stay till I can walk 1 ”
vic.
RITA SUNYASEE.


Dk. Thomas, Melbourne’s Leading Modern
American Dentist, 57 & 59 Swanston-street. Teeth treated
with as little pain, as much skill, for as little money, as
anywhere in the World. Wonderful Patent Suction keeps
Plates tight, resisting pressure 301 b., not known to any
any other dentist in Australia.*
(erebos
m
table salt
Salt is only a Seasoning,
CEREBOS SALT is a Splendid Food. Used
in the kitchen and at table, it gives
greater strength to the diet and builds up
the Constitution.
From Qrocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Mr. G. W. LORD, Silver Lake, Maine, writes :
“I have used Jayne’s Expectorant for twenty years,
and AM SURE THAT IT SAVED MY LIFE in one or
tvvo instances.”*
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Land Acts than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel,*
TROWELS-^
For the Laying of
Foundation Stones.
We make in Sydney.
We thus save buyers 27J per cent,
duty.
We make them with an exquisite
finish.
In Solid Silver, in Gold, in Electro.
They ranere from 21/- upwards.
Best Electro-plated, with Ivory Handle, 55/-
In Solid Silver, with Ivory Handle, in Case, £5 10s.
Then we make Solid Silver and Solid Gold BPIRIT LEVELS
for Presentation purposes.
PRES ENT ATION KEYS, also, in a large variety of designs.
Designs and Prices on application.
From Factory to Wearer direct —no intermediate profits.
h
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
Best Electro-plate, with Ebony Handle, 21/-
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Highfield Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
gh
'-^HOBART.
Newly erected ; Commodious;
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
A. COTTER, N. S. WALES' NEW-FOUND
BOWLER.
Photo, by Brand, Sydney.
“Prooshan ” : Our most truculent ants —
the bulldog and the “jumper”—cannot sting if
the breath is held while handling them. I was
with a bush party recently, camped for dinner in
the Bargo forest, where “jumpers”are as thick as
flies. My mates, however, wouldn’t try the ex-
periment, even after I had patted a “jumper
hole and laid my hand flat thereon for the excited
ants to work their will upon. But one mustn’t
speak while demonstrating. I had a bulldog ant
on my thumb one day, and, after teasing him and
proving his inability to sting, I was proceeding
to say—“ There, you see, he can’t do anything ” ;
when he instantly did something. I have tried
this plan successfully also with bees. [Without
offering any opinion on the main question,
Bulletin would suggest that if the experimenter
got a number of ants on him, and it took some
time to locate them and get them off,, and he held
his breath all the while, he might burst.]
* * * *
“ Werrimce " : “Pyalla” (B. 11,/2/’O4)
says: “ One of the possessions of swagmen that I
have never seen mentioned
is what they call the ‘ hipper.’
It is worn round the hips at
night, generally consists of a
marsupial fur or a stuffed
strip of bagging, and is a
great saver of the hip bone.”
I have never seen nor heard
of that kind of hipper, but
the bush is manifold and its
people various. A few men
are met with who carry their
hippers with them—a small
pad stuffed with horse-hair,
feathers, or wool. Some (bony
individuals) make a small
hollow in the ground for the
convenience of the hip bone;
but the majority of travellers
are content to gather a few
leaves or an armful of grass.
Examine camps along road-
side, and seven times out of
ten you will find grass or
leaves near the ash heap. At
shepherds’ huts, shearing
sheds and sheep-station
homesteads woolly sheepskins
are almost invariably used,
not only by callers, but by
the permanent hands, as mat-
tresses. I have seen men
going out to lamb-marking
yards, or to do a few days’
work somewhere on the run,
take half a cartload of sheep-
skins with them as part of
their bedding. Some men
object to them, saying that
the yolk absorbed from the
wool causes rheumatism.
Dunno! Used skins for
years; got no rheumatism yet.
Pommy J.P.” ; Lost my way once on a
WG j * n Bie Big Scrub between Twowharves
and Ballina, but about midnight I struck the hut
of a lonely cane-cockie. He gave me a good feed
—pumpkin-pie, roast corn-cobs, johnnie cakes,
®c., topped off with a swig of raw Richmond
River rum. “Now,” said my host, “ya gotter
s ! n g * song f’r ya blow-out and ya bunk.” “ Can’t
smg, I said. “Well, spin us a yarn.” “Don’t
knowany.” “Showus some card-tricks.” “Don’t
play cards.” “Whistle a tune, then.” “Can’t
whistle. ’ Then suddenly the cockie, a powerful
giant, fell on me, picked me up, threw me under
the table, dragged me round by my legs, bumped
me against the slabs, sat on me, thumped me all
° v « T r > al [d finally flung me far out into the night.
Now, he grunted, “ that’s a story ya can tell,
anyhow. Good night.”
When two men with turbans on meet
nowadays in far-back N.S. Wales, the proper
thing is to wait and see whether they will throw a
half-brick at one another or only a curse. About
half the times they will throw something; the
other half they will stop and arrange to throw the
brick at a third turban when they meet him. At
Broken Hill, which is the distributing centre for
the camel trains, and outside which they have
their homes, so far as they have any homes at all,
they are' divided into two main camps. One
camp, east of the town, is mostly the Abdul Wade
faction ; the other is the faction of Afghans who
have gone into the business more recently.
Things went all right while the drought was on
and they all had plenty of work to do at about
any price they liked to ask ; but now, when
drought is “off,” and the waggon teams
have a chance again, business isn’t brisk,
and prices have been cut, and the dark
shadow of the mortgage and the hill of sale has
spread itself over some of the camel trains.
As the bill of sale isn’t a bird with which
either the Afghan or the camel had any acquain-
tance in their native lair, there has been no end
of trouble. Few of the camel-trains are any
longer owned exclusively by the Afghan ; where
the big storekeepers dealing in station supplies
haven't had a cut-in, station men themselves have
got there, and the consequent mixture of European
and Asiatic methods of doing business has caused
an unholy commotion. Every time a bill of sale
or other disaster strikes a camp it blames the
other camp, just as Dill Maoky blames the Pope ;
and there have been more broken heads over the
business than have got into the papers.
METHOD IN HIS MADNESS.
JIM JAM (appealingly): “ A tanner fer the snake-
charmer, boss? ”
“ Nymsie ” : Very notable is the extra-
ordinary fecundity of the fresh-water mussel,
When hunting for fish bait I have cleaned out (as
I thought) a small shallow lagoon; but next
season have found the bivalves as plentiful and as
big as before. How is this?
THE NIGHT OWL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
It is the diners’ happy hour,
And round the glowin';; logs they sit ;
Each old rag tent, a fairy bower
Appears, by dancing firebeams lit.
The moon sails high, and sees, below,
In lazy mood, the diggers there.
With faces and with pipes aglow,
They’ve left their toil to shepherd Care.
While Russian Jack goes on to tell :
“ I catch the old dam horse, and so
I gallop it as fast as hell
From here right to the Overflow/'
And Posthole Jack, on mud-map, shows
A south-east track to Watty’s Hole.
Old Jimmy Lynn excited grows :
“ It’s due sou’-west—Odamitall! "
No man dared laugh at Scotty’s tale
When big fat Scotty swore ’twas true ;
But when he’d done, and silence fell,
They’d bless the owl that cried “ Coo-hoo ! ”
I camped last night beside the Are,
Where five long years ago they met
(What fate has fallen on Mac the Liar ?
And is the Riger living yetij,
A dead forgotten place it seemed :
Wild daisies in the ashes grew :
And as I lay, and, smoking, dreamed—
The night-owl sang his soft “ Coo-hoo ! "
D.B.G.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken o f
communications ins anciently stamped. Name and
address must an ear on It ■>. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by >ost or handed in ; and in
no case will Mi. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Outcast: Too crudely melodramatic, but you
have plenty of time to improve. ..Kismet: Common-
place theme and little skill Idlah: You lack the
deftness such a subject requires Rex: Neither up to
mark T.S.G.: Too prolix.... Wild O. : Themes well-
worn, and need much stronger treatment Job T. :
No; can’t say there’s any promise in it B.A.W. :
You haven’t improved it Myra: You’d do better
if you didn’t try to be funny. There is “ sand ” in
your stuff otherwise Bromine: Style too wobbly at
present Ada F. : Syntax bad and spelling worse,
and yet you want to “ make a mark right away.”
F.B.C. : Couldn’t use it in that form... .Quentin : Cer-
tainly not Bob G.: Send to Bulletin accountant
H. 8.8. : Declined, lie “Another’s”—why not propose
to the girl at once? P.A.D. : “Library Tactics ” pass
all human comprehension W.A.K. : You cast no new
light on war—only the usual moralising to the general
effect that a man with his head blown off isn’t much
use Marjorie Daw: Rather out of our line, but very
promising for a first attempt S.H.W. : Goes easily,
but has no other merit Siva : Too stodgy and matter-
of-fact Nothing original about it except the metre,
and that’s a paralyser Anna F. : Flippant and flimsy.
Alice J. : Good idea, too roughly handled.. ..Number
Nought: Too difficult to deal with Tarantula: Rather
weak presentation of a promising situation C.T.C. :
No ; don’t send us any more like that Berber :
Russian naval ensign is blue saltire (diagonal cross) on
white. The mercantile flag is a tricolor—white, blue,
and red, horizontally Saucy S.: A feeble hand, so far ;
but you have plenty of time before you B.F. : You
don’t give the title of it.... Aggie: Appeared in B.
4/2/’04.... Tom-tom : Don’t think there is an j literary
hope for y0u.... W.G.E. :We don’t acknowledge pars...
Sox: Your ideas of metre are very primitive A.W. :
Poem about a “ loathsome cur” who betrayed “Irene”
(the lady whose name rhymes with “ screen ”) declined...
Bill : Don’t be any deader than you can help Justice :
The essential difference is that we can’t prove the ordi-
nary parson (who only promises us Heaven) a fraud till
after we are dead. But the parson who promises to heal
by faith, and doesn’t, can be proved a fraud right here.
By the way, your figures regarding a certain Sydney
“ death-trap” are exaggerated, and you seem to forget
that the only institution which takes in dying children
wholesale, without question, can’t avoid having a high
death-rate. If it refused to take hopeless cases, and left
them outside to die on the grass, it could reduce its death-
rate by two-thirds ; as it is, it accepts everything that
other institutions have rejected Pyalla: Hardly up to
the interest-mark Wes Lee : Why should we “con-
sider you a humbug ” for asking a very natural question ?
Your treatment is not strong enough to carry a “ situa-
tion ” that has been often used before. The other items
we don’t remember Job T.: No merit but brevity
A.H.A. : No use to us. Try one of the “ daily ” weeklies.
... .S.T. : “ Empty Cradle ” correspondence too extensive
to publish ; on the whole, it remains to be proved that
“ the spread of socialism ” would find a remedy for the
decreasing birth-rate. France is one of the most social-
istic countries in the world, and its people are among the
least fruitful. Dwindling of birth-rate, too, separating
class from class, is far more noticeable among the well-to*
do than the poor Patria : Notion of restoring the
population rate by founding a human stud farm is not
practicable in the present state of public sentiment—
probably never will be. You diagnose the sources
of the trouble well enough John Carew : The
bird is dead ; slanderous statement as to its age
will, therefore, not be apologised for Cornstalk :
Good ideas, but not put succinctly enough
Alone : Is “St. Paul” original? Uloola : Auburn row
too small to shoot at Romulus: But The Bulletin
isn’t “a class or sectional paper.” Quaint R. : Satire
rather tame The Girl : They all, somehow or other,
fail J.A. (M.L.): Too long for the interest
Melita : Isn’t it rather confused—violets “nourished by
the salt sea-spray ” and so on? W.M.W. : “Frankin-
cense ” falls off at finish. “ The White Star ”is too red-
hot Swinburnian in places Ruddy : Ideas are good,
but verse slipshod.... Waler : There’s no explanation.
He did it from pure, cussedness or from ignorance
Lanky Bill : Your sentiments are all right, but
expression is wild and ragged.... Pluto : Please keep
stories of flatulence for home consumption
E.V.P. : Anecdote about Senator Stewart published in
Bulletin H.S.R. : Says nothing fresh.... San Remo:
Rather like building up a bogey so as to knock it down
E. : No room for your “ little rhyme ” Observer :
No sharpness in the stoneyou hurl at the House of Dodery.
.. Tom: So “ steep ” that it suggests swine rushing down...
Unsuitable: Bo’sun, M.D.P., Dorking, W.W., F. Mac.,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Scallywag: No good G.C.W. : Useless Brown:
Two poor jokes ; one old joke... .S.L. : Picture bad ; fowl
joke hopeless.... B. : “Eclipse” very badly drawn....
F. : Paul and the epistles is an old joke, and the alter-
ations haven’t improve lit... .G.A.: Remnant idea weak,
and the left eye of the right-hand girl looks like a hairy
tomato.... V. A.S. : Joke qualified for old age pension....
Skinner : Not much in it W.P.P. : Gags no good ; and
your Maori doesn’t look in the least like one H.T. :
None up to mark.... Hennessey : Wouldn’t reproduce.
Wouldn’t reproduce it even if it would reproduce
G. : One not quite good enough ; other dashed bad.
Brown: Very rough, and why is J. Want being
struck by lightning?... R.M.: “Stresses and Strains”
no interest.... J.F.D. : Will probably use one as sugges-
tion Donald : Two saints a very old Phil Mayism
Cabbage Tree Ned : Have alread.v'heard of three different
Neds, which somewhat spoils Ned as a matter of public
interest—W. O’B. : Four suggestions made a dead-heat
for the basket.... Yorke : May use as suggestion....
Will S. : One not new ; two not good Roma : All too
old or too weak Unsuitable: M. Francis, Gerald F.,
Lancewood L. Green : That he-goat sketch is a good
deal too “ amusing” for Bulletin.
CLARENCE WEBER, the young Victorian
strong man, who forms a bridge across two
chairs with an anvil resting on his chest,
whilst a blacksmith breaks a piece of cold
iron on the anvil.
Photo, by The Swiss Studios, Melbourne.
IF THE HIVES OF CHINA SWARM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
O ! ye nations of the White Man don’t be foolish any-
where
Now the Jap has got to death-holts with the large pale
Russian bear ;
'Tis the White against the Yellow, and the struggle will
be grim,
For the Bear is very powerful, and the Jap is very
“ slim.”
Keep your eye upon the combat, and your ammunition
dry,
And your cannon all in order, you may want them by-
and-bye
When the shells are flying wildly and the fight is pretty
warm,
And the issue complicated—if the hives of China swarm.
Let the pride of race determine where your sympathies
will go,
For you’ve nothing much in common with the Yellow
man, you know.
You may sell your Color now', but the reward that you
will get
Will fall in showers of curses on your hapless people yet.
And the little Jap is wily, and he isn’t good to trust
When he’s striking for more elbow-room to hustle for his
crust.
But he’ll hide his deepest purpose till the eager legion
form,
And he leads potential millions—if the hives of China
swarm.
They may rail}' to his banner and their ancient feuds
forget,
From the country of the Manchu to the steppes of old
Thibet;
For they loathe the foreign devils from the mushroom
nations white,
That have forced on them the reason and necessity to
fight;
That would desecrate their temples and would trample
on their dead,
And the customs that have flourished while ten thousand
years have fled.
Ay ! the Yellow men are brothers, true in blood as well
as form,
And they’ll take a lot of beating—if the hives of China
swarm.
And, inspired by all the glories and traditions of the
past,
They may leap to life and action now the die of W'ar is
cast,
By a common motive quickened, and by racial reasons
urged,
They may fight with old-time spirit till their Fatherland
is purged
Of the trash that roughly tramples on its idols and its
faith,
To replace them wdth a deity that’s but a misty w-raith.
O ! the world will stand in wonder at the bursting of the
storm,
And the crisis of its story—if the hives of China swarm.
VIC.
BEN SUN.


CRICKET— AND OTHER MATTERS OF NATIONAL IMPORTANCE.
This is N S. W. Pubih Wot k» C«»
rnittee. It is Discussing a Railway to-
Moon, or some such Likely
Project. Is it wasting time !
Not much ! You should
. the fees > draws
\ *
Tub
. TRY.~Bu't w.hy not "•nctmijae^uo
COMPULSORY ORIOidST:
“ The Mayor, of Perth (W.A.)
suggests that .the English cricket,
team may be compelled by a \
•Supreme Court mandatau* to fulfil
its engagement; to play at Perth.
— News, i'iin. * .
„ , s y |HO”


J\[q (lf)st ff) e fonrjnfon CV* berrov/ lov/er f* fe
V- n -«r e S+A'fe) i* unless f«"in,onm-fC issues *
ok Two **l*r,€nce
1° *V Arp-us /
g
t:- ; '■ ; ''■'" ; If 4 - :
02** ( W'&? b«f Vr. t+^‘* s '
il ' rt '“ rr ’ ,,tl
jfBF ®
hg
V/insxh Jourth
'fesf
ino
m
Vi, V j.S
H f L
I fit vle*^
ift
Vic j&cl7o^/
&Q<zpfiorjc\l
e3^rT
4*Kn %
lilOhs WO
in £l\
tfcf .Wijgrp
fiufr J will
fny Voice
i will you .
] Will
bfi
.’*
Mm 1 *) e*->ygVts p r<^.
m ?^w%
kj&ti Shortly Aj\\
1)61 \
in oltjCr v/orflls
■—We f| 170
, InvPeJiorr
j>ujMe«, '
profit
<s vrmtsxvprj
( dowhU, 7/|
"Kor ! y™
§o' .
dronK,
VICTORIAN POLITICS AND SUNDRIES.


A. SAUNDERS
m
A.. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 255,
80s, £2. £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
J. DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
jfiri*-class 4-Bottle CRUET. Silver-plated, £
Similar, 25a, 30s, 355.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE. Firt t-elass English Fancy Glass,
( pure Silver-plated frame, £2.
Single Pickle, 255.
kA tfita-itdezg.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock OAK E FO HKS, Pure Siloes -plated
on Hard White Metal, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d. A bargain.
JAMES DIXOIST and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
A, SMINDERS.
> LADIES’ COMPANION.” pure. Solid Silver
mouuted. 18s 6d ; smaller, 15s 6d.
A NICE PRESENT.
Si
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ New PURSE. REFERENCE, and
TICKET BOOK, 10s 6d, pure siher mounted,
laigesize, 12s 6d.
Our on Special Design.
SAUNDERS.
0102.—HOT WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Silver-plated oil White Metal,
Extra Chased, £2los.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
DIXOJM and SONS’ Eamous English Plate.
hg
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cu; s
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 21s. Other styles and pat-
terns, 255, 30s, 85s, £2, £2 10s.
‘iUituiuuiuuiuuUUlii
A. SAUNDERS.
White China, silver-mounted, 10s.
All pure Silver-plated, nicely chased and
engiaved, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Design, A 1 Quality, Silver-plated
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
DIXON and SONS’ Highest class plate.
9
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, square, pure
S lver electro-plated on White
'Metal, beautifully hand-chased,
255; similar, 21s.
Child s l’uie Silver-mounted
Nursery Rhyme CUP, 10s.
In case, with Pure Silver Spoon,
255.
fh
first-class dent’s
SHAVING
BRUSH, 5s 6d;
extra mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
FOR JEWELLERY, WATCHES, CLOCKS, OPTICAL GOODS, LEATHER
GOODS, AND SILVERPLATE OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
ummmmMfL*
A. SAUNDERS.
CARVERS, KNIFE, FORK, acid STEEL, Joseph Rodgers’ Slieftxeld make.
Will give every satisfaction, ‘2os. Other stvles, 3Cs, £2, £2
GUARANTEED SATISFACTORY.
In silk-lined case
10s,
Specially made by JAMES DIXON and SONS.
Famous English Silver-pitted 4 O’clock MEA bLtIS,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR DISPLAY SHOW ROOMS.
-
A. SAUNDERS.
FISH SERVER and FORK, in Silk-lined Case, ‘23s, 255, 30s, 35s to £2 10s.
An Acceptable and Useful Present.
Pnre PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s ; American Cold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2. Scientifically adjusted to suit you.
KSXS22U
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class English made. Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
CAKE, £3 3s.
Other styles, similar, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doub'c J AMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In single 15s 6d. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A SAUNDERS’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT OR CAKE STAND,
Silver-p’ated Stand, with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar stand, 27s 6d.
Mhotiiiij9nwp
A. SAUNDERS
FLOW K R STAND. Silver-
plated B i.se, Ss lid per pair.
Larger styles Its (id, 15s 6d,
‘2ls.
Cho re Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Crocodi e Leather
WALLET and PURSE.
Silver mounted, 5? !ii ;
with shield, 7s (id.
SPECIAL VALUE.
v
a*
A. SAUNDERS.
8124.—0ak BISCUIT, Silver-plated
Mounted, 2Qs ; Shield only, 15s ;
Fluted Rims, 25s ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Fancy
Coloured Glass, Pure Silver Plate
on hard White Metal base,
Frame and Shield, 15s.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, £2.
A SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, good effect,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3,
itm.
mm
fimt
SH
•t" :
11
A. SAUNTIEBS.
First-class Cabinet Striking CLOCK,
hours and lia.lt liouis, 15s, 15s 9d, 17s lid, 20s, 22s 6d, 25.1.
Other styles, 2os to £2 10s. Add 2s extra postage.
a
'MM
W
m
~ - •■. '.I - 1 aja&aSiap
A. SAUNDERS. , ,
First-class ENTREE DISHES, puie Silver on Hard Nickel,
£3. Will last a lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Sir
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, 25s
Other styles and Patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s,
£2 10s. ,
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ High-class English
plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
Salad 130WD, Ornamented China, with Servers, 30s.
Similar, 255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A SAUNDERS. „ ,
Pure Silve JAM SPOON, BUTTER KNIFE, and
BREAD FORK, in silk-lmed Case, 355.
Similar-, with Sifter instead of Bread Fork, 2os.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR ana CREAM, Pure Silver-plated on hart
White Metal, Gold-plated inside, with spoon, S.I as.
A. SAUNDEBS
Silver-plated CRUJiX,
specially made by
JAMES DIXON and SONS.
High-4b»s Quality, 21s*
A. SAUNDERS.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
809, Bifi 813, BSS, & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY, NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.


TIE COIIITHESTITE
QUEENSLAND,
the nearest portion of which is situated 20 miles from Esk,
On the UNFAILING FRESH WATERS of the Upper Brisbane River, within 56 miles in a direct
line from Brisbane, 90 miles by rail, or five and a-half hours’ train journey.
40,000
ACRES SUBDIVIDED INTO DAIRY FARMS
Of 100 to 3648 ACRES.
40,000
4
• • ..*•• v' „ v>;
; »•:*
8$
gesi
mzmd
Chinaman’s Flat Showing Washaway, with 30ft. of Rich Alluvial Soil.
.
Hk.
■
m
immmsk
mm
i {■■ \
mmMm®
.
SsT'i
.>T»
ssof.
m
W3mWm--%
S&M
? V-
tacerae F/sfe at the Junction of Wallaby Creek and the Brisbane River
-P OLINTON ESTATE the property of W. J. H. MOORE, Esq., M.L.A., lias for many years been known as the
B u Thf the Warmest Winter Country within a radius of several hundred mites from
ijiisuane. me i>r\,lks_DAJNx!i JllVliil nows right through the centre of the nronertv wlnVh lino n p
miles to each bank, or upwards of 36 miles in all. The Balance of the Estate Is watered bySeventeenVeekTwilh
frontages to same of over 111 miles.
The Terms are up to 20 years at 4* per cent. Inter®**
10 per cent. Deposit and no other payment for 2 years.
with Non-Forfeiture Clause.
Large Areas and Liberal Options. No Residential Restrictions.
NO FEES will be charged for Surveys.
“fe
*•>»
&
w*
Lucerne Flats at Jimmy’s Oully.
Looking Down the Main Reach of the Brisbane River.
The Sale by Auction will take place at the
Colinton Head Station on EASTER MONDAY, April 4
and following days, till Friday, Bth April, 1904, at Eleven o’clock elch day. ’
ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers,
Post Office Auction Mart, Queen Street, Brisbane. *


I
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue,.with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. GENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
SPECTACLES
SIB
—FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING ‘ PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A, BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
Before booking
passage, write
Gazette &Sailin
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
g
hgf
hfg
h
fgh
gfh
GO TO HEILL-
IGOIiANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Frctt Naorfin
j
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elssabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratit
COSTS YOU NOTHING.
Why will you suffer with biliousness, constipa-
tion, sour stomach, when you can be cured of these
ailments by taking Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets ? It costs you nothing to try them,
—simply write name and address on a postal card
and post to Chamberlain’s Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, who will post you a free
sample. The pleasant purgative effect experi-
enced by all who use Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets, and the healthy condition of body
and mind which they create, make one feel joy-
ful *
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO. :
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Its sanction of a Chinese-labor policy in
S’Africa seems to have about put the last nail into
the Balfour Government’s coffin in England. The
funeral may be any day now.
Ex-Premier Irvine gets £l5OO or so
because he is sick. The average Victorian gets
12 months in gaol for being sick, the hospitals
being always overcrowded.
Dear B.—Approaching visit of those Staf-
fordshire men to found works here is further
evidence, I presume, that, through Federal legis-
lation, Australia is going to pot!— B. Gosh.
Westralian Government, pushed on by the
Labor party, has in three years enacted Industrial
Arbitration, Electoral Reform, a Factories Act,
and a Workmen’s Compensation Act ; and Old
Age Pensions are in sight.
The Vie. Political Labor League nomi-
nates “Mr. Scott-Bennett, of Toorak,”as Labor
candidate for Ballarat West at the State election.
Isn’t there a Montmorency-Vavasour or a Tavis-
tock-Cholmondeley available ?
The success of Edward Terry for Ryde
(N.S.W.) State election caused much bitterness,
and it was proposed to celebrate the occasion.
The result is, three banquets are in prospect —one
to Terry, because he was successful; one to
Henley, because he might have been successful,
but wasn’t; and one to Thompson, who stood
down because the Deform Ass. didn’t select him.
Mr. H. Curry, Dubbo (N.S.W.) post-
master, received on November 2 last a Federal
memo, instructing him to exhibit the electoral
roll for 30 days and to return it on November 14.
Mr. Curry did his best, but is still troubled by
official explanations as to how he might have
done better. His, however, is only one of a
number of impossible orders, which should not be
repeated at future elections.
THE SOURCE OF OUR GREATNESS.
IMPORTER : “ Hi, where are you going?"
N.S.W.: “ I'm off to make some engines for my
railways.”
IMPORTER : “ Man, man, what are you thinking
of? Don’t you know you must borrow the
money and import the engines? ”
Of 57 members of N.S.W. Legislative
Council, 44 put in an appearance during last short
session. That represents the extreme effective
strength of the House. Within five years, if it
were allowed to dwindle naturally, the Council
could muster about 25 members. The difficulty
about letting the Upper House die out in this
fashion is that it would be a Chamber of toothless
imbecility in its closing years.
They've noticed in Maoriland that, whilst
the bulk of the people are misled into sympathi-
sing with Japan in the present war,
The policy of backing the white man has a few ad-
herents ; these are very staunch, and, curiously enough,
they are all of the stamp of the pro-Boer advocates of the
eariy part of the last war In fact, they are mostly the
same persons.
In short, the genuine Australian-thinking person
thinks Australia all the time.
Broken Hill, which, 12 months ago, went
back to some extent on Labor administration of
the municipality, and gave the anti-Labor party
just enough majority to elect as mayor one who
wasn’t a Labor alderman, has returned to its old
allegiance. The new mayor is an engine-driver
who, before getting into the council, drove the
local steam-roller. He has long been the sec. of
the local engine-drivers’ association.
Queensland Ministers are still digging up
reasons why that State couldn’t pay its way under
the guidance of Philp and his Ministry of “busi-
ness men. ’ As far back as 1895 a license fee of
£5 was imposed on Queensland winegrowers who
sold their own produce ; but it was never col-
lected. Curiously enough, one of Philp’s col-
leagues represented a wine-growing district. The
duty should, it is said, bring in ,£2500 a year.
Truly, times have changed. Premier
Seddon, of Maoriland, now denounces the British
Government for breach of faith with the Boer
remnant, “ those fine fighting men, who certainly
would not have surrendered as soon as they did
had they known that hordes of Chinese were to be
brought into the Transvaal under slavery con-
ditions.” And a loud voice in the audience pro-
posed that Maoriland should send an army to
rescue the Boers from British tyranny.
“ Polonius ” writes :
Re “ Wusslean ” (8., 11/2/’O4) and Bent’s locomotives on
the Deepdene (Vic.) line. This line is used only at one
end —the other end is a dead boom-relic, and rusts peace-
hilly in the vicinity of the lunatic asylum. As regards
the locomotives, “ Wusslean ” mentions one as an upright
donkey engine. If it is driven by one of Bent’s loyalists,
then the engine isn’t the worst part of the show ; it is
better to be an upright donkey than a crooked blackleg.
I believe the donkey engine alluded to was put on the
line to supply a job for a man of that class, who found the
ordinary loco, quite beyond him, and who had to drive
something as an excuse for his official existence. Another
of Thomas’s “loyalists,” I believe, gets (or got) engine-
driver’s wages for driving nails. He couldn’t even drive
an upright donkey engine, and he also had to drive
something.
There has not been a contested election
for the Tas. Leg. Council in Launceston for 18
years. A vacancy has just occurred by the death
of William Hart, and in May the immortal Adye
Douglas retires by effluxion of “time” —but what
has Adye to do with time? No by-election can
.be held within three months of an ordinary
election, so the two events will be held on the
same date. Then a candidate will have to say
which seat he will go for—Hart’s or Douglas’s;
but the law doesn’t say that he can’t go for both.
Douglas (he’s only 88. and no sign of old age
setting in yet) says he means to seek re-election.
Probably he and some other ancient will have a
walk over.
The Owe’Sullivan has been explaining to
the reporters how it is that the
N.S.W. Government is not re-
sponsible for the dismissal of
men from the Works De-
partinent. “You
see,” he says, “we
can’t get loans.
The money mar-
ket is depressed
owing to se' eral
causes. The
South African
war was one of
them ; and this
trouble in Asia
will also affect it.’
So, under Owe’-
Sullivanism, the
prosperity of N.S.
Wales hangs on to
the question whether
the King of Greece
remains on friendly
terms with the Grand
Llama of Thibet, and
Billjim’s dirt money
must remain unpaid
if the Emperor of the
Soudan is suspected
of evil thought towards
the Rooster of Mus-
cat. It is a fine
national policy, and
the keystone of the
Australian democratic
arch should be proud
of it.
Secretaries of
musical and ath-
letic associations,
and even of young-
sters’ debating
clubs, regularly re-
ceive letters from
N.S.W. members
of Parliament, enclosing a guinea, the donor
expressing admiration for the objects of the
association, and leaving himself at disposal for
an honorary office ; and yet the State voted to
abolish 35 of these affable gentlemen.
Melbourne Age on Premier Bent •
The failure of Mr. Irvine’s powers became visible long
before the close of last session, though he himself was
unaware of it, or perhaps sought to blind himself to the
unpleasant fact In Mr. Shiels the physical breakdown
was so complete that he remained at his post only in
defiance of his medical adviser. Of the other members of
the Cabinet holding seats in the Assembly, Mr. Bent was
the only one who had vigor enough to brush the flies
away from the departmental door-post.
In other words, the new Ministry consists of a
fly-whisk and some nonentities.
Another of Victoria’s “permanent and
reproductive ” works has gone more or less up
the spout. This is the Carrum swamp, whose
drainage and management is looked after by
an “ Irrigation ” Trust. Melbourne district has
had 10 inches of rain already this year, as a
consequence of which the Carrum swamp, mostly
settled by potato-growers, is now from a yard to
five feet under water, and the ruined market-
gardeners are appealing for help. Carrum land is
as rich as the Garden of Eden, but in a dry
summer the peaty soil itself is liable to catch fire,
while in a wet year it can only be reached in
boats.
THE DOG AND THE DUST CLOUD,
“Mr. G. H. Reid is spending an enjoyable holiday at Riama, on the south
coast of N.S.W. He makes excursions around the district in a motor car.
THE DRY DOG: “Great Jee-rusalem! This is the driest job I’ve
taken on yet.”
Just before the outbreak of the present
war Britain obliged Japan by buying, over the
head of Russia, from Chili the two warships Con-
stitucion and Libertad. Britain had declined at
first to buy them, but, when Russia came forward
with a cash offer, it outbid the Muscovite. There
is not much concealment about British help to
Japan, or French help to Russia, and it seems
more than probable that in the course of the war
some overt act on one side or another will change
more or less concealed sympathy into open
assistance.
“ Watcher ” writes :
“ Vic ” (8., 11/2/’O4) asks “ due credit for Tait, Hudson,
and Fitzpatrick at the Victorian railways.” By all
means ; but consider, also, their luck. Erratic weather
caused the most straggle some harvest on record ; and
when, despite that, a block did seem imminent, shipping
arrangements collapsed temporarily and gave the manage-
ment a respite. Moreover, the wheat, hasn’t all been
handled yet. At date of writing (15/2/’O4) the stripping
and winnowing isn’t finished, threshers aren’t available,
and acres of wheat sacks are stacked in station yards
here (N.-W. Vic.). Further, the wood traffic has been
entirely neglected, and complaints of late trains, slow
trains, and no trains are as rife as ever.
About the only practical thing that the
Treasurers’ Conference did was to come to an
agreement by which the various State Govern-
ments will be able to use one another’s London
balances in case of need, and thus save heavy
exchange. Under the new system a State, which
happens to be “in funds” in London, will allow
its balance to be used by another State needing
money in London just then, and the loan will be
squared in Australia. And the idea isn't worth
so much after all. It is a long time since any
State has had superfluous funds in London or any-
where else.
In its platform for the coming Victorian
elections the Kyabram crowd goes back on the
only plank that ever seemed to justify its exis-
tence. Formerly it was against borrowing;
now it advocates the “restriction of borrowing,
except for works of an undoubtedly reproductive
character, loan resumptions and necessary national
works.” In other words, there maybe unrestricted
borrowing for reproductive works, even if the
money costs 4 per cent, and the works are only
reproductive to the extent of 2 per cent., and for
“necessary national works ” which are not repro-
ductive. Then, it seems that, in addition, there
may be restricted borrowing for other works.
Good old comprehensive Kyabram !
Under Wentworth’s draft of a Federal
Constitution, 50 years ago, George Turner might
have had an easier job than under the present law
—and again he might not. The Federal income
in the Wentworth idea was to be derived, not
from imposts determined by the Federal Govern-
ment, but from a percentage on the revenues of
the States. The province of the Federation was
to be the making of laws, and the laws were to
cover tariffs, railways, lighthouses, and courts of
appeal; but the States were to collect the taxes
and pay over a percentage to the Federation —
provided the Federation could get it. Wentworth
was backed by Cowper, Martin, Macleay, Murray,
and others, but the scheme did not catch on, and
in a few years was forgotten.
It looks as if the Bear-and-Monkey war is
to be another disappointment to the naval expert
johnnie who is always planning the war of the
future. Ever since the battle-ship was in any-
thing like its present form he has been longing
for a real fair bluggy engagement between two
evenly-matched modern fleets. He does not
count the American-Spanish war because the
Spaniards were hopelessly overweighted. And
now there bas been a night rush, a surprise, a cat-
fight in the darkness, and one fleet is crippled
before there is time to strike a match to see if
there were any tactics at all. The nearest approach
to a lesson so far is that it is poor business to
build ironclads at £1,000,000 each only that they
may be obliterated in the dark by a little penny
torpedo boat.
S. M. Herald, in a doxology voice, refers
to Compulsory Arbitration :
Some protection against “ sweating ” there must be,
but amongst, ourselves that protection should be afforded
by the existence of a public opinion that makes for
justice. Legislation and labor artifices of all kinds far
oftener lag at the heels of such opinion than they act as
a lubricant to the wheels of progress.
“The existence of a public opinion that makes for
justice.” The Herald has been ostensibly
making public opinion since 1831, weekly, bi-
weekly, tri-weekly; and daily since 1840; but
protection against sweating did not appreciably
advance on that account And curiously enough,
when it was a question of giving the Herald 50
per cent, bonus by carrying it free through the
post at the taxpayer’s expense, the old paper
wanted concrete law sure enough. The idea of
trusting to that flabby, ineffectual thing called
public opinion where its own valued halfpenny
was at stake didn’t enter into its calculations.
A pugilist’s yarn-
told some months ago:
“Yes, I’m doing a quiet
bit of trainin’ for the elec-
tions. Out of form last time
when a candidate bloke
offered me a ‘ fiver ’ to keep
people from arsking ’im
nasty questions. If ’e didn’t
answer anybody straight
away, then I was to give
them the straight tip, with
just as much stoush as was
wanted. Got along all right,
flattened out four atdifferent
meetings, till the night be-
fore the election. Then a
bloke arsks ’im a nasty
question about a tart, and
I worked me way through
the crowd to be ready. The
boss kept on talkin’. I told
the bloke to pull off and
look up the girl’s address in
a directory, or something,
but 'e got nasty and roared
out ag’in. The boss looked
down to see what I was up
to, so I lashes out. I
missed ’im by about six
inches, and then ’e came at
me like a shower of tomb-
stones. I was fat, and ’e
buzzed round me like a mad ’ornet. At last ’e brought
me one on the jaw and flattened me. When I came
round ’e ’ad told that crowd such a tale about the boss
and that tart that the boss was pelted and ’owled at.
This time I’m going to be ready ; no more bloomin’
cyclone surprises for me.”
A memo, for Australia, which, with some
of the best iron ore and coal and plenty of idle
labor, still imports all its iron from the other side
of the globe :
In 1786 the Pennsylvania Legislature lent a certain Mr
Humphries the sum of £3OO to enable him to make steel
“as good as in England.” This was the beginning of the
steel and iron industry in the United States.
In 1902 the U.S. produced 17,821,000 tons of iron,
being 41 per cent, of all the world’s output, and
just over twice as much as Great Britain was-
credited with.
There is something of the thimble-rigger’s
taotics about the latest development in the Yic.
Bent Government. A sort of now-you-see-it-and-
now-you-don’t business. The Government had
no sooner been formed than it was broken up
again. Taverner was sent off to London, and
Sam Gillott was taken into the Ministry; he
takes the portfolio of Chief Secretary, Murray
being transplanted to the Lands. Gillott was
Attorney-General in the Peacock Cabinet. He
went into Opposition with Peacock when Irvine
came into power, but shamelessly deserted
his party at the next elections. Swinburne,
who takes up Shiels’s job at the Railways,
is a tall, thin Tory. Bent was Minister
for Railways a few days ago, but what Bent is
now people hardly know, except that he is still
Bent. This rushing round from portfolio to
portfolio and from job to job of Taverner, Gillott,.
Murray, Swinburne, and Bent is confusing. It
makes the Ministry look like a devil turning
somersaults in a dust-storm.
FAITH-HEALING ON A BUSINESS BASIS:
DISCIPLE OF DOWIE (to angry landlord who has
asked for three months’ rent): “ Your in-
sufficiency of Faith is dreadful. All you’ve
got to do is to believe that I have paid you,
and it will he just the same whether I hare
or not!"
Specimen of the political intelligence of
N.S.W. —from a speech by Mr. Andy Kelly,
M.L.A., on the unemployed :
Until the Government took steps to increase its
revenue, either by Treasury bills or additional taxation,
instead of there being a diminution of the number of the.
unemployed there would be an increase in their ranks.
“Thank Heaven, that is settled! ” Mica wber used'
to say when he gave a p.n. to settle a liability,,
and he has a worthy disciple in Mr. Kelly,
M.L.A., who regards borrowing by Treasury,
bills as “increasing the revenue.”


BUY A
Lipp
Piano
If you want the
Best German Piano
imported.
Lipp Pianos have
been sold in Aus-
tralia by us for over
35 years.
They are the most
Popular Pianos on
the market.
Thousands of Lipp
Pianos have been
sold and given un-
qualified satisfac-
tion.
Pure in tone, and
built to last a life-
time.
*
Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
*
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
Paling'*s,
338 George St.»
SYDNEY.
Bandsmen
*
PALING’S
can supply any instrument
required irom a
CORNET
Ill
a
i
to a DRUM
and all other Brass and
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues,
Post Free.
****
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Estey
Org'ans
AT...
Paling's.
We are Sole Agents
for these celebrated
Organs.
They are made in a
large variety of models,
ranging in price frorr
£9 to
You can buy them on
easy terms if you wish.
Every Estey Organ
we sell is fully guaran-
teed against bad work-
manship or defective
material.
Over a Quarter of
a Million Estey Organs
made and sold.
Catalogues Free.
Old Organs taken in
exchange.
Paling'*®,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY-
VITADATIO
AGAIN VICTORIOUS.
Hydatids Conquered.
Clear Spring Laundry, 107 Elgin-street,
Carlton, Victoria.
June Bth, 1903.
Dear Sir,—For the benefit of anyone suffering from
Hydatids, this is just to tell them of the wonderful
cure that VITADATIO has made in my case. Two
years and eight months ago I went to the South African
war, but after twelve months’ service I contracted
Enteric Fever, and before I was thoroughly well I was
sent to the field again, and at last had to return to
Australia feeling very bad indeed.
I saw Mr. S. Wood, of Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, and
he said to me, “ Come to my shop and I will give you a
bottle of VITADATIO, and if it does not cure you, you
need not pay me for it. Before I had finished the bottle
I felt a great relief of the pains in my side. I continued
taking the VITADATIO, and after the fourth bottle I
was one day taken very sick and vomited up a black jelly
substance full of Hydatids.
I am now in the best of health, and anyone who would
like to see me can learn what your medicine has done for
me.
I am
Yours faithfully,
K. FERGUSON.
I have much pleasure in certifying to the correctness
of the above Testimonial. It was through my recom-
mendation that' Mr. K. Ferguson took VITADATIO.
The result has been highly satisfactory, and he is now in
the best of health.
S. WOODS.
371 Brunswick-street, Fitzroy.
WHY HALT BETWEEN TWO OPINIONS
When the danger is in delay ?
To-day is yours, to-morrow they say never comes
Try VITADATIO to-day.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N.
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O'Connell street S dnm
Sole Agents N.S.W. ■ u t)l
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
CHRONIC CONSTIPATION CURED.
Fred Gillett, Esq., Tutor, Walgett, N.S.W.,
writes “ For years I had been a sufferer from
chronic constipation, due to my profession of
Tutor being a very sedentary occupation. The
ordinary aperient medicines I was using only
made matters worse. I sent for a free sample of
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets, and
the results were so satisfactory that I have since
used half a dozen bottles. The Tablets have
certainly done me a great deal of good, for when
I first began to use them I had to take four
tablets twice a week to produce the desired effect.
Have been gradually decreasing the dose, until
now two tablets a month keeps the bowels in good
order. I recommend Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets to all who suffer as I did.”
NOTE : —Anyone suffering from chronic con-
stipation, biliousness, sour stomach, etc., can have
a free sample of Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets sent, to them by sending name and address
on a post card to Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.*
This Elastic Truss
!j
i' ,1'
Elastic
T russ—
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
AVe make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
THE CALLAGHAN
SHOE
FOR
LADIES
Is Perfect in form and finish, and always gives
the greatest satisfaction in comfort and wear.
THE
COLLARETTE
GIVES
A VERY
NEAT
APPEARANCE.
■' V
Post Free
Duty Free
for
13/6
All over the States except W.A.,
12/11 a pair ; or, post and duty paid, 13/6 per pair. Fine GLACE
kid, patent toe caps, pointed, medium or broad toes, lace or button.
ALSO,
M m T° an Gla ° e Kid Oversbrap Shoes, pointed toe, 10/6, 13/9 a pair.
I The Summer Tan Shoe, Vici Kid, 12/9, 13/9 a pair.
Postage extra on either of these, 9d.
You can have a pair of these shoes sent to you.
You can closely examine them.
YOU CAN TRY THEM ON.
You can exchange them for others, or
You can have your money returned if not satisfied.
CALLAGrHAN & SON, 395 georce st„ Sydney.
“Argo”: What a foolish thing it is to
publish the Papal Coat of Arms—keys and all!
I have just been thinking that your corres-
pondent, “Burglar Bill,” will be making
duplicates of them. Trouble is likely to ensue
when, some morning, a few halos, harps, &c.,
are missing.
Died near Adelaide, H. E. Bright, one of
the quaintest old figures in former S. Australian
politics. He was a country butcher, and looked
and talked like it; but he cultivated polite
literature to some extent, and mingled
Shakspeare and sausages marvellously. “ Mr.
Speaker,” he would say, with his hands thrust
deep into his trousers pockets—“ Mr. Speaker,
I tell you what it is, the lily don’t want no
paint.” This would probably be apropos some
railway bill of which he had charge as Minister
for Works in the Blyth Cabinet—he was in that
office just when S. Australia had a bad fit of
railway building, now 30 years ago. For nearly
quarter of a century he was in politics, but
dropped out over 20 years ago. He knew the
Lower North better than most men, and in his
time did fine work for it and for Gawler, which
was his stronghold.
Rich Gas Co. director Swinburne and bar-
rister Mackey, selected by Bent to strengthen his
new Vie. Cabinet, have both been in politics
only about 18 months. They are the only new
politicians of any ability that the Kyabramapootra-
managed to hatch. The offer of salaried office to
Swinburne so shortly after he entered Parliament
almost, but not quite, beats the record—lawyer
Sam Gillott, the friend of Syme, crept into the
Turner Government as an honorary Minister 12
months after his first return to the Assembly, and
took Isaacs’ job as Attorney-General two or three
months later. If Swinburne manages to be a dead
failure in less time than Gillott did, he will be a
remarkable man.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Calling at Hobart. ♦ Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON U CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ■ £12,019 18 3
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head OffIoe—GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. ... .. 1,330,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. ». 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... .. .. 6,330,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milbon, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Cor respondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T-ie Bank allows interest on fixed .deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. , _ ... , ,
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by using
SBf
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DiBIUTIr,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps tor free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities m one, 30s. t reight extra,
Australasia— PERRY & CO,, 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; iV.S.IK.-Faulding & Co., 16 0 Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Shipping.
Kr. 3D. Li.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS' BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUNO, 3300 tons, 2nd MARCH.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY BERVICE.
SOPHOCLES
AUSTRALASIAN..
NINEVEH
H. A. Schleinan ..
A. Walker
A. Robb
Noon, Feb. 27
Noon, Mar. 8
Noon, Mar. 18
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 ..£l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Quean’s Mansions, 2 to 5 laiomfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
IPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
QCSIA.3NTIC STEAMSHIP CO MI 3F» A. 3NT Y.
A. AND aT LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, including: St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
dp
&
BILLS
discouhted.
KT.S/W.
Plant deplete fl.si |.Co.,|jtl
*74.
■ “
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLESGEAGH ST.,
EXI>2TiIY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
-Ttlß—s
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
flon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. ROBIRTB
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
€l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per oenfc. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amouu tof Capi lal payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The Rank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL • *:700,000
Capital Paid-up ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250.900 ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkkkh, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D'. Clvne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Faiilank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Karquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
fgf
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
&r BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MOANA, FEBRUARY 29.
The Most Popular Steamer on the
Pacific.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
MARCH 21, APRIL 16
The Route to St. Louis or to England
via St. Louis.
Full Particulars Furnished & Itineraries Prepared.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT HI). “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 175.997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,463
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Enwo. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REOENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BBOUOHITU
DIARRHCEA, tears
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€.
IHK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS jl
Sept. 26 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Culokodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.'’
Shipping. _____
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MMITRII).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S.Rockton, Friday, Feb. 26
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne).
■S.S. Yongala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, Feb. 27,
at 10 a.m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And PortsNorfch to Oalrna
S.S. Allinga, Feb. 26, 5 p.m.
S.S. Rock ton, Mar. 5, at Noon
S.S. Warrego, March 12,
at Noon.
nest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will bedisuatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India. Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAiSBR DE THUY, Principal AgenL_
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe V\% Canada
and the U.S. America, < r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
Cvs
iWj
i/jA
WA
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s. (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn's).
TOOTH-AGHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTEH’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches all Nerve
Pains removed by HUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no I h&ye
need it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORE DHL'S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache.
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kiduey Complaints, Ac.
Of al l b.oiiES.
“ Kodak ” gives a snapshot of an ocean
excursion party:
He was an undersized, red-faced man, and wore a
small boxer hat and a glazed eye. Obviously he had
been drinking. He roamed up and down the crowded
upper deck, towing a fat, stupid kid, and fell over
people’s feet. Then he went downstairs and fell over the
feet of the excursionists on the lower deck. Finally’ he
fell up against the temporary tea and coffee buffet. He
leant heavily on the counter, and leered at the girl
serving, and pointed to a plate of cake. “Got some
cake f’r a baby ?” he gurgled, confidentially. “ I suppose
so,” said the waitress in a crisp, business-like tone. She
seized a knife, slashed off a slice, put it on a plate and
passed it across. The fat man extended a grateful paw
and started to return thanks. The waitress snatched the
plate back. “It will cost you threepence,” she remarked,
briefly ; and put the cake out of his reach while she went
away to attend to two girls. The fat man seemed dazed
at her action. A look of sorrow crept into his eyes, and
he reached down and patted his corpulent infant’ sadly
on the head. “ Pore little kid,” he mumbled, huskily ;
“ they ain’t got any cake f’r a baby.” The kid, who up till
then had been contentedly licking a brass rod, gave one
upward glance at his father’s sorrowful face, and started to
snivel wretchedly under his hat. In another minute the
waitress darted back again, and the fat man stretched
across the counter and laid a fat hand on her arm. “ Ain’t
yergot some cake f’r ababy?” he asked again, imploringly.
“ Threepence apiece,” snapped the girl. “I told y’ou so
before.” The fat man started violently, as if someone
had thrown a loaf of bread at him, and gazed at her
distractedly. “ But it’s f’r a baby !” he protested. It’s
only f’r a baby." Then he seized the kid and lifted it
until its fat chin rested on the counter. “ There you
are ! ” he gasped, triumphantly, “ there’s th’ baby.” I
didn’t wait to see any more. The fun of the position
had reached its apex, and I feared an anti-climax.
There’s generally an anti-climax to a promising situation
like that.
A MODERN ANTHONY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Anthony Giles, from youth to manhood throve.
And found the life he lived as sweet as honey,
Although he never knew the pangs of love,
Nor yet the bitter sweets of matrimony.
’Tvvas not the lack of chances was to blame,
So do not either pity or deride him—
Indeed, he bore a most befitting name,
So very often had the ladies tried him.
And so Anthony stayed a celibate,
And gave in many eloquent discourses
The reasons why he shunned the married state,
And love and debt and babies and divorces.
But in the passing of the years, our friend
Took up the dice of Fate and threw the seven,
And waited with complacent mind the end
Which opened up the endless joys of Heaven.
He died—his shadow reached the pearly gate
Whose shining beauties promised something sweeter
Within. Just then he found he had to wait
And talk the matter over with St. Peter.
He looked around awhile, and then perceived
The keeper-saint on guard before the wicket,
And murmured out his thanks as he received,
And then prepared to read the proffered ticket.
“ Look here, good Saint!” cried Giles with rueful face
“This ticket’s for Gehenna that you’re giving.”
“That’s right, my friend,” said Peter, “that’s your
place ;
You had your share of Paradise whilst living.”
JASON.


I
in
Of;
ss=:!
'NATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE*-
THE ORIGINAL
' AND
GENUINE.
Nature’s Pleasant Laxa-
tive, is a perfect remedy
for Constipation, In-
digestion, Biliousness,
and all kindred ailments,
pleasant to the taste and
prompt, gentle, and
thorough in action.
Tne genuine bears the Name and Trade
Mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.,
82 Snow Hill, London, E.C., and is sold
in Australia in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
Australia: 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY.
hfg
ItHMGISmti
POISONS THE
■ BLOOD
as surely as a serpent’s bite. It
lessens brain power, lowers vi-
tality, produces languor, sleep-
lessness, headaches, nervous
depression, and is the cause of
nearly all our other ailments.
THE KEY TO HEALTH IS
good digestion, secured by tak-
ing thirty drops of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup daily, after meals.
“For years I suffered from
indigestion, with all its painful
and distressing symptoms, and
was also a martyr to habitual
constipation. Medical treat-
ment failed to afford me any
lasting benefit, but five bottles
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup re-
moved all traces of both
indigestion and constipation.
George Howitt, Church Street, ,
West Maitland, N.S.W.” I
EIGEL'S
THE HIGH>CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
NIGHT
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ lias
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
HAVE YOU TRIED
GOLDEN FRUTEX
—FOR—
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION,
BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE,
INSOMNIA, Etc.?
<v-;
/A'®
NATURES OWN REMEDY.
A TASTELESSiFAISLESS APERIENT.
[mj
F"
MADE FROM
FRESH WH
HERBS
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS.
It is a SURE REMEDY, and NEVER FAILS.
SVVEEX TABLETS made from Fruit Extracts and
Herbs, and contains no mineral poison.
I is SAFE. It is WHOLESOME. It. is HARMLESS,
and is THOROUGHLY RECOMMENDED by the
MEDICAL PROFESSION.
GOLDEN FRUTEX may be TAKEN BY ALL, from
the youngest to the oldest.
NO TROUBLE TO TAKE. TABLETS SIMPLY
EATEN
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents
Vl' TORlA— Rouke, Tompsht & Co. ;
Felton, Grlmwade & Co.
N.S. WALES— Fauldi.no & Co., 1G O’Connell St., Sydney,
S. AUSTRALIA— FauIding & Co., 54 King William St.,
Adelaide.
The Farmer Who Can’t Be Protected.
Sydnet Telegraph, booming again what it calls
the “foundational industries,” prints that in 1901
“Commonwealth manufactures were only worth
a little over £27,000,000, while the products of
other industries reached a value of £85,500,000.”
“Therefore,” saystheD.T., “ the public welfare is
conditioned not on the urban industries, on
whose behalf some politicians are always be-
seeching the community to tax itself, but on
the directly-producing industries which Pro-
tection cannot protect, but can only clog by
making the tools of production and the
food of the producers dearer.” Most of these
“foundational industries” are concerned in the
production of foods. The farmer’s and the
dairyman’s and the orchardist’s business is to sell
such goods; and the D.T. says that a system
which allows these people to get a better price is
a bad thing for them —that it “clogs” their
industry ! As a matter of fact, if there were not
a single duty on foodstuffs or fodder or the other
products of the “foundational industry” man,
Protection would still put pounds into his pooket.
Compare, for instance, the present prices of
wheat in Australia and Europe respectively.
The Australian farmer is lucky who gets 2s. Bd.
per bushel, delivered at the seaboard. _ If, as
more often happens, he has to sell at his local
railway siding, he probably gets 2s. sd. Yet the
very wheat which he has been selling at that price
has been sold for delivery in March or April in
Europe at 295. per 4801 b., or at the rate of 3s. 7|d.
per bushel Tne man who makes most of his
machinery, and his moleskins, and his Crimean
shirt, and his youngsters’ flannelette, and his pipe
and matches, and the concertina which he played
when lie was younger —the man who makes these
and most of the other things that he uses, lives in
Europe on wheat at 3s. per bushel. The
farmer thus has to buy on the three-and-seven-
pennv basis, while he has to sell on a tiwo-and-six-
pmny basis. If the man who made his machinery
and moleskins and Crimean shirt and other
t hings lived alongside him, in the same country,
the Is. Id. would be saved, not to mention the
cost of bringing the machinery and moleskins back
from the other end of the world. Even if he still
only got 2s. Gd. for his wheat he would get his
machinery, moleskin, &c., cheaper, because the
man who made them would be living on two-and-
sixpenny wheat- ,\Vhat happens to the farmer
happens to all the other “foundational industry”
men; through lack of local markets they have to
accept very low prices, otherwise, on account of
the heavy expense of shipping such great dis-
tances, they could not compete with the
producers nearer to the large manufacturing
centres. We can’t shift the whole of those manu-
facturing centres closer to us; but we can shift
them so far as they are manufacturing centres for
ourselves. When we have done that, by a policy
of Protection, we shall save two lots of freights—
the freight of the wheat and the wool and the
metal to Europe, and the freight of the manu-
factured stuff back —and the “foundational” pro-
ducer will put into his pockets the money that
now makes dividends for the foreign shipping co.,
and wages for its Dago crew, and about half-a-
score of commissions for half-a-dozen greedy
middlemen who now live fat, while the squeezed
farmer is as lean as he might naturally be expected
to be in those circumstances.
♦ - -
An interfering person, called the Earl of Meath,
has announced that he desires the children in all
the schools of the empire to sing, on the 24th of
May (the birthday of the late Queen Victoria),
a new composition called the “Flag of
Britain.” Meath himself is a representative of
the class which is the largest and vilest ink-blot on
the Flag of Britain, but he would probably be
very angry if he were told so. In Britain
12,090,009 people live on the verge of starvation
because Meath and the other great hereditary
1 unigrabbers own so much of the country’s wealth
that the scrap which they leave for the bulk of
the nation can’t by any possibility, or by any toil
or struggle, be made to go round. Thousands
of British infants are cruelly murdered by slow
starvation every year by people like Meath ;
thousands of women starve for the sake of
people like Meath ; thousands of persons com-
mit suicide, and, presumably (according to the
church), go to everlasting torment, and thousands
die miserably in workhouses, and millions have
hardly- a gleam of happiness in all their sordid
lives—all because of people like Meath. The
country is full cf ghosts pointing fleshless fingers
of accusation at people like Meath. Some day,
the people will, perhaps, take down the Flag of
Britain for awhile—they may want the flagpole to
hang people like Meath upon.
♦
A so far unnoticed passage of the Knibbs
education report:
In view of the fact that at the present time the schools
of the State are not absolutely free, and that there is
always a possibility of the logical consequence of com-
pulsory, i. e. , free education, being realised, it may be
said that a change of the regime would be a fitting
occasion to consider the wisdom of establishing two
classes of schools, viz., free schools, and schools in which
a fee is charged.
The idea of establishing two classes of schools
must receive short shrift. Free schools, and
schools in which a fee is charged, are the Britisli
elementary schools of 50 years ago—the schools for
the children of paupers and for those not ranked as
such. Evidently Mr. Knibbs knows nothing of
the spirit that has inspired the establishment of
State elementary schools in Australia. It has
consistently aimed at the fusion of all classes and
all religions, not at the segregation of any.
Another foreign syndicate is just now dangling a
tempting bait before Victorian Premier Bent of
the loud cuss. A while back the Victoria Electric
Light, Heat and Power Distributing Co. obtained
concessions under the Victorian Electric Light
and Power Act to supply Melbourne suburbs
with electricity at 4d. per unit for light, and 2d
per unit for power. All the Bay suburbs, from
Brighton right round to Wyndham, granted these
concessions for nothing. The company was under-
stood to have certain large deposits of brown coal
at Werribee, and it was going to supply electricity
forthwith. That was about a year ago. Having
got its concessions, the company sent its manager
to England to negotiate with an English syndi-
cate, and this seems to have been formed—of five
electrical engineering firms. This syndicate
reckons it can put up furnaces and electricity-
generating plant at Werribee and can get its
brown coal thereto at 2s. per ton, and on
the strength of this calculation it has cabled
to Victoria offering to supply unlimited
power at Id. per unit for the electrification of
Melb. suburban railways and other purposes,
provided the Government agrees to take not less
than 10,000,000 units annually for at least 10
years. Also, the syndicate undertakes to spend
.8500,000 in “ developing the brown coal industry
and in laying down machinery.” Before Victoria
makes any promises, it might inquire how it is
that the Victoria Electric, etc., Co. hasn’t started
to supply light and power to at least one of the
seven suburbs which have granted it the right to
do so, and why the extensive deposits of brown
coal at Werribee—that can be brought to the pit’s
mouth for 2s. a ton —still remain undeveloped;
also, why the 00. had to send its manager to
England to form a syndicate, and whether, if this
syndicate gets its bigger concession, it proposes to
form a new and bigger syndicate to work that, or
float it, or dwell on it. At present there is only
large talk about millions of tons of coal at 2s. per
ton, and millions of units of electricity at Id. per
unit. Such talk generally ends in certain foreign
shareholders and bondholders blocking develop-
ment for a long time, and finally camping on the
State Treasury doormat wailing about the
“inhuman treatment they have received from
the blasted colonies.”
♦
Employees of the Midland Railway Co. (W. A.),
who have much poorer wages and much worse
labor conditions than the State’s railway men,
have prepared a case for the Arbitration Court;
and the co. has met the move by dismissing the
officers of the union. When a tiger gets into the
last stage of mange and disreputable degeneracy
it takes to man-eating. Midland Railway Co.
hasn’t enough energy to run a decent service, or
to fulfil its obligations to the State, but it is still
strong enough to act the petty tyrant towards its
employees.
“W.S.T.”: The Bulletin rightly draws atten-
tion to the advent of the Staffordshire pottery
makers, attracted by the moderate protection of
the Commonwealth tariff. Commenting upon
this circumstance one of the Sydney daily fact-
twisters affirms that the Staffordshire men and
their backers are Freetraders and have a lordly
contempt for the assistance derived from the
import-tax on ceramic ware. The answer is that,
though the fine kaolin of N.S.W. has been known
since Captain Cook’s time, no attempt was ever
made to work it under the alleged Freetrade
regime. All the same, many Sydney manufac-
turers have talked against Protection for so many
years that they have actually come to believe in
their own futilities. One of this class, whose out-
put of manufactured goods is about £lOO a week,
recently told me that business was never before so
brisk in his factory, and that he would be very
sorry to have the Bakton-Deakin tariff reduced.
“And yet,” I commented, “I recently saw your
name on a Reidite Senator’s committee-list. Is
that your idea of consistency ? ” He was forced
to weakly reply that he had voted the Freetrade
ticket from force of habit !
“ Dux ” : A few names from the Chatham
Islands
Manawapipi, Kaingarahu, Tupouranga, Miniapakara,
Ngatikitiki, Rangitutahi, Rangiauria, Kahuitara, Tara-
koikoia.
From an Indian paper of 19/12/’O3 :
NOTICE.
I, Anthony, of Colombo, who signed my name
hitherto as Vidanelegey Anthony La Mel, hereby
inform the public that it is my intention to sign my
name from this day as Rasamanucule Varnagoola-
theeth Kurukulasuriya Colamba Nahapatebenai Maha
Vidanlegey Anthony Ferdinando, and that this name
be recognised as my proper name from this day.
Colombo, 16th December, 1903.
And this sort of thing is our “ beloved fellow
subject.”
“ J.E P.” sends some crow facts :
The man who told “Cornelius” (B. 17/12/’O3) about
crows dropping pebbles to break emu eggs need not have
been a liar. The crow’s sagacity equals its rapacity. It
knows more than even a good liar can invent. It has
been seen to make itself vomit poisoned pollard by stick-
ing a claw down its throat. I once saw a crow trying to
throw a weak lamb by hanging on to the latter’s tail
with its beak and swaying vigorously from side to side.
Again, I was one day lying still under a tree when two
crows lodged up above and eyed me furtively. One
dropped a lump of bark near me, and, as I didn’t stir, it
dropped a bigger bit on me. Then it hopped lower down
and cawed loudly, to try if the noise had any effect. It
next eyed me steadily for several minutes, and in the end
it flew down, and hopped gradually closer, until I was
able suddenly to grab L. That crow’s was the only neck
I ever wrung, and it was a wonderfully satisfying opera-
tion.
The Inky Way.
The late Frank Norris’s advice to embryo-novelists:
“ Don’t write a Colonial novel. Don’t write a ‘ Prisoner
of Zenda ’ novel. Don’t write a novel. Try to keep your
friends from writing novels.”
* • • •
Clipping from Southern Cross Times (W.A.): —
“ Mr. Chester’s Goat. —To the inhabitance of Southern
Cross All yea that as got Dogs, Cats, Sheep, Fouls,
goats, Horses, Cows, or any Domestic Animals, My advice
to you is to tie them up, and all your children to, for
there’s a cruel mean writch laying poison about Polaris-st.
“ The cyanide was put into the suds,
Which up to the top it did float.
The cruel, mean writches they was
To poison young Chesters pet goat
“(Signed) H. Chester.
“ The above communication arrived on Thursday last
and is inserted as an ad. by the sender.”
• • • •
“ Inkfinger ” : The two most astonishing men about a
great daily paper, when they are dabs at their special-
ism, may be the law reporter and the commercial
editor. I knew a law reporter who could not make
a mistake by any chance. .He would turn up fright-
fully late—at the right time. No verbal judgment
ever caught him napping. His fugitive notes were on
odds and ends of paper. Yet the reports came out long,
symmetrical, perfect. The commercial editor, in my eye,
dumbfounded every other journalist in the place. He
was never seen till very late, when an appalling heap of
documents would be accumulated on the table. The
fashion in which he ripped through them was miraculous.
He skewered them with his electric mind, which went
like the flashing knives of a chaff-cutter. But neither
of these men was any good outside his specialty.
• • * »
When Herr Flurscheim spoke in Sydney some years
ago on “ Bimetallism,” late John Farrell was told off by
his editor to write a leader on the subject. “ I knew
nothing of it,” he used to tell afterwards, “ but I wrote
the leader. Nash (the financial editor) told me it was a
new thing and that the people needed to be educated up
to it, so I sat down and gave it slops; said the time wasn’t
ripe for such drastic changes, and that the people needed
to be educated up to it, and, generally speaking, I
demolished it. Next morning I was riding in a tram,
when two men started yarning. Said one : * See here,
have you read this here bimetallism yarn in the
Telegraph ? You can’t beat these papers. I’m blest if I
know how they do it! Here’s a man comes out lecturing
on an entirely new' thing—something none of us ever
heard of before —yet these papers have men ready for him
with their leading articles —men who know all about it.
Read this article, it will tell you what it is. ’ I could have
disabused him, but I didn’t. The time wasn’t ripe."
• • • •
Yet another Melbourne pressman has been obliged to
give up the game through ilbhealth, and try to nurse
himself to life again at a sanatorium. This is Donnelly,
of the Argus, who developed consumption when roughing
it in the service of his paper. Another Argus man, little
Magona, had to leave for similar reasons a few months
ago, and is now working in Westralia in a partially
patched-up state. The real grafting reporter on a
Melbourne daily, who can go on much beyond his
thirtieth year without developing some weak spot or
other, may consider that he had a marvellous consti-
tution to begin with.
* * * *
Victorian political pressmen find it hard to determine
which is to be viewed as the greater affliction—lrvine or
Bent. The cold and venomous Irvine always treated
reporters with a contemptuous reserve which was accen-
tuated directly a little bit of criticism crept into the
papers. The only satisfactory thing about this attitude,
so far as the reporters were concerned, was that they
had less to write. Bent is just the antithesis, and starts
talking discursively whenever he thinks there is a
reporter within earshot. The difficulty before the scribes,
now that he is Premier, is to decide how much of his
daily two or three columns of irresponsible chatter is
worthy of publication.
* » * *
Great changes, all of a sudden, among the Adelaide
weeklies. First Alfred M’Kain, founder and editor of
the Critic, resigned owing to ill-healih, being followed
by C. J. Dennis.. Then Crawford Vaughan resigned
editorship of Quiz, and J. L. Hutchinson (elected M.H.R.)
dropped out of the editoral chair of the Labor Herald.
* « * *
Adelaide democrats have held an enthusiastic meeting
to raise funds to change the existing Labor weekly into
a daily.
* ♦ * *
Brisbane Daily Mail, to push its circulation, has
started a prize competition of £5OO.
* * » ♦
“ B.”: Looking over a pile of “ exchanges ”in the office
recently I amused myself counting up the different cor-
respondence appearing therein, dealing with every topic
under the sun. Result: “ Pro Bono Publico,” 21 letters ;
John Plummer, 20; “ Veritas,” 18 ; George Pile, “ Justi-
tia,” “Fair Play,” and “ Observer,” 17 each.
In the course of a recent lecture over in Westralia
Jimmy Thomson gave some interesting reminiscences of
his 36 years of press life. Starting as an apprentice on
the Australasian, Jimmy set up the copy of Marcus
Olarke, Dr. Jim Maloney, “ Orange Blossom ” Chapman,
Henry Kendall, Dr. Neild, James Smith, Charles Bright,
and many others. His old boss, Hugh George, often put
him on to special work, and one of the softest things of
the month was when the mail steamer arrived at Albany.
In those days there was no direct cable, and the budget of
hews collected at Point de Galle (the old stopping place
for P. and O. steamers) was brought on to Albany and
wired across. The telegraph station was in William-
street, in the premises now occupied by the Harbor
Trust, and the fastest hansom in the place was engaged
by the Argus to bring the messages to the office. It fell
to Jimmy’s lot to bring the first news of the fall of Sedan
and the abdication of Napoleon the Little, and he was
nearly torn to pieces by the vast crowd that completely
blocked Collins-street. Incidentally Jimmy mentioned
that, while in India as Victorian secretary at the Calcutta
International Exhibition, he visited Darjeeling in tjie
Himalayas and put up at the Woodlands Hot’l. On tbe
library table waa a copy of The Bulletin only four
weeks old.
THE TRANSFORMATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
It fell upon the Wishing Night,
Beside the Wishing Well ;
A Boy gazed in the water bright,
And spoke the magic spell.
He spoke the spell, and in the well
Cast quickly pebbles three.
*• I wish," he said, and turned his head,
“ An Editor to be.”
At that same hour on that same night
There sat, without a coat —
For it was warm—a weary wight
Who at a table wrote.
His brow was lined, his look was wise,
His head was bald, alas 1
He wore a shade above his eyes
To guard them from the gas.
Upon his face there was the trace
Of struggle and of pain ;
“ I wish," said he, “ that 1 could be
A careless Boy again."
The words he spoke in half a joke ;
But swiftly through the air
He seemed to go, like light, and lo
The Boy was in his Chair.
The Boy was old, with face that told
A tale of living free ;
Bald was his head, his nose was red
As never nose should be.
There is a careless Boy who plays
Beside the Wishing Well;
On moonlit nights and sunny days
You hear his happy yell.
No fun that’s going he will miss,
His days are full of mirth,
He knows the worth of youth ; he is
The wisest Boy on earth.
There is a weary Editor
Whose life is void of joy,
He haunts the country, breathing gore,
To find that careless Boy.
In vain with store of gold galore—
Which Editors amass—
Tiie Boy, to change their lots once more,
He tries to bribe. Alas !
Alas, for Youth that does not know
The glory Time doth mar 1
Alas for what we were, and, oh,
Alas for what we are I
H.s.w.
V.J.D.


Brain Food.
Not long since there was a great run on the
fish markets, because it was announced that fish
was food for the brain. Of course the fallacy of
h
the fad was soon ex-
ploded. Normally, the
food we eat nourishes
brain, nerves, muscle,
bones, etc., each part
of the body assimilat-
ing phosphorus salts,
liine, according to its
need. When the brain
begins to show weak-
ness, or the nerves
become sensitive, it is
a sign that there is a
loss of the nutrition
contained in the food
eaten, and this loss is,
in general, due to dis-
ease of the stomach,
and its allied organs.
Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills aid the
digestion and assimila-
tion of food. It is not
the quantity of food
eaten but the amount
of nourishment which
is retained that bene-
fits the system. If from any cause the nourish-
ment in the food is not extracted, the whole body
suffers. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, by keep-
ing the liver and kidneys active, the stomach
clean, and the blood pure, tone the entire system.
They are a positive and permanent cure for all
diseases arising from a disordered stomach, liver
and kidneys, and are an infallible remedy for con-
stipation, biliousness, sick headaches, piles,
pimples, boils, skin diseases and female ailments.
Packed in amber bottles and sold throughout
Australasia.*
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
No Preservatives.
Absolutely Pure.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Even too much whisky of the very best brand
is an evil, but it. is a harmless business compared with the
overdose of horse-racing from which Sydney suffers.
The programme for the current week ending February
27th is as follows :
Monday.—Rosebery Park races; Moorefield entries;
Canterbury Park settling; Warwick Farm weights;
Newmarket Handicap forfeit.
Tuesday.—New South Wales Trotting Club races.
Wednesday.—Kensington races; Brighton entries;
Newcastle races.
Thursday.—A. J.C. special general meeting ; V.R.O. St.
Leger and Australian Cup forfeits.
Friday.—Brighton races; Kensington and Rosebery
Park entries ; V.R.O. Sires Produce Stakes forfeit.
Saturday.—Warwick Farm races; V.R.O. autumn
meeting begins.
This isn't a vice, it’s a public nuisance ; and the army of
officials, bookmakers, spielers, jockeys, trainers and scum
of the earth who live on it ought to devote at least a few
days in the week to honest graft.
id * * *
It appears to be an understood thing amongst
some sporting folk that there is really nothing wrong in
“taking down” the bookie who joyfully lays “dead
’uns ” all the year round. But Chief Justice Stout (M.L.)
has just pointed out that, even though the penciller is
engaged in the illegal and nefarious practice of laying
tote odds, he can claim the protection of the law if an
attempt is made to swindle him. This was apropos of a
case in which two well-known and highly-respected men
got at Mo for a large amount through the old device of
ante-dating telegrams. They bravely planked their
beans on a moke that had already won on New Year’s
Day. One of the accused was a post and railway station
master, and how his office came to be open for the trans-
mission of telegrams on a general holiday is still a
mystery to the authorities. The receiving offices were
open certain hours, but his was a little side show.
Accused were admitted to probation.
* * * •
The Chinese lottery still manages to work on
smoothly enough in Melbourne. There’s one place in
Li’l’ Bourke-street, round the corner from Swanston-
street, where one may go and “mark.a ticket” any
time. Outside, there' is a shop-sign, something like
“Sun Hi, fancy goods,” such goods only consisting of
writing materials, blank tickets, books of closed banks,
and a chair or two. The yellow man evidently knows
that it pays to defy Vic. gambling laws, in spite of an
occasional set-back.
* * * *
The surprise of Saturday’s racing at Caulfield
was the comparatively long price offered against
Playaway for the Futurity Stakes. On paper _it looked
as though the English-bred daughter of Carbine must
have a great chance at 6.7 in the Futurity if there was
any reason for making her first favorite for the New-
market, where she gets comparatively the worst of the
weights Yet “ books” and punters held Playaway quite
cheaply, merely because the word had gone round that
Emir, the sensational Derby failure, couldn’t get beaten.
The same soft Emir, looking exactly as he looked in
November, was backed down to 5 to 4, whilst Playaway
receded to sto 1. And how did she win 1
• * * •
Playaway’s victory, Saturday, was third win in
succession of Caulfield Futurity Stakes by N.S.W. trained
horses. Sir Foote and Sir Leonard scored previously.
Playaway is a 4yr.-old daughter of Carbine, by the St.
Simon mare Concertina, and unquestionably the fastest
over a short distance Australia’s whilom champion has
sired. Concertina was bred by the Duke of Portland, her
dam, Comic Song, being by Petrarch out of Frivolity, by
Macaroni.
* * * *
Although the time was not fast, it was good
enough considering the heavy rain that had fallen a few
hours previously. Pendant made her best pace from the
jump, with Independence, Mistral and Playaway nearest
in pursuit. Of the others, only Emir ever looked im-
portant. For an instant the Ballarat colt made a rush
towards the leaders, and then weakened, as usual. Ap-
parently Emir is a great natural galloper, lacking the
strength or the inclination to sustain an extra effort.
Anyway, the roar of Ikey Mo proclaimed the favorite
beaten just as Playaway flew past Independence and
Mistral caught Pendant and came away on her own. The
little mare won by, perhaps, five or six lengths, and re-
turned to the birdcage looking every inch a victress,
whereas Emir and some others were not particularly
gay after the race.
b J * * * s>
Opinions are bound to differ intelligently as to
the question whether Playaway is a “ cert” for the New-
market. Nobody can calculate the difference that an
extra 181 b. may make to so very small a mare. Pendant
meets her on 111 b. better terms ; Mistral (a daughter of
Aura) will have an advantage of 141 b. ; Bonnie Chiel will
have an even bigger difference of weight in his favor,
likewise Independence. One of them may be revenged
on Plavaway when they come scampering along the
straight six furlongs at Flemington next Saturday. On the
other hand there is no evidence that the moderate weight
of 7.11 will stop Playaway any more than it has stopped
other flying ponies. The little ’un is a Carbine, and she’s
no longer a chicken in years. Probably the extra 181 b.
on her still light-weighted back, will not go for much
more than the extra 71b. on top-weight Pendant. This
scribe expects Playaway to win the Newmarket Handicap
from Mistral, Katoomba, and Pendant. The market
price is short against the favorite, or against anything
else with a palpable chance. But, then, the probability
of a “turn-up” is hardly worth considering this year.
Better to lick honey off thorns than to drop a sovereign
into the soup.
* * * *
Mo dies hard. After paying over many of the
bets in connection with Marmont’s apparent win of the
Bond Cup, that animal was disqualified and the race
was awarded to Proceedor. Then some of the bedizened
Noses asked those who backed Proceedor with them to
accept their money less 30 per cent., to make up for the
“ books’ ” financial mishap over Marmont. Bond Cup is
an unlucky vessel for Marmont’s owner, . He won same
race last year with Falkirk, only to see him break down
immediately after. Proceedor has been a gold mine to
Mr W. H. Jones since he purchased him for 15 guineas
from Mr. Jas. Wilson, who had broken the nag into
harness and was wasting his great possibilities between
the shafts of a buggy. r
The Australian Cup, on Tuesday next, should
be an interesting race as regards the 3-year-olds. At
time of writing Lord Cardigan (8.8), F.J.A. (8.10) ana
Scottish King (7.12) are likely starters, and the last-
named is favorite at 2to 1, not because his “form is
within ten and twelve pounds of the “form” of the
Melbourne Cup and Derby winners, but because they
are expected to be troubled by a first-class weight
in a 24 miles race, whilst Scottish King will not
feel his lighter burden at all. Leslie Macdonald’s
thundering big colt is now assumed to be actually
better at w.f.a. than several colts—not to mention
the filly Sweet Nell— that were thought to hold
him quite safe four months ago. A lot of people will
want to see Scottish King win a race on Saturday before
thinking him a genuine good thing for the Australian
Cud Thusfar he has made his reputation in slow-run
races over 9 and 11 furlongs. Lord Cardigan, at any rate,
should beat the King next Tuesday. Patronus Elderslie
and Seaport have chances, but if Marmont (6.12) comes to
the post in his best condition, and gets a fair run, the
hurdle-racer will win easily, this scribe predicts.
Present warm favorite, Scottish King, for Aus-
tralian Cup will surely prove better than his supporters
assess him ; he didn’t look much more than half fit for
the Y A.T.C. meet, though great things were done by
him there. Scottish King is a splendid sample of the
massive thoroughbred, standing 16.1 and built in pro-
portion. # . *
Commonly talked in sporting haunts that a
well-known Caulfield trainer, t’other day, ran 10s. into
£l6O before last race of V.A.T.O. meet, first day, and
then played the lot up on F.J.A. for St. George Stakes
and lost it.
* * * *
Biggest winners at Y.A.T.C. meet, closed
Saturday, were :—Messrs. Foy, £lO5O (Futurity Stakes) ;
C. L. M'Donald, £635 ; F. M. Linton, £490 ; and N. Leek,
£450.
* * » *
Interesting that N.S.W. owned and trained
Orry, winner of V.A.T.O. Kooyong Highweight Handi-
cap, t’other day, won the same event last year, and never
got to the front once in between He should be kept for
the “ hat trick ” now.
* * • *
Two of Saturday’s winners at Caulfield, viz.,
Playaway and Fungus, were N.S.W. nags ridden by
N.S.W. jockeys—Cornwell and Smith respectively—and
three of the successful horses—Matong, Fungus and
Katoomba—were bred in N.S.W.
* * * *
Crack ex-N.S.W. jockey A. Richardson, whose
home is in Melbourne now, visited his parents at Glen
Innes recently, and accepted engagements wherever
they offered, with the result that during his absence from
Melbourne since November last he rode over 20 winners.
* * * *
How is this for a scoop ? At Alberton and
Yarram (Vic.) race meetings recently, Mr. G. Collis’s
horses started in nine races and won them all; since the
year began same owner’s nags have been first past the
judge in every one of 15 starts.
* * * *
Wren’s tote is now doing business as usual at
the old address—the one from which it ejected Irvine’s
policeman upon his ear, and out of which it threw his
clothes and his gun in derision. While Irvine’s police-
man was in charge of the premises the tote did business
at a new address, which wasn’t much difference. If
Irvine or Bent really wanted to suppress the unlawful
tote a much milder measure than the Strike Suppression
Bill would do it, but presumably nobody is deeply in-
terested.
* » * *
Final acceptances (Monday) for Newmarket
Handicap left only 17 of the 43 that survived the first
forfeit. This is due to exceptional form shown during
past week or two by several nags engaged—notably Play-
away and Pendant. Only twice in the event’s thirty
years’ history have smaller fields lined up—Maid of
Avenal’s year (1874) saw 9 strip, and two years later, when
Sultan won, there were 15 starters. Largest muster was
37 in 1882. Most notable of Monday’s malcontents was
whilom brilliant Emir, who ruled favorite for some time.
Despite the rush, Saturday last, for United States (in
same stable as Emir), scratching pen was also put through
his name. If an outsider is to get home, it might be
Mairp or Latchkey
“ X.” : Is two-up a fascinating game ? I should
smile. At North Sydney, last week, a school was in
full swing on the edge of a precipice, when a man fell
over, to his death, and was never missed. At the in-
quest, one of theplayers said they were not aware he had
fallen over.
» * * *
A great many trotters run until they attain a
green old age. Ida and Sultan, who ran first and second
in an event in Northern M.L. lately, were 18 and 22 years
old respectively.
* • * *
“0.K.” . There’s no gainsaying the fact that
Warner’s men, who seemed to have shot their bolt after
their lucky win in the second test, have lately played in
a bolder and more masterly style than any visiting Eng-
lish team since the days of Shaw and Shrewsbury. They
are hitting more freely than they did, and they “came at
the right end ” of the return matches with Vic. and
N.S.W.—a quite startling development of.,pluck and
stamina in a modern English team when,pitted against
Australians. To my way of thinking, the match con-
cluded in Sydney on Monday week, where the visitors
scored 651 agrfins't the 373 of N.S.W.; and polished them
off within three days, was equal to the most dashing
performance of any Australian eleven in England, and far
superior, in respect of pluck, to anything shown by the
Stoddart or Maclaren teams in Australia. With 6 wickets
down for 92 in their first innings the visitors were
already playing an uphill game, and when the two
“ ruck ” men, Hirst and Bosanquet, had given the score a
useful lift along towards 190 it was “ up against ” their
bonders to prevent N.S.W. getting a big lead. To win by
278 runs in the face of a first innings of 190 only was a
most un-English proceeding, and to do this without
getting much assistance from their recognised “crack”
bats and bonders was an astonishing feat—for the visitors.
Rhodes took only 3 wickets for 70 ; Arnold was standing
out of it. The first five bats didn’t score a fourth of the
sum total, whereas the three bowlers (Bosanquet, Hirst,
and Rhodes) made 303 runs among them, the latter scor-
ing 51 and carrying his bat each time. Another 127 runs
were credited to Knight, who is usually left out of the
big games. Looking at these figures and noting the
improvement in the bowling averages of Bosanquet and
Hirst since the first test, there is no encouragement to
fancy Australia for the rubber. The writer put his own
£1 on Australia before the series was started, and he
reckons that its present value on paper is not more than
2s. 6d.
* * * *
At Bathurst (N.S.W.) last week colored bowler
Marsh was at last allowed to flesh his leather on a real
live English team. Hirst and Knight w’ere caught off him
for 10 and 19 respectively. He bowled Warner, Fielder, .
Strudwick, and Lilley fqr 5,4, 0, .and 7 respectively.
For the first English innings his record was 96 balls, 55
runs, 1 maiden,“s wickets. Second innings 1 wicket for
36 runs. Altogether the brown man made a real good
showing with the ball, but went ignominio'usly for a
duck with the bat.
* * * *
Diamond, the captain of the Western District
(N.S.W.) team which met the Englishmen at Bathurst,
having won the toss, wisely went to the wicket first. The
innings resulted in 248. The Englishmen only succeeded
in putting together 176. The match being limited to two
days, the local men closed their second innings for 151,
which had cost them but three wickets. Consequently,
when play closed, the Englishmen had lost five wickets
and scored only 115 ; so that, though it ended in a draw,
the result was very much in favor of the local men. C.
Gregory’s 139 in the first innings was a very high-class
performance. English bowling was weakened by the
absence of Rhodes and Hirst, the latter deciding to rest
his arm. . »
* * * * *
Sydney’s first-grade cricket produced nothing
very startling on Saturday last, although, for the
University against Waverley, E. F. Waddy put up
118 before Newell succeeded in bowling him, and
Fisher carried his bat for 112. On the other hand,
the bowling does not seem to have been deadly, and
anyone can make a good score if the bowling is suffi-
ciently feeble and erratic. Even a blind man might do
something if the bowler were dead.
* * * *
Despite Warner’s insistance that Sydney’s fast
bowler Marsh is a real “ shier,” and his expressed belief
tnat Crockett would no-ball him, fact remains that the
aboriginal sent lightning-like ones in from either end at
Bathurst Friday and Saturday, and not a single delivery
was taken exception to. Marsh’s swift balls and those of
the local crack (Kenna) were not at all relished by the
Englishmen. The resemblance to cannon balls was too
strong.
* • * *
Probable that Sydney express bowler Cotter, if
selected, will not be able to play in fourth test, com-
mencing Friday ; his shoulder trouble is worse than at
first thought. On Saturday he couldn’t raise the injured
arm above his head, and how the cure necessary to see
him through such an exacting ordeal as a big match is
going to be effected in the time is a mystery, unless
Dowie fixes him up by faith.
» * * *
The departure of young Rees to join an uncle’s
firm in China is a nasty blow for S.A. cricket, which has
also lost Ernest Jones' and Kirkwood to Westralia this
season, and had not any bowling to spare was
times. It was chiefly through Rees that Victoru
beaten in Melbourne in December, though he did ve y
little against N.S.W. With Hay, whose fast | st " ff be
Warner’s team twelve months ago, quite out of form,
S.A. has nothing much but Travers and Claxton to bac
up its fine string of batsmen
y * * * .
“ B B ” : Warner’s team is the greatest set or
grumblers that ever visited Australia, and seems quite
unable to get a satisfactory umpire. Some of the Ileam
found fault with the umpires in Queensland, then Khoaes
“bucked” severely when umpire Giltinan called a
“wide” in the recent N.S.W. fixture and only on the
umpire threatening to go off the field did he cool ;
At Bathurst they all had grievances against C a * la way
because he didn’t no-ball Marsh. If they don t get their
own way they “double-up” considerably, and, mostly
because the Australian papers don’t give them columns
of space to air their grievances, those acting as specia
to London papers make full use of the opportumy.
There are more would-be journalists in this crowd tna
usual, and they seem to be paid by space
O. Stevens, whose record in handicap-riding in
Yankee-land is very high-class, has been riding himself
into form in Australian bike-races for a couple of months
now, and yet doesn’t win a final. He is on a good mark
in Sydney Thousand, and may atone for many defeats
then. Hopper gave a surprise to the Australians last
vear, and the Yankees may scoop the big pool again.
' * * * *
S.A. League of Wheelmen held their carnival at
Adelaide Oval, last Saturday, in excellent weather, but
the crowd was meagre and the racing far from exciting.
Taylorand Ivor Lawson were both absent owing to the little
trouble in Melbourne the previous Wednesday evening;
consequently the show’ was a sort of benefit for Floyd
MacFarland. He mopped up everything he started
for, and he started for everything available. The pie-
eater of romance wasn’t a circumstance beside Mac* ar-
land ; he gathered in the six big events, and never gave
anybody else a show. The pie-eater did occasionally
watch another fellow eat a pie to see what the process
looked like. This success of the Yankee wheelists in Aus-
tralia grows monotonous. Although MacFarland had to
meet men like Scheps and Walker, he won easily. In the
Northcote Stakes he conceded Walker 10 yards and Good-
soil 40. The secret seems to lie in the final sprint, the
culminating jump. Until Australian riders develop more
of the kangaroo characteristic at the final the all-fired
Yankee will go on accumulating Australian gold.
* * * *
London Sporting Life describes the Austral
Wheel Race as “ the most classic of cycle races held
annually in Sydney (Australia), on the grass track belong-
ing to the Melbourne Cricket Ground.”
* * * *
People in a position to see how it happened
declare that Major Taylor’s “ bad fall ” at Melbourne
Exhibition Oval was the result of his riding right into
Lawson wheh the latter had a slight lead and was holding
it. Having come to grief, as the result of accident, or
collision with his opponent, Major Taylor appar-
ently thought himself more hurt than he was. A
cyclist, in racing condition, is not knocked out of time
by a fall which breaks no bones. Neither is he im-
mediately conscious of any bruises or scraping he may
have received. In the excitement of the moment he
naturally picks himself up, but Major Taylor “ lay gasp-
ing on the track.’’ Couldn’t move without assistance.
Tragic spectacle. The Major in his character of damaged
hero is highly impressive.
* *
The Ivor Lawson-Taylor affair is shrouded in
mystery. On the night of Wednesday, the 17th, the pair
met on Melbourne Exhibition track. Lawson made a
tremendous bound and led Taylor by several lengths.
The darkie made a splendid effort to overtake his rival,
but just as he neared Lawson’s wheel went down smash,
and Lawson, continuing, was adjudged the winner.
Then the “no race” signal was hoisted: Taylor had
charged Lawson with interfering with him. The com-
mittee, after investigation, disqualified Lawson for 12
months. It’s a heavy sentence for a man in Lawson’s
position, but if he really did bring Taylor down not one
whit too severe-dri fact, for bringing down a competitor
while travelling at such a speed six months gaol seems
a fair thing. But no one can understand how Lawson
could have done it. The disqualifying Victorian body
is dumb as an oyster, and no one connected with cycling
in Sydney can get one iota of information from it.
Seeing that Lawson was in front, and the darkie was not
interfered with in passing (which the fact that he nearly
overtook Lawson seems to prove) no one seem quite to
know how the man in front knocked the fellow
behind off his equilibrium, unless he threw a brick back
at him—and, if so, where is the brick? MacFarland
narrowly escaped disqualification at the hands of the
same body, and now that Lawson has gone the coming
Sydney Thousand meeting will be shorn of a lot of
interest.
* * * *
The action of the stewards at Adelaide in fining
MacFarland ss. for looking behind him during his heat of
the Northcote Stakes was highly commendable. It’s a
dangerous habit, and has caused more smashes on the
cycling track than anything else. Moreover, it’s a habit
which, once contracted, the ordinary cyclist seems unable
to leave off. Blinking is nothing to it, and it seems to be
more insidious than the blinking habit in women. Major
Taylor never turns his head over his shoulder ; he bends
down and looks under his arm. This isn’t so easy to
notice, but it’s just as dangerous, and a new rule should
be passed by all the cycling leagues that any rider caught
looking back under any circumstances should be com-
pelled thereafter to ride in blinkers.
* * * *
“ Plunge”: Stated in last week’s Australasian
that “ Wickham has introduced a new form of racing. It
consists in running along the bottom of the baths. He
comes up to breathe now and again.” A man ■who can
“ run” along the bottom, or even walk, without a heavy
weight to keep him there, shouldn’t want to breathe at
all, unless as fish do.
• * * *
Cecil Healey’s 25 l-ssec. for the 50 yards swim
at Rushcutter’s Bay baths (Saturday) was 2-ssec. better
than Wickham’s world record. On the other hand, it was
l-ssec. slower than a sprint Wickham put up since, but
which, owing to the absence of A.S.A. timekeepers, was
not officially’ recognised. If Cecil can keep going he’ll
probably earn a place amongst the world’s best.
* * * *
“Nat.”: So called “distance diving,” which is
really swimming under water, though long ago abolished
in N.S.W. and M.L., is still allowed in Victoria. At
Maryborough S. C. gala Cartridge covered 100 ft., and
whiie rising fell forward. Rescuers found him on the
bottom unconscious and face downwards, but, luckily,
not beyond resuscitation. It was such happenings which
led to the abolition of the practice in N.S.W. and
Seddonia.
* * * *
Rowing is reviving on the Clarence River
(N.S.W.), and there are hopes that the district may ere
long produce another champion to win back the laurels
lost on the death of Searle. The first wager-boat race
for years past will be rowed at Maclean on Easter Monday,
for Clarence and Richmond scullers only. On the same
day John Philp and Ernest Fischer row-in working boats
for £5O a-side. The first amateur championship for years
was rowed on January 26, the winner being Jack Mitchell,
of South Grafton, who will probably, in the near future,
abandon the amateur ranks and engage in professional
rowing. He has a younger brother who is also coming
on well. Rowing seems to run in families on the Clar-
ence. Five brothers of the Shannon family rowed in one
race recently. Four M’Namaras were asked to represent
South Grafton in the recent water brigade championship
at Newcastle (won by South Grafton), but only two could
go. The Fischer family also furnishes a quartette of
oarsmen.
♦ * * *
Hunter River sculler, Tresidder, sick of trying
to draw world’s champion Towns out for a match, has
claimed the premiership, and put up £soas solid evidence
that he is ready to argue the point with the first comer
for £5OO a side. If the other party hails from outside
Australia £5O expenses will be allowed. Though Towns
won the championship two years ago he hasn’t since
noticed a challenge. Unfortunately, Tresidder's claim
won’t be recognised ; there are no rules—absolutely
none _limiting the time during which a champion
may remain such and still refuse challenges. Gaudaur
snapped his fingers at all comers, and only rowed when
and where it suited him, and in accordance with con-
ditions laid down by himself. A time may yet come
when a man will win the championship at 20, and then
sit on his laurels for 40 years, and die at 60, still champion.
* * * *
Sydney bowling Pennant tourney is now in
final stage. Close of Saturday’s play saw so far unbeaten
City Club account for Victoria Park by 9 after a close
game. Last-named was in front at the end of two hours’
play, but in next and concluding half-hour.lost 14 points.
Petersham and City meet in the final Saturday week ;
former will have to win twice to succeed, while if beaten
onee it drops out, and City secures supremacy.
* ♦ * *
A Kerang (Vic.) “sportsman,” who was lately
fined £7 for duck-shooting with a punt gun, was using a
piece of artillery weighing 1181 b., measuring 18ft. from
butt to muzzle, and with a 2in. bore ! And he regarded
himself as a sportsman—with his hundredweight of
cannon.
* » » ♦
“Cross”: That referee who declared the
Murphy-Keenan fight at Kalgoorlie a draw because the
men fell out of the ring simply didn’t know his business.
The* fight should have gone on, and the ropes been
replaced while it proceeded. Even if that could not
be done the fight should have gone on just the same.
The thing has happened in Sydney and other places in
Australia several times, but never before did any one
declare the scrap a draw on that account
* » * »
Lightweights Casey and J. Barr fought 17
cheerful rounds at Sydney National Sporting Club last
week. Barr’s seconds, realising their man was utterly
done, reluctantly threw the haberdashery into the ring,
but before Casey realised the fact he had dropped Barr
with a crash on the point. This was the first show Casey
had for about a year and he made the best of it. Why
the gritty little fighter should have been frozen out is a
mystery ; his merit deserves better recognition.
Sydney owns a young pug. from the oppressed
country in the person of Denis Moloney—as tough a piece
of humanity as the game knows. He isn’t clever, but
hitting him seems about as futile as hitting the Tower of
London. Denis never goes out without inches of a bright
green handkerchief hanging from his outside breast
pocket and an expansive necktie of the same hue spread
well across his wide display of shirt-front. He has
already fought 27 battles, and had only three given
against him —all on points.
In a head-line during the last few days
the Daily Telegraph has called Australia and
M.L. “Britain’s Butcher,” and the S.M. Herald
has called them “John Bull’s Butcher.” Won’t
these papers ever let us forget our S’African
crime ?
There is trouble over the Tas. House of
Reps, election—only five contests, and two peti-
tions are notified, and Braddon has vacated a
third seat. Brickhill versus the O’Malley, elect of
Darwin, will be one fight, and t’other will see
Norman Cameron trying to oust Fysh. Fysh and
Cameron were parted by less than a scor.e of votes
at the finish.
A curious announcement in the Sydney
papers of last Tuesday: —
The Railway Commissioners have had under considera-
tion the question of employees being allowed to smoke in
"uniform while proceeding to and from duty. Numerous
complaints have been made to the Commissioners about
the unseemliness of the practice, and it has now been
decided to frame a regulation prohibiting officials from
smoking when in uniform, whether on duty or not.
The Bulletin would like to inspect the heads
of the “numerous ’’ persons who have complained
about the “unseemliness” of a tramway man
smoking when he is off duty but has his official
clothes on. Surely the awful dignity of a twenty-
five shilling blue suit can stand the strain, just
as well as "an ordinary citizen’s £5 brown suit.
If smoking is such a disgrace that it is calculated
to bring the threepenny tramc-ar down with
horror to the grave, then the Commissioners
shouldn’t smoke themselves, and should denounce
smoking at all times—or else they should get a
stronger tramcar that can stand the shock. A tram-
way man has the same right as any other citizen to
smoke in his own time, even if he hasn’t yet got
home and changed those official clothes that
seem to be so easily disgraced—he can’t change
them in front of the car, so he has to go home in
them. Most people will consider that these
41 numerous ” complainants are a lot of meddlesome
old cats, and that if the Commissioners listen to
them they will thereby show themselves three
silly old women.


Franz Josef Lager
. THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. . . .
v 6
1j
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
u
®aooo
H
MAKERS OP
.
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1003)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
—Jiff" 274 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kind£ of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia 1
HESSELMANN & CO.
34 Queen St.,
Melbourne
1000 Agents in
Australasia.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Win Prizes on the Track.
Win Praises in the Bush.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 357 George St, Sydney
. COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a century
has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos as the
best and safest natural aperient. Invaluable to
diners-out.*
"CiOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis' Kingr Street Coffee Palace,” “3»ji
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
”^/ |r E advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting- us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEICHT OF Ittlbs.
fgh
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.
SHARPSHOOTINg
V/ For Sport and War.
gh
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, I/, nitt. ■
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars ou
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Btreet, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
CH AS GILBERT S
g
WHY PONT
YOU WRITE
TO-DAY for Patterns of NEW AUTUMN SUITINGS, and compare my
Cash Prices with what you’ve been paying?
A credit store charges you for the goods you get and for things your
neighbor gets and fails to pay for.
My prices for really first-class —
HAND-FINISHED
Suits to Measure
60s to 85s
“ ECONOMIC ”
Suits to Measure
35s TO 50s
Posted Carriage Free anywhere, with “ Satisfaction Guaranteed or
Your Money Refunded."
Names and Addresses of Prize Winners 'will be advertised
next week.
hg
m
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
PECIALITIE
EARLY MORNING CATARRH.
In an editorial on Catarrh in the last number of
the “ Review of Nose and Throat Diseases” there
is mentioned the tendency of catarrhal diseases to
become specially troublesome in the morning.
This number of the “Review” also contains a
“Supplement” giving the details on a large
number of cases of catarrh caused by a new
method, which has been successful where operative
proceeding and cauterisations have failed. There
is, likewise, a report form, by hieans of which
patients suffering from deafness, or ear, nose, or
throat disease can obtain free advice by post.
The “Review ” is published in London, England,
but a free copy can be obtained by sending name
and address to :—“Review” c/o Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney.*
George Swinburne, whom Bent has in-
duced by cable to join him in his Ministry, will
have his hands pretty full if he keeps all the
irons in the fire that he has there at present;
for, besides a private engineering practice, he is a
director of more co.’s than probably any other
man in Australia. It is hardly reckoned the
right thing in Victoria to leave him off the board
of any gas co., and in N.S.W. he is a director of
the Sydney Hydraulic Power Co. on one side,
and of the Broken Hill Water Supply Co. on the
other. And he still finds time to give the Wes-
leyans round Melbourne many a lift. Bent wanted
him for a Railway Commissioner, but, apart from
other things, the pay wasn’t good enough to tempt
him.
Gory war has only lately arrived at its
true commercial purpose. It was designed oy
Providence in order that printing firms might
publish war maps at the ridiculously small price
of one shilling. Sands and M'Dougall, of Mel-
bourne, who busily improved the blazing hour
when the Boer war was about, have now issued a
war map of the Far North. This shows the
routes of railways already opened in the yellow-
brown lands, and gives a table of distances by
rail and sea, from which an enthusiastic student
may calculate the time required for bringing Japs
and Russians into murderous assault and battery
at various points.
THE COLINTON ESTATE, QUEENSLAND.
Matters are beginning to get a bit lively at Oolinton.
People are arriving to inspect from all parts, and in order
to line! accommodation the auctioneers, Messrs. Isles,
Love, and Company, have arranged with a well-known
firm of contractors to erect an enormous pavilion of wood
and iron, measuring 60ft. x 114 ft., which will contain
about 120 bunks, as well as dining and kitchen con-
veniences. The first detachment of the Salvation Army
are leaving Brisbane on Monday next to take charge of
the catering, and the well-known writers, " Koraji ” and
“ Delphia” are at present enjoying a trip over the estate
with the idea of contributing articles concerning same to
the leading Brisbane dailies. The running of the Esk i rain
through to the Cressbrook terminus (which is only six
miles from the Colinton boundary), which commenced
last Monday, will greatly convenience persons going up
to inspect, and as has already betn announced, all
travellers to the estate who bear a written certificate
from the auctioneers, can book from all parts of Queens
land to Cressbrook at excursion fares, provided that the
distance to be travelled is upwards of twelve miles. The
circulation of the illustrated pamphlet, issued in con-
nection with the estate, has now reached the enormous
total of upwards of 170,000. We would strongly advise
persons who contemplate purchasing some of this grand
property to inspect as early as possible as if everybody
comes with a rush, just before the sale, it will overtax the
guides and station horses and cause much inconvenience.*
♦
Sydney Even Nooze, in a notice of the
Dook of Gampridge, says that that warrior com-
manded the first division of the British army
throughout the Crimean campaign, which is not
true. The Dook commanded the brigade of
Guards, a part of the first division, and was
present only at the Battle of Alma. He never
saw either Inkermann, Balaklava or Sebastopol
Sky-blue funk was said to have set in after the
Alma, and the ducal warrior returned home on
“ urgent private affairs.” He left one good story
behind him. At the Alma he is said to have fled
wildly to Lord Raglan and reported in shocked
astonishment, “They’re firing on the Guards.”
The idea of the Russians shooting at that expen-
sively-clothed regiment looked like sacrilege to
Gampridge. Apparently he didn’t expect to be
shot at.
DUNLOP
TYRES
n
MUI
m
kH
Filled lo a
Cycle, ensure
Com fori. Ease of
Propulsion and
Durability.
THE DUNLOP PNEUHATIC TYRE C<>OF AUS ITD
melß Sydney. Adelaide Brisbane
PERTn chch. n z.
N.5.W. House:
150 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
fpn
m
7,.
■ ;V.V
~ v
/
§s•
2S
aii± J.
DuhsLOP
RUBBER HEEL?
frevcnt jarnng.& make
walking a pleasure.
Obtainable all Boot Shop!)
all size:>.
THE DUNIOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CPOFAUS LTD
MElft. SYDNEY ADELAIDE.SRISBANE
PERTH. CHRIbTCHURCH N.Z
A highly appropriate incident is recorded
from Warsaw. One Count Demensky became
suddenly demented in the course of a patriotic
demonstration, and he relieved his fervor by
blazing away at the crowd with revolvers. Having
killed three and wounded 20 of his fellow patriots,
the Count was arrested in an attempt to shoot
himself. Jingoism is so essentially bloodthirsty
that Demensky’s example may be commended to
Australian emulation. Next time the stay-at-
home citizens of this country have a mind to
maffick for the glory of the Empire, they can
enjoy all the horrors of war by firing at a stock-
brokers’ procession. Every display of patriotic
feeling radiates nowadays from a gathering of
stock-jobbers armed with paper flags and tin
trumpets.
About an old Speck identity :
William Hart, M.L.O. (Tas.), who died last week, and
whose estate will run into six or seven figures, started
life in Launceston 60 years ago as a tinsmith in a small
way. There are a few people in Launceston old enough
to remember Hart, with an apron on, hammering the
bottom on to a tin can or soldering up a hole in a veteran
frying-pan. His father brought him from London when
he was eight years old. Hart, sen., started in the tin-
ware line in the northern town of Tasmania in the early
’3o’s. Father and son parted when the latter came of
age. Hart, jun., never lost his old interest in tin. He
was chairman of the big Mt..Bischoff co. when he died.
He also had a weakness for gold. He was the original
purchaser of the Tasmanian G.M. co. at Beaconsfield, and
was a director of the old co., as well as of the newco. lately
formed. Hart kept his seat in the House of Landlords
till he died. He was absent from the House the whole of
last session, and his seat became forfeited. Then one or
two wire-pullers at Launceston got up a requisition asking
the old man to stand for re-election, though they knew
very well he would never see Hobart again. He was
induced to “ stand,” though he was lying on his death-
bed, and was re-elected without opposition. Hart was a
devoted Methodist, and has left £5OOO to that body. The
old man was 82 when he died, and was one of the half-
dozen men in the Tas. House of Landlords whose united
ages made 500 years.
English papers record the death in London
of Dr. William Peirce, formerly medical superin-
tendent of N.S.W. Coast Hospital and lately Port
health officer at Sydney. The deceased gentle-
man was in private life a student, a collector of
old engravings and antiquities, a numismatist,
and an artist of no mean skill. He came of a
family whose members have been physicians for
over 150 years. After taking his M.D. at Dublin
he made a voyage in a yacht as physician to its
millionaire owner. He afterwards visited the
chief ports of the world, and while on his voyages
cultivated with much success the artistic instinct
that was strong within him. His sketches,
whether in pencil, pen and ink, or oils, were
characterised by great attention to detail and rare
delicacy of touch. He once showed the writer a
color sketch of a veritable tropical paradise marred
by unsightly buildings. On inquiring for the
name of the place he told me it was his idea of
what could be done to beautify the grounds of the
Coast Hospital. As a work of imagination it was
magnificent. For many years past his work was
mainly official, but a paper he wrote on the treat-
ment of pyrexia was widely quoted and reprinted
in America. He was a quaint, kindly old man,
almost a recluse, but he had a Spartan idea of
duty. During the plague scare, and at a time
when he was suffering agonies from a painful com-
plaint, he continually exposed himself in all
weathers in the performance of his duties, and so
undermined his constitution. He left Australia a
few months ago to place himself under a specialist
in London. The deadly English winter was too
much for his enfeebled frame, and he died of
pneumonia on the last day of the year.
“G.H.’’ : There was no “misconception ’
in rny par. anent John Farrell (B. 4/2/’O4).
Farrell certainly was a “worker all the time ’’ ;
but the man who works with a protest-label
attached to him is very uninspiring. I again say
that had he (Farrell) worked like fury, with the
strong man’s delight in making the chips fly, and
the anvil sway and ring, he might have hewn out
a paper of his own that would have towered above
the D.T. and S.M. H. as £5 towers above 3d
“Gentle contempt ” for the bustle and bang and
whirr of the modern world is all mighty fine for
phrasing purposes ; but in actual practice against
the said hurrying world it doesn’t amount to a
banana-husk.


Are squ quite sure
you are enjoying' the exact Tobacco that suits you, or are you simply
smoking on, the same old pipe that you have smoked for years because,
youVe smoked it for years ? If you are the least little bit inclined to make a
change, do it now, for never in the history of Tobacco manufacture was
there such a wonderful improvement, both in the growing of the leaf and in
the making of the tobacco therefrom*
You would be pleasantly surprised to find, that in
HAVELOCK Tobacco
you had found something far and away better than anything you had dreamt
of. There is no brand in the World that is so alluring in flavour and solid
in quality as “ Havelock,” and one trial would convince you, that there
is more real satisfaction and pleasure to be got out of smoking a genuine
tobacco than you were aware of.
Try a Plug or a Tin of “ Havelock” Tobacco. Smoke it, say, for a month,
and then see if anything would tempt you to go back to any other brand.
“Havelock” maizes friends and l<eeps them.
25
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhas away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
£ gnrem ents. Sulphol ine de velopes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER”
HARRY MORANT: His ’Ventures and Verses. ls. Id. (Post Free),
SOME BOOK
SOLD
SIR ROBERT!
hg
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
XMBRAOIN
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Cbromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Writ* for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Seat Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. . Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Du’ogue
Book, Gd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speia:' es,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Keighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All Tiif, Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Ausr. Miners’ OuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Cijiniquy's Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. Sd.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
ss6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. -Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. Ail these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. jpP“ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine. Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Cloo
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d,, 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Bomances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free, G. W.
Beynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Bule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Becitations and Eeadings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
The “ bell-topper,” after having enjoyed
an arbitrary reign for nearly a century, is gradually
disappearing from London streets. Cycling,
golf and motoring are cited as the principal
c luses of the decadence. The old “ chimney-
pbt, ” or “ tile, ” or “ lum “ as it used to be called
in Scotland, or “ nail-keg •’ as the Yankees termed
it, has been called by names of derision for many
years It stood all that; but it can’t stand the
new methods of fast travelling. They make the
lofty abomination blow off.
“Scallywag”: Your sub-leader (4/2/’O4)
referring to mode of Japanese subsistence
set me on to statistics re a man I know
down this way ( iouth Coast of N.S.W.).
He gets 10s. a week as a farm-hand, and has a
wife and eight children. This salary pans out
approximately Is. 6d. per day for the family, or
ijd. daily to feed and clothe each individual. The
wage-earner works every day, Sunday included.
He gets Xmas Day, Good Friday, and one show
day off during each year. And there’s no offal
for the family down this way. His employer is a
large land-owner.
A quaint matrimonial tangle was disclosed
at West Ham (London) police court, t’other day.
Rebecca Redhead, the party in trouble, was
charged with bigamy as regards Henry Foster,
who had been co-respondent when her husband
(Redhead) got a decree nisi against the lady. The
giddy she married her loving co. before the decree
was made absolute, wherein lay the offence. Sub-
sequent complications had nothing to do with the
case, but they were quoted for the edification of
Bench and public. Co-respondent Foster, having
married Mrs. Redhead before she was legally quit
of her one and only husband, went to S’Africa as
a kharkie hero Returning to England, he found
that his unlawful “wife” had perpetrated a
second bigamous marriage with another fellow ;
also the original Redhead had a shock when he
learned that-his wife’s mother, believing him dead,
had married his father. Redhead, thus far, has
not troubled to complete his divorce proceedings,
consequently his father is his father-in-law, his
mother : in-law is his step-mother, and his wife is
his step-sister. The two men who were unlawfully
married to his wife can be classed as family con-
nections all round.
The Bulletin clevoted a wet afternoon
lately to reading the belated Hansard report of
tire debates in the Victorian House of 48 Rich
Landlords on the Parliamentary Expenses Limita-
tion’-Bill. It struck the first gleam of interest at
page 2361, where Walter Manifold announced
1 hat he
con'd not help thinking that this Bill was distinctly
socialistic in its tendency.
And this weird assertion was backed up by the
astounding statement that the Socialist party
had aims and those aims concerned themselves finan-
ci illy, and therefore they had a powerful inducement to
tro to the poll and work for their p i ty. ... On the other
hand, they had the propertied party, who hacl no
community of interest.
The propertied people aren’t even linked together
by a common yearning to look after their
property, it seems.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound! that Discharge or otherwise, perhapi «uf-
rounded with inflammation and awollen that when yon
P.rese your Anger on the inflamed part it leave! the impres-
(ion ? If eo, under the akin you have poiaon that deficaall
the remediea you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on Buffering till death releaaea
you. Ferhapa your kneea are awollen, the Joint! being
ulcerated; the aame with the anklea, round which the akin
may be dtacoloured, or there may be wounda ; the diaeaae
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended varioua hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your caae ia hopeleaa, or
advised to eubmit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t aay perhapa ; but 1 WILL. Becauae
othera hare failed ie no reaaon for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S QRASSHOFPER OINTMENT and PILLB,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lege,
liouaemaid'e Knee, Ulcerated Jointa, Carbuncle!, Foiaoned
Handa, Tumoura, Abscesaea, Sore Throat, Bronchitia,
Buniona, and Ringworm. Of all Chemiata, Storaa,
Jic. Price, In Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-etreet, London, England.
Agenta •. VI.LIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchaaera should
look foi Unregistered trade mark of the Graaahopptr on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright.
pwmSEBRUJ^MA^jUgRjLW^
I \2\3Vl-\b\6\l\BVsVlQ , iim?'',niM'n*
UNFI
BUSINESS
uFFICETICKLER
w
A
B
A
8
H
S
Y
S
T
E
M
S
Send for Catalogue To-day.
SYSTEM and METHOD in the Office
Save TIME, LABOR and MONEY.
JOHN SANDS, % r L Z u A?%Z
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch—
W Wolley & Son, Agents,
Equitable Bldg. Melbourne.
Queensland Branch—
H. J. Diddams & Co. Agents,
Brisbane.
U3HMAN
and BUCCANEER,
Trice Is. Id. Post Free.
At Adelaide Botanic Park on Sundays,
a gin (alleged relict of an aboriginal king) sings
hymns and makes collections Salvarmy fashion :
“ Only penny more makum ninepence.” Another
vice of civilisation thrust upon our black sister.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
h
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID j
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Eta
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
'lnvigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
gh
fcJiss Ada Crossle/s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
** Gentlemen, —
“ I want to tell you how delighted I am with the
Pianola. It is altogether wonderful ! In an accom-
paniment to several of my songs it has given ine
splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
“With appreciation and greeting,
“ Very truly yours,
“ADA CROSSLTCY."
There is but one Pianola.
Sold Only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELOOURNE.
We will mail yeti a Ca'alogue of the Pianola free if yea
will write as. Ask for Catalogue B.
Informal Recitals daily, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
You are cordially invited to attend.
A JVetov V. M. C. Cartridg
Loaded with Smokeless Powder and Inside Lubricated,
which means there is no grease on the outside of
the bullet.
\w
.22
SHORT tf-
g
S 3
THE CLEANEST and MOST ACCURATE
CARTRIDGE MADE.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
“0.C.K.”: Re . “ Dodery,” in the old
penal and whaling days in Van Diemen’s Land,
there was a woman known as Mother Dodery.
Kept the Whalen’s Return, on the wharf, at Laun-
ceston. She also kept a hotel called the Black
Swan, in Hobart.
R
EYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People! by
the People t for the People.
PRICE- ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, Erig.
HERE’S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch /
Post Free. v 3/ ™
Black, White, Cream,
hg
or Black tipped with White
Worth Twice the Money
Write To-day. Send Postal Note
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne
(Me ion Tub Bulletin.]
Brains -
ruletheWorJd
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory. The memory
must be trained if the brain is to do good,
work. The memory can be successfully
developed by proper training, just as aa
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
is a practical and successful system whioh
benefits all brain workers. It will make
a poor memory good, and a good one
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on apDlication to the
Secretary, PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
Box 403. 0.P.0*
MELBOURNE.
And 4 Bloomsbury St.,
LONDON, W.O.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng..
129 a COLLINS STREET, Mblboubnb.
EVERY WOMAN
Is Interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
| best, safest & most convenient.
it Clenses Instantly.
hgf
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVBL,
accept no other, hut write us for
Illustrated book, sent free-
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Soclete D’Hygiene de France, Oct. 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MHRVEL, CO.,
384 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS,BOX 623. G.P.O , SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
h
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting*
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165. Collins street. Melbourne.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by ihance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Bydnoy,
Sending, mention this paper.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
C.C.H.’ : The little faith I ever had in the
human race is dead. Had a holiday last Wednesday. Wife
went out shopping, and I looked after the house —or tried
to. Sat down with a book, intending to spend a quiet after-
noon. Heard a knock at the back gate ; young fellow
selling door-mats, or rather door-mat—he only had one
left. Told him the wife had bought one for the front
door the previous week. He said he’d let me have it dirt
aheap, half-a-crown. Remembered then the wife had
paid Bs. 6d. for hers, and it didn’t look a scrap better
than this one ; also remembered that she said she’d get
another for the back door when she had the cash to spare.
Asked the man how he could sell so cheaply. He said he
made them himself, and was content with small profits.
1 bought the mat, put it down at the back door, and stood
off a bit to admire the effect. Then I began to ruminate
on the enormous profits made by furniture warehouse
people. I would compare the two mats, and if I could
find no difference in size or quality I would writs to the
papers showing how the people are robbed. I went to
the front door for the other mat. It wasn’t there. Took
another hurried look at the back-door mat. It was ths
front-door mat.
• s s s
“Eiddal”: Maya kindly Providence protect
the cockle from the malleable iron castings that “ Chas-
selas”(B. 4/2/’O4) dovetails into his creed of cheapness
and utility. You rarely hear of a breakdown in the
Australian-built combined harvesters, ploughs, etc., but—
as with the Yankee watches, lawn-mowers, sausage-meat
machines, bicycles, phonographs, etc., etc. —in agricul-
tural tools built on “ Chass’s ” light and airy principles,
first cost is not the last cost by long chalks. Yankee
goods pass through so many hands that there is little
profit left the retailer. But a kindly manufacturer has his
eye on him—the breakages bring in good profits. Break-
downs must occur where malleable iron is used for the
cog-wheels and parts that bear a strain. The Yankee has
a playful way of making the parts that should be soft
hard, and the hard parts soft! Hence the frequency of
breakages, wideness of bearings, and general and accursed
ramshackleness, of imported machinery, that is run
together without regard to local requirements. It’s
a good job the Australian articles are protected by letters
patent, otherwise the farmer, in his eternal chase for
cheapness, would fall-in worse than ever over the wheat-
bagging, labor-saving machines.
• * * *
Stawed (Vic.) Winery and Brandy Co.’» pro-
perty, which cost shareholders, mostly German, nearly
£20,000, was recently sold for less than the amount of
subsidy it had received from the Victorian Government —
£2OOO. The then-languishing wine industry was to have
been revived by granting subsidies of £2OOO to co-opera-
tive wineries which purchased 20,000ga1. of wine, Of
grapes representing that quantity, for three successive
years. Four such wineries were established, costing the
country at least £BOOO. Only one showed even a sign of
success.
* » * •
Sydney has now 16,847 penny-in-the-flot gaa
meters supplied by one co. alone.
* * * *
There is trouble again in the sugar-growing
districts of N.S.W. through a move on the park of the
Colonial Sugar Co. to reduce the price of cane. The
monopoly of the trade enjoyed by this co. gives it a very
strong position ; but its advantage, if pushed too far,
may result in competition.
• * • •
From World’s Work : —“A professional man,
unaccustomed to the ways of the city, was the other day
in the office of the manager of a leading London bank.
Suddenly the door opened and the head and shoulders of
a customer entered. ‘Fifty?’remarked the customer to
the manager. ‘ Yes,’ was the reply. * Week ? ’ was the next
question. The manager nodded. ‘Quarter?’ continued
the customer. ‘ Yes,’ from the banker. ‘ Right,’ and the
head and shoulders were withdrawn. ‘ Pardon me,’ said
the visitor, ‘ but, might I ask what all that meant?' ‘lt
meant,’ replied the banker, ‘ that I have arranged to lend
him £50,0C0 for a week at 3| per cent.’ This is said to
be a fair illustration of the methods of modern banking
in the city.”
* * * *
“D’Harum”: Recently chatted with an English
sailor out of a berth. “ Yes, I think I’ll get back to
London,” he said. “ I’ll go down to the Bluff (M.L.) and
wait for a boat there.” “ And work your passage, I pre-
sume.” “ Work me passage ? No fear 1 All I have to do
is to wait there for a sailing boat on its way back. When
one comes I give a sailor four or five pounds to desert.
As I m about the onlj' man obtainable in the town, and it
is necessary for the captain to take on another hand, I
get the snap at a wage that I name myself. The sailor
who deserted wjits for the next boat generally, bribes
another sailor to desert, gets his job, and makes a nice
little sum on the run back.”
“C.T.C.’ (Southern Cross, Westralia) writes:
“ A recent Bulletin par in reference to a battery made
of wood brings to mind the wooden crusher at Parker’s
Range, constructed by Jack Douglas about 13 years ago.
It is still standing, solid and impervious to the ravages
of time. The old man chopped and squared the wood-
work from bush timber, and the only iron about it is a
much rust-eaten stamp and die, which were brought by
him from Southern Cross, 33 miles away. The stamper
box is an up-ended log about 3ft. in diameter,
with a large hole scooped in it to hold the die.
In this log an aperture was chiselled out for
feeding purposes. To drive the battery, the ingenious
Douglas manufactured a wind-mill, also out of
bush timber—a large, cumbersome, but withal effective,
arrangement equal in size to an ordinary four-roomed
house. With this eccentric combination he treated
specimen stuff from a small leader on his lease, and made
a very fair pile before he decided to down tools and quit
the district. Everyone going to Parker’s Range pauses to
gaze in wonderment at Douglas’ weird device. The
lease where it stands was, with a number of others, taken
up some months ago by Frank Gardiner, of Perseverance
fame, but was abandoned again after a very lame
prospecting effort.
• * * •
“XXX”: Baldness becomes unpleasant when
a man passes 40. Up to that age it wins him the reputa-
tion of being a brain worker, afterwards of being an
“ ancient.” Now, to ask the hairy one for the best cure
for baldness is to seek an opinion from an inexperienced
quarter ;to ask the hairless is a gratuitous insult. I got
over the difficulty by consulting the press. A “cure *
which claimed to have been used by the crowned
" heads ” of Europe was recommended by an “ Isobel ” in
answer to “ Afflicted ’’ in the ladies’ column :
“ 1 Afflicted ’: Use Madame Lenie’s remedy. It’s the
best for the hair affliction and is used by royalty. I
have tried it, with success.”
I got a bottle, with its French label, from the nearest
drug shop, and passed a wheeze to the counter youth
that I wouldn’t get my hair off if the cure failed. I
experienced a mild sensation of toadyism as I vigorously
rubbed in the same hair cure simultaneously with the
“crowned heads.” I applied the “remedy” till my
remaining hair came away as with a mange. Before the
week was out my head resembled an egg, and I was a
by-word and a reproach to my friends. It was then that
a friendly interpreter came along and gave me a transla-
tion of the French label:—
“Madams Lenie’s Hair Core.—For the afflicted
woman. This cure is used by royalty and the ladies of
the court. It is guaranteed to remove every super-
fluous hair, and one bottle will remove every vestige of
growth.”
“ Madame ” had spoken the truth !


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Steipe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
A MOST. DISTINGUISHED AWARD.
It is averred that the mantle of Merit fairly falls
upon those who earn it. The soldier on the battle-
field wins his “ Victoria Cross, the sailor his
“ Recognition of Bravery,” the thinker his ‘"Order
of Merit,” and thescientist his “Degree of Honor,”
significant of the intellectual altitudes to which
he has arisen, and the approbation of an admiring
world. Merit is the true award for arduous labor,
and exhaustive thought, in whatever form it may
be received, exercised for the benefit of an
individual or the general national good.
Australia is a nation, but young in years. Her
death rate in many classes of disease is abnormal.
Typhoid fever rages everywhere, and disease in
general form is publicly manifest. In the country
parts far from medical aid, men die yearly through
lack of medical treatment, and thousands of
premature deaths are recorded which increase
the death rate enormously. A decided improve-
ment has now asserted itself, a long felt want has
been supplied, by the introduction of the Parcel’s
Post system of medical treatment initiated years
ago by the Specialists associated with the medical
staffs of the Freeman and Wallace Medical Instit-
ute, Sydney, and at Bourke and Elizabeth-streets,
opposite General Post Office, Melbourne. It is
now possible for any man, whether he lives in the
farthest part of Cape Torres, or the wilds of
Western Australia, to receive the best advice and
treatment that professional skill can offer him.
This advice is given free, and all letters are replied
to with the promptitude associated at all times
with the great Institute and its medical experts.
Thousands of men are thus treated yearly by the
Specialists, and saved from early death and
premature decay. •
The Institute is unquestionably the medical
feature of Sydney and Melbourne. A quarter of a
century ago it first came before the Australian
public, and, though receiving strong opposition
from the medical profession, on account of its
anti-conservative principles, it passed greatly into
favor through the importance of its parcel post
services, and the great cures effected by its
Specialists. Its literature is in such great demand
that editions comprise millions of volumes of its
medical work, “ Clinical Experiences,” 570 pages,
150 medical plates, which are supplied to its
patients, and the volume of business accruing
from Victoria and the Western States has
necessitated the opening in Melbourne of one: of
the finest medical Institutes in the Southern
world. Some excellent photographs of the interior
and exterior of this health centre may be seen* by
referring to the firm’s advertisement on page 31.
Each Specialist associated with the Medical Staff
is a graduate from famous European and American
Colleges. The Physician-in-chief is-registered by
Australian, English, and American Medical
Boards, and he is a skilled diagnostician and an
author of distinguished degree. The supervision
of the great Melbourne Branch is under his direct
care. At its opening in January last some of
the most distinguished citizens of Melbourne
assembled to do the Specialists honor, and the
most influental newspapers of the city commented
favorably upon it. These great journals com-
prise the Aim us, Age, Herald, Australasian,
Leader, Punch, Truth, Tocsin, and Weekly
Times. Since the opening of this great Branch in
Melbourne, thousands of applications have been
received from suffering men and women from all
parts of Victoria, and the Specialists’services have
been solicited, and an era of usefulness entered
upon which argues well for the Victorian public
and the general benefit of humanity.*
The latest improvements in scientific dentistry
are being introduced to Melbourne by W. and W. E.
Thomas, who have opened a large and elaborately-appointed
establishment in Swanston-street, where aJ. O "* H su .^, n v 0
nublic can have undesirable moiars pulled and highly
desirable ones substituted on the most approved American
principles, and with the most moderate charges.*
Amusements.
royal agricultural society
OF N.S.W.
grand Commonwealth Show.
30th March to 7th APRIL 1904.
PRIZE SCHEDULES
MAY BE HAD ON APPLICATION.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
•ough-s'reet, Sydney.
Royal Chambers, 1 Castjf
PALACE THEATRE, S/D EY.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
FAREWELL and LAST TWO NIGHTS of
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY.
Headed by CHAS. J. STINE and OLIVE EVANS,
in
MAMA’S NEW HUSBAND.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. BRICES —45., 35., 2a., and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Managin', Mr. J. 0. \N ILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. \Vedn sday Afternoon, at -■
Mr. TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY, including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNIGHT in
resurrection
A Powerful and Realistic Drama illustrating the Music,
Customs, Costumes, Habitations and Scenery of
THE LAND OF THE GREAT WHITE CZAR.
US’ Box Office at Paling’s. PRICKS AS USUAL.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening at 8 p.in, Wednesday Matinee at 2 p.m.
MUSICAL COMEDY SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the Most POPULAR MUSICAL ATTRACTION
ever Presented on the Australian Stage
FLORODORA.
27, SAN TOY.
PRICES AS USUAL.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEI
Box Plan at Paling’s. R3T
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS,
* WILLIAM ANDERSON S
New and Original' Melodramatic Romance, by Messrs.
M.vles Wallerton and Francis Gilbert,
THE BEST MUST WIN.
Prices—3/-, 2/-and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
Q'HTERI ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM F. HAWTREY AND -COMPANY in the
World’s Great Laughing Success,
The Lady of Ostend.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co. .
YVONNE LE¥ERRIER,
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SEs,tnrcla,y, stii lM[a,rcli.
’RICES—6s., 35., 25., Is.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
338 George-street.
THE MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
..<1 OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
;-&gr Admission FREE.
New Reels.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
A HUGE SUCCESS,
CLARKE and HAMILTON.
Great Success of THE THREE DUMONDS.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWERS and Miss MAUD FANING.
Mrs. SIMS REEVES, Miss NITA LEETE,
Mr. ERNEST FITTS, Mr. JAMES HARVEY, Miss
FLORRIE RANGER, THE CLARENCE SISTERS.
Latest Biograph Importation, Canadian Salmon Fishing.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
First Appearance of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Performing DOCS and CATS.
Great Success of FRED. RUSSELL. Ventriloquial
Humorist. JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical Comedian.
CLIFFORD ESKELL, Magician, THE TWO BELLS,
SIX EMPIRE GIRLS, WILL WHITBURN.
THE COLLIERS, MALVENA MOORE, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES. ttW COLORED 810 PICTURES.
Grand Amateur Cake Walk Competitions. Three Prizes.
erlmajesty’s theatreTmelbourne.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
New Songs, New Dances, New Selections.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock.
•HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. .. 0. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING,
.AND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in Reproduc-
n of the Most Popular and Successful of Australian
Rid j fig tO Win.
alistic Representation of a Great Bicycle Race ia th°
Exhibition Grounds.
ices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
STEYNE COURT, MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES »» TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANOB. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
New Attractions —BIJOU THEATRE, “ BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO. Next TOBOGGAN RACE (or
Ladies and Gentlemen in double oars) WEDNESDAY, 24th insfc., at 8 p.m. Entrance Fee, Is.
Enter Early.
Turon River Dredging 00. (N.S.W.) was one of
the most disastrous flotations for the public ever effected
in the State. The promoters took advantage of a boom-
tide, and made fortunes. By skilful Exchange operations
shares (36,000) were run up to over £3, and as the gullible
outsiders bought in so the knowing insiders sold out.
The boom lasted long enough for the insiders to get out,
or, if they didn’t, they are not the “ smart” men they are
credited with being, When the boom burst, shares dropped
to as many shillings as they had been pounds, and for a
long time past have been unsaleable. After working
years with two dredges, the co. declares its first dividend
—6d per share, or £9OO. Records are not available to
show what the total production has been, but as in 1903
the return was between £9OOO and £lO,OOO, it is fair to
assume that the aggregate has been over £35,000 The
£9OO div. is a meagre percentage of profits. Droughts
ajid unsuitable plant are the reasons assigned for the
ghastly disappointment. No dredging machine has been
invented that will pick up the gold from the rough
bfiftom of the Turon. The only appliances to get
irijbo the cracks and crannies are shovels and
scrapers, and these were vigorously used in olden
drought times. Directors state that plant is now arranged
oh an efficient and economical basis, and that steady
profits and di vs. may be confidently looked for; but it will
require something more than directors’ expressions of
confidence to induce the 1 public to nibble at Turons again.
* * • »
Strenuous efforts are being made to start a
boom in Hill End (N.S.W.) shows, and one cannot read
weekly reports from mines which have been recently
re-opened without remarking what arrant fools the origi-
nal owners or co.’s must have been. In every instance all
that is necessary to discover payable scone is to clear
olit the old workings ! The real test of payableness, how-
ever, has yet to come , and, meanwhile, Tub Bulletin’s
advice to people who are being pestered to buy into this
eihd that “ good thing ” is to wait, unless it be that they
dearly understand that they are speculating in purely
prospecting ventures, and that the money which they
may: subscribe will go into something deeper than
breeches pockets. Patriot politicians, whose only object
is “ their country’s good,” may prate about the hidden
treasures of Hill End, and may try to engineer schemes
to raise large sums of money to be spent in search of the
treasures, but all in vain. Investigation by practical men
will clearly demonstrate that no field in N.S.W. has been
more thoroughly prospected, and that for every ounce of
gold won another ounce in value has been spent in the
quest for more. “ ’Awkin’s 'lll ”is no longer a name to
conjure with.
* * * *
Why iron from scrap (£85,707) should be included
in the official returns of N.S.W. mineral production is
incomprehensible.
Wyalong has outlived an early prophecy that it
would be worked out before the railway reached there.
Last year’s yield totalled 19,1240 z., value £72,847, being
slightly less than in 1902. This is a drop from a good first
to a bad second to Cobar. Current year is likely to show
better results. Great things are expected from the
Barrier mine, where stoping is about to be started
from 300 feet on the long, rich shoot of ore
discovered south of the original workings. This
mine was included in a group held under
option for a couple of years by a Hongkong
syndicate, and abandoned by it after £7OOO
had been spent. The Barrier was immediately
taken on tribute by a party of miners, and in a few
months they bought it for a mere song. It is said that
in the syndicate’s time a “ hitch” w*as cut in the casing
of the new formation, and that at another point a round
of holes which were bored but not fired would have re-
vealed it.
* » * *
The sound of the hammer is to be heard again at
the Grassy Gully mine (N.S.W.)—but it will be that of
the auctioneer, not of the miner. This was the mine that
was going to cause gold-top to “ flow a fountain ” at
Cranbrook (now the State Governor’s residence). Divs.
were to be paid as soon as the battery started, and there-
after'were to be fat and frequent; but the non-imagina-
tive machinery soon dispelled all the lovely dreams, and
now sundry Sydney men are thirsting for blood, and
can’t get it.
♦ * # *
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie, is being worked
on the same lines as its neighbor, the Associated
Northern, used to be. Although no stoping is being
done, the bulk of the rich ore is being rooted out. For
instance, at No. 6 level (656 ft.), the first level at which
the rich chute was encountered from Pomeroy shaft,
four crosscuts east have been made into the lode. From
each of these crosscuts incline rises are being put up on
the rich ore, and from each of these, again, branch rises
are being put up. The average ore in these developments
ranges from 3oz. 17dwt. Bgr. to 9oz. 15dwt. 18gr. From
this it can be seen that the rich ore is being closely fol-
lowed and pretty well gutted. The incline winze below
No. 10 level (870 ft.) is down about 250 ft., or about 1000 ft.
vertical. The lode is so flat that 2fc. on the incline is
equivalent to Ift. vertical. The rich chute runs obliquely
through the lode at an angle of about one in four (but
gradually getting steeper) to the south, and for a depth,
from top to bottom, of about 400 ft., so that the winze
from No. 10 level will very soon be “below the values,”
or, as the late Captain Rodda picturesquely described it,
“ the bottom will be out of the mine." That’s where
Economist Curie erred. He inferred that the Oroya
chute would live down, because it carried “ very rich ore
at its deepest point, below 900 ft. vertical.'’ The Brown
Hill got “below the values” at about 400 ft., and the
Associated Northern at about 550 ft., and it is pretty cer-
tain that the Oroya is very near the bottom of the chute
now. It is worth noting that there are no values at No.
7 level, and the country between Nos. 6 and 8 appears
to be pretty nearly barren. The mine has still a big
future before it, but it is as well to keep in mind that
this lode practically carries no values except in the rich
chute, which is quite different from the position of the
other lodes on the belt. A crosscut has been carried
right across the lease at No. 9 level, a distance of 1140 ft.,
but nothing very encouraging was encountered.
* * * *
White Feather Main Reefs, Kanowna (W.A.),
has materially improved its position of late, the January
returns reading 15950 z. from 1740 tons. The month’s
profit was a shade over £3OOO, and, as the co. previously
had in hand the cash for a 6d. div. (£4000), a declaration
cannot be long delayed. The north drive on the east
reef at 700 ft. is in very good values, and is supplying
most of the stone. The chute at this point is dipping
northwards, the same as the original surface chute on
which the mine was floated. In the south end ,of the
property, at 200 ft., fairly promising results are being ob-
tained. The mine, on the whole, is looking well, but not
being in a fashionable district, the scrip is not in demand,
and is quoted at ss. to 6s. only
* « * *
During 1903 no less than 36 of J. Bull’s Westra-
Jian wild cats perished ; and, as some of these, like the
Limerick, date back to the beginning of 1895, they have
had nine years of life, even if they haven’t had nine
Hives. If the gone-bung Australian-owned co.’s were in-
cluded, last year must have seen at least 50 cats wiped
off. The current year should pretty well blot out the
-remainder, as shareholders’ money can’t last for ever.
* * * *
Ida H., Laverton (W.A.), is very poor in the
bottom, and it looks very much as if it would follow the
ilead of all the Laverton shows, such as British Flag,
‘Golden Rhine, Mt Barnicoat, etc., and quietly peter out.
:Shortly after the flotation the £1 shares, with ss. paid,
were quoted at £3 premium ; and, as the W.A. vendors’
-shares were not negotiable, owing to promoter Wadding-
rton’s cuteness, he had the market to himself. The split
shares are now practically unsaleable at par, which shows
what the market thinks of the property.
* * * *
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, was to issue 11,000 new
shares at par, the lists of applications to close on January
11. Great efforts were made to boom the scrip over par
in order to tempt shareholders to subscribe for the new
issue, but the attempt was a failure, and it is hardly
likely that the new shares were placed with cheaper
shares offering in the market. The proceeds of the new
issue were to go to liquidate co.’s debts and make some
’ small additions to the treatment plant. The profits only
average £B5O a month. The crosscut from the 1000 ft.
level of the Kalgurli, to test the Hainault ground at that
depth, has been suspended, and nothing is being done
below 650 ft. Scrip seems dear.
* * » *
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), con-
tinues to have marvellous luck. As already stated, the
. west crosscut at the 640 ft. level passed through ore at
89ft. from shaft worth Bto lOoz. per ton. In continuing
the crosscut the manager reports that, at 178 ft. from
shaft, a 2ft. reef worth 3oz. 12d\vt. was encountered. The
funny part of the business is that each new discovery has
merely helped to depress the scrip. A call of 3d.
synchronises with the latest rich discovery, which may
account for the milk in the cocoanut. The mill has been
running for some time, and the result of the first
crushing will prove how much confidence can be placed
in the glowing reports.
Banquet to Boulder Hamilton in London was a
gorgeous affair Ex-tailor Doolette presided. Present,
all the mining grandees, who cheered when the chairman
said, “ We have a great mine, a great manager, and a
great future.” The ex-Eaglehawk (Vic.) battery-boy was
modest, a 3 usual, indicating that he was conscious that
if he had not had the luck to get charge of a great mine
he might not have become a great manager. Nicholls, of
the Perseverance is to be banqueted next month How
will he talk f
» » * »
The Barton’s Mine, Nullagine (W.A.), is owned
by four miners, who have erected a 10-head battery out
of the gold won, and are now adding a cyanide plant.
They have crushed 1000 tons for an average of 26dwt.,
and have satisfied themselves that the reef is permanent.
The Barton’s is surrounded by a number of locally-owned
shows, and Government is now erecting a 10-head battery.
Between Marble Bar and Nullagine—at Warrawoona —a
party of prospectors crushed recently 4£ tons for an
average of 970 z. Cost of cartage from the sea coast is,
however, £l7 per ton, and firewood is £3 10s. per cord,
and hard to get at that.
• * * *
With its copper-smelting furnace Mt. Morgan
(Q.)afew days ago commenced a new life. As a gold
mine pure and simple, of course the Queensland marvel
is not done yet; but its auriferous copper deposit and
smelting works will probably be heard most of in the near
future. When the plans already in existence are fully
carried out the monthly output should be 15,000 tons of
about 3 per cent, copper ore, carrying about 6dwt. gold,
worth in all, say, £40,000. The present output averages
95000 z. (it was 95240 z. in January, and an average of
94130 z. in the nine months before that), contained in ore
averaging about Bjdwt. ; and- the new class of stuff ought
to give quite as much profit as this is doing
* * * *
Queensland Mines Minister Browne has decided
that in future his department shall only talk about gold
in fine ounces. This is honest; the other thing—the
thing that has been going on for years—isn’t. A co. or a
paper, barracking for its district, may call something gold
that contains 30 per cent, silver and 10 per cent, copper,
but a State is hardly justified in backing up the deception
in its official publications.
• * * •
“ Leveson ”: Bulletin (24/12/03) drew attention
to the late Queensland Government’s grant of assistance
to prospect for coal (by boring) near Townsville.
The area is situated at Stewart’s Creek, and is held by
people who have flourished during the Philp distribu-
tion, and who have not, as far as I can ascertain, spent a
shilling themselves in testing the mythical coal measures.
I say mythical; and, as I have had experience in coal
mining in Staffordshire and in Newcastle (N.S.W.),
besides opening up the coal measures of Moreton Bay
districts, I ought to have some knowledge of the subject.
Although the delta of the Burdekin River in the neigh-
borhood of Ayr and Brandon (some 35 to 50 miles distant
from Stewart’s Creek) may carry extensive coal measures,
I would stake the heaviest odds against even a 6in. seam
of solid clean coal being discovered within 10 miles of
the area selected for operations at Townsville.
* * * *
Miles and Co., of Charters Towers, in their
annual review, compare the Towers arid Westralia :
Output. Dividends. Value per ton.
Westralia ..2,436,3050z. £2,093,294 £3 17 9
Charters T. 428,5890 z. . 460,434 417 1
Towers’ profits for 1903 work out at £ll7s. 2d. per ton of
ore mined. On companies’ nominal capital Westralia gave
a return in dividends of 7T per cent.; the Towers of just
under 10 per cent.
* * * *
The lately-booming state of things at Charters
Towers is illustrated by the fact that E. D. Miles and Co.
have put off their broking business into a co. with
£lOO,OOO capital.
* * * *
One of the Rutherglen (Vic.) mining co.’s
managed by Peacock of the Smile and of the Australian
Natives’ Association, has lately let a contract for certain
surface work to Chinamen. The saving amounts to —£3
per week 1 Advance Australia !
© * » *
Another white labor v. piebald mine labor com-
parison. The consulting engineers whom Chamberlain
called in to assist the S’African Labor Commission re-
ported that the average cost with piebald labor on the
Rand was 31s. 2d. per ton of ore. The New Moon (Eagle-
hawk, Vic.) last half-year crushed and treated 13,615
tons of stone at a complete cost, including depreciation, of
£12,035, or an average of 17s. Sd. per ton. And the aver-
age for the Moon co.’s whole career is even lower than
that. Total gold value, £376,497 ; capital paid up, less
present cash balance, £9OOO ; dividends and machinery,
£205,225; working expenses (including office expenses),
£180,272 ; stone treated, 223,964 tons ; average per ton,
16s. Id. Sixteen shillings is, by the wav, the figure at
which the Bewick, Moreing firm is said to aim in Wes-
tralia, not by reducing wages, but by using the white
man’s brain, which always comes to the aid of the white
man’s brawn.
* * * * . * .
Some sanguine person will presently be hustling
G.-G. Northcote out of Melb. Government House Domain
under a miner’s right. T’other day’ some laborers,
dressing down a piece of land for a reserve near Haw-
thorn bridge, turned up two or three pieces of quartz
showing gold ; whereupon someone rushed off to the
mining registrar and applied for a lease. A decade ago
some enthusiastic prospectors sank a shaft on a small rise
a quarter-mile away, in St. James’ Park, but after a few
weeks’ work concluded that three specks to the load was
hardly good enough. As a matter of fact, all the land
east and N.E. of Melbourne is auriferous, from Dandenong
up to Whittlesea, but, until one gets to the hilly country
20 miles out, it doesn’t crush more than a bushel to the
acre, so to speak.
* * « *
“Wombat”: What has become of the Ringa-
rooma (Alberton, Tas.)? Remarks re Cobar (Bulletin
28/l/’O4) fit the position in connection with the shep-
herding at Alberton (Tas.). For the past two years not
more than four men have been employed at any time on
the leases held, which amount to over 50 acres, without
mentioning about 320 acres of gold-bearing freehold, the
whole property being supposed to be in the hands of
tributors. Rome of the leases lately forfeited for
non-payment of rent had not had a pick in them for
years. Part of the field has long been dummied.
Shareholders and others interested are quietly awaiting
developments, as to which there are curious rumors.
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) return for 1903 (£649,000) exceeds
that of 1902 by £127,286. The gross output to 30th Dec.
last amounts to £3,152,305, of which shareholders have
had £1,252,896, including £250,000 paid in 1903.
* * * *
The Westralian Government has decided to put
up a smelting furnace—the first experiment of the sort—
at Phillips River. S. Australia tried the experiment at
Port Augusta., and dropped thousands in a month or two.
But Westralia has a better chance of success, having
about £25,000 worth of ore stacked, on which it has
advanced £15,000 ; and it is alleged that in getting out
this ore much more of good quality has been developed.
The idea when ore-buying was started, in lieu of the smelter
that was then asked for, was to see how developments
went; if they were not satisfactory, a steamer would
have been chartered, and the stacks shifted round to
N.S.W. for treatment. It is to be hoped that the Govern-
ment will do better as a smelter than most private co.'s
have done in Australia. They have been pretty bad rob-
bers mostly, and yet they have nearly all come Lo disaster
in the end. Possibly a highly moral smelter might make
a pile.
At Poverty Point.
An Australian boxing kangaroo has been getting his
name up in Paris. Passing through the Society of iine
Arts premises in the Champ de Mars he saw a huge
mirror with a reflected kangaroo in it. He put them up,
and so did the other one, and while the crowd was enjoy-
ing the joke Australia got in the first blow. Damages
4s. 6d.
Athol Forde recently wedded in Sydney Miss Kathleen
Armstrong, a daughter of “Jumbo” Armstrong, Crown
Prosecutor and once Acting-D.C. Judge of N.S. Wales.
The lady is a niece of the late Justice Innes, who was a
great patron of the drama.
A Sydney theatrical solicitor tells about his own effort?
in the histrionic art. He was acting Hamlet, and had
just begun the soliloquy, “To be or not to be, when, a
voice from the gallery shouted “Why, its Monty 1
Hamlet stopped in the middle of his soliloquy, looked up
at the offender, and said, “ You’re quite right.” Then he
went on with his part When the end of the soliloquy
was reached, the gallery voice said, briefly. Six
months 1 Next case 1 ” >
“ Only Me ” : He par (B. 4/2/’O4) on side-show at Manly,
where a man in a cask used to allow sticks to bethrown at
him at four for 3d. Have seen in Yankeeland,durmg fair
time in various towns, a large canvas screen rigged up,
with a hole in it, through which a nigger sticks his head.
The words, “ White man, can you hit me?” are painted
in large letters on the screen, and heavy leather balls are
let out to the “ white men ”at three for a nickel. This
show always does a splendid trade, as the American
crowd loves to see a nigger damaged.
Mrs. Langtry still hangs on to the notoriety that
came to her 30 years ago when the “Jersey Lily "burst
into bloom. Latest news of the once lovely one credits
her with the intention to write a play. Who will be Mrs.
L.’s ghost in this literary undertaking ?
Fanny Robina, the Little Jack Sheppard of the early
Brough and Boucicault days, is mostly a singer of
sentimental ballads these times. A Dublin paper to
hand last mail speaks of Robina’s personal magnetism,
her tender singing of “ Daddy,” and “ her popular item,
'My Little Babv Boy,’ with‘a sweetly rendered chorus by
her little daughter Florrie.” The critic doesn’t explain
how little daughter Florrie is able to render a chorus
all on her little own. Even if she were a double-voiced
infant she couldn’t manage more than a duet.
That plaster cast in “The Eternal City," at Her
Majesty’s, was a delusion and a snare. It wasn’t even a
product of local industry. And it didn’t represent Julius
Knight at all. It was a copy of the head of the actor who
played the part in London, a job lot having been sent
along for the Australian season.
Wallace Brownlow was going strong in San Francisco
at latest dates. Got a triple encore for his first song at
the Tivoli Opera House, when he appeared as Apollo (with
his lyre) in something vaguely described as “a Xmas
piece.” Subsequently he took the name part in “a real
American opera, trimmed with hoopskirts and tuned with
the songs of the South,” which work of Yankee art is
titled “When T ohnny Comes Marching Home.” Brown-
low plays Job >iy, and the local critic talks thus: —
“ Wallace Brownlow, the new barytone (they spell it with
a y in ’Frisco), has magnificent opportunities which serve
to prove his rare qualifications as a singer and actor.
His song, ‘My Own United States,’ is an exquisite affair.
It is fit to be made a national air,”&c., &c. Strauss’s
opera, “ The Gypsy Baron,” is to be revived, with Brown-
low as the beauteous Baron, the tenor music being
lowered in pitch to suit his voice. And he thinks of
knocking them anon as Henri of Navarre. Talking of a
giddy Henri and “ Ma Mie Rosette,” Nellie Stewart and
George Musgrove passed through San Francisco in Janu-
ary, and testified that old friend Brownlow was “all
right ” in his new part.


gh
4
i
mm
*4
&
i
t y
-*r-v
- -■■ \
- - V-: : :
:
*a
mmm§gL
« - miSxsim?
msm
m
i
'"I?
"
1 ? a*
*■ .
i n
I
y v
i
<•
#- i :>k
i. i \
r, : J4
1
if
■i
*^r-
. > ■-«»:
*s'■ ■ i
■ -
oo&
Waiting
m
ir n.
E
11/111 Ml
mifflns
Pxßttf
\
r?
fP
5 f
u
w 5
i m
m
#*3
A
SMb
ai
* ■g;
s# I
M
y'lft. f
.w
>*■
hi
:
Corn
Bourkc&‘
Eli3abcl'hyi
Melbourne
Adv/cefree.
* m
m
-
m
mm
& W r:/ '' L
I
¥
, *
:
m
¥-
&
m w
mmm
■ . ■ .
ti
1
: :
mi
■
RI Sf ;
wmm.
mm
m
mz
■
correspondence
NOTP Anv nlan if he desires, through
1 C,. private reasons consult the Specialists by
addressing privately “ THE SECRETARY.” The Free-
and Wallace Medical Institute, cor. Bourke and
Elizabeth-streets, opp. G.P.0., Melbourne, or 227 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney. In some instances, a man may not
be able to call personally, and may prefer to write upon
matters seriously concerning himself. All such letters are
repl ed to by the Physician-in-Chief, who is Qualified and
R ‘giste.vd >y M edical Boards of Aust., England & America.
The Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Branch—Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts., Op. G.P.O.
NOTE.
In order to meet the grea
public patronage accorded lb
nowth or
institute
by suffering men from all parts of the Commonwealth, a
branch of the Sydney Institute, which is illustrated above,
has been opened at Bourke & Elizabeth-sts., Melbourne,
opp. G.P.0., under efficient professional and correspond-
ence staffs, where patients in the Southern and Western
States of Australia may consult the most eminent of
Specialists and save the long journey to Sydney. All cor-
respondence to this Branch will be effectively replied to


GOOD WATCHES
A Man's Fourteen Carat, Gold Filled
Keyless, Hunting Cased
Lever Watch for
£6 I Os.
And we guarantee the Cases to wear
and look as well as a Solid Gold Case,
for Twenty-five Years.
IN “AS GOOD AS GOLD” CASES
THE MEANING OF THE TERM—
“ GOLD=FILLED.”
FEW people correctly understand the meaning of the term “ Gold-filled ” as
applied to our watch cases. Some seem to regard “Gold-filled” as a
form of electro-plating—from which it is entirely different. Gold-filled
Watch Cases are intended as a substitute for solid gold, not only in
appearance, but in wear. A Solid Gold Watch Case is valued for its beauty—
for the gold look about it. The beauty and the gold-look are entirely on the
surface. The gold hidden away in the thickness of the case adds nothing
to its beauty, but does add greatly to its cost. To make a gold-filled
watch case an ingot of metal is placed between two ingots of solid 14-carat
gold, and the three are then rolled flat, forming a solid sheet with a thick out-
side of solid gold and a centre of metal. This centre adds strength and lessens
cost, but its presence cannot be detected unless the gold is cut away. It will
be seen that gold-filled has nothing in common with gilding or plating ■ the
former implying a substantial layer of solid gold, the latter meaning gold
deposited on the base metal article after it is made Men who cannot afford to
buy a solid gold watch, and men who can afford to, but do not care to run the
risk of losing such a valuable article, are recommended to consider the advan-
tages attached to buying one of these Gold-filled Watches.
Our 48-Page
Watch Book
is Sent Free
on Request,
717T7
m
\
/
s
THIS IS THE WATCH.
The movement (or works) was made specially for us by the
Waltham Watch Co., and is guaranteed to be a correct
timekeeper. It is a f-plate—jewelled in all the required
actions —has a finely-designed and finished compensation
balance wheel—Brequet hair-spring to counteract the effects
of sudden jars caused through riding on horseback or violent
exercise of any description. We send this Watch free and
safe by post to any part of Australia or New Zealand on
receipt of remittance.
g
4?-
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because .every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as *'run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumoago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
ft
&
.V
&
$
£
*
<s:
AND
ONE ••SWAN” OUTLASTS
GROSSES OF STEEL PENS.
Going Out
of Business
many a penholder and ink
well on account of Swan
Fountain Fen popularity.
A reliable fountain pen has
become a positive necessity
to many—a great conve-
nience to all. The most
reliable fountain pan
made is the Swan. Al-
ways ready and willing.
It will not drop ink,
hesitate or skip. All
the features of the
Swan Fountain
Fen are fully guar-
anteed.
MABIE, TODD & BARD,
London and
Manchester, Eng.
hfg
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDUEY.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
■
The London Medical Record
says : —“ It is retained when all
Other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger's Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ B.” : There is a yacht called the Merrie
England, and it is the floating home of the
Governor of British Papua. Said exalted person
is just now on furlough, or some such animal, and
his place is being filled by the Crown Prosecutor
as acting-Governor, and Solomon in all his pomp
did not bulge out his chest like this same poten-
tate. When the China steamer Taiyuan called
at Thursday Island the Government yacht was in
possession of the wharf. It moved away under
(I suppose) the skipper’s orders to allow the
Taiyuan to come alongside. When the Chow
steamer was nearing the wharf, the mighty acting-
Governor appeared and (I suppose) gave instruc-
tions to put back to the wharf at once, and so the
two boats got beautifully mixed up. The second
mate of the Chow boat telegraphed to the skipper,
and informed him frantically they were getting
into “holts” with a darned old ferry-boat.
There was also a great commotion on the
vice-regal punt; but that was nothing com-
pared to the expression on the vice-regal phiz
when the passengers on the Chow boat urged
his crew to throw the acting-Governor of
British Papua overboard. His Acting-Ex. stood
on deck in evening dress and surveyed the scene
like the Lord surveying a newly-created comet.
Our captain stood on his deck and backed his ship
furiously. Our passengers cursed profusely. A
fireman, with a bit of grimy waste round his neck,
threw a lump of coal at things in general and
missed. And all this fuss arose because a person
ill the only boiled shirt about the island wouldn’t
get his cockleshell out of the way. Then the sun
went down on our wrath, and things somehow set-
tled themselves without bloodshed. But his Acting-
Ex., I believe, has complained of our conduct in
not instantly vanishing off the face of the earth
when we saw the refulgence of his boiled shirt on
deck, and if the thing happens again he will pro-
bably throw his official throne at us.
“ Burglar Bill ” : The Chow loses much
of his stoicism in gaol. One, unable to speak
English, occupied the cell next to me during
“separate treatment,” and he spent the day
drawing rice fields, chop-sticks, and fat ducks on
his slate, which slate he would show to the warder
at inspection. The warder refused to see the
meaning of the drawings, and the Chow would cry
bitterly and answer all inquiries from sympathetic
officials by pointing at the slate. The doctor took
pity on him at last and put him on oatnual, and
he thrived considerably.


* COMMON-SENSE DIET
HEALTH NOTES
Don’t bolt your food. If you haven’t
time to eat your dinner without hurrying
over it, you had better go without it till
you have. Better be hungry than ill.
Don’t over eat. Indeed never take
quite as much as you feel you could. If
you are uncomfortable after meals it is
a sure sign either of excess or digestive
weakness.
Machinery works best when it is
cleansed and re-oiled. It is just the same
with the human machinery, the stomach
requires periodical cleansing and the
gastric juices require stimulation.
The retention of undigested food or
fermented liquids generates poisonous
gases.
Kutnow’s Powder is the only perfect
safeguard against the perils of Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Liver-trouble and Constipa-
tion.
DR. HUGH LANE, fI.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., says :
“The more I try Kutnow’s Powder in my
practice the more I like it.”
It demonstrates the value of flushing, cleansing
and throwing out the impurities from the system,
and concurrently acting as a natural lubricant to
the digestive functions and the whole alimentary
tract.
PROF. LAWSON TAIT, M.D.,
also realised the necessity of cleansing the system
frequently to remove the debris left by undigested
food. He not only prescribed Kutnow’s Powder
in his practice, but used it himself for years.
The “ Daily Express,” London, Dec. 31st, 1903, says:
“If, among the many new resolutions which will be taken in the course of the next
clay or two, the determination to introduce greater common-sense into the ordinary meals
were to tind a place it would be well with the households where it was adhered to. Now it
is winter, and we wear thick clothes and overcoats; in the dog-days we shall put on light
vesture and discard all wraps. But hot or cold, winter or summer, we eat the same food ;
we stoke, our bodies with the same amount of fuel. Then we are surprised by the pains and
miseries of Indigestion. This is absurd. Still more absurd is the fact that in cities, by
men of sedentary occupations, practically the same dietary is followed as was customary
when our forefathers lived in the country and were actively engaged under the open sky.”
Health and happiness are possessions we all desire to obtain ; too often failure arises from
the simple neglect of suitable food and the correction of excesses in diet. Every other
person you meet nowadays seems to suffer from Indigestion in some form or another.
Every man, and every woman, can, however, so regulate the digestive functions as to defy
this modern terror of our civilisation. Every stomach requires cleansing occasionally,
especially after rich living. Every liver requires periodical stimulation, whilst it is obvious
that to flush the bowels must perforce be beneficial. Kutnow’s Powder is the only perfect
exponent of this cleansing treatment.
Test This Treatment
At Once.
A Note of Warning
In order to derive the same satisfac-
tion as others who use Kutnow’s
Powder see that the fac-simile signa-
ture “S. KUTNOW & GO., Ltd.,”
and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirsciiensprung, or Leer Leap,”
are on the carton, and also on the
label of the bottle. This signature
and trade mark wilj alone ensure
your obtaining the
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S
POWDER
can be obtained from all
Chemists and Medicine
Vendors throughout the
world. If any difficulty
should be experienced,
communicate at once with
the Proprietors,
GRAND RESULTS
♦
BENEFICIAL IN LIVER ATTACKS.
“ 10 Grosvenor Road, Broadstairs,
“28th Dec., 1903.
“Some four years ago, I took a course of
Kutnow’s Powder, for a severe liver attack, with
most beneficial results ; since; then, both my wife
and self have taken it, and think so highly of it
that we are never without a bottle in the house.
“S. H. Cardwell.”
GIVES SATISFACTION.
“4 Wilson St., Liverpool, 9th Dec., 1903.
“Dear Sirs,—l beg to acknowledge the receipt
of Kutnow’s Powder, which I have used, and am
pleased to say it has given satisfaction.
“ Yours faithfully, A. Thornton.”
CONTROLS GOUT & RHEUHATISM.
“Linden Villa, Cherry Hinton Road,
“Cambridge, 29th Oct., 1903.
“Dear Sirs. —I am pleased to bear my testi-
mony to the good I have derived from using
Kutnow’s Powder. It is av .. • • J '-; ; pe
and by no means unpleasant to take. I’iUitfer
from eczema, also symptoms of gout and rheu-
matism, together with uric acid troubles ; the
Powder controls them. Yours truly,
“Margaret Thomson (Mrs.).”
KEEPS THE LIVER IN ORDER.
“ Metropolitan Opera House, New York.
“Dear Sirs. —Please send me a supply of
Kutnow’s Powder. I need same very urgently
to keep my liver in order and enable it to do its
duty. Yours truly,
“Ernest Goerlitz.
KUTNOW’S POWDER KEEPS ALL THE ORGANS CLEAN & ACTIVE.
Proprietors: S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd., 41 Farrington Rd., London, E.C-
Proprietors in US A.: KUTNOW BROS.,
Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[l-7.]
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PLANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALVE
ToAnthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) ... ... .... SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff MADAME YIALTZEVA
Andante “ Favourita ”... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “Harold” ... ... MADAM FIGhTER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how ? The answer is ready
at once— By means Of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type,
£4.
h
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria— j
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne, j
South Australia— 1
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, R-undle-st., Adelaide. <j
Westraßia ]
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth. i
Queensland— j
HEINHOB/EE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane. j
Tasmania— j
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart. ]
New Zealand— j
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland. 1
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a. tax
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall s on and alter
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 100,000 at 5/1.
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 50,000 at 5/1.
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 4, 50,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANTAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
seouring the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the oredit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA c» mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
iiy my Vlf -"*0. ' '■!» "» » » " m * > ” **'•**"**’♦' ***" ******
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay*
JFor all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep,
Apply to the Manager, Head Offtee, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
earne’s
Cure.
TBC3BB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it efiects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where 44 Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS l
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
too ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
’Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writ,inf to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medioine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave tny bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE*
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMRLLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old. *
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible.,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when site
was seven months old. She had been suffering froa
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, an«J.
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid inedi-
cia for bronohitis or colds of any sore. .
I remain, yours truly, ?
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Vlotori*
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
, “ Katanga, Via
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very muoh pleased with the effects
•of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
ctued by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
‘ HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOVY, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
v *• 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir,—
Y«ur letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I wn sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
•Crete has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as II was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
'time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
inttt had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
•very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
tor adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
■done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
•omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for h’is great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear £sir, \
‘ “Yoursvery truly,
“M. MORTTMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunjja,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
J “WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearns.— Dear Sir,— Kindly send ms on#
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, asa
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel saf# to b# withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethauga, Victoria
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I wa3 scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to'bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,.
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED,
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Chailevlllep
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne #
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
I Writing again on the 4t.h April, 1899, he states.— I
1 am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED -ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE ANP RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
«.anoh D«poT.. office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562,
Size, 3s 6d; Large, 4s 64 J, Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally*


23
§S§§S
33^
'A
r
Sunlight Soap makes homes bright.
Sunlight Soap
should be used to clean your house as well as wash
your clothes. It does twice the work of a common
soap in half the time and with less labor. Don’t
take our word for it, but try it for yourself.
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white and won't hurt the hands.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY. , 0
Indigestion: Dyspepsia.
The torments endured by a person who suffers from Indgestion are, unfortunately, so well known to
m ist of us that it is not necessary that the symptoms of that modern scoui ge should be described here.
Vliat sufferers want to know is how to become Permanently cured, and they can be enlightened
by reading this article.
There are several kinds of indigestion : Gastric Catarrh, in which the food becomes covered
with mucous, and consequently withstands the action of the digestive juices ; Gastric flatulency
the development of wind or gas; Gastric Diarrhoea, caused by the food being hurried through the
digestive organs too fast; and Constipation, which is a very prevalent and obstinate cause, which
must be removed, or digestion cannot be expected to proceed.
Food must be digested and converted into blood. Nature makes this one of her most imperative
laws of life. During the process of digestion food is entirely changed in composition by the action of
the juices of the internal organs through which it passes. In the mouth it is thoroughly mixed with
saliva. I hen it is swallowed, and enters the stomach, where it is acted upon by the gastric juices and
becomes partly liquefied. From the stomach it passes to the smaller intestine—wliich is about 18 feet
in length—and there certain portions of the food are liquefied by the bile and other juices. The food
thus made fluid is in a condition to be absorbed into and become a constituent part of the blood.
The indigestible portion of the food is discharged into the larger intestine, whence it is in turn
expelled from the body together with other refuse matter.
Just as certainly as that it is necessary to life that food must be absorbed, so, likewise it is
essential that the blood must be in a condition to absorb the food. Torpidity of the liver is the chief
cause of nearly every case of indigestion, and when the liver is torpid, the kidneys are always sympa-
thetically affected to a greater or lesser extent. The blood, which should be transformed, cleansed
and Altered by the kidneys and liver, then contains urinary and biliary poisons, and is there-
fore a feeble absorbent of nutriment. This condition of the blood reacts upon the nervous system of
the digestive organs, and prevents the flow, and alters the quality of the digestive juices.
The entire nerve energy of a person suffering from indigestion is weakened, owing to this con-
taminated condition of the blood, and the general feeling of mental and physical depression, which is
experienced during an attack of dyspepsia, is due to this cause.
cannot
The blood must be continuously purified by the action of the liver and kidneys, or good digestion
lot be expected to occur. K ®
Warner’s Safe Cure
cures indigestion and dyspepsia simply because it restores the liver and kidneys to health and activitv
and, as a consequence, the blood becomes pure, it absorbs nutriment freely, and conveys this nutri
ment to the nerves throughout the body Nature is merely aided in her efforts to preserve a balance
in the manifold and complex processes of waste and renewal by which life is maintained.
Remember, constipation or irregularity of the bowels must be overcome. Warner’s Safe Pills
should, therefore, also be taken in sufficient quantity to ensure one free movement daily.
Do not overload the stomach. Avoid tea, coffee, alcoholic stimulants and rich or fat foods Do
not eat generously of any solid food. UUB, u o
From Mr. John Gair, Tentmaker, 486 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, 13th February, 1903.
, „.“ Fo ,r ! nnny - vears r . wasa martyr to Dyspepsia and great debility. I was aware of *
falling off in mental activity and vigor, but, like thousands of others, I nLlected to pay attention
my health. Attnbu mg my condition to overwork, I resorted to stimulate, but afE?a t£ the e
commenced to disagree with ray stomach and I was compelled to seek other means of relief I tried
various remedies, but obtained no real relief, the distress of my stomach was as bad as ever I suffered
from constipation, I could not sleep, and felt quite feverish TTnnn thS ever, r sunerea
frie,ui I deckled what War,Safe of and W,W X" KU™ d A.°Ll T
noticed no perceptible improvement, but, as the medicine did not distress the stomach fpefseveri
In a couple of weeks I could feel a marked change for the better, and in two months I was auße
cured. I could eat well, and without any distress ; I could sleen well ' i 6
and pain all left me. lam now in good health.’’ P 1 ’ and the feellng of wear,ne ®
[2l
“Me an’ Dan.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
oug time ago ” —tlie old man paused
And passed his hand across his eyes.
I turned away. I knew what caused
His grief. Said he, “ Oh, dash the flies !
Long time ago, when me an’ Dan
Was young, an’ hadn’t got no sense.
That’s when we courted Mary Ann—
We uster sit on this ’ere fence.
“ An’ Mary’d come as soon’s she 'eard
Us yarnin’ ’ere upon th’ cliff.
But when she’d come, of course no word
Was spoke. She chewed ’er ’ankerchief.
“ An’ after we ’ad watched th’ sun
Sink down inter th’ evenin’ sea,
She’d laugh an’ say, ‘ Now jus’ f’r fun,
You come an’ chop some wood for me ! ’
“ An’ Mary uster lead th’ way,
An’ Mary’s dad, ’e always laughed
An’ waved ’is pipe. They uster say
’E never done no sort o’ graft.
“ An’ until night ’ad come, an’ we
Was deadly tired an’ fit t’ drop,
Th’ two of us—that’s Dan an’ me—
We’d take it, turn about, t’ chop.
“An’ Mary, she ’ud dodge inside,
An’ sing an’ bustle roun’ th’ place,
As gay an’ ’appy as a bride,
Th’ lamplight on ’er laughin’ face.
“An’ if it was my turn t’ rest,
I’d smoke an’ dream upon th’ stump,
An’ sometimes tear me Sunday best.
When I was young I was a chump !
“But Dan was jus’ th’ same. ’E’d sit
An’ watch th’ girl an’ hoi’ ’is tongue.
Whenever now I thinks of it,
Dan ivas a fool when he was young 1
“ An’ after work she’d call us in—
That’s when we’d chopped ’bout h ilf-a-ton—
An’ me an’ Dan’d sit and grin ;
That’s jus’ ’bout all we ever done.
“An’ Dan an’ me would talk t’ Dad,
An’ Marv, she’d jus’ sew or knit,
An’ i/ii/f/le. It used make me mad
T’ think she seen th’ fun of it!
“ An’ that went on f’r five long years
Till Dan an’ me went to th’ war.
Then she kissed both, an’ dropped some tears
Down each chap’s neck. Could girl do more ?
“An’ Dan, ’e met a widder fair,
An’ she—the widder—winked ’er eye.
, But Dan, ’e thought o’ Mary there,
An’ so ’e passed'th’ widder by.
“ An’ me—l met a girl with cash,
’Oo uster say she loved me true ;
An’ though I was ’er only mash,
I let ’er go f’r Mary, too.
“ An’ when we both came home again
We foun’ Dad smokin’ by th’ door.
’E waved ’is pipe to us an’ then
’E laughed jus’ like before th’ war.
“An’ we just roamed aroun’ the ’ouse,
An’ course we foun’ ’er rushin* round ;
But she was like a frightened mouse,
For, as we met, we ’eard a sound !
“ An’ Dan ’e looked at ’er an’ me,
An’ I—l looked at ’er an’ Dan,
An’ Mary—well, pore Mary, she
Jus’ give one choke, an’ then she ran.
“ An’ me an’ Dan—we thought awhile,
An’ then we went an’ yarned with Dad.
An’ ’e was wearin’ such a smile
That Dan an* me, we thought ’im mad.
“ An’ all th’ time we ’eard that noise,
An’ reely I don’ think I could
Tell you ’ow sad it made us boys
To ’ear th’ sound of ehoppin’ wood.
"No, I don’t see no reason why,
Or, if there was, jus’ why I should.”
The old man paused and heaved a sigh
“It was ’er ’usband ehoppin ’ wood I ”
VIC.
KODAK.
“A Question To Be Asked.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Two horses drawing a wood-dray across the
common, the ground ringing under their tread,
and the wheels rumbling as though on a sounding-
board. Mackenzie sat on the side-rail, his arms
folded, balancing himself to the jolts and bumps
like a sailor on a ship’s deck.
A week’s work was over. Mackenzie was going
home. His sun-blackened face, half hidden under
his hat, brightened from time to time with a
smile. At these moments he called to the horses
to hurry up. He was thinking, with the placid
content of a lucky newly-married man. For he
was lucky, there was no doubt of that; everyone
said so—the pretty school-mistress might have
had the pick of the district, and she had chosen
him. He smiled again as he thought of it, and
how she would be anxiously waiting for him to
come home.
T‘ ey drew out of the bush into the clear. He
stood up in the dray to get a view of the house.
“Shemight be waiting for me at the sliprails,”
he said to himself. His smile passed. No one
was there, nor, when ha drove up to the house
and under the lean-to, did Carrie come to the
doorway witli a smile and a word of welcome.
The man's face clouded ; he had hurried to tret
home, but being there, he unharnessed and fed
the horses with dilatory slowness, looking from
time to time towards the house. “No doubt
Carrie is busy getting tea,” he repeated to him-
self consolingly. He entered the front room.
Two women were seated there, a near neighboi
and his wife —the latter a dainty sweet-faced
little woman with quite a Christmas Annual
regularity of outline.
“Is that you, Harry ? How late you are 1 ” She
did nofc rise to meet him. “ I wish you’d get some
sticks and light the fire for tea. lam so tired to-
day.” Mackenzie nodded to the neighbor and
without a word went into the back room, where
the sound of crackling wood soon told that he was
busy.
The neighbor looked at Carrie interrogatively.
“You think I ought to have got the tea
ready?” said Carrie, answering the look. “In
the first place I’m tired, and in the next I think it
right a husband should be broken in right from
the commencement. It’s a woman’s own fault, I
always say, if she is trampled on. You can spoil a
husband as you can a child by letting him have
too much his own way. I found that out with the
school, and I know.” She spoke quite resolutely
with her crisp, Sydney accent, and laid down the
law like the queen she looked.
“We shall see, my dear, we shall see. Perhaps
you are right, but my old man would make the
devil of a row if he had to get his own meal, and
me about.”
When tea was over and the neighbor gone,
Carrie, brushing the company smile from her lace,
asked: “Why did you not come home earlier,
Harry. I wanted you to drive me to Terry’s.”
“What, leave my work? You were not)
obliged to go ! ”
“ But surely you don’t expect me to be shut up
in the house all day, and I’m sure you might have
come home for once.”
He did not seek to explain that loss of time was
loss of money. Perhaps he had done so, vainly,
before. He looked doubtingly at her, and then
his face brightened, as, putting his hand to his
pocket, he pulled out three notes and laid them
down triumphantly.
“Is that all ?” she snapped, tossing her pretty
curls. “How am I to pay all the bills with
that? ”
“It’s more than anyone else has made who
draws to the mill,” replied Mackenzie, sobered
now, his smile gone, “and I want eighteenpence
of that for tobacco.”
“What, two plugs a week, and I who have to
pinch and scrape ! Could you not do with one?”
“ Well—say one,” he said after a pause. “ But
where does all the money go ? ”
“How should you understand? There is the
housekeeping, and I must dress ; you would not
like to see me a fright.”
“ I thought you could make your own dresses ?'*
said Mackenzie, hesitating.
“‘What if I can ! We have not come to that
yet, and I don’t mean to.”
* * • *
Weeks passed. Mackenzie showed less and
less eagerness to hurry home with his cheque.
He got to lingering at the Cross-roads, playing
dominoes for drinks, the horses waiting in the
road patiently till, late in the evening, he half-
walked, half-staggered to the dray. One night
his mates had to carry him out and dump him
oyer the tail-board like a heavy sack, and though
his home was five miles off, no one doubted the
horses would take him safely there.
It was the next day that Mrs. Terry said to her
husband. “ That poor Mrs. Mackenzie has had
such a bad fall; she has blackened one of her
eyes against the doorpost.”
“Doorpost be blowed ! Harry’s put his brand
on her, and a good job too. She wanted it.”
Bad times came in the wood-trade, nothing but
economy and the hardest work made it pay.
Mackenzie lost his team, and fell from the dignity
‘ of a drawer to be a eutter, and a large part of his
diminished earnings passed over the bar. There
was now a baby at home, but it was beautifully
dressed, and the home itself a model of thrift and
care. Three days a week Carrie walked six miles
into town to do dressmaking, and often, after her
twelve-mile journey, she would start out again to
fetch Harry home from the public-house bar.
She came one night as usual to the Cross-roads,
Mackenzie’s voice sounding out loud above that
of the other revellers. She came into the crowd
quietly, squeezing to his side, coaxed and wheedled
him out into the road. He, big burly man of six-
feet-six, rolling and shouting ; she trying to lead
him, and when he stopped, after going a few steps,
pulling him slowly along.
“Now, come along, Harry, do, dear. Tea is
waiting for you.”
“ Oh, I’m all right; let a fellow alone ! ‘ For
he’s a jolly good fellow ’”
“Now do come,” and she put up her little
mouth with a caressing voice—“do come ! You
can sing as you go along. I’ve got fish for tea. ’
Half-leading, half-dragging, she got him into
the road, he all the time laughing down at her, as
at a merry child whose wilfulness he humored.
And she looked a child; her dainty smallness
beside his bulk.
Old Terry stood on the hotel verandah watch-
ing them.
“ I expect he’ll hammer her when she get’s him
home.”
“I shouldn’t wonder,” replied the landlord,
philosophically.
“It’s a strange thing,” said the old man as he
went in to finish his beer, “that bad husbands
mostly have good wives. How is it ? ”
“ That’s it! How is it ? ” repeated the publican
as he wiped a glass.
HENRY FLETCHER.
Trooper Ridley’s Zeal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
PoLicE-Trooper Ridley waa always quoted by his
superiors as a rising and zealous young officer.
His zeal was, indeed, beyond question, and the
Law, as made and established, was to him a thing
to be approached with veneration. There was
but one entity for which he had a more profound
respect than the Law, and that was the personal
well-being of Trooper Ridley.
Outside of official life, Ridley had other pleas-
ing qualities, which made him popular in the
social life of Barwonah. He was a smart, well-
set-up young fellow, and when clothed in the
glory of shining boots, well-fitting breeches, and
jingling accoutrements, was the cause of some
heart-burnings among the feminine population of
the township. Although Ridley endeavored to
distribute his favors impartially (he held that a
man of law should, at times, be strictly impartial),
it was conceded that his attentions to pretty
Kitty Lawson, parlor-maid at the Royal, be-
tokened serious intentions, and Kitty was accord-
ingly the object of a certain amount of envy, and
a corresponding amount of malice among certain
of her fellow-feminines. So Kitty and Ridley
walked out and drove out, and enjoyed their brief
interval of bliss.
* * * *
Trooper Ridley gazed dejectedly at an official-
looking blue document that lay before him.
He thought that Fate had been particularly
hard on him to single him out for this duty. But
then, again, his official character for zeal was at
stake, and he thought of the stripe that was
almost within his grasp. Besides, if he didn’t
carry out the thing someone else would, and his
refusal would be of no use, and would effectually
block his advancement in the force.
He paused irresolutely, then put on his cap,
and walked down to the Royal Hotel.
“Is Catherine Lawson here?” he asked Mrs.
Flynn, the landlady, in his most official voice.
“ Sure she is, poor gurl,” was the reply; “ more
shame to ye, Mr. Ridley, for not cornin’ to see her
before, in her thrubble.”
He waved away the comment, and proceeded
to the room indicated. Knocking at the door, a
voice bade him enter.
The girl rushed to meet him with outstretched
arms and tear-reddened eyes.
“Jim, Jim dear,” she cried, “I knew you’d
come. Oh! Jim, I was mad ! What will they do
to me ? ”
“Is your name Catherine Lawson?” queried
Trooper Ridley, officially.
“ Why, Jim dear, you know it is. What do you
mean?” asked the girl, wonderingly.
Touching her on the shoulder the trooper said,
in his largest business voice, “ Catherine Lawson,
I arrest you on a charge of murdering your male
child on or about the 10th instant. I warn you
that anything you may say will be produced
against you as evidence at your trial. Come ! ”
JASON.


Piles
FOR FOUR
YEARS—.
SUFFERED UNTOLD AGONY.
AS an illustration of the wonderful
efficacy of Bile Beans in curing the
worst cases of Piles after many
other treatments have failed, we
quote the following case of Mr. George
Guerney, of Meeks-road, Marrickville, Syd-
ney. This gentleman says: —“About four
years ago I suffered considerably from Piles,
brought on by constipation. The misery I
experienced was awful. I could not sleep,
lost all appetite, and became entirely
unfitted for work. The pain I experienced
was terrible, and kept me up half the night
trying different expedients to gain tempo-
rary relief. To sit down was out of the
question, and moving about was almost as
bad. I consulted a doctor, who prescribed
medicine which relieved me while taking it, ~ . ..
but the Piles again returned after leaving it off. It was then I decided to give Bile Beans
a trial, and I have great pleasure in informing you that the first few doses afforded me
great relief, and I had not finished the contents of one box when the Piles disappeared,
and have not since returned. From my experience, |I can confidently assert that Bile
Beans are an undoubted cure for Piles.”
u
CJ
BILE BEANS will be found a PROMPT and PERMANENT CURE for BILIOUS-
NESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY,
FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREAIH
ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG. and, in fact, all
ailments that owe their origin to defective liver action. AT THIS TRYING SEASOJN
NO HOME SHOULD BE WITHOUT A BOX. BILE BEANS are obtainable from
all Chemists and Stores, price or 2/9 large box. THE LARGE SIZE
ECONOMICAL, AND IS THEREFORE SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED FOR
GENERAL FAMILY USE.
FOR
* Km
A FREE
SAMPLE
will be sent on
receipt of a
penny stamp
to cover return
postage.
Address: TIIE
BILE BEAN
CO., Sydney,
and mention
Bulletin.
ONE BEAN
ONE DOS 2.
THE SUFFERERS’ FRIEND.
mzm
mm
m
m
1
m
W'fßnSl 1
. 1 ,
m
m
'/A
mm
m
Wmmm
Wrnmm
mm.
. ■ i § i
a
■ • ?II
■
I '
■
■ -
IBflllll ■
■HR
gh
The Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Greeting, O, Ocean wide ! O, vast, green Sea !
A few straight words and true I’d say to thee.
A question or two, also, would I ask,
O thou, who soundest hollow, like a cask,
Or like a soul that mourns indefinitely in a keg,
And prompt and truthful answer I fain of thee
would beg.
Tell me, O grasping Sea, why dost thou hold,
In covetous embrace, the stolen gold
From sunken ships, and galleys and triremes —
Wealth far beyond the wildest of man’s dreams?
Thou buy’st with it no drink at any harbor bar !
No mermaid handetli down to thee from rocky
shelf the bottle of Three-star !
And Sea, I pray thee answer furthermore,
Why dost thou leave thy dead upon the shore,
Their clothes destroyed, their hats all sodden
wrecks,
Unsaleable seaweed wisped round their necks?
The gold thou takest is for ever lost to us ;
The bones we have to bury at the public cost,
which makes us cuss.
These sad remains had money when they died,
And watches, trinkets, other things beside.
Thy long green hands their pockets did explore
Ere leaving them, insolvent, on the shore,
With hairy prawns amid their trailing garments
hid,
And in their hair the remnants of some dead,
dashed, damp, unprofitable squid.
Thy caves are full of safes and lined with gems,
And eels run races through lost diadems ;
And o’er them thou-dost gibber shapelessly,
Or gnash thy rocky teeth, or howl in glee,
Or rush around and scream insanely in thy ancient
lair
With planks and masts and sodden useless fire-
wood in thy hair.
There are rich liquors in thy great salt halls,
And drowned art treasures tumble round thy
walls;
Yet when man builds a city by thy side—-
A marble city with white towers of pride—
No golden tribute comes in sign of friendship
from thy boundless store,
But silently by night dost thou leave some dead
wet animal beside his door.
N.S.W.
EDGAR H. HARRIS.
Bridget Gwendoline.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ Kim’ere ! Way-a ! Wo-back!” shouted Jim
Whelan to his team of miserable bullocks, hitting
the near-leader across the face and rubbing it in
with imprecations on the brute’s eyes.
The long drought had opened a market for any
sort of fodder, and Whelan was on his way to
Bunya with a big load of pumpkins when he met
the boyish rector of Bunya breathing his horse in
a long, deep sand-drift.
The young parson had but recently arrived from
England, and had been tactless enough to freely
express his contempt of bush manners and people.
The bushmen promptly retaliated by an exag-
gerated display of roughness and blasphemy when
the parson was about.
“Goo’ day !” said Whelan, uncouthly, giving
his head a side jerk. “Pum’kinsis riz, I hear.
How ’re they sellin’ up your way ?”
“Really, I am not interested in the pumpkin
market; but could you not drive your oxeii with-
out swearing at them ? ”
“I dunno,” replied Whelan with a grin.
“Sure they wouldn't bulge an inch else. Talk
about me swearin’! Y’ ought jus’ t’ hear Jack
Bowlin’ perform when ’e s stuck in th’ Glue Pot
back there be the Fourteen Mile ! Now that’s
swearin’ if v’ like ! Why, be jakes, he d lif tli at
off y’r head.”
•• i tear the life you bush people live is very de-
grading,” began the parson, but Whelan broke in
conclusively :
“ The bush’s right ’nough f’r them what s use
t’ it, an’un’erstan’s it, an’ makes the best of it. I
reckon we’s as good as them what’s alw’ys throwin’-
off at us.”
He turned away from the man who did not
understand him to the cittle which did. I hen he
half turned round again to the parson and said :
“There’s a joey t’ be branded up at my place.”
“ I beg your pai.'on ; I don’t understand you,
I’m afraid.”
“ Why, a joey—a kid—to be branded. '
As the parson showed plainly he did not yet
understand, in spite of the lucid explanation,
Whelan proceeded to make his meaning clearer
by signs, as if he were knocking it into a black-
fellow. He laid his whip across his left arm, and
made signs over it with his right hand.
“ Christenin’; you know ! ”
It dawned on the parson that Whelan wished
to have his child baptised. He was about to
lecture the heathen when the mail-coach came
into view before a cloud of dust, and ploughed
through the deep sand.
“Now then, Whelan, shif’ y’r sanguinary cows !
What the hell d’ yo’ mean blockin’ up the road
for, where nobody kin pass ? ” , .
The coach pulled-up while Whelan shifted his
cows, and the parson began to reprove the coach-
driver for his language. The coach was behind
time, the horses were so.poor that Rory had been
belting them along the last few miles, and he was
in no good temper.
“He understand,” he said, sulkily, “an it was
intended on’v f’r him. Them it wasn’t meant f’r
needn’t listen. If yo’ alw’ys cock y’r ears y’ll
hear lots y’oughtn’t to. Git-up!”
The parson drove on in great indignation.
“These dreadful people,” he said to himself,
“appear to have no respect for anyone or any-
-1,1 Whelan and Rory on the far end of the sand-
drift were exchanging opinions as they filled their
pipes. His Majesty’s Mail said :
“ Why, blow it! a bloomin’ bishop wouldn t
make as much dust. I ’ad a bishop an’ a arsh-
dicken or somethin’ on the box th’ other day, an
blest if I could make out their lingo, Lat’n ’r
Greek ’r somethin’, givin’ it t’ each other like me
an’ you might; but I didn’t inte fere. Who s that
cove, anyhow, teachin’ us to talk? Why, we
talked ’fore he was born. He’s balmy, I reckon.”
‘‘Dashed if ’e noo what brandin’ a joey was,”
said Whelan.
Before the parson returned from the far end of
his parish he sent a note to Whelan, fixing a time
for the baptism. Whelan’s house, built of adzed
slabs and roofed with bark kept in place with
greenhide and logs, stood on the river bank about
a mile from the main road. Though Whelan had
been on the land several years he had not bothered
to clear a track to the house. Like a true bushman
he never moved timber he could screw his dray
round or bump over. The parson led his horse
through the timber, jolting cushion and luggage
from his sulky, and reached the house in no very
amiable mood. Here he had to defend himself
with his whip from sundry mongrels. Every-
thing in this awful bush conspired to deepen his
impressions of its utter barbarism. Mrs. Whelan
was in the barn chopping up pumpkins when the
barking of the dogs brought her out. She stood
outside the barn door with an axe in her right
hand and a pumpkin in her left. Her rolled-up
sleeves exposed her sun-tanned arms ; her skirt,
gathered up from each side and fastened behind,
showed, beneath a short, faded, red flannel petti-
coat, that her stockingless extremities were thrust
into a pair of her husband’s boots; on her head was
a torn and greasy felt hat. She shook the axe at
the parson in welcome aiid called off the dogs.
“All right, Mister ! I’ll be there’n a minit,”
was her greeting.
Then she sent forth a voice of piercing shrillness
into the quiet bush.
“Car-ra-li-na ! Coo-00-e ! Car-ra-li-na ! ”
The echo came back across the river, and a flock
of white cockatoos rose up noisily from the culti-
vation paddock. From the bush, a short distance
off, came an irritable and, to the parson, unex-
pected response.
“O, shutup ! I ain’t deaf ! Whatchawant ? ”
“My word ! I’ll warm y’r hide f’r you, me
lady. Fetch along that there kid ’ere at wonst!”
“Naw, I won’t! Kim ’n’ fetch ’er yisself ! ”
Mrs. Whelan responded with alacrity. She
dropped axe and pumpkin and swooped into the
bush. Her exact location was presently indicated
by screams of rage and pain mixed with maledic-
tions from the undutiful Caroline. The mother
returned with the baby under her left arm, and
leading the squealing elder offspring by the ear
with her right hand. At the door of the barn
Caroline’s face was again slapped hard, and she was
cast inside to keep the pumpkins company, and
the door was shut and fastened on her.
“Walk inside, mister, an’ take a seat,” said
Mrs. Whelan, preceding the parson to the house.
“ That there young minx won’t do nothin’ I tell
’er ; but wait ’ll y’r gone, an’ by gosh ! I’ll skin ’er
alive —see if I don’t.”
The parson took a seat on an empty gin-case.
There was not a chair in the house, and hardly
any furniture; a rough, home-made bush table
stood in the middle of the uneven earthen floor;
tlie wall paper of illustrated weeklies was torn to
ribbons, partly by the “kids,” and partly by
Whelan when he wanted pipe lights ; a silent,
dirty-faced clock, with the minute-hand gone,
stood on the mantel-piece. The whole place
bespoke neglect and decay. “God help the
children reared in such a den ! ” thought the
parson, taking in all the wretched details. He
was startled by Mrs. Whelan’s first question.
“Y’r a noo chum, aintcha?”
“ I have not been long out here, if that is what
‘ new chum ’ means,’ he replied, stiffly.
Her troubles about his stiffness. She proceeded
easily.
“I thought’s much fr’m y’r looks. Yo’ kin
alw’ys tell a noo chum be lookin’ at him. But
never min’, mister, y’ll soon git broke-in. My
word ! the bush’s the place f’r knockin’ the stuffin’
out o’ noo chums. ”
She smiled down on him in motherly pity. The
smile was not returned, but he flushed and
frowned.
“I called to baptise your child. Is your
husband about? He should be present.”
“The boss "s gone t’ Bunya with another load.
’E’s sorry ’e couldn’t wait for it, but ’e don’ want
t’ miss a ctianst o’ maltin’ a bit.”
“ He had no right to go when he knew I was
coming. Where are the sponsors ? ”
“ What’s them ?” she asked, bewildered.
“Dear me ! ” muttered the parson at her depth
of ignorance. Then, aloud, “We shall require a
little water, please.”
She brought in a large tin dish, used for tne
household washing-up, and set it on the table.
“ Have you such a thing as a prayer-book? I
dropped mine out of the sulky.”
She paused a moment to think before she
answered : “ Blest if I know where ’tis ; b’lieve
it’s in the box. Jus’ ’ol’ the kid, mister, while I
look ! ”
Before the parson could decline, as he meant
emphatically to do, for it was an exceedingly
dirty “ kid,” he found the child across his knees.
He looked at the grubby thing with such an
expression of disgust and repulsion that she broke
into howls. A consoling voice came from the
bedroom.
“ All right, ducky ; mum’ll be there’n a minit.
Don’ let ’er fall, mister.”
“Do please cotne and take her,” the parson
pleaded, in mortal fear of consequences. “Never
mind the book ! Gome quickly ! I shall let her
fall! ”
Mrs. Whelan returned with two dilapidated
books, which she laid before the parson, and took
the child from him, remarking with a laugh :
“ Y’ ain’t used t’ kids, I kin see. ”
“God forbid !” he exclaimed thoughtlessly but
fervently.
He opened each of the books delicately with the
end of a finger, shut it, and looked up at the
woman now suckling her child without needless
modesty.
“ Ain’t naythur o’ those them ? ” she asked in a
disappointed tone.
“No !” he answered with a sneer. “One is a
cookery book, the other a dictionary. Never
mind, I’ll manage without a book.”
He uttered a few prayers from memory and put
the prescribed formula to her :
“Name this child!” without taking the baby
in his arms. Her answer staggered him.
“Blest if I ain’t clean forgot about the name.
She’s registered Bridget, but me an’ the boss
thinks as Bridget’s too common, an’ we wants it
changed. We was so busy loadin’ the dray, an’
the boss went off in sich a tear, we clean forgot.
P’r’aps you kin think o’ one that’ll suit ’er —a nice
one.”
“Gwendoline!” suggested the parson, ironi-
cally.
“My word ! ” She assented at once, delighted.
“ That’ll do fine ; fus’-rate.”
So the awful brand was put on Whelan’s joey:
“Bridget Gwendoline !”
When the boss reached home and was told the
new name, he exclaimed : “ Crikey ! ”
Then his heart opened.
“Blow me! missis, if I don’ leave’im a bag o
pum’kins.”
vxc.
EXILE.


Reduced to a Shadow
Could Hardly Walk. Dostors Said Slow Recovery. Disappointed
Doctors and Myself by Getting Weil Quickly.
i
s
Mr. Wm. B. Mackie, of Dunedin, New
Zealand, sends us his photograph and
says:
“Not long ago I was run over by a
■wagon and severely injured. For -weeks
I was confined to my bed. I was reduced
to a mere shadow, so weak I could hardly
walk. The doctors told me it would be a
long time before I could regain my health.
I felt I could not wait, so procured a
bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. You can-
not imagine how quickly my health and
strength began to return. The first day
I felt an improvement. In a week I had
a better appetite, and was much stronger.
And only a few bottles wrought a most
marvelous change in me. I like your
medicine especially because it seems to
give just the aid nature sometimes
needs.”
! “The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you have been sick and are not recovering rapidly, just try a bottle of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is the strongest tonic you can buy, and it aids nature
wonderfully. The better way is to tike the Sarsaparilla before you get really
ill. Take it when you first begin to feel poorly. It will cure you quickly
then and save you much suffering and large expense. let even when you are
sick, you cannot find a better medicine.
There are many so-called Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get Ayer s, the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment with imitations-
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Gives Strength to the Weak, Courage to the Depressed
flyer’s Pills cure constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, coated tongue.
Prepared by DK. J. C. AYEK & CO., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
A GUARANTEED cure for piles.
PAZO OINTMENT is g-uaranteed to cure any ease of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how longstanding, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
oasesin six days This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, En ' ’ '
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
ybr’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. v
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, TJniversity Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.«
Now ready, Fhil May in Australia , the
most attractive illustrated book ever issued in
Australia, containing all the best and most inter-
esting examples of May’s work for The Bulletin.
Price, One Guinea.*
... TAKE * . .
BEECHAM’S
PXILS
TO AVOID INDIGESTION.
That distressed feeling is simply a poorly-
working stomach—it needs a little help—
’ but no matter how bad it may be, a dose of
BEECHAM’S PILLS will SPEEDILY
GIVE RELIEF Take BEECHAM’S
PILLS for a few days and the trouble will
disappear.
TO CURE SICK HEADACHE.
Sick headache means an overtaxed stomach
and a derangement of the digestive organs.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have proved them-
selves a boon for removing that distressed
feeling and discomfort. A dose will remove
the immediate cause, and if repeated for a
few days will enable your system to work
normally.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price Is. l£d. (56 Pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills).
mm
1/1
Post Free.
-
HARRY MORANT:
His’ Ventures & Verses
BUCCANEER
Didt.b.Smith,
Consults by Letter, &).
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CAKD.
Dr.MARIIN
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P..E., L.R.C.5..E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press'Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE bv Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, arid all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his'24 years’/practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment,, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing
Jr' : meautomatic chess-player,” referred to by a
srty Point contributor recently, besides affording
‘a fascinating problem, was made the basis of a tale
She New Quarterly Magazine for 1874. In that ya,rn
man in the supposed automaton observes a person,
sorbed in the game with him, robbed by a friend. The
Ml then turns on the dilemma of the man in the figure,
wlw «iSliesr to reveal the crime, but is, of course, un-
willing to expose, in his evidence, the working of the
bogus automaton. Can’t remember now whether he
dishonorably condoned the crimvor dishonorably gave
away the show. It was a tight,' ace either way.
“Hamlet the Mummer.” r ‘4ough most people are
unaware of it, there is a V>f Australian mummers,
"-lied the How tta e society originated I
don’t know, B ear d it suggested that a number oi
well-known aoP* -8 were at a ptaTb drinking one night,
when a mentir °f Distressed! Actors’ Fund csopped
up. One reprnier thought thull ..very actor who was
worthy of name of actor shoulf* deny himself a drink
once a weeH|ndgl> s 7V‘«)f “ rln,{ > 01 1 rather the price of it,
to the tuna? The prbpdSA “".KCW'tnl wflttle support.
Before they retired, however, these jolly boys had
banded themselves into the Baliymaniacs. Their consti-
tution, by-laws, and everything were this :—When one
Ballymaniac saw another, no matter where he happened
to be, he was to give the Ballymaniac whistle (one
specially composed b.v a Ballymaniac, who was first violin
i*ta uiehire orchestra), and unless the other Ballymaniac
whistled in answer to the call, put his hand above his
head and did three or four steps of the Highland fling, he
had to pay Is. as a Ballymaniac contribution to the
Distressed Actors’ Fund. Sometimes this whistle would
be heard at very inconvenient times. Perhaps a fellow
would be taking tea at a 6 o'clock crowded restaurant
with a lady, and would suddenly hear the weird call.
Aba rule he would sooner dub up Is. than make a fool of
himself. I remember walking along the Melbourne
Block, one afternoon, and seeing a Ballymaniac. I
whistled. He looked round with a tired sort of look, and
said, “I’ve had enough of this d d Ballymaniac busi-
ness ! You’re the third one to-day who has taken me in.
The three of you hav<; whistled when you knew I couldn’t
do the blanky dance. Thfee hob wasted ! I’ll either
have to chuck this confounded business or keep out of
the main streets. Look ! come and have a drink, and say
nothing about me not doing the jig.” I was satisfied, so
was he—the drinks ouiy cost him 3d apiece. Another
evening I was with a Ballymaniac at one of Rickards’
shows. Another of the cult, who was also a comedian by
profession, was doing a turn that Right. In the middle
of his performance! my friend in the box gave the war-cry,
and I thought the comedian was going to break up. He
didn't. He stopped in his patter, and, taking out his
watch, remarked, ‘‘ I see it is time for me to take a little
exercise my doctor has ordered,” and with that he did
the jig. The Ballymaniac Society is now on its last legs.
Beryl Faber and beauteous Mrs. Maesmore Morris made
a v ery unwise venture in theatrical management last
month. They took the Avenue Theatre, London, for the
production of “ All Fletcher’s Fault,” and the piece ran a
fortnight, which is to say that it didn’t draw the public
at all. The hero of this ill-fated fiction is a tired young
oarl, who gets turned to deeds of human kindness by a
doctor’s prescription, as Horace Parker had been turned
m “ Message from Mars,” where the conversion from lazy
selfishness to furious philanthropy was only the end of
the story and not the whole of it, as in this case. The
author having seized a stale idea from one play, proceeds
to introduce it in imitation of a merely casual scene in
( The Great Millionaire ” melodrama. The tired hero of
. AH Fletcher’s Fault ” starts his new life by order-
ln£ his Servants to invite a number of poor
wayfarers into his ancestral mansion. He gets a
motley gathering of guests—elaborated counter-
parts of the seedy strangers who came and “scoffed”
Albert Norman’s choice refreshments in “The Great
Millionaire ’’—and one of them is a flower-girl whose
lame sister he afterwards rescues from a burning house,
like Parker in “ Message from Mars.” By this heroic
conduct he gets the adoration of a high-born female,
corresponding to Minnie in “ The Message.” She had
despised him until he took to rescuing helpless children
from the flames but now she consents to marry him
without pausing to think what a troublesome philanthro-
pist he will be. Five years ago “ All Fletcher’s Fault ”
would have scored a success on account of the same
scenes and sentiments that doomed it to failure last
“ L.W.” : There seems to be at lot of variety talent going
to waste in this country for sheer lack of opportunity.
At a church shivoo in Drummoyne, lately, a girl oame out
and sang a comic song with a kookaburra on her shoulder-
The song was encored, and in response the girl gave a
recitation of some humor. The house shrieked, but the
bird sat still—the picture of gravity. The lady touched
him on the end of the bill. “That was a joke, dear!”
she said. The bird threw up his head and went off into
a wild fit of laughter. Every time he realised it was a
joke he rumbled away into hilarity. As her supply of
jokes ran out the bird's oacchinations began to. slacken off
till he was once more the monument of grave sobriety,
’heedless of the girl’s pleading that “ that was a joke,
dear.” He only shook his bill by way of saying that he
didn’t see it. So she ignored him and confined her atten-
tion to the audience, and made some more than usually
humorous remarks. The bird exploded, he toppled over,
hung by one claw, and then flopped helplessly, still
laughing, to the floor, and, as the girl bore him away, hjs
appreciation of her last item could be heard growing faint
in the distance.
J. F. Hogan, after ransacking the British Museum,
writes out to the Melbourne Advocate a really tangible
biography of Lola Montes, and does justice to her fine
qualities. She was born in Limerick, of an Irish father
and Spanish mother, and died in New York, aged 43,
after some years of faithful missionary work in connec-
tion with the Magdalen Asylum. In young womanhood,
she lived with her mother at Bath. At the age of 17 she
eloped with and married Captain James because her
’mother wanted her to wed a mouldy Baronet of 50. The
marriage was unhappy. She became a dancer, bewitch-
ing London and the Continent. Her rule of Bavaria,
which lasted just one year, w r as statesmanlike and bene-
ficial in every way. Her intellectual powers were evi-
dently superior to those of a Bernhardt or a Duse, but
she had no histrionic ability. Hogan gives extracts from
her admirable lectures, especially one upon the “ Women
of History.”
A negro, or coon-colored giantess, well-known in
America, has been booked for an Australian tour. She
stands 7ft. 4in., and is probably the tallest on the show-
market just at present, if not the tallest in the world.
One hears very little about giants of late. The Fat
Sisters from Gippsland (Vic.) have visited England and
spread the fame of Australia as a meat-producing
country, but a real Commonwealth Giant, cJr Giantess,
whose length will lick creation is a novelty yet to be dis-
covered. What’s the height of Australia’s tallest son,
and where does he hang out, anyhow? This journal
knows of a speculator who would like to open negotia-
tions with an Bft. native.
“Hamlet”: Manager Pollock has got a couple of
shows for Adelaide at last —Tom Perman’s Panto., and
possibly wanderer George Darrell. The local Theatre
Royal is at times a real white elephant—particularly at this
season. Only a few second and third-rate companies are
obtainable so soon after Christmas, and usually they are
so poor that a lessee is obliged to pay their travelling ex-
penses to get them. A lessee of a theatre like the Ade-
laide Royal, besides being a business man, should be an
actor, so that'when there is a dearth of touring com-
panies he could scratch together a company, and play
“East Lynne” while the theatrical drought lasted.
Charley Holloway is the kind of man I mean.
Barnum and Bailey’s old circus business is now owned
by a joint-stock co., mostly English; besides the
“Greatest Show on Earth,” it runs the Buffalo Bill
crowd. Last year it paid a 10 per cent, div., and set
aside £35,000 against expenses in preparation for next
season.
“ J.A.C." : “ Chili ” Gonzales, recently deceased, a one-
time well-known circus performer, and father of the clever
Gonzales Sisters, used to relate that once while he was
with a circus in Brazil two performers from the United
States joined the show. Their act, known as “La
Perche,” consisted in one of them balancing a long pole,
while the <other climbed up it and went through certain
tricks. The “bearer” introduced his partner to the
audience in what he doubtless supposed to be Portuguese.
“Lo hombre arrivato qui,” he said, “clamfceroa rotondo,
rivoluto alia serpente, er—,” and here his vocabulary
failed him, “er—and then slides down again like a Gor-
dam lizard 1 ”


FRTJIT
JAR
RINGS
Best Quality.
All Fresh Stock.
Will not perish.
g
PERDRIAU & GO.,
‘S}BBip43\^ :
Jiaqqnji
QNLYOI
270 George Street, Sydney
LADIES'
'i. K' v ■ ,v - v-'
gfTjh /
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and Stylish
Transformations and semi-
Tran sformations yoh ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
D*“ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. Undone.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, Lend**
Warren Webster & Co. n«w «»«••*.
Enquiries Invited fob ««•••
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
MAMMATT’S
Spoons
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
CoHF
*Hbb
WOLF
OT
J. «J. MAXFIELP Ppoprs., SHTr.FFTRLT)
At tho Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-57.,
SYDNEY
Also At—
M TKK BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
h
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rolls and Grushers.
gh
i
am
g
The “ Utopia " Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, *„
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, eto., etc.
3
nlion
hg
T. M. GOODALL & CO., '29 hay st., sydhey
have .N stock and to, ARR.vE- p orta ble, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Ete.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
h
:\PNNI
fcaffh’s
Size, 51" x3A" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
and Have
for Bale
' 1
(all
for all
purpoMS)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulley*, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietor*.
R. L. SCRVTTON & CO., Ltd.
gh
FIXERS
.... ON ....
Scientific Principles
Passed all
Bacteriological Tests
Dr. NELLY, L.R.C.P. & 8., Edin.;
Mons. A. de BAV'AY, Melb.;
Mr. CILRUTH, Govt. Bacteriologist,
N.Z. ; and others.
A FILTER WITHOUT SUCH A
CERTIFICATE IS NOT A
REAL FILTER.
g
!!!£«
Ai
—■
mmm
II
Pressure,
Non-Pressure,
Water Bag,
Tank, and
Large Service
FILTERS
All Authorities condemn old style
so-called filters.
DC” THEY ARE DANGEROUS.
\
GERM
PROOF
BnmmmemmMßmmsmamnmmaKm
The Cheapest and
Host Satisfactory
Filter in the Market.
Consult the “Abbott”
Filter Co. on all matters
of Filtration on a large
or small scale.
ADVICE GRATIS
■ n
The “Abbott” Filter Co.,°^ e 488 Collin ; 3i., Melbourne
; or N. Guthridge, Ltd., 71 Clarence St., Sydney
