

The Bulletin
Vol 25.—A'o. 1260. j
Registered at the General Post Qffioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, April 7, l!H!4.
MciiiWAJN'o Aj_,JU.
GAELIC WHISKY.
braver stout.
E. G. WATKIMS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent street;, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Roller. Stsel cod Special CHAINS
AM iSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A of Eight Different Articles. comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed),
lhis splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6cl.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
■
t m
4
i
WM
:/4|n w&p
- . m
SOLE
AGENTS FOR
ELEVATORS
CONVEYORS
FOR CATALOGUE.
'■ ■ -s., v -o • •
ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVE)
COAL CUTTERS \
ROTARY DRILLS]
Electricity or
Compressed Air*
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
Price, 64 § Posted, Set
HOEtAJaT.
-—isjes;—
fiadleys Orient Ijotel.
&
to
1£ TO 1000 H.P. UNITS. w Our Engineer, Mr. C. A. Lowe, is now with Messrs. Briscoe, 56 York Street, Sydney 7 "3K3
— : i
HIGH CLASS, LOW PRICE.
n/«
I
HI
Ju McEwan & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
Briscoe & Co., Ltd.
Saunder.* Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smellio & Co.,
Brisbane.
Th* National Mortgage & Agency 00., Ltd.
Dunedin.
LINCOLN,
.
Q O
0. 0
E ROOM’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt,China and Ceylon
the best players in India. Agents wanted
Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
I
EROOM & CO*,
CALCUTTA, INDIA,
—— i i
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
OL
0.l o
THE ROYAL
13 diswan - Lamp
ECONOMY IN -
- . CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY;
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
TBS sit !S SWAM
United Electric Light
Co.. Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-streot*
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
PLUM
(jr®NTLEMEN. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
, e . “ e * ' n d never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WK GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. ’ J
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Pwo*
Singte Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
Single Razor , m Ivory Handle, 165. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Solo Agents
ikw 5 f ' gistered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
J 3? Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Colonial Hospital writes : “ Our patients have
greatly benefited by the use of Joshua’s
Boomerang Brandy. It is a very Nourishing
and Beneficial Stimulant.”
HI
w
ALCOCIDE
IKEGISTESRJHD. I
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy. ,
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Ooa.-i;>k\tial.
A, C. LUMSPEN,
74 VICTORIA MAD.
ME
m
3=*
m
a
o
<r>
HERVEYS
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
~W. O. ZELIjIDIHCEJDGHH] OCX
DYERS & CLEANERS, 7
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
tonntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
References throughout Great Britain and CelonUa.
imm
taken from the System.
i Nothing remains which ca».
I produce an attack. You can
cat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest retai n of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched: nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life rasda enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: DR P. HAROLD HAYES’As’rimATIC INSTITUTE,
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
MEMO. FOR 1904
“ AUT HELIDON AUT NULLUS.”


VERSE BY EDWIN ARNOLD
A MA FUTURE.
Where waitest thou,
Lady lam to love ? Thou comest not t
Thou knowest of my sad and lonely lot;
I looked for thee ere now.
It is the May,
And each fair sister-soul hath found its brother,
Only we two seek fondly each the other,
And, seeking, still delay.
Where art thou, sweet f
I long for thee, as thirsty lips for streams ;
Oh, gentle promised Angel of my dreams,
Why do we never meet ;
Thou art as I
Thy soul doth wait for mine, as mine for thes;
We canvnot live apart 1 must meeting be
Never before we die ?
Dear soul, not so l
That Time doth keep for us some happy years,
That God hath portioned us our smiles and tears,
Thou knowest, and I know.
Yes, we shall meet l
And therefore let our searching be the stronger,
Dark ways of life shall not divide us longer,
Nor doubt, nor danger\ sweet.l
Hemes ’tis I bear
This winter-tide as bravely as I may,
Patiently waiting for the bright spring-day
That cometh with thee, dear.
'Tis the May-light
That crimsons all the quiet college gloom ;
May it shine softly in thy sleeping room :
And so, dear wife, good-night l
TO A PAIR OF EGYPTIAN SLIPPERS.
Tiny slippers of gold and green,
Tied with a mouldering golden cord:
What pretty feet they must have been
When Ccesar Augustus was Egypt’s Lord l
Somebody graceful and fair you were:
Not many girls could dance in these:
When did the shoemaker make you, dear,
Such a nice pair of Egyptian ' ‘ threes ” ?
Where were you measured ? In Sais, or On,
Memphis, or Thebes, or Pelusium t
Fitting them feat ly your brown toes upon,
Lacing them deftly with Unger and thumb.
I seem to see you l—so long ago l
Twenty centuries—less or more !
And here are the sandals ; yet none of us know
What name, or fortune, or face you bore !..'.
• » * *
Perchance you were married. These might have been
Part of your trousseau, —the wedding-shoes ;
And you laid them aside with the lote-leaves green
And painted clay gods which a Bride did use;
And, may be, to-day by Nile’s bright waters
Damsels of Egypt in gowns of blue—
Ghreat-great-great-very-great-grand-daughten
Owe their shapely insteps to you /
THE MUSMEE.
The Musmee has brown velvet eyes
Curtained with satin, sleepily ;
You wonder if those lids would rise
The newest, strangest sight to see ;
But when she chatters, laughs, or plays
K6to, biwa, or samisen,
No jewel gleams with brighter rays
Than flash from those dark lashes then.
The Musmee has a small brown face,
“ Musk-melon seed ” its perfect shape;
Jetty arched eyebrows ; nose to grace
The rosy mouth beneath ; a nape.
And neck, and chin, and, smooth soft cheeks
Carved out of sunburnt ivory.
With teeth which, when she smiles or speaks,
Pearl merchants might come leagues to see l
The Musmee’s hair could teach the night
How to grow dark, the raven’s wing
How to seem ebon l Grand the sight
When in rich masses, towering,
She builds each highblack-marble coil
And binds the gold and scarlet in,
And thrusts, triumphant, through the toil
The kanzdshi, her jewelled pin.
The Musmee has wee faultless feet
With snow-white tabi trimly decked,
Which patter down the city street
In short steps, slow and circumspect;
A velvet string between her toes
Holds to its place th’ unwilling shoe :
Pretty and pigeon-like she goes,
And on her head a hood of blue.
The Musmee wears a wondrous dress —
Kimono, obi, imoji —
A rose-bush in Spring loveliness
Is not more colour-glad to see l
Her girdle holds her silver pipe,
And heavy swing her long silk sleeves
With cakes, love-letters, mikan ripe,
Small change, musk-bag, and writing leaves.
The Musmee’s heart is slow to grief,
And quick to pleasure, dance, and song ;
The Musmee’s pocket-handkerchief
A square of paper ! All day lo ng
- Gentle, and sweet, and debonair
Is, rich or poor, this Asian lass:
Heaven have her in its tender care,
O medetd gozarimas!
THE FASCINATION OF THE GUM
There is a great stillness. Even that free
thing, the cloud on the mountain side, is still
—cloud and great spaces of sunlight beneath.
Sound enters: faint as the echo of the sigh
of a bird; growing with the chirring of the
grasshoppers; and passing away in the slow
movement of the leaves. But the spell is broken.
Below the hill the water is tremulous and spark-
ling ; there is a murmur of flies, and beside a stone
the shadowy flitting of a hiding lizard. Little
blue butterflies rise before the rustle of the feet,
and the crows call in a leisurely fashion. In the
hazy distance, at the end of an avenue, two boys
are gathering bark. It is the enemy ; let us away
to a deeper solitude ! '
The sheep-tracks wander and mix, and choosing
one with a gradual ascent I steal along and sink
down to rest in an upland fold. Erom the level
of the eye the sunburnt grass is like a golden mist
saddened autumnaHy under 'the thin shadows of
the trees. But what is this ? While in a dream I
feel that some one—Pan ? But he is dead long
since—has slipped a sweet old Pagan tome above
my Book of Common Prayer; for my thoughts
cannot rise from the drowsy warmth, the slow
feeding sheep, or the multitudinous twitterings
of the birds.
Great golden-brown moths quiver on the hoary
stones. The sun rims the white fleece of the
sheep with golden light. There is a shadow on
my book from a four-pointed blue flower, with a
little gold-dust on a blue point within. An
emerald beetle is sleeping in the sun. “Peep-
peSp,” just two notes of a solitary bird—but of
infinite melancholy.
“Will no one tell me what she sings?” I
must go from here: the woods are having their
will.
J*
And as I walk along a faint track—so faint on
the grass that at times I have to bend to trace
it—the spell works. I who have always thought
the gum a dull, monotonous tree, an alien from
the green commonwealth, I—by what enchant-
ment do I now love it ? Surely this is the verit-
able forest magic. It must be that emanations
flow from the colours of the trunks. That yonder
is a mosaic worked up, edge to edge, like the
washes of a free and delightful water-colour.
Above is a delicate colour of purple and white;
there, a cluster of stems in pale blue; over the
path, one of sienna and dark red ; and below me,
a dream in blue and yellow. Here are fresh
revelations to the opened eye—umbers, golden
browns, red-veined or blue, blues like the azure
of the summer skies, dark browns with lighter
bars faded by old sunlight; and tender blendings
of green and yellow. And all in harmony with
river, mountain, and sky.
On all the hillside there are no two alike in
colour and no two in shape. Some are slender,
and, in their grace and whiteness, the dryads of
the forest ; others, rugged and gummy and oozing,
woody satyrs. There is a branch thrust out at
you with menace; that bole —the ashen white—
is garlanded like a column of victory; this one is
fretted with the symbols of a dark antiquity.
A massy trunk of twisted silver ia relieved against
the bare blue of the sky. And here are grotesques
—the very nightmares of treeland.
Tortured and bowed the gums lift their airy
crowns into the pure and splendid heaven. They
are crowns of sorrow; the le.aves droop—but still
crowns. And each tree has its own 6haracter;
unbeaten, fantastic, graceful, crowned at last in
calm and sorrow, they are types of the rfation now
in the making. Of Freedom itself !
J*
Effort and calm. The mellow marbles, pale
rose or snowy white, of Dreamland Greece, are
overhung with such mysterious grey-green leaves.
The lush life of the English spring, the pomp of
her summer, the rich colouring of autumn, the
bare boughs of her winter, would not be in
harmony with those pure calm fronts. We are
not to be persuaded otherwise. The lovers of
gums constantly yearn for the clear red light
through their young leaves, for their rough blue
cups, for their keen perfume, for their thin
blue shadows on the pale grass : the rustle of their
red-lined bark strings is in their dreams : surely,
they say, if we could but breathe the air blowing
through their billowy leaves, we should be healed
of our sickness and free.
“ O rus quando te aspiciam ! ”
Thus I am musing this sunny morning in
Bobart Domain. Decay, fire and storm, men
and boys, have worked their will upon these
remains of the primeval forest. There are few
trees here of great size—yet they will serve. But
away back, in the untouched regions, are mighty
and towering masses, pillared cathedrals of soli-
tude and peace, where the soul may seek to win
the secret of eternal truth. There, perhaps, in
rare moments, we may attain that perfect harmony
which is the quest of those who feel in themselves
that they are but pilgrims and strangers. Into
that immense and primitive world I hope, in some
quiet time of leisure, to carry this new-born
passion for my huge yet peaceful brethren, and to
breathe another atmosphere—one possessed of the
ancientness of days.
A short life will salute the centuries.
J.H.
THE RED PAGE.
B. L. Taylor, in an Amer. magazine, introduces
a musical puppet who criticises the somewhat-less-
sacrosanct Browning.
Take the lines in “ A Toccata of Galuppi’s ”
Hark, the dominant’s persistence till it must be answered
to !
So, an octave struck the answer. Oh, they praised you, 1
dare say !
At first glanoe this seemed a slip of the pen : Browning
meant to write,
So, the tonic struck the answer-
tot the dominant is answered by the tonic. But a little
reflection convinced me that Browning purposely omitted
the fifth, the dominant which was getting on the gentle-
man’s nerves. So the line complete should read—
So, tiie octave of the tonic struck the answer. Oh, they
praised you, I dare say.
As this is too long, it may be shortened to—
So the octave of the tonic struck the answer, 1 dare say.
If Browning thought the dominant could be overcome so
easily he did not know how persistent the dominant
really oan be. The overtones of any given tone produce
most prominently a dominant harmony, so that every-
thing we hear is a dominant, which is never definitively
answered.
In the “ Toccata” occur also the lines—
What ? Those lesser thirds so plaintive, sixths dimin-
ished, sigh on sigh,
Told them something ?
They certainly tell us something—that Browning, for all
his musical learning, did not know the A, B, C’s of
harmony. Who ever heard of a diminished sixth ? A
diminished sixth would be a perfect fifth, and a perfect
fifth is always a perfect fifth.
I am not of those who would analyze the beauty and
music out of poetry ; but I maintain, sir, that when you
writers get upon the subject of music you should, if not
musicians also, stick to .your own language, and not
addle our brains with our own technical terms.
»
Deceased Edwin Arnold was an Englishman as
energetic, as uxorious as Parkes. Sussex-born in
1832, he inherited the tough heart of the South-
countrymen, and died in spite of himself. That
his spirit was willing he proved by marrying his
Japanese (third) wife seven years ago, in his
sixty-sixth year. Alas for the weakness of the
flesh ! The tough heart beat proudly on ; but
nerves and eyes failed, and for the last year or two
Arnold has been totally blind. Yet he gave his
indomitable motto to a recent querist : God will
forgive us all but our despair !
It is a comforting motto for a journalist who
has written so much, and so much ill. Jour-
nalist he was: though his conceit of himself as
“poet ” was good emphatically. He outlived his
reputation, and others saw him relegated to the
forgotten shelf of Alexander Smith and P. J.
Bailey, gifted with a similar fluency to captivate
in their day an audience similarly fickle. Arnold
leaves by his first marriage a son, Edwin Lester
Arnold, author of Phra the Phoenician and other
undistinguished romances: his younger brother
is Sir Arthur Arnold, formerly M.P. and chair-
man of Lond. County Council.
Edwin Arnold, after winning the ominous New-
digate at Oxford, became a master in a Birmingham
school, whence he went to India as principal of
the Govt. Sanscrit college at Poona. He returned
in 1861 and joined the staff of Lond. Daily Tele-
graph, presently becoming editor, and preserving
his connection with the paper for thirty years.
His enterprising energy was of great service in
bringing The Telegraph to the front of Lond.
journalism. In 1889 he visited Japan, and for
the rest of his days lived thrall to the Japanese
idyll. When he finally tore himself away, he
uprooted no fewer than three delightful little
cherry-blossoms, whom he brought to England
suitably screened from the vulgar nautical gaze
in a secluded suite of cabins. One of these,
Miss Kurokawa, is the widowed Lady Arnold.
Edwin Arnold wrote better-verse than Parkes;
but his numerous books have nevertheless settled
comfortably in the abyss of commonplace. The
Light of Asia, which the semi-religious Corellian
audience pushed through some sixty English and
eighty American editions, relates in monotonous
blank verse, not without good picturesque pas-
sages and bad doctrinal passages, the story of
Gautama Buddha. The Light of the World, con-
ceived as a parallel account of Jesus, is inferior
and practically unreadable. Nearly all of Arnold’s
Oriental work, down to his version of Saadi’s
Gulistan in 1899, is disfigured by the intrusion of
foreign vernacularisms : often he misses his effect
for want of taste to blot or skill to condense.
Sometimes, as in the examples given on this
page, Arnold rhymed neatly and expressed
emotion agreeably, even forcibly ; and it might
be possible to select from the mass of his work an
anthology of shorter pieces ranking as journalist’s
verse and a little better. Most of the rest has
perished already.
The Saturday Review lays down a dogma of
article and aspirate, in reply to a correspondent
who complained of “an hotel ”
“ An ” before hotel has nothing whatever to do with
the French pronunciation of the word. The second is
the acoented syllable, though the o in the first syllable
is long in quantity: and where an unaccented first
syllable of a word begins with h, sounded or silent, it
may, and we hold that the weight of authority is ii
favour of that use, be preceded by an. We prefer “an
historic novel ” to “ a historic.” At the same time, of
course, we are aware that many good English scholars
follow the other use and write a before every sounded
initial h. The use of the nin an being due to a shrinking
from the unpleasant assonance of two vowels, a mere
rough breathing, which hardly softens the cacophony,
leaves n still necessary for the purpose of a euphonic
buffer.—Ed. S.R.
Disputed. For thus we should write a humanist,
am, humanitarian —surely not to be preferred to a
humanitarian. If in precede, or another word
ending with n, the effect is worse. In an his-
trionic passage is nearly as bad as for
an usurper. And the tendency of the
introduced n is to slur the following h : an
hotel, in conversation, is apt to be ’Arried —for h
is a delicate plant. An historic seems an unwise
concession (not to the law of euphony, but) to the
law of laziness. Prefer rather to make the slight
pause that detaches a from historic than' to link
them with n unnecessary.
MEMORANDA
N.S.W. Govt, has reserved a site in Sydney Domain for
the much-desiderated new Public Library ; and is re-
ported to have determined upon building “ as soon as
funds are available.” One means of securing funds is
economy. Now that books can be so cheaply bought or
borrowed, there is no need for the “ Lending Branch,”
no justification for Sydney School of Arts subsidy. It is
bad policy to starve the trunk for the sake of these com-
paratively worthless branches. If a full and commodious
reference library is provided, students do not wish to
take books home ; and fiction-readers can buy their own
books. A sensible administration would concentrate
effort, and cease frittering its funds. The money now
devoted to the “Lending Branch” and the School of Arts
would pay interest on Gapital sunk in a new building ; or
would be spent to better purpose in providing the books
of which the Library is so greatlyi n need.
How the man is revealed in his handwriting 1 _
of years ago the signature of N.S.W. Works Minister
like this :
A. W. 000000000000000
Gradually the O has grown longer, till now it is like p •
E. W. 00000000000 0 0000000 Sullivan.
Arthur Adams, writing from London, has a tale of ill-
ness following the enteric fever of his Chinese trip. o.
is now convalescent, and doing well in the literary ir_aa .
His novel Tussoclc Jjand, “a romance of Maoniana
and the Commonwealth,” will be published shortly,
adds that “Lambert’s portrait of himself at the Lona.
Winter Exhibition ”l? Society of Oil Painters] isnoll
hung and deserves it. Background is Australian. He is
painting hard and rapidly finding himself.”
Editor (of magazine) : “What’s the delay about my
getting in?” St. Peter: “You paid on publication,
didn’t you?” “Yes.” “ Well, some of your contribu-
tors are inside and I’ve agreed to let you wait until all
their stories have appeared.”— Life.
Every intelligent body should have read or should read
H. G. Wells’s Anticipations, now sold for 6 d., posted 80.,
by our useful advertiser.
One cannot refrain from signalising the appearance in
-Sydney Telegraph (March 28) of an admirable leading
article upon Edwin Arnold. The daily press, as we learnt
during the free-postage controversy, is the educator 01
the people ; and one likes to find it leaving occasionally’
the broad highway of politics for the obscure bypath of
literature. The writer says that
“ Sir Edwin Arnold’s verse has its own special
charm of graceful melody and thoughtful erudition.
Oriental thought was this writer’s lifelong study, ana
he has done much to mould the average Englishman s
conception of those strange people who are so imagina-
tive, so secretive, so profoundly’ touched by the
mysteriousness of life, so curiously immaterialistic,
and yet who are now, it is whispered in certain quar-
ters, endeavoring to form, under the leadership of *he
most progressive of Eastern races, an Asiatic league,
having for its object the ultimate expulsion of all
European nations from Asia. And if they should suc-
ceed in that gigantic task, what then? Perhaps it
wouldjnean the realisation once more of Arnold’s well-
known lines—
The East bowed low before the blast.
In patient, deep disdain ;
She let the legions’ thunder past,
Then plunged in thought again."
This is very finely put.
Swinburne finds himself accused (in his old age, to be
sure) of being a lofty moralist. “Dolores,” says James
Douglas, contains a stern lesson. It proves that “the
attainment of perfect depravity is infinitely harder thin
the attainment of righteousness.”
Stefan von Kotze, a whilom Bulletin contributor,
appears in a Berlin publisher’s list as author of two books
—The Last Man and Australian Sketches ; and two others
— Ruth, a South African romance, and The Dowry, “ roman
aus dem australischen Busch,” are announced “in
preparation.” We have not seen Australische Skizzen ;
but they impel the Neueste Nach r ich lev to compare the
author with Bret Harte, while the Tdgliche Rundschau
compares him with Twain and Kipling. The Zurich Pott
thinks Kotze a born humourist, and the Kreuz-Zeit con-
gratulates “sterile Australia” upon being found so
fruitful of mirth.
“ Noise,” says The Family Doctor, “ is an undoubted
factor in impairing the tone of the nerve centres.
Whether we are conscious of it or not, it hurts the brain,
and has a deafening, dazing, bewildering effect on the
mental processes. It tires the brain, and tends to pro-
duce cerebral hype ram ia. To live in a noisy atmosphere
is to shorten one’s days. Irritability, neurasthenia,
insomnia are common effects.” Mem. —Two barrel-organs
and a German band were playing three tunes in three
times before The Bulletin office one day recently. Read
us with that gloss.
H.N. : “ Stuart Sterne ” is the pen-name of Gertrude
Bloede, b. 1845 in Germany ; brought as a child to
U.S.A. ; resident Brooklyn, N.Y. ; unmarried. She has
published several books of verse and a novel : samples of
her woVk are distinctly third-rate... J.W.. The verses
entitled “The Land at the Back of the Leeuwin,” printed
as original “By 1 Johannesburgher’ ” in The Chronicle
(Adelaide), Feb. 20, 1904, were written by W. H. Ogilvie,
and here published May 18, 1901.
A.G.S.
The Newest Books_at_Q eor g e RofcertSOll & CO. PfOp. Ltd.
the Bulletin Books
SHOULD be possessed by every Australian. They
are written and illustrated in Australia,
printed and bound in Australia, and whatever
their value they have the merit and interest of
national endeavour.
The last book published by The Bulletin is
Pfcil may in Australia.
CONTAINING a selection of Two Hundred of the
best and most interesting- pictures made in
Australia by this celebrated pen-draughtsman.
Piul May in Australia has been welcomed by
critics and the public as the most valuable and in-
teresting- book of the kind produced in this country.
It is a sumptuous folio, full Bulletin size, printed
on art-paper, and handsomely bound in quarter-
cloth, with cover.
It contains portraits of many of the representative
men of this country ; a, number of May’s rare car-
toons ; and many humourous pictures. Both for
artistic and Australian interest it is a unique publi-
cation.
This &dition-de-luxe consisted of 1000 copies, and
will not be reprinted. The price of the remaining
copies is 215., sent by post from The Bulletin Office to
any address.
While copies remain, the book may be inspected at
The Bulletin office ; or at the leading booksellers’ m
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, and Perth.
As an-Australian gift-book, none more desirable can
be found.
Clk Bulletin Post*€ards.
COMMEND themselves for artistic and Australian
interest. Designs by leading illustrators are
printed on each, in black on tint; and the cards
- are the best and most distinctive yet produced here.
They can be sent by post anywhere as ordinary post-
cards. ...
These cards are in three series—a series of ten
designs by Phil May; a series of ten designs by
“Hop”; and a series of ten designs by other Aus-
tralian illustrators. The subjects are tor the greater
par.t humourous, and characteristicallj' Australian.
The price of each series (ten cards) is lOd. ; posted,
11 d. The three series, enveloped, are sent post-free
from The Bulletin office to any address; or may be
obtained from all booksellers and news-agents.
Wholesale agents for the trade are:—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
George Robertson Proprietary Co., Ltd., Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Robt. A. Thompson & Co., Melbourne and Adelaide.
Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Wel-
lington.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
214 George St., Sydney, Australia,
Modern Socialism, set forth by Socialists, 6s, postage 64.
Randall, Psychology : Cultivation pf Mind and Will, 8s 6d,
Warner & Millard, History of Japan, Is, p. 4d. [p. id.
Darwin, Veg. Mould, and Earth-worms, 3s. p 6d.
Harland, Cardinal’s Snuff-Box, cheap edt fid, postage 2d
Stephen, Sir L., An Agnostic’s Apology, 6d, p. 2d.
McNeil], The Egregious English, cheap edt., Is 3d, p. 3d.
Gerrare, Greater Russia, new edition, 19i, p. 9d.
DICTIONARIES FOR “ BULLETIN " READERS—
Chambers’s 20th Century English Dictionary, illus., 1207 pages, 3s 6d, postage Is.
Chambers’s Etymological Dictionary, People’s Edition, 600 pages, Is Bd, postage sd.
Chambers’s English Dictionary, edited % Thomas Davidson—the larger work, in cloth, 12s 6d, postage Is 6d,
or half morocco, 18s, p. Is 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doon Sonth of King St.) &at Matbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane * London.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THU . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ el
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lun
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
In valuable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKER&
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
All Chemists, in tins, 1/8, or from Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on
•tamps. Sydney Depot: 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States, N.Z., and 320 Begent-»t., w., IjO


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Bl okers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH,
PIGS and CALVES at- - - CITY YARDS,
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
ABE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SI NGLETO N’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYfLASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLED.
I'M EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the little Eook:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
The Leading; House for Sporting; Goods and Tobacco
“The Reliable,”
£s!£! £6 12s 6d
I. Hollis
& Sons 1
'
®Hl§g
n
iVPff
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action, Real Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Gross Bolt, Left Choke, Rebounding- Locks, Snap Fore-
end, chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “ KITCHENER, ” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2fm. cartridges,
left choke, right cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap
fore-end, half pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
POWDER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price
HOLLIS & SONS’ "THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin.
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR .ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING RIFLE, 1903 model, Special
22 Calibre, fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight s|lbs.
£5
£l2 12s
£5
AMMUNITION.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB
E. B. SMOKELESS „
AMBERITE
E.O.
6/- per 100
12*
16*
6/6
6/6
I2g
12 *
6/6
16 or 12g\
9/-
12* 12/
12* 12/
Per 100. Per 1000.
WINCHESTER 22 short 1/3 10/6
„ 22 long 1/5 12/6
~ 22 ex. long .. .. 2/- 18/
„ 22 long: shot .. .. 2/6 23/6
~ 22 short smokeless 1/6 14/
~ 22 long „ .. 1/9 16/
~ 22 automatic 2/6 21/-
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
Folding:
Collector Gun, 410 g.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel
barrel, case-hardened locks
V7INCHESTER ” S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V sights,
scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight
‘ MtING-TON ” S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in. barrel,
weight 3£lbs.
WINCHESTEK. Repeating Rifles, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine ... Round barrel, 555. ; Octagon barrel,
PIEPER'S “ BAYARD ” S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weight
3|lbs 13s. 6d.
piP^VVITH PLAIN SIGHTS 13/«
SLIDING- SIGHTS TO 3OOYOS IS/fi
Car/r/dgcz Can QafyGe Oefive rad by Rail or Q oat
£1 15 0
0 18 6
1 0 0
2 17 6
1 1 6
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES.
GUARANTEED
rum u.1 ui
ACCURATEand
RELIABLE.
22 (Btrort or Lang, ft in /ws, 80/rAction
Bound 3toed Ste e//em/7 Barret, h/e/dtrt2% tb
fitted mttipte/nlforJt/ding Sock J/gfts
(Buarranfeedfor/500roi) . Potistieona/nor
ott/ch. Postage onß/fte.hdo ex/t-g.
MICK SIMMONS,
Hamarket, cbroneY.
Rifle Apevrf
c
IT is the Strong Man who succeeds nowadays. Not the man of brute
strength, but the man strong in nerve, strong in intellect, strong in his
convictions which he believes to be honest. Who is it that fills the biff
¥ places in commercial life ? Why, the strong man.
Who is it that is pointed out as a leader of men?
The strong man again. Who is it who does not
know what failure means ? It is the strong man, of
Bouse.
GET SOME LIFE IN YOU. =====
Don’t be weak, don’t go on from day to day listless and careless of life. If you are weak, we will
make you strong. If you have Backache, Nervous Ailments, Stomach, Kidney, or Bladder
Troubles, Rheumatism, or Lumbago, we will cure you. We know the secret of the life germ. It is
Electricity, and, if you will follow our advice for three months, we will cure you, permanently.
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
Effects cures that read like miracles. It absolutely gives new life to the human body. We* know that because we have seen it done
every day, and we hear men say they know it also. It is the grandest invention of the age for weak men ; the surest and easiest cure
for all nervous and chronic diseases. Its wonderful power is directed to the seat of the nervous system, through which its vitalising
strength penetrates into all parts of the body, carrying new life to every function which has been weakened by dissipation, restoring
energy to the brain and power to the vital organs. No weak man, no sickly or delicate woman, will ever regret a fair trial of the Ir.
McLaughlin Electric Belt, which is Nature’s restorer of vitality.
lir DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE
ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO USE NO MORE DRUGS.
Mr. THOS. BRIGGS, Mary-street, GYMFIE, Q’LAND, writes: “I Have been wearing: one of your
Belts For two months, and lam glad that I got it, For it has done me a lot of good. I Feel a lot
better in every way, thanks to your treatment. Its power is something wonderful. I will recom-
mend your Belt to anyone that I think it will do good to.”
Mr. RICHARD L. JUDD, CHELTENHAM, VIC., states: “I have been a sufferer For the
last sixteen months with General Debility and Brain Fag, and after wearing your
High-Grade Belt For three months I am perfectly restored to health again. Wishing
you every success with your marvellous treatment.’’
Mr. H. WHITMORE, BARRENGARRY, N.S.W., writes: “ I must tell you that your High-Grade Belt has given
me every satisfaction, and I believe that it has completely cured me, for I do not feel any pain now, and
I have not been wearing the Belt this last month. I do not think there is any need for me to wear it any
longer. I have not felt the complaint since I wore your Belt the first month.”
Every day we have complaints from
disappointed people who have bought
fora few shillings what they were LED TO BELIEVE was an Electric
Belt “as good as McLaughlin’s/* only to find it a rank imitation and
utterly worthless. If you have been taken down in this way write us full
particulars, and we will GUARANTEE TO GET YOU YOUR MONEY BACK
or its equivalent in value. This applies to any article bought during the
last two years. Be sure you state your case plainly to us.
SPECIAL OFFER.
DON’T FAIL to write to us for particulars
as to how “FREE BELTS” are sold,
and for our handsome book as described
above. It shows how we cure, and we
want you to know. Don’t be misled by
cheap imitations of our Belt.
Free Book
OUR Beautiful Illustrated Books on
“ELECTRICITY AS A CURA-
TIVE,” containing 64 pages, will be
sent Free on application, and we want you
to have one. They explain how to our# all the
complaints peculiar to weak men. They
should be in the hands of every man and
woman in Australia. They show in great
detail just how we treat the ailments of men
which do the most to make life miserable.
This book contains a lot of information for
men which explains many points they want
to know. It is written in plain language, and
the illustrations are of the highest type of art,
showing the best developed specimens of
manly strength. No man who feels any doubt
as to his physical powers should be without
this book. Sent, closely sealed, without
marks. Write for it to-day.
= DIAGNOSIS FREE.=
NO CHARGE is made for a Diagnosis
or Advice. Do not send a Pound when you
send for one of our Books. Simply send your
name and address. It might be well if you
state in your letter the principal source of
your complaint.
All our diagnosis are written in coinpre-
hensive language, free from technical terms,
and point out the cause and result of each
symptom of your ailment. No charge of any
kind is made for it. Hours—9 a.m. to 8 p.nx.
= POST SYSTEM. =
Ours is the largest Medical correspondence
in the world, and our system is perfect ; your
letters are assured immediate attention, and
the strictest professional secrecy is maintained.
Write to us to day or call for FREE
ADVICE or FREE TEST.
the McLaughlin go.
IOOW. Marbiet St.,
MELBOURNE OFFICE—I67E. BWANSTON STREET.
N.Z. OFFIOE—S4 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON.
Sydney.
William Charles Crawford.


GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great _uingu.->.i v c buiJT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHELT-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lsd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT,
HN receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
w any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Set. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 16ot. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. 81 MS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
2
m
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELECTRO-GALVANIC
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and othei
DISEASES in all STAGES
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTICE.—Baton purchasing, we prefer that you call
ana examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and PRICE LIST (poet free) whioh will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney*
VANISHED VIGOR,
■ Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Tears I have been curing thousands suffer-
ug from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nervb and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph oT Medical Electricity.
It it not a Belt. No Vinegar or Acids to bb usbd.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address-
-BURCEON LANGSTON, m.k.c.s., eng.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticuba Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to Instantly allay itching, Inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and her 1; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set Is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when ail else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Falx, Paris. Potter Drug
and Ciiem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cdticuka Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 Closes. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, ana the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
fA« Original
CELLULAR.
fb« Isaltklilt (id men Comfortable Underwear for Hot, tfomei and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
hao led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
ns “just as good as Aertes"
SOLE AGENTS l—
1 ——
Illustrated Catalogues
and. Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 King Street*
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’i
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORD'SI
MAGNESIA 1
WILL ANDRADE’S
LIST OF B
BOOK OP NATURE and lI-
LOSTRATED MARRIAGE Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 60 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donblly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is Bd. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
Sd posted. Rush for the
won., 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
VENTRILOQUIBM MADE EASY, Is. UP-TO-DATE COMIC
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 8s Gd. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, is 3d. All Nat
Gould's Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
PAPERma, lsBd. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is Bd. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post. Is BcL All The Bulletin series.
How to Writs Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Htpnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Plat Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and 6s ; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold
6s. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
. How T ° Maks Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, is Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d
AN v ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is •
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETB)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHtS,
REGULARLY at BEDTIME
USE
CALVERTS
20 per cent
CARBOLIC
SOAP
to prevent Mosquito bites. It is an excellent
antiseptic soap, refreshing and beneficial
to the skin, and a useful remedy for insect
bites, itch, and other skin irritation.
Each, tablet in metal box.
CALVERT’S
15% CARBOLIC POWDER
offers a safe and simple precaution against
the spread of infection and disease.
Cheap to use, as it is so strong.
$ lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
P. C. CALVERT St Co., Manchester,
England.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CDRB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Address-A, M. NABT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompIetely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
EVERY WOMAN
Is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
t best, safest & most convenient.
L It Clenses instantly.
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free-
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Sold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MARVEL GO.,
284 George St.. Sydney. N.S.V.
POSTAL ADDRESS,BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by using:
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or Jour quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
m-
: m
TjIRBE BY POST.—A reliable
recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
*
wiihg
£ Yes
%


When the
thermome-
ter is low
We get carelessand dress as if
it were summer. Then come
chills, colds, coughs. Keep
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
on hand. A dose or two at
the beginning will stop the
chills, break up the cold, and
prevent serious trouble. Look
out for cheap imitations.
In large and small bottles.
con , s tipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Pills. *
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
SPOOFEE’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 0d. and la.
black; oil
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers ol
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Ere., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eto.
R
EYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the People, for the People.
PRICE—ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-streefc
London, Eng.
IS AN
Unequalled
ifa
Purifying Agent
anx> is
Indispensable In Hot Countries.
Sanitas” Disinfecting Fluid
is con-poisonous wad non-staining, and for
feneral or personal use is thoroughly effective.
t completely disinfects the house in which
it is used, and, administered internally prevents
Cholera, Typhoid Fever, Dysentery, etc.
' Sanitas "Disinfecting Powder
is the best air purifier known, and a stronger
antiseptic and deodorant than carbolic acid
besides being pleasant and refreshing.
"Sanitas " Eucalyptus Soap
Is specially recommended by the medical
faculty for use id hot climates, because of its
fine disinfecting qualities and its fragrance.
Kingzett’s Fumigating Candles
supply tbe safest and most convenient mean
of sulphur fumigation Fo. the disinfection
of infected places, bedding, clothing, etc
they are both efficacious and economical,"
Drstroy all insects. *
THE “ SANITAS ” CO. LTD.
BETHNAL GREEN,
LONDON, E.
Various Verses.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gold and Grey.
The roses in the garden bloomed wanton from the
wall
In the fragrance of a noon-tide wholly sweet,
And the warm air shook the blossoms to a
gleaming, crimson fall
While the gold hours slipped unheeded fast and
fleet ;
But the warm red rose you gave me from off tiie
trellis tall
Fell in dying, drifting petals at my feet.
The bay lay warm in golden light, and crooned
beneath the hill,
While lazily a white gull drifted past;
I held your hand and whispered when all the
world was still,
And dreamt our dream of golden dreams could
last.
But a mist crept o’er the sunshine its wonder-
gleam to kill,
And great clouds from the north swept sullen,
fast.
The night was cold with gloomy winds, and grey
with drifting rain,
There was none so lone and desolate as I,
For the love I lost for ever tore my heart with
bitter pain,
And the young birds stirred in wonder at my
cry ;
Then—across the sodden grey leaves I heard your
step again,
And the gold moon flowered in glory from the
sky.
N.S.W.
CARO.
Maidenhair.
I turned the leaves of an old book
Of verse I almost had forgot,
And scanned each page with careless look
Until I saw a twice-marked spot—
A rhyme of love and melody
I read in happier days to thee.
A tiny sprig of maidenhair
Was laid beside the favored line.
It was not I who placed it there;
No, boy, the fancy sweet was thine.
“ Whene’er your eye that verse shall seek
You’ll meet me, sweetheart, by the creek.”
And so, you laid the fern frond there
To guide my stumbling meiiiory back
O’er hour and day and month and year,
And rose and rue, and bloom and wrack.
(Tears fall upon the page to-night,
For all that Heaven shines so bright!)
The whip bird rings his glad note still
Beside the babbling water’s song ;
The fern frond bends to kiss the rill
That flows along, along, along;
The lazy cattle stoop to drink
Beside the rosy waters’ brink.
But I am here, heart’s dear, to-night,
And you are in that steadfast blue
(For all that Heaven shines so bright),
I’m yearning, boy, for you, for you !
But I were lonelier but for this—
This tiny fern frond that I kiss !
VIO.
DOROTHY M'CRAE.
Pons Car minis.
Had I not met thee, child, no song of mine
Had ever found a voice—l did not know
That I could sing, till that sweet face of thine
Moved unsuspected springs to sudden flow.
I sing of what is swimming in thine eyes—
Most secret wells whose depths I may not sound;
But lovelit, so that I may see arise
And float, new things to weave new songs around.
I sing of what is tethered in thy hair—
Soft, ordered tangle, where a nimble thought
Escaping, often finds a subtle snare
1 hat holds it ; then I sing it, safely caught.
I sing of what is written in thy smile,
I hat, like a trailing sunbeam playing on
An orchard blossoming, must stay awhile
And rest, as though unwilling to be gone.
Whate’er the thoughts I sing—though they may be
Of things unknown to thee, yet how they throng
Whene’er I see thee or come near to thee !
Thou art a very fountain-head of song.
VIO.
A. G. WOOD.
The Australian.
H© swings his axe in th© golden morn,
The blade bites clean and free;
The trees must fall ere the land be ploughed,
And an axeman strong is he.
He drives his plough through the yellow mould,
The share cuts clean and free ;
The soil must break ere the seed be sown,
And a ploughman strong is he.
He sows the seed in the furrowed field,
With tireless hand sows he;
When sun and rain have wrought their will
What shall the harvest be ?
If trees alone his axe-blade hewed,
If he but ploughed the plain
And ploughed no more, and sowed but wheat,
’Twould be but golden grain.
But more than trees he brings to earth,
Old wrongs that bind and thrall;
And from his harvest shall be made
The sweetest bread of all.
A young man in a young land, he
.Dreams noble dreams of youth,
And foremost in the van of years
He sows the seeds of Truth.
N,s,w *
RODERIC QUINN.
BONNINGTON’S
CARRAGEEN
OR
IRISH MOSS
zfyis 7nvaZualt& medicine %d3i
the ex traordzn a rypropsrly of
z 77i Tn.echa.tely relieving the chest
of the congealed phlegm.con.se
causing a free expector-
ation without straining. Of fro**
77i o ting he oilhy respirationfree ing
the air tubes, andgivnig strength,
to the musci/iar organs
BO N NIJNCTONS
Carrageen
OR
IRISH MOSS
M •• ♦••••«„♦«
-SISSf
George efoN NiNcrof
CHRISTCHURCH
\
H. F. SMITH
9Ri£BAN( ./
*
ea
21/°
21/-
* a*
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Reoeived Solid Silvsr Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral*
asia.
Tours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
H, F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH n< TOOWOOMBA.
w* -
HU
"NEW RIVAL"
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges.
Good powder and shot, carefully and
scientifically loaded in the best of cases,
make Winchester “New Rival” Black 5
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
liable and satisfactory on the market.
A trial will convince you of their super-;
iority. Be sure and get the Winchester'
“New Rival ” brand next time you buy.j
SHOOT THEM AND SHOOT WBLIJ
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
e^dTo ConBignraentS of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly effioient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
growers for free storage of
Concerning Elgin Watches.
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another!
IF'IR.ICIES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Sliver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 16 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
C- BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
These series
o! Pens neither
t scratch nor spurt
iThey glide over
[the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
WorUai Birmingham, England,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
HAS MONEY TO LEND
■ I T..HW
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Pne.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. : Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winchcombb, Esq., M.r.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teeck, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MAKES tilt SKIN
as SOFT a*
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T-n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwad* & Co., Melbourne.
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS,
j SICK HEADACHE.
• TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
■ITTLE
IVER
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
they TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
By Royal Warrant
Purvey ora to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
ASSORTED
HAM AND TONGUE, &c. IN LARGE AND BMALL TINB.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR * SON, Ltd., LONDON, * BERI >EEN -
SEVILLE. Head Offloe .9*lo, Great Tower St., London, 8.0.
_ _ .
!. r
GET BACK YOUR
Weak Men, Rheumatics, Nervous People, and
those who have Lame Backs, Sciatica, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, and Kidney and Bladder
Troubles
May Get Cured to Stay Cured. $
Any man or woman who will aaoure us oan have our
appliances and
PAY WHEN CURED.
You run no risk. Failure to cure costs you nothing,
as we take all the chances. Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt is
the best Electric body appliance that has ever been in-
vented. It will last longer and cure quicker than any
other, and is guaranteed not to burn or blister as the old
style belts do.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— We receive thousands of
testimonials from people who have used our appliances ;
copies of these letters will be sent upon application, or
can be seen at our office.
FREE BOOK. FREE ADVICE. A beautiful Illustrated Medical Book, which
should be read by every adult. This will be sent free, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges
prepaid, It is free and can be had for the asking.
Don’t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a written
diagnosis of your case FREE. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. M»
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
New Zealand Branch.: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \[
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
The “ MONARCH " Gramophone is the “ King ” of Talking Machines.
The “ DE LUXE ” Gramophone is the “ Queen ” of Talking Machines.
The “MONARCH Junr.” Gramophone is the “ Prince ” of Talking Machines.
WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT ?
Or will you take the whole “ROYAL FAMILY”?
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, R/undle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. ■ •
%
Send for Price Lists
and Catalogues of
Records.
The‘MONARCH’
Triple Spring
Gramophone,
Fitted with
Tapering Arm,
complete—
£l4 10s.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Dyspeptic Emesis
A LONG PERIOD Ol SUFFERING
A Permanent Cure in Newtown,
The Case of Mrs. G. WALKER-
(For the "Independent.")
A subject necessarily inviting to all, and
the discussion of which has of late years
employed many able pens, was recently
touched upon by Mrs. Gertrude Wall er, of
No. 17 George-street, Newtown, when chat-
ting with our special representative.
“It is in reference to the most effective
means of getting rid of one’s personal
enemies that I wish to speak to you,” said
Mrs Walker, “ and I think that I am
entitled to speak on the subject because my
liver was out of order for a long time and
my sufferings were extraordinary. I am
twelve years older since my troubles beg in
with an attack 01 neuralgia, which I
endured for three months without abate-
ment. The terrific pains lodged in the back
of my head at first, then they affected my
gums, which became very sore, making it
impossible to properly masticate my food,
and f hen the tortures shot up to my eyes.
Later on there was not a part of my head
which escaped the maddening agonies of
neuralgia, and often I thought they would
drive me out of my mind.”
“I expect you got but very little sleep?”
enquired the write*-.
“Sleep was det,fed me altogether,” re-
sponded Mrs. Walker. “Often I have paced
the floor for hours when everybody else has
been fast asleep, and when morning came I
was not fit for anything. My nerves were
all of a shake, nervousness having such a
hold upon me that I was afraid of my own
shadow, and w en a knock came to the door
it caused me to tremble so violently that 1
could scarcely move. I was afraid at every
turn, an idea being in my mind continually
that somebody was standing behind me,
though when I looked round there was
nobody, and I could only reproach myself
for my folly. Still, I could not help feeling
timid, and to be so every moment of the day
had the effect of making me fretful and
despondent. I lost flesh till I became as
thin as a skeleton, for which I blame my
poor appetite and the trouble I had in keep-
ing my food down. My stomach was in a
dreadfully weak condition, a fact which
accounted for the frequent fits of vomiting
I had, for it was all the same in effect what
kind of food I took—it would not stay
down. Many a time I thonght I was going
to be suffocated by the sense of oppression
in my chest, for when it was at its worst I
had to gasp for breath in a most alarming
way. I could not make out what was
wrong a little distance below my neck.
There seemed to be something pricking me
there—a very tantalising sensation—although
at other times the pain was as great as if I
had strained myself. I cannot imagine
anything more vile than the taste which was
in my piouth, and to make it more un-
pleasant still there was a coating on my
tongue which made me feel quite sick. On
arising from bed I was distressed by the aches
running through my legs and across my
loins, for they set at defiance any attempt I
might make to do any light work about the
house, although at the best of times I was
so easily overpowered by exhaustion that I
had to let matters take their own course.”
“Did you obtain advice from any
source ? ”
“ I should rather think so. A doctor
from Sydney was doing his best for me, yet
I cannot say there was anything satisfactory
resulting from his treatment. lam sure his
medicines did not benefit me, because my
internal troubles multiplied week by week.
If I walked a few yards I was brought to a
standstill by an attack of giddiness, and on
many sccasions when I walked a little
distan«e in the garden a mysterious sensa-
tion come over me which made it appear
that the further I walked the further the
fence seemed to be away. And then my
heart gave rise to serious reflections. The
slightest excitement or exertion always caused
it to Mutter and throb, but even when I was
sitting still it used to suddenly start pal-
pitating with such vengeance that its
beatings could be heard quite distinctly.
The sharp pains which ran through my heart
from time to time also lent color to the idea
that it wasdiseased in some way or other, and
as the physio I was taking did not alleviate
my sufferings in the least, it appeared
certain that I was going to be an invalid
for life. With my yellow skin and my
features distorted by the p'ijsiqial agony
and the anxiety of mind I was enduring, I
looked as if my days were almost numbered,
but now, thank Heaven, there is a great*
difference in my appearance, and although
I am over thirty years of age, I feei as young
and active as a girl of sixteen.”
“Can you account for such a wonderful
transformation. ”
“ Easily Clements Tonic did it, and only
for an old friend who told me about that
medicine I might still be suffering, or per-
haps be dead, as nothing else could cure me.
Several days passed before I felt any better
by taking Clements Tonic, and I was
beginning to think that it was no benefactor
of mine, but I kept on with it and then I
commenced to feel revived. The neuralgic
pains, I noticed, were dying away, and then
they suddenly stopped; but although this
was a great relief, I was more coiice. ned
about my internal organs, and I was in a
state of painful suspense as to whether
Clements Tonic was equal to the occasion
Sure enough it was. I became regular in
all my habits, freed from the unpleasant
taste in my mouth, my tongue was cleansed,
and I had an appetite to tnjoy my food.
The wind which used to arise from my
stomach did not form now, and I never had
the least inclination to vomit my food. I
thought this w r as a remarkably satisfactory
test of the merits of Clements Tonic,
and when my first purchase was exhausted
I got more, as I meant to get quite well
whilst I had the chance. From that time
onwards I gained strength by leaps and
bounds. As regularly as I lay down to rest,
I had calm and refreshing sleep, and I
did appreciate it after passing so many
wretched nights not long before. Tin
freedom with which I could draw my breath
was evidence that my digestive organs were
being benefited ly the use of Clements
Tonic, and as my heart had resun ed its
normal pulsation, without e\er paining me
either, I knew that it was not diseased, but
that my anxious fears had been induced by
the bad state of my liver. For my nervous
system there was nothing I had taken which
could approach Clements Tonic for general
excellence, as my nerves w ere left without
a tremor and I could walk anywhere in the
dark without any fear. By adhering
to the use of Clements Tonic for some weeks
I became as healthy as I have ever been, and
for several years my constitution has been
perfectly sound. If these admisssons will
assist people similarly afflicted, you may
publish them in anyway you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION
1, Gertrude Walker, of 17 George-street.
Newtown, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin
ctreiy declare that 1 have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of five folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make tins solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and
by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Newtown this seven-
teenth day of February, one thousand nine hundrsd
and two, before, me
FREDERICK JONES, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
11,0 ÜBIPY COMPBXIXIOKT,
WINES The Best Bratuls Only of
SPIRITS.
MAN UFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, <ka
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Post Free.
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
F YOU WANT IT
GET IT WITH A
ODAK
CATALOCUE
Of AIL DEALERS OR
KODAK!™ 29 m n°R F
% MENTION THIS PAPER
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for —v
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
iTelephone No. 10hS. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
I’ll Try It.”
&
2'm Rea u&
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N. S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYOWEY.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Bole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harboi
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De
partment; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W
Dlreotlons for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withou
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, aud all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinquksyhk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all '
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys <
all Parasites of Head or Body. ,
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no 'disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
mil JOSEF |
r the best natural I
f Aperient* water.
RfINZ JOSEF
i the best natural
'Aperient* water.
RfIHZ JOSEF
i the best natural
1 Aperienh water.
RfIMZ JOSEF
\ I’he besh natural
I Aperient* water.
The Busy Writer’s Greatest Aid.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importer
Don’t Put
Tour Foot
l&k Down
Don't put your foot
®°wd on fountain pens
until you investigate the many good points of
Bftf-«leaning and filling; adjustable feed; does
not drop Ink; fully guaranteed.
MABIE, TODD tf BARD. h
London & Manchester,
England. j
JNJOTICE TO SKSCiBOURNBI VISITOR^
f ,^ l M p ° LE ’ S „ GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S».
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF far
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
CHOICE TIPS >^
From the famous
farms of souih.-Urica
Black, White, or
Cream.
5/-
The Bunch.
Post Free.
Worth 15/-
We make this special offer t -
advertise our Ostrich l ips
Write Now. Send Pos'al Note
or ss. Money Older payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
Miller’s Featb.er Sb.op,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St, Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swat ston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Tiib Bulletin.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


Insist
Upon
Having
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
MM
It
•‘Sr'3
rBsu
AARONS
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE , Secretary-
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
II
*&&
Canz Induction Motor.
80LE AGENTS:
The Austral (]tis Engineering Co., [tl, South fflelb
mi
. ; :,iJ ! 5uL t.t«tua iit -5
ia * a
iuIJ
m
r-’K Ji-yiA'iS
3BBPS*
m
1 >.-
&
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO.’S
“Giving Up the Retail” Sale.
We must have the Space. You can have the Goods,
Electro-plate, China,
And a.ll
Household Requisites
Glassware "W
PUT At Bedrock Prices
Bargains in Everything.
OUR SALE HAS ALREADY PROVED
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OP
THE SEASON.
REMEfIBER—What we say we do, we do do.
Holdsworth, Macpherson &Co.
252 GEORGE ST. (Between Bond & Bridge Sts.), SYDNEY*
You do Yourself an Injustice
when you take anything that is offered to you. There are dozens of brands of Cigarettes
going begging—but the discriminating smoker picks out
& CameoS
And he’s right; 11 Cameos” are the best.
and lets the rest go.
Short
To say that a man is “A Shingle
Short” is a polite way of affirming
that he is (< off his dot.” Because a
man does not roof his house with
RUBEROID ROOFING he may not necessarily be
“off his dot,” but it is quite safe to assert that if
he does roof his house with the original and genuine
RUBEROID ROOFING he will never be “a shingle short.”
. • ' . C*
E rich & CO., LTD., SYDNEY *»< BRISBANE.


THe Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1260.
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 1904.
Price 6d.
A VERY DIRTY WHEEL.—WILL IT EVER COME CLEAN AGAIN?
(Suggested by recent " sporting events ” in Australia.)


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper*
“ A HSfrtiliu /or the, Australians."
Trinted and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Offl, ‘a Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
S/iecial Aoficc.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Am a tours in ItUielr. mid White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit, and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good, idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson <sc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetown ; H. R.
Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia ;
and others.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong.—Rr ewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 1904.
Thinking Imperially.
I.et us learn to think imperially.—Jodas Chamberlain.
“Major ” Karri Davies, of Johannesburg, a well-known
Westralian, who took a prominent part in the South
African war and subsequently in the mining and legisla-
tive affairs of the Transvaal, has written a strongly-
worded letter to the Times on the Chinese labor importa-
tion ordinance. In this letter “Major” Davies declares
that Chinese labor affords the only way of assisting the
Transvaal mining industry at present. White labor, he
says, would, by its cost, render half the mines unprofit-
able, and would reduce the profits of the other half by 40
per cent. Besides this, white men had refused to work
alongside blacks in South Africa, and even if they did so
work, it would be ruinous to the imperial status of the
superior race. “Major” Davies deplores the interfer-
ence of Mr. Seddon, Premier of Maoriland, and of Mr.
Deakin, Prime Minister of the Australian Commonwealth.
It is incorrect of Mr. Deakin, he declares, to say that the
South African struggle was a “miners’ war.” It was
fought really to settle whether South Africa should be
governed by Boers or British. The interference of the
Australian Commonwealth in this labor matter, he adds,
is already affecting friendly sentiment in South Africa,
and is very seriously imperilling the growing trade be-
tween the two countries. It would be well, “ Major ”
Davies concludes, if Mr. Deakin were to accept the advice
of a fellow Australian and “ mind his own business.”—
Cablegram.
It is utter nonsense for a man of Mr. Deakin’s position
to assume that he knows better than Mr. Davies
what is the proper mine policy.— Sydney Telegraph.
Sir Wilfred Laurier, the Dominion Premier, has, on
Imperial grounds, disallowed three Bills passed by the
Legislature of British Columbia restricting Japanese
immigration.— Cablegram.
An empire does not necessarily consist of Jews,
speculators, dividends, and cheap Chinese labor.
It consists, first and foremost, of men of the
imperial race. All the history of the British
empire—the history of its beginnings, its wars, its
stealings, its accumulations, and its greatness—is
the history of the white Teuton and the white
Celt, who fought its battles, upheld its banner,
and lied, plundered, and murdered on its behalf.
It is essentially the story of a white people. No
Chinaman won Britain’s campaigns, nor did the
black man create its manufactures, nor the brown
man its trade, nor the mongrel its agriculture. Its
mining industries were not built up by the Bud-
dhist, nor its cities constructed by the Kanaka.
When the British empire was rising it trusted to
the white man, and “thought imperially” in the
white man’s language. Now that the British
empire begins to decay—for in Britain, as in
Rome, the process of accumulating territory may
go on long after the dry-rot has set in—to
think imperially is to think in yellow and
brown, and to be imperial in sentiment is to
holler for Jews and Chinamen and niggers and
cash—not for the race which made the empire
and which must hold the empire together, if it is
to be held together. Whether the new kind of em-
pire is worth holding together is another question
* * * *
All over the British empire the new Imperial-
ism is spreading—the undermining Hebrew-im-
perialism which has for its basis the theory that
the empire can no longer afford to employ Britons,
and that the white Englishman can’t profitably
exist any longer because he doesn’t yield enough
profit to Rothschild and Wernher, Beit and Co.,
or some other Jew. A great fighting race can only be
maintained by good food, pure air, healthy occupa-
tions, education (for war is no longer the art of two
crowds of unlettered monstrosities pounding each
other with clubs, but a highly scientific business),
and by many other things which make it impossible
that a conquering race nowadays can ever be the
Fat Man’s ideal cheap labor race. England runs
the Empire ; England is run to a great extent by
its press ; and the influential section of the English
press is now run, to the extent of at least 75 per
cent., by Jews—an unwarlike and garish Asiatic
tribe which toils at a big ledger in a counting-
house, and which has dropped all the great
military traditions of David the Conqueror.
So a time has come when the empire must
choose between two alternatives. One is the
maintenance of the white community which made
it an empire and which alone can keep it an
empire—which means finding its white people
work at such wages and under such conditions that
they may remain, physically and mentally,
the old dominant people that they have been.
The other alternative is to put the cash con-
sideration before the imperial consideration—to
replace the white worker who will fight for the
empire by the cheaper black or yellow who almost
certainly won’t, and to force the surplus white to
take refuge in some foreign land where he or his
children will learn to make war against Britain
when occasion arises. And at the dictation of an
Asiatic gathering of non-military capitalists and
newspaper-owners, Britain is deciding very
generally to sack the conquering race and put the
cheap and servile nigger and Chinaman in its
place. It is as much because he is servile as
because he is cheap that the colored man is pre-
ferred. The white man isn’t sufficiently servile.
If he were, there would never have been any
empire—servile races aren’t the material of which
great land steals are built. When the white
Britisher becomes servile enough to please the
crowd of capitalists of Asiatic descent who now
supply Britain with ready-made public opinion,
the fighting instinct will have left them. Then
some foreign people will occupy London and
sack the palaces of Goldstein and Bischof-
sheimer, while these latter call out frantically to
their low-priced Chinamen and their humble
Hindus to fight in their defence.
* * * *
The present situation of the British empire is
remarkable. In England, Scotland and Ireland
great districts are now marked as “uninhabited”
—the Statesman’s Year Book for 1902 published
a map which was a ghastly commentary on the
results of “thinking Imperially” in brown and
yellow tints. These uninhabited districts once
contained the best fighting population Britain
ever possessed—a population that was driven
out to make room for grouse and deer,
or for other cash considerations. They were
expelled in various ways and for various reasons,
but the reasons were all based on cheapness and
on the necessity for increasing some speculator’s
dividends. In London and other cities the British
artisan, the man of the conquering race, is being
expelled by swarms of stunted aliens, who are not
built in the same mould, and who know nothing of
the British traditions, but who have the blessed
virtue of cheapness in an advanced stage of moral
decomposition. When the expatriated Briton
looks abroad, there is no room for him in India,
which is wholly nigger ; there is no room in Natal
or Fiji, where he is crowded out by the cheap im-
ported Hindu ; there is no scope in the Transvaal,
where the cheap Chinaman is the man who is
wanted ; there is no room in the West Indies, be-
cause the cheap African is there. Now Canada
has resolved to admit the cheap Japanese, and
Australia is cursed by the alleged Imperial party
—the party of the Asiatic Jew —because it
tries to keep its country for the white
man who made the Empire, instead of
for the cheap Buddhist. All over the dry-
rotting empire are published the wail and denun-
ciation of the ruling gang in London that it is
something akin to treason to try to keep some
scrap of elbow-room or some means of earning a
living for the people who made the empire and
who alone support it. Men like Deakin think of
keeping together the white race which won
Britain’s battles, and they are not imperial. Men
like “ Karri ” Davies think of keeping together
the yellow money which enables an old Asiatic
race of money-getters to buy up the white Briton’s
heritage, and in these degenerate days they are
regarded as the only true imperialists.
* * * *
The colored populations of the British empire
were conquered by the numbers and the fighting
capacity of the whites. So long as the white
Briton is sufficiently numerous, sufficiently
courageous and independent in spirit (i.e., suffi-
ciently unlike the kind of labor which is wanted
in the Rand by “Karri” Davies and Co.), and
sufficiently well-fed (which means well-paid) and
(in consequence) of sufficiently good physique and
intelligence to be able to suppress the multitudin-
ous nigger when occasion requires, the multitudin-
ous nigger will remain with the empire and fight
for it when so ordered. But everything depends
on the white Briton’s ability to hold his own. If
he fails to do so his empire will not be a support
but the worst kind of a danger. And the white
Briton is becoming, by comparison, a rather
scarce person. He doesn’t form the percentage
of the aggregate white race that he did. Some-
thing approaching half the Anglo-Saxon people
is no longer British but American; being
crowded out to make room for deer and grouse, for
stunted Polish Jews, for Hindus and Chinamen,
it has transferred its military capacity to a country
which has twice fought Britain and which
will almost certainly do so again sooner or later.
(The United States is friendly so long as Britain
gives free access for its products, pays the Alabama
indemnity promptly, backs down humbly over the
disputed Oregon boundary, and allows the States
to annex half the west coast of Canada, but Britain
can’t always buy Uncle Sam’s goodwill at that
heavy price.) Britain itself is a small place which
can’t hold enough population to keep it well in the
van among the white peoples of the earth. And
the doctrine of cheapness seeks to elbow out the
white British worker from the rest of the empire
because he won’t work at a sufficiently cheap rate,
and earn large enough dividends for certain non-
British persons of Asiatic descent and other
mostly-foreign speculators. The British artisan
at his best is not the ideal worker that the hungry
capitalist yearns after. He is to some extent im-
patient of control, he isn’t very abject, he has in-
telligence enough to argue many points which the
Fatman would rather see left unargued. It is
these qualities which have made him the soldier
he is, and because of his soldierly capacity no
alien force has yet looted the English Fatman,
or hanged him in front of his own palace in
London. If this somewhat rampant person
ever becomes the kind of toiler that the
Fatman is looking for, then the Fatman will be
very rich for a little while—till the Muscovites or
some other foreigners occupy London, and take his
wealth as a war indemnity, and annex his mines,
while his ideal worker looks on in mild unconcern.
Or if he doesn’t become that kind of person, and
the Fatman carries his point by replacing him
with cheaper and more grovelling forms of labor,
he will become more and more an American or
other foreign citizen, and his descendants may
come back some day to annex the Fatman s
wealth as a war indemnity while the new ideal
worker—the Chinaman or Hindu—takes advan-
tage of the confusion to loot the Fatman’s house
bv the back door
by the back door. * # .
Nnwadav? the imnprlalbm which seeks to
INO-waaays tne impeiiaiism wmen seexs to
preserve in good fighting condition, and to retain
under the British flag, every possible man of
that imperial race but for which there would
be no empire, is called, in the language of the
Asiatic-bossed journalism of London and its
imitators throughout the empire, “a miserable
pandering to Labor.” And the kind which con-
sists in freezing out the imperial race to make
room for cheap weedy aliens who won’t lift a hand
to defend Britain in its final hour of need, but
who will supply large dividends for unwar-
like alien speculators—that kind of im-
perialism is the only true and genuine article.
The plain white man who keeps Edward
Vll’s dominions together is only an objectionable
and disgusting Labor party or trades union, and
quite beneath the consideration of the hook-nosed
non-producer of the Stock Exchange, who
a e ch r eoue reW fif?,
90 years ago which tells how the ancestors of
?L y presen g t of Snfe^^
the field of Waterloo, while an excited Hebrew
of the day-the only Hebrew mentioned in
the case-fled wildly to London at the moment
of victory, and by timely speculation in the Funds
realised an immense sum at the expense of a num-
ber of unfortunate Britishers. The Hebrew made
a million or so, while the British private got a
wooden leg. Still, in these days the Hebrew was
apparently wise enough to realise, in a dim sort of
way, that the individual who did the fighting and
got the glory and the wooden leg, was essential to
his plans. Now-a-days he apparently doesn’t see
even that much. The British empire, in this year
1904, represents a much smaller percentage of the
white peoples—the fighting peoples or empire-
stealers-of the world than it once did, and there
is far more empire to preserve, and every white
man who can be kept under the British flag is of
importance to England. Some day he may be of
even greater importance. He may yet become
of so much importance as to be a more urgent
matter than a small reduction in the mine-divi-
dends of a person named Scheff or Kahn or
Posenberger.
A Message from Melbourne.
There was the best of opportunities at the Mel-
bourne Federal bye-election for those who think
with State Premier Bent and the lately drifted
Iceberg Irvine to show that Victoria at least is
with them in the view they express (and which
they have induced Australian Premier Deakin to
adopt) of the Federal Arbitration Bill. The con-
stituency is the premier one of the State. Above
all others it might be trusted to reflect the deliber-
ate opinion of the State as a whole—to give a true
indication of the respective strengths of the
Tory and Liberal forces. And it was asked
to choose from two candidates between whom
the vital point of difference for the moment
was the clause of the Arbitration Bill which
specially excludes State servants from settling
disputes with their employers by the methods of
justice and peace, and throws them back on the
barbarous strike device. In other respects the
candidates did not differ on any matter of the
day’s politics, however far they were apart in
their ideals of social welfare. Both supported the
Deakin Government in its fiscal policy. Both
supported the principle of a Federal Arbitration
Act. The one clearly marked point of divergence
was that M‘Eacharn held that arbitration should
stop short of public servants, and Maloney
declined to follow such an illogical lead. The
verdict was emphatic enough for Maloney. By
a majority which —considering the great wealth
of his opponent, and considering the frenzied
efforts of all the “great dailies” of Melbourne,
not only to champion his opponent, but to
vilify and slander himself —was extraordinary, the
democratic candidate was returned. There could
be no more convincing condemnation of Irvineism
than this declaration of the feeling of the people
in the very citadel of the propertied classes. If
Premier Deakin is willing to understand a plain
direction from the people he has it in this verdict.
* * * *
But it is at least doubtful that he is willing.
The position of Premier Deakin is not —as he
would now wish to represent—that he from the
first took a stand hostile to a complete Federal
Arbitration Act. The first Arbitration Bill as
drafted by Customs Minister Kingston did
not exclude from its scope State servants.
The Cabinet, as it considered the Bill,
made no objection to bringing public em-
ployees under the benefits of its court. The
dissension which led to Kingston’s dramatic
resignation was over another point—the inclusion
of seamen in the definition of “ employees.” After
that resignation Irvine announced that the
Federal Government must not dare to include
railway workers in any Act which would seek to
substitute justice for the brutality of his regime;
and to this command then-Premier Barton obedi-
ently assented. So Attorney-General Deakin
drafted an Arbitration Bill which, after allowing
for all exclusions, would, if passed, be not very far
from useless. The excuse of Alfred Deakin,
then and subsequently, was that it would be a
grievous trespass on Victorian opinion to do
otherwise, and, in view of the recent railway
strike, Victoria was the State most immediately in-
terested. Victoria, he held, was practically unani-
mous in opposing any legislation which would,
in case of need, provide the public servant
with a shield against Bent. The general
elections showed that that view was wrong.
Labor, pleading for a complete Arbitration Bill,
scored everywhere, and in the Senate poll, which
represented the State as a whole, the complete
Bill was affirmed by an enormous majority. Still
Premier Deakin did not change. Since he failed
to learn then, he is likely to fail to learn now.
Melbourne has spoken with all possible emphasis,
but those who won’t hear are likely to remain
deaf. The fact seems to be that Premier Deakin
is anxious to serve, not the views of the Victorian
or the Australian people, but of the Australian
Newspaper Trust—the combination of capitalists
which, speaking through the mouths of the Sydney
Herald and Telegraph and the Melbourne
Argus, urges him to stand firm for Toryism
in this matter so that he may fall, and
possibly make room for a genuine Tory Cabinet.
* * * *
What message Melbourne has sent to Premier
Deakin will probably be ignored. But it also sent
a message for Labor-leader Watson, which may
be better regarded. The election leaves the
Labor party absolutely the strongest in the Federal
Parliament. It endorses emphatically the Labor
view of the Arbitration Bill, and calls for a reso-
lute and fearless attitude in the coming crisis.
The present position of the Labor party is not
without its doubts and difficulties. Though it has
the confidence of the electors to a greater extent
than any other party, and, with help from the
progressive Radicals who are not yet prepared to
go the whole Labor way, could secure an absolute-
majority of the Parliament, the method of such
a combination is not so apparent as its-
good results. It was hoped for long tnat
Kingston would make a move which would
lead the Labor party and the Radicals to-
gether to victory. Now the state of his Health
seems to shatter that hope. Watson lias a
diffidence about attempting to lead a Government
himself. He suffers from an undue modesty
as to his powers. But if Kingston is not avail-
able as a leader, Watson should not shrink from
the responsibility which the trend of events forces
upon him. He is the trusted chief of the largest
party in the Federal Parliament. The current of
public opinion sets steadil.y towards him and his
party. With a proper proportion of the outside
Radical element and with a fearless and pro-
gressive platform, there is no reason why Watson
should not win to office as Premier and hold
office long enough to get Australia on the path
which Maoriland learned to tread with the lead of
Ballance.
* * * *
The Federal Labor party must beware of the
fear of office, which is the beginning of political
folly. A party which claims to have ideas must
be willing to adminster those ideas. It cannot
save itself from that logical responsibility by
pleading that it is waiting for some outsider to
come along and adopt its ideas and take up the
task it shrinks from. Still more certainly, it
cannot go the length of abandoning what it believes
in, because by insisting it may have to accept
office and put into operation its own policy. Yet
that is what the Labor party is being advised
to do in some quarters,—to abandon its prin-
ciples on the Arbitration Bill, to leave the State
servants to the malignancy of any Bent who
may chance to hold office, and all for fear of what
a political party usually most desires ! There is
no reason in such argument. The Labor party’s
clear duty is to fight as strenuously as possible
from the platform on which the people returned it
to Parliament. If that means the destruction of
the Deakin Government, the loss must be faced.
There is no valid reason to fear that a Reid
Cabinet will follow if the Labor party is true to
itself. The Governor-General might be trapped
into “sending for” Reid, but the House of Re-
presentatives could sweep away that obstacle in a
week, and leave the way open for what would
seem to be the only possible stable Government in
Australia a Labor-Radical-Protectionist com-
bination.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Marvel of Explanation.
Last week the Sydney Telegraph did a dis-
appointed struggle, in the course of which it tried
to explain that Maoriland’s extraordinary pros-
perity arises because it has kept out of the
Commonwealth. The Telegraph doesn’t believe
this lie—it may be a very silly newspaper, yet if it
was quite such a stupendous lunatic it would long
ago have been in the Benevolent Asylum—but
being the disreputable and incompetent liar it is,
it says things like this in its leader columns :
There is an island colony—Maoriland—which has kept
outside our Federation. . . . The people there do what
they like. They make their own laws. They alone fix
the tariff under which their trade and industry are con-
ducted. Dr. Maloney’s election in Melbourne may ulti-
mately affect every part of the Commonwealth, because
he has a voice and vote in continental legislation. It may
happen that his action in Parliament may be of more
concern to New South Wales than to Victoria. But it
means nothing to Maoriland. New South Wales, with
much misgiving, entered tha Federation in 1901; Maori-
land, after inquiry, chose to keep outside. And
what do we see in 1904 ? Maoriland is a self-
governed community. It enjoys the complete manage-
ment of its own affairs. Though it is outside the Com-
monwealth tariff, it is nevertheless in a wonderfully
flourishing condition. It is talked of and respected
throughout the Empire as no State of the Commonwealth
is. It has the right of direct and independent communi-
cation with the Imperial Government. Mr. Seddon is the
equal of Mr. Deakin, and much more than the equal of
Mr. See or Mr. Bent or Mr. Morgan. Maoriland is happy,
confident, ambitious, prosperous.
That is one picture, and it is a bright and attractive
one. The other picture is that of a disappointed com-
munity. The overwhelming freetrade vote in December
is irresistible proof that New South Wales is saddled with
a hateful tariff, &c., &c.
No wonder the impression begins to grow up
abroad that Australia is a poor sort of place. A
country is apt to be judged by its newspapers, and
nothing much more drivelling than the Telegraph
can now be found outside an asylum. The ex-
planation quoted above is almost a record in the
way of clumsy absurdity. Maoriland had twelve
successive annual surpluses before there was any
Commonwealth for it to keep out of. The people
of Maoriland “do what they like” just as much
as the people of Australia, and not a shred
more. They fix their own tariff just as much
as do the people of Australia, and not a
shred more. If Invercargill returns a Dr.
Maloney to Parliament it affects Auckland just
as much as the return of a Dr. Maloney in
Melbourne affects Sydney. Maoriland is no more
“ a self-governed community ” than Australia is—
the two stand on exactly the same level. It
doesn’t flourish because it is outside the Federal
Protective tariff, but because it is inside its own
Protective tariff —a much more Protective one than
that of Australia. It has no more right of “direct
and independent communication with the Im-
perial Government ” than Australia has—and, in
any case, direct communication with the Imperial
Government isn’t what Australia wants nearly so
much as more boot factories and woollen mills.
Maoriland, according to the Telegraph, is
‘ ‘ happy and prosperous ” and ‘ ‘ wonderfully
flourishing ” —after going in for the heaviest Pro-
tection and the most strongly democratic legisla-
tion in this hemisphere, and kicking all the Tele-
graph’s Freetrade and Tory gods to flinders. It
even rejected the Telegraph’s separatist fad; the
scattered provinces of Maoriland weren’t content
to federate, but advanced beyond that, and went
in for absolute unification, as Australia will do
later on. And the Telegraph, finding that the
most prosperous State in Australasia is also the
one which has rejected every one of its fads and
nostrums, can devise no better explanation than
that its prosperity arises through it having
“direct communication with the Imperial
Government,” just as Australia has. Perhaps if
Australia followed Maoriland’s example, with uni-
fication, abolition of provincial Legislatures and
Governors, high Protection, graduated land-
tax and absentee-tax, compulsory resumption of
large estates, State life, fire, and accident insur-
ance, State banking, and other items of State
socialism, it would also be “wonderfully flourish-
ing.” _
The B. Smith Drivel.
Whenever anything remarkable happens in
politics, the Sydney daily paper reporter takes
unto himself wings and flies to interview william
M‘Mu. LAN and Bruce Smith—especially Bruce


Smith. Often and often have the streets of
Sydney been blocked through the break-down of
the dray which was bringing back Smith’s
weighty opinion to the office of the S.M. Herald
or the Sydney Telegraph. Bruce Smith, appar-
ently because he was once in an alleged Freetrade
Ministry which protected almost every important
industry in N.S.W., and which —being a Ministry
that was a stranger to the truth —said it did
nothing of the sort, gives valuable opinions on
Freetrade. Bruce Smith, having been a member
of the frantic Government which ran up borrowing
to a point never before reached in N.S.W.. and
only once even touched since, makes weighty
remarks like a ton of lead about finance. Also he
makes large stodgy reproaches about things in
general like this (Sydney Telegraph, 31/3/’O4): —
I have more than once said, in and out of Parliament,
that the Federal legislation in regard to outside peoples
has merely repeated the dark ages policy of the Chinese
Emperor, Che Hwang Te, who, in 250 8.C., built a stone
wall around his country to keep out all other nations, who
were regarded as barbarians. The fact that one wall was
built of stone, and the other of restrictive laws, enforced
by a cordon of Custom-house officers, is immaterial. They
are equally benighted in their conception and purpose.
The circumscribed intellect of the Emperor-author of the
stone wall is sufficiently proved by the fact that, while the
wall was in course of construction, he caused all the
libraries of China to be burned, lest the inhabitants should
learn something of the peoples of the outer world. The
parallel to that state of things is that many Australians
(Protectionists) and many newspapers speak to-day of
British goods as “foreign” imports ; so that, in the 2000
and more years that have passed since the building of
the Chinese wall, the boasted progress of our race—so
far as it is reflected in Australian legislation—has been
in a circle.
That the same Prime Minister, who has helped to pass
the Australian Immigration Restriction Bill ; who has,
under it, denied an entrance to Australia of a German
citizen, who could speak English, French, and German ;
who has witnessed the sentence of a Portuguese sailor to
six months’ hard labor for not being able to pass an
examination in English ; who has detained several Maori-
landers some days before allowing them to land in Aus-
tralia, though we had ourselves recently invited them and
their countrymen to join our scheme of Federation ; who
has allowed his colleagues, without protest, to detain six
English tradesmen some days before allowing them to put
their feet on Australian soil, while an economic inquiry
was being conducted to see whether six more hatters
could be absorbed by a community of four millions of hat-
wearing citizens ; that the Prime Minister who allowed
or tolerated these benighted laws to be passed, and these
dark ages acts of administration to be practised, should
now be crying out for European people to come and settle
among us, calls for the pen -of a Thomas Caelyle to
sufficiently heap with ridicule.
We frequently hear politicians speak of the future of
Australia as if it were going to be a repetition of the
history of North America ; but it only needs a moment’s
reflection to show that nothing of the sort can be logically
looked for. For upwards of a century the United States
has opened its arms to the whole world, and invited all
and sundry of every nation to come and participate in
their national wealth. Over that period it has offered a
welcome to every race, to come, with their money, their
skill, their physical and intellectual labor, their industry,
their inventive genius, and their special national and
racial gifts of all kinds, and assist in the development of
its unlimited resources ; and the result is that the United
States of to-day stand at the very apex of nations, in com-
merce, industry, mechanical skill, invention, and civilised
originality, with a population of 80,000,000, speaking one
language, but composed of every race that the world con-
tains, mixed and assimilated into a magnificently pro-
gressive composite community.
My impression is that our Chinese legislation, and our
narrow-minded administration of its provisions, have been
advertised so widely throughout the civilised world that
all we can now say, during years to come ; all the land
that we can now offer, all the lectures we may now
deliver, will, as forms of attraction, fall flat and ineffec-
tive, while a magnificent and magnificently-governed
country like Canada lies so close to Europe, and holds out
to all-comers a liberal and generous hand, and a welcome
to participate in its unhampered resources and unre-
stricted enterprises.
So the enlightened, intelligent, brilliant and
copious B. Smith holds that our comparatively
slow progress arises from the lack of Free-
trade (he heavily protected 50 N.S.W. industries
when he was in office). Also, the wildly gifted
Smith reckons it arises from the laws against the
immigration of criminals,. idiots, diseased persons,
contract laborers, and Chinamen. And the enor-
mously erudite Smith says our only hope lies in
imitating the United States which has a Protec-
tive tariff between three and four times as heavy
as ours ; which possesses an Immigration law
Jv?!' c . sh uts out all contract laborers, even pro-
hibiting the entry of parsons and actors under
en .& a &ement, and excludes paupers, lunatics,
criminals, diseased persons, women of loose
character, Chinamen, and all persons whose pas-
sa!?.es have been paid for them by others; and
which even prohibits other than American vessels
carrying a single passenger or an ounce of cargo
between American ports. Smith, the commodious
ac h'°cate of Freetrade, unrestricted immigration
and Chinamen, says that Uncle Sam’s country,
which dances on all his little tin gods, ‘ ‘ stands at
the very apex of nations.” He bids us go and do
hkewise; also, he bids us not do likewise. Even
B. Smith’s history is wild and awful. Che Hwang
Ie never built a stone wall round his country to
keep out all other nations; he built a fortification
along one border only to keep out a race of
ferocious invaders. And he didn’t destroy the
old records lest the Chinese should learn of the
outer world ; he destroyed the old Chinese histo-
nes and written legends which glorified the ancient
system under which China was governed by a
chaotic multitude of feudal princes. B. Smith
has been quoting this yarn for years without once
getting it right. Yet the Sydney morning papers
rush to this incredibly muddled Smith at every
crisis, and collect his confused maunderings as
something precious, and publish the Smith drivel
to a wondering world.
♦
The V.R.C. Revives the Tote Question.
Almost coincidental with Bent’s statement re
the cost of charity collections there come the
glad tidings that Victoria’s chief racing club is
advocating a vigorous political endeavor to secure
legalisation of the tote. Some 450 country racing
clubs have been exhorted to work for tote candi-
dates at next State elections, in the interests of
ra «ng as a sport, and in the interests of the
public. The V.R.C. circular appeals to the com-
mon sense of 95 per cent, of the people who have
had experience both on the racecourse and in the
parasitical town shops where the dupes of Ikey
' j ln .^ u^e their ruinous mania for s.p. punting,
and who are fully acquainted with the ‘ ‘ evils of
the turf ’ m all their bearings. Experience teaches
that the democratic totalisator—the one-punter-
one-price, patent, incorruptible, silent, inoffensive
and essentially honest totalisator—tends to purify
the turf atmosphere and diminish the annual crop
of cnme incidental to gambling. Thousands of
citizens who feel no direct personal interest in
the turf, and who even frown upon it from their
proud elevation of moral superiority, are never-
theless exposed by it to a risk of domestic troubles
and business shocks, which risk would be minimised
by the introduction of the totalisator. Well-to-do
> ociety, with a capital S, needs to be protected as
far as possible from the bookmaker evil. The
properly conducted betting machine gives a great
measure of protection against the improperly
conducted Ike Moses. Impecunious society has
a further reason for desiring the tote. The public
charities of Victoria, and of Melbourne in par-
ticular, vainly appeal for adequate means of
support. Hospital accommodation is unequal to
the public demand. The annual donations col-
lected from a charitable minority might still
be insufficient, even though 58 per cent, of the
cash were not absorbed by the expenses of collec-
tion. By legalising the totalisator a Victorian
Government could raise a new revenue of at
least £60,000 per annum for the charities —£60,000
per annum, net ! All expenses attendant on the
tote system of taxation for charity purposes are
borne by the racing clubs which collect the money.
It is the least wasteful and the most equitable
system of taxation in the world. It blesses them
that receive the benefit and them that confer it.
It is the one and only form of taxation for which
the most interested section of the public has ever
been known to agitate. The hardened racecourse
punter practically prays, “O Lord, give me the
chance to contribute a percentage of my gambling
investments to the hospitals,” and the holiday
punter, whose punts are confined to Melbourne
Cup time, cries ‘ ‘ Amen.” In a thoroughly enlight-
ened community everybody would cry “Amen,”
except, of course, the blastiferous bookmakers.
But a general understanding of the totalisator
question is impossible, seeing that betting on
horse-races is one of the vices to which tho child-
ren of snufHe are not inclined. They walk in
darkness as far as the terewth about the tote is
concerned, and in their arrogant ignorance they
have blundered into an extraordinary alliance
with the spielers. The inconsistency of Wesleyan-
ism in howling against the evils of gambling whilst
resisting a perfectly honest attempt to lessen them,
reminds one of Lord Petworth’s cynical reflection
on the mischievousness of well-meaning fools. It
happens in the last scene of “Sowing the Wind,”
and it might be applied to the hundreds of
meddling old Watkins who have thusfar succeeded
in depriving Melbourne charities of £60,000 a year.
♦
Coupons.
In 10 days, and with the help of about 50 wit-
nesses, eight lawyers, and a Chief Justice, a Sydney
jury has come to the same conclusion with regard
to the trading coupon system as any ordinary per-
son could arrive at by himself in five minutes.
The coupon shop is an unnecessary shop, and the
coupon man is an unnecessary man, and the
coupon advertising paint is unnecessary paint.
It all simply represents one more parasite sucking
at industry. The coupon produces abso-
lutely nothing. It doesn’t matter who pays
for it all, whether it is the storekeeper or
the customer; the fact remains that somebody
has to keep an extra shop going, and an
extra lot of assistants, and an extra lot of advertis-
ing, and an extra manager, and possibly an extra
board of directors. The community only produces
a certain amount of wealth; and the coupon
system merely introduces a number of new people
who take a bite at that wealth and leave so much
less for the real producers. Not only does it not
add a fraction to the wealth; it does not even
encourage any addition. All it does is to encourage
people to buy from Brown instead of Jones, or to
go on buying from Brown instead of changing to
Jones. So long as Brown and Jones compete,
the coupon man and shop and paint are paid for by
Brown or J ones, as the case may be; when they get
tired of that, and arrange matters and both give cou-
pons, then the customers of both have to pay for the
unnecessary shop, and man, and paint, and extras.
If everybody gave coupons, then everybody would
be where he was, except for the loss en-
tailed in supporting the coupon man; if
nobody gave them everybody would be where
he was with no coupon man to support. So
far as the community is concerned, it doesn’t
matter two straws who pays—all that it is con-
cerned with is that it is carrying on its back and
feeding a system which earns nothing, adds
nothing to the community’s wealth—is, in short, a
mere incubus and a painful parasite.
♦
The Victorian Butter Scandal.
The Secret Commissions Scandal in the Victorian
butter trade has got so far now that Premier Bent
has been forced to appoint a Royal Commission to
inquire into the whole affair, and revelations
may be expected—if the Commission means busi-
ness. So far most of the butter factories which
didn’t get the commission have met and resolved
that the secret 3 per cent, is highly immoral and
in restraint of trade and an iniquitous thing
generally ; also they have interviewed several per-
sons with little satisfaction. They first went to
the shippers, and were received with mild surprise
tempered with stony silence. I’he companies
simply declined to discuss their business matters
with outsiders. Next they went to Agriculture
Minister Murray and got on little better, that
person observing that though a very great injustice
had been done he was not in the least astonished
at what had happened. Victorian butter, he said,
would be bringing higher prices than Maoriland’s
in London now if the legislation proposed some
time a,go had not been blocked by the Dairymen’s
Association. This remark referred to the Bill
brought in a few years back giving the Agricultural
Department power to grade and brand all butter
fit for export, and to reject all below a certain
standard ; when it was introduced the cow-raisers
and big landowners (of the Western district
especially) raised such a fearsome noise about
“interference with private enterprise” and
“ Government harassment of established indus-
tries ” that the measure was bowdlerised till it was
practically useless. (It pleases The Bulletin to
recollect that, at the time, it pointed out to these
same landowners that they were injuring them-
selves and ruining their industry by their senseless
objections.) Murray finally promised to give
them all the legislation they wanted—but what
sort of legislation is likely to be of any use in
suppressing secret commissions ? Failing straight-
out State Socialism —transport by rail and sea
and distribution, from producer to consumer, by
the Government, and it is vain to look for such
things as these from the Bent Government—
the simplest remedy is for the butter-producers—
the factories at any rate —to combine to form their
own co-operative distributing agency. These
bucolic persons fail to perceive that the 3 per cent,
secret commission is a mere trifle compared to
some of the older swindles of the trade. This
writer, some years back, worked in the office of
one of the biggest butter sales firms and he knows.
The account sales would credit so much butter at
so much per lb., less freight, returned empties,
cartage, insurance, and commission. Of these
five items, insurance (3d. per case) was all profit
to the agent, and cartage (6d. per case) was mostly
so, the firm keeping two lorries, the cost of main-
taining which ran to barely Id. a case. And this
wasn’t all the swindle. The sales were conducted at
lightning speed, while ayouthf ul clerk jotted down,
in pencil, the price each item realised. Immedi-
ately after the sale his lists were takon into the
private office and considered by the firm and a
confidential employee. When the account-sales
clerk got the lists the price figures were in ink,
and close investigation revealed the interesting
fact that the figures in ink and those in pencil
(rubbed out, but sometimes not too carefully) did
not always correspond. It was understood in tho
office that such was the case, and it was always
carefully explained that the alterations were made
to “equalise” the returns—if a farmer’s or
factory’s butter brought Id. a lb. less one week
than the previous month or two’s average, |d. or
|d. a lb. might be added, and if it brought 1 Jd. a lb.
over the average of the past week perhaps or Id.
would be deducted. Also, if a customer of a rival
butter salesman gave the firm a trial, his account
rates for perhaps a month would show a little
more than his butter actually brought, the deficit
being made good (and possibly better) by subse-
quent deductions. These may be called the
“tricks of the trade” or “common commercial
practices,” but it is doubtful if the butter farmer
—or any other sort of farmer—knows them. That
is why the Commission of Inquiry, if it is far-
reaching and inquisitive enough, is likely to
discover some interesting secrets.
The High Court Kills a Bogey.
The daily papers, representing the Tory em-
ployers’ view, profess to have won a great victory
through the High Court in the matter of an inter-
pretation of the N.S.W. Arbitration Act in the
Clancy case. What really has happened is that
these daily papers raised up a bogey—one, in
fact, of many bogeys—and the High Court has
knocked it down and killed it. If that is a victory,
theS.M. Herald and the Sydney Telegraph are
welcome to it. Some people with more self-respect
would, however, have thought it something else.
Almost from the moment the Act was passed,
these papers, _ which failed in preventing its
passage, have lied outrageously about it. They
ha,ve magnified its small and temporary
failures; they have deliberately shut their own
eyes and tried to shut the public’s to its successes.
When for a week or two a handful of men at
Newcastle set themselves up to defy the law, they
poured out columns of rejoicing, and even when
the law came out on top and the malcontents
went under they still rent the air with
their cries. When, in the State’s other
great mining centre, at Broken Hill, the
Court prevented an industrial trouble which
had been simmering for several years, and made
an award which, thougli generally against the
workmen, was most loyally accepted to the letter,
the same papers were silent. They have attempted
to terrify the public regarding it by picturing
the Act as handing over the employer, gagged
and bound, to be exploited by ravenous em-
ployees. That, indeed, was the Tory news-
paper bogey which the High Court has now
laid out. Nobody, of course, but the Tory
papers ever said any such stupid thing
about either the Arbitration Court or the Act.
The Act gives the court certain definite powers,
and while acting within these powers there is no
appeal against its decisions. If it goes beyond
those powers it can be stopped. The only
people to whom this is news are those who
have been misled by the daily papers into regard-
ing the Arbitration Court as a monster roaming
wheresoever it pleased, and chewing up all things
that came in its way, and above all ordinary law.
But the High Court decision, while it destroys
the daily paper bogey, leaves the Arbitration Court
with all the power its friends ever claimed it had
in regard to the settlement of industrial disputes.
So long as it does its business and does no more
than its business it is a final court ; if it exceeds
its powers or refuses to exercise its powers, the
High Court may intervene. And everybody knew
that—except, apparently, the morning papers,
which loved to represent it as a comic institution
that could order the public to dye its whiskers red
or to wear a cocked hat in the street if so inclined.
4
. The Federal Capital.
Federal politicians are again on the road spying
out the land for a Federal capital, and those who
have visited the Monaro for the first time have
been properly impressed with the fitness of that
noble table-land to house the Australian national
city. But how much will their personal im-
pressions avail in bringing them to a just decision ?
Two prominent N.S.W. members, who closely
inspected the Bombala and Dalgety sites a few
months ago, confessed that the Monaro was the
ideal spot, but—they were still going to vote
for Lyndhurst, as the two Sydney morning
papers would not hear of any other place.
If the decision were to rest merely on a considera-
tion of national fitness, it would only be necessary
to bring Parliament en masse to the Monaro, and
a Bill founding the Federal capital there would
pass through all its stages without a division.
But that is the least of the considerations in the
minds of many members. Some, like Bill Lyne,
have capital sites in their own electorates, and are
ready consequently to utter any absurd tale about
Bombala —that it is Arctic in climate, that it is
“ practically Melbourne,” that nothing will
grow there, and so on. Others confess in
private that their conscience is all for Bom-
bala, but that the newspapers will not allow
them to vote according to their conscience.
The Bulletin could name five members who are
confessedly in that position were it not violating
confidences. The humor of the position—there is
possible humor even in such a disgrace—is that
the newspapers to whose whip members bow so
meekly are absolutely impotent when faced
boldly. Experience proves that—the experience
of Senator Tren with and Representative Maloney
in Victoria, of the See Government, which has
been kept alive solely by press antagonism, in
N.S.W. As B. R. Wise once said (thus laying
the foundation of an enduring enmity from the
newspapers) it is desirable that a corrupt press
should Become thoroughly corrupt and then it loses
all influence. The Australian daily press is com-
ing very near to that point.
Australian Treasurer George Turner, who, by
the way, has discarded his shabby brown suit and
donned a navy-blue rig-out since shifting from St.
Hilda to Hawthorn, has drawn up a scheme for
the settlement of the “transferred properties”
question between the States and the Common-
wealth, and has submitted this scheme to the
State Treasurers for consideration. Its chief
features are:—
(a) The market value at the date of transfer to be the
basis of compensation ; (b) the State to prepare a valua-
tion ; (c) the Commonwealth to prepare a valuation ; (d)
the States jointly to appoint an arbitrator ; (e) the Com-
monwealth to appoint an arbitrator ; (f) the arbitrators
to appoint an umpire, whose decision shall be final ; (gj
the States an 1 tlie Commonwealth to exchange valua-
tions, or hu.n.l the same to the arbitrators ; (h) if the
whole debts are taken over by the Commonwealth, the
necessary adjustments will be made, so that eventually
the total amount of compensation due to the States wiil
be charged to them on a population basis ; (i) if the whole
debts are not taken over by the Commonwealth it is not
to issue bonds, but pay an annual amount to the States,
which will include interest and sinking fund.
The weak point in this proposal is that there
is no proviso that the money paid by the Com-
monwealth to the States as sinking fund will be
applied by the States as sinking fund— i.c., applied
to pay off the debt contracted for the erection of
the properties. Considering the unspeakable dis-
honesty of the State Governments, the Common
«Tnt; t i?, OV f ni ? en . t s^ ld , n ’t trust them with the
fund - Instead it should, with the sinking
’ buy ,®tate securities, and when it
has bought up sufficient, should hand them over
cancelled to the State Government, interest pay-
-0 6 h en that is done. It has as much
interest as the States in reducing the debt burdens
ot the people—its own people; and if it does this
transaction in a fashion which allows the State
Governments to swindle the people-its own
people it will be a foolish and wicked act.
• ♦
At latest advices the tide of battle soems to be
turning just a little in favor of the Bear and
against the Monkey. A war correspondent
summed up the Russian soldier during the Chinese
campaign as being the last to begin the fighting
and also the last to leave off, and the soldier who
is the last to leave off has a very good end of the
argument. The odds both in men and ships are
still with the Monkey, but the slow, unready, yet
dreadfully stolid and persistent Bear appears at
last to have got to some extent cleared for
action. There _is no more news of the
sleepy Muscovite being surprised by night
attacks a very wakeful Muscovite now descries
rmf a^? ,r a nd bombards him violently.
Ihe Vladivostock fleet has left for parts
unknown,_ but presumably to meet somewhere the
new Russian fleet which is to come round in the
summer from the Baltic, and argue again with the
Monkey the question of the control of the sea.
Naval experts are already saying that a swifter
Jap would have either blockaded or sunk this
weak and isolated squadron—which is by no means
the sort of language that they used a few weeks
ago. Also, they are saying that the Japanese got
flustered in their first great night attack, and did
far less damage to the Russians than they might
have done. _ At all events, the battered Port
Arthur fleet is still fighting, and once or twice of
late this alleged wreck has gone out and pulled the
enemy’s tail, more or less. Port Arthur hasn’t
fallen as reported ; it.is even alleged by an Eng-
lish authority that it is very little damaged. It is
a long Bear that has no turning, and it begins to
look as if the war was as far from any real settle-
ment in favor of Japan as it was before Togo did
his famous surprise, and as if the red-headed jour-
nalist who cheered for the Jap Consul in a certain
Sydney theatre might have been a little premature
after all.
*
A remarkable case of legal trades-unionism has
just been fought out before the Court of Faculties
in London. A. S. Baillieu, a Melbourne ac-
countant, trustee of insolvent estates, commissioner
for affidavits, etc., wanted to be a notary. But
the Vic. Society of Notaries, a close corporation
of 36 of these special kind of blue-paper manipu-
lators, objected; and the case was finally fought
in London and won by Baillieu. During the
evidence it came out that in 1859, when the popu-
lation of Victoria was under 400,000, and that
of Melbourne under 53,000, there were 20 no-
taries. This year, when Victoria has about
1,200,000 population and Melbourne 500,000,
there are only 36, and they insisted in keeping
the profitable business solely in their own hands.
The Court of Faculties decided that 36 were too
few to share all the proceeds from notary work in
Victoria, and so Baillieu, though not a solicitor,
was declared a fit and proper person to join the
charmed circle. It is quite certain that if 3600
bricklayers belonging to a union had insisted on
being the only bricklayers in Victoria, whether
Victoria required more bricklayers or not, the cry
of the 36 notaries would have been loud enough to
be heard 360 miles off. No bricklayers, as it hap-
pens, have ever attempted anything so outrageous.
Yet even their much milder variety of trades-
unionism has frequently made the 36 notaries very
angry indeed.
4
Having, as they allege, been heavily robbed by
some of the export agents, the butter producers of
Victoria—those worshippers of private enterprise
—came crying to the Government for assistance
and protection. They appealed tearfully to
Murray, Minister for Agriculture, and, to that
renegade democrat’s credit be it said, they received
a proper rebuke. Murray reminded the weeping
butter producers, who asked for State relief
although they had just been denouncing State
interference on behalf of clean dairies, that some
years ago the Government had offered to arrange
for their butter freights, but that they had pre-
ferred to rush into the arms of the agents. Now
that they had been taken in by their private
enterprise friends they had only themselves to
blame. “ The Government,” said Murray,
could do a great deal if it was backed up by the in-
dustry as a whole. An agent had boasted to him that he
spent £2OO a year on cigars, and to his own knowledge he
was aware that a short time ago he had hardly enough
money to buy a cake of “ Barrett’s twist.” That sort of
thing should be stopped, and if they desired it he would
give them the necessary legislation.
Then the weeping butter producers went away
and began slowly to wonder what special brand of
asses they were.
♦
Sydney D.T. continues to lie with vigor (but little
discretion) as to the Arbitration Act. From a
leader, March 30 :
The Arbitration Court, invested as it is with all the
dignities of the Supreme Judicial Bench, is now con-
fronted by two questions upon which the whole of its
highly expensive machinery is running full time. It is
called upon to decide whether the people shall be allowed
hot cross buns for breakfast on Good Friday, and if so
whether the baker’s, man who delivers them is to get five
shillings for his trouble or half-a-crown. For the ques-
tion of buns or ho buns hinges on that of the hour at
which the man starts to mix the dough, and in this free
country that is for the learned judges of the Court to
fix. If they consider that hot cross buns are a desirable
article of public diet it is for them to allow the bakers to
go to work at a certain hour, so that they may be avail-
able for Good Friday’s breakfast, but if not they have the
power to order the ovens to be kept cool until it is too
late, when the community must be content with other
fare.
The facts are that, on March 28, the matter of
starting the day’s work early for the annual bun-
feast of the community, so that the carters could
deliver the deadly pastry in good time, was men-
tioned in the Arbitration Court: Mr. Justice
Cohen suggested that the two unions—of Master
Bakers and Bread Carters—should confer. This
they did, and on March 29 came to an agreement.
On March 30 it was not a fact that the “ highly ex-
pensive machinery” of the Court was “running
full time ”on this point. The Court on March 28
spent about five minutes dealing with it, and that
was all. It is not even a fact that there was a
question as to whether the bakers should
get ss. or 2s. fid. for overtime. At one time,
Sydney D.T. was an artistic and almost con-
vincing liar. Visitors to Sydney, after being
shown the lovely harbor, were taken round to gaze
upon the D.T. office, as the place where the prize
fictions were made. But the glory of those days
has departed and the D.T. now lies inartistically,
recklessly, like a Woolloomooloo lady in a state of
insobriety discussing her next-door neighbor’s
character


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Admirable Crichton.”'
Theatre Royal “ Great Millionaire.”
Criterion “ Two Mr. Wetherbys”'
Palace “A Stranger in a Strange Land..”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus.
St. James’ Hall The Pierrots.
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &e,
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK, t
Princess’s “ Mama’s New Husband.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Darling of the Gods.”
Theatre Royal “ The Face at the Window.”
Opera House Richards’ Variety Co.
-+
It was very cute of Barrie to designate as a.
‘ phantasy” his play “The Admirable Crich-
ton,” which dawned on Sydney at Her Majesty’s;
last Saturday. That phrase disarms criticism.
Barrie presents his audience with a large moral
question in a farcical comedy setting, and just as.
the contemplative ones are preparing to contem-
plate, they see him laughing in his sleeve from
behind his phantasy. Crichton is an admirable,
butler in the employ of the Earl of Loam, an old
gentleman who has not only one rat but a whole
nest. Because he has his servants come once a,
month to his drawing-room for afternoon-tea, to be
waited on by his three daughters, the harmless old
silly thinks himself a democrat and a socialist, and
impresses upon the conservative Crichton, who>
resents the innovation, that if they all returned to-
a state of nature they would all be free and equal..
To which the model butler replies in basement
tones, “Beg pardon, me lord, the first thing we
should do would be to elect a head.” Presently
the Loam family go a-yachting, and are cast away
with two aristocratic young men, also their butler
and a maid, on an uninhabited island, where there
are goats, tigers, cocoanuts, bananas, pearl shell,
and everything necessary to castaways. Then the.
laws of Mayfair yield to the energy of the indivi-
dual, and Crichton is forced naturally into the
position of head of the community. The Loams,
resent his at first courteous sway, and give him
a month’s notice. He declines to take it, so.
the whole crowd, which is now in rags,
lea ves him. He lies down with his pipe close to a
boiling pot of food, takes off the cover, and the
smell brings back the starving aristocrats to the
now haughty butler.
* » * *
At the end of two years the community
is seen, well housed in a log hut, dressed in skins,
and with home-made forks and furniture. The Earl
and the Honorables, one of whom is a parson, are-
fine rouseabouts, and the Earl’s daughters and their
maid are just equal as maids of all work. The
Admirable Crichton, looking like Sitting Bull in
a long coat stuck all over with many-colored fea-
thers, lives and governs apart. Whilst he dines
in state, Lady Mary, the Earl’s eldest daughter,
dressed in tunic and pants trimmed with what,
look like ’possum tails, waits on him and keeps,
his punkah waving. All four young women are-
in love with him, but he chooses Lady Mary, who.
accepts him gratefully ; and they are to be mar-
ried, when an English man-’o-war bumps up
against the island in search of water. Last scene-
shows them all back in their London house, with
the girls engaged to the same idiots who were
dangling after them two years before, and
Crichton engaged to his first love, the kit-
chen wench. The phantasy is something quite new
and aloof from anything hitherto seen on our stage.
There is no love-making worth mentioning, no ro-
mantic heroism, no posings (save of the ignoble-
kind, where the aristocrats, after their rescue, lie.
to the papers, and take all the credit for bravery
and resource to themselves). Cuyler Hastings,
though the central figure, is out of his element in his.
impassive monosyllabic role, and his deportment
has more the stiffness of a soldier on parade than
of the wooden English servant. Miss Chevallier,
as Lady Mary, has come off her stilts and is quite
natural and charming. Edmund Gwenn is an ex-
cellent shriek of mirth as the silly old Earl, and
Hamilton Stewart and Lumsden Hare take the
other parts of importance. Florence Gleeson as.
Tweeny is one of the most comic features of the
phantasy, which opened to a crammed house.
* * *■
Willoughby’s three Red Indians chased
one another through three acts at Sydney Palace
on Saturday night, and a crowded house which
followed them for light amusement got what it
was in search of. “A Stranger in a Strange
Land ” is a shrieking absurdity, but that doesn’t
matter in a country which takes George Reid to
be a real Freetrader and puts Brigadier Neild at
the top of the poll. What the “ Stranger” is in-
tended to be isn’t clear ; it may be a burlesque of
the comedy which depends upon Brown being
mistaken for more Brown, or it may be simply an
honest attempt to mistake Brown for the other
Brown in a more flagrantly impossible way
than hitherto. It doesn’t pretend to be any-
thing better than a farce, and it isn’t ; still
manager Geach has to hang “Standing Room
Only ” on the outer wall. The public wants its
Red Indian, and its Brigadier Neild, and its Dry
Dog, and there’s nothing more to be said, except
that it is a pitv it doesn’t want something better.
* * * *
Willoughby is a young scapegrace who is
sent to America to ranch, but doesn’t get past
New York, and ranches chiefly in Broadway.
From there he writes guileful stories of desperate
encounters with Comanches and Cherokees. His
uncle, at home, is in the swindle. Miss Watts-
Phillips, his Gorgon aunt and guardian, isn’t in it,
and eventually has her suspicions, and to settle
them Willoughby is instructed by the uncle to
bring a Red Indian with him, when he comes
home, as a guarantee of good faith. But as he
doesn’t get the letter, and doesn’t bring the Red
Indian, Willoughby’s old chum, who wants to be
his brother-in-law, and who is secretly on
the premises, is painted and frescoed and
dadoed accordingly. That is Willoughby’s plan.
Meantime the uncle, who doesn’t know that
Willoughby has manufactured a bogus savage, has
hired a real one from a quack doctor. That makes
two. A detective, for some insufficient reason,
becomes Red Indian No. 3. And nobody
knows that there is any but his own R.I. on the
premises. Therefore, when the real R.I. drinks
quarts of whisky and steals all he can reach, the
people who think he is the disguised brother-in-
law expectant, and the other people who think he
is a disguised detective, are astonished ; and when
Willoughby’s sister clears off and marries secretly
her disguised lover, the people who think she has
brought a real R. I. into the family are mad ; and
the wrong Indian is hammered. The three
savages are not a bit alike, but that doesn’t
matter; if anybody sees the three of them
together he puts it down to his nerves, and the
house is rushed along to laugh at a new joke, and
isn’t given time to think that Willoughby is really
putting too great a strain on its forbearance this
time. Willoughby is mostly responsible for keep-
ing things going at the necessary rush ; and
Thomas Cannam, T. E. Leonard, and some others
help him satisfactorily. Miss Watts-Phillips is a
rat-trap faced lady (the aunt) as hitherto ; Miss
Roxy Barton has the usual large quantity of front-
garden produce handed over the footlights,
though it can’t be for her acting in this piece ; and
Miss Bryer is a more than satisfactory Matilda,.
who is as frankly impossible and as grotesquely
humorous as the rest of them.
* *- *
The “new” melodrama—of which “The
Great Millionaire” staged by Bland Holt at
: Sydney Royal last Saturday is a sample—shows a
tendency to get back to the old “Silver King”
model as to plot. The story is sensational, but
rational and coherent. The incidents are rarely
impossible. If the bread corner had been repre-
sented as having raised the price of the loaf to
Is. instead of 55., there would be practically
nothing in the story palpably outside the domain
of real life. Besides having an air of reality, the
drama is interesting, and is staged with the great
beauty of scenic effects which Bland Holt makes
his particular pride.
* * * *
All the limelight, practically, is for Joseph
■Campbell, a Yankee citizen born of Scotch and Jew
parents, who has become the Great Millionaire, and
aspires to social eminence. He is publicly dis-
graced just as he has become a Lieutenant of the
City of London, with the right to show his calves
to the populace, and he goes back to tubular
trousers to organise the Bread Corner and punish
London for the affront. His Corner succeeds;
hread rises to ss. a loaf ; the poor starve, and the
lost daughter of the millionaire, whom he is seek-
ing through London, comes near to being one of
the victims. The discovery of the girl, the soften-
ing of the father’s heart by her illness, his rescue
from ruin at the hands of a rival financier aided by
a motor car, make up the story. As the
millionaire, Walter Baker has a chance to get
out of the rut of the unjustly accused hero or the
weirdly wicked villain, and makes, on the whole,
good use of the opportunity. In the first three
acts his picture of the millionaire is excellent; in
the last act, where the man of money haunts im-
potently the sick room of his stricken daughter,
the impression given by Baker’s acting is not quite
so good. Albert Norman, as Lord Deerwood, has
the juvenile lead. There’s not so much of Norman
as there used to be ; he has lost flesh considerably,
hut what is left acts with fervor. Arthur
Styan, as Denby Grant, a most natural villain—
not the usual ferocious monster of melodrama—
is allotted a good part and does it well. To
Bland Holt (a serving man from Australia) and
his wife (gipsy girl Nancy) falls the responsibility
of the funny business, which has evidently been
“ written up ” a good deal, but still is not unduly
obtrusive. The women characters do not come
much under the limelight. Miss Ross, as Daphne,
the lost daughter of the millionaire, plays a charac-
ter who is first girly and then damp and dismal
and weepy, with grace ; and Miss Harrie Ireland
makes the most of a hot very obtrusive part.
To Mrs. Holt comes the task of giving the feminine
part of the play some really live interest, her
gipsy girl, when not comic-reliefing, being a
dramatic feature of several scenes. There are, in
all, about 40 “speaking” parts, and apparently
about 200 “thinking” parts, and, lumped together,
the horde of speakers and thinkers may be said to
do very well indeed.
** * *
W. F. Hawtrey, who got in with his
Easter programme a fortnight ahead of the scari-
fied bun, continues to show Sydney Cri. patrons how
they may be happy though married; but there
hasn’t been any noticeable difference in the
divorce statistics so far. Hawtrey’s plan is to live
apart from his wife; but somehow, though that
seemed to pan out all right in Hawtrey’s case,
it doesn’t always. For instance, even “Mr.
James ” printed this in Saturday’s S. M. :
T ADY, husband away, let half-house, close Redfern
railway station. M., Redfern P.O.
This possibility of the lady inviting applications
from gentlemen willing to take the vacant side of
the fireplace doesn’t enter into the Criterion calcu-
lations, and to that extent the philosophy of
“ The Two Mr. Wetherbys” seems to leave out a
pretty large chance. Nevertheless, it is a crisp,
bright, and generally pleasant play, with brains in
both the writing and the acting, and Miss Lane,
the leading lady, wears the most striking frocks
lately seen in Sydney.
The Methodist clergyman who chafes at
the restrictions of the white choker, would
find the Pierrot entertainment, at St. James’ Hall,
Sydney, a convenient first stage on the road to the
Tivoli and the oyster supper. It is a pleasant
little family show, just such a one as the rector
might have in his front parlor, except perhaps he
wouldsuggest to thePierettethat hermother might
add a flounce to her frock. There are four of them
on the stage the moderately short-frocked
Pierrette and three Pierrots; and apparently
in their youth, which wasn’t so long ago,
they were all spanked with the same paternal
slipper. Who they are, and whence they come,
nobody knows, and, as they say in an opening
melody, it doesn’t matter ; they even carry ano-
nymity to the point of branding themselves by
numbers, and come on the stage marked 1,2, and
3, as though they were exhibits. Also, to be quite
unlike all other performers, they don’t take en-
cores, even when they deserve them—and that is
several times in the evening. Australia had
something like them in the Paynes, who sprang
out of the mines at Ballarat some years ago, and
blazed awhile, and then mostly died too young;
only these haven’t quite the Paynes’ versatility as
musicians, though they partly make up for it by
the stories they tell—none too well—and the re-
citals they give. Their season is billed for 10
nights ; and to those who want a quiet, simple,
refined little drawing-room entertainment, at a
moderate price, this one can be recommended.
* -:fc * *
The new Easter attractions at the Tivoli
consist mostly of people with a shapely leg and a
nimble foot at the end of it; most of them, in
fact, have two feet, except Darwin, “Professor ”
Graham’s more-or-less educated monkey, who is
handicapped with four. Since last week Fred
Russell, a ventriloquist from the London ’alls, has
arrived ; after hearing him, writer concludes that
the Australian ’alls are luckier in having Winton
than the London ’alls are in having Russell. The
latter’s patter is, however, entertaining. Clarke
and Hamilton have been putting in their “last
nights” in Australia—Miss Hamilton has been
putting them in on a side bed, and Clarke has
had to frivol on his own. There is a new cine-
matograph show with burglars in it; and the
“first part” setting represents “The Palace of
Dolls ” —a pretty idea, effectively worked out.
** * *
Having safely picked their way through
the torpedoes that bestrewed their path, the
delayed Jap wrestlers turned up at Fitzgeralds’
Circus in Belmore Park, on Monday, and clawed
one another twice that day in front of 10,000
people. The man who wrote the very latest book
about Japan said that the Jap isn’t a stayer—he is
a good beginner, but he wants to get the thing
over and be home for breakfast. And that’s the
idea Jap wrestling gives you. Clothed only in trunks
abbreviated at both ends (except one who also
wears a quantity of sticking plaster) they crouch
like fighting cocks for'lo seconds, then spring, and
it is catch-as-catch-can for as much as 60 seconds.
It is furious while it lasts, but it rarely lasts longer
than that. On Monday night there were eight
falls inside of 19 minutes; and most of the time
was taken up in mumbo-jumbo proceedings, in
which, of course, a fan had a lot to do. This fan
is held in various positions by a small Jap, who is
gorgeously apparelled, and whose principal duty
as referee seems to be to hop round and say
“ Hulla-walla-walla ” till one man is thrown.
Striking with the open hand is allowed during the
proceedings, but there isn’t much of it done—they
haven’t the time. The rest of the Fitzgerald pro-
gramme continues as previously mentioned.
* * *
Packed audiences have greeted “ The
Ladder of Life” at Sydney Lyceum during the
week, and cheered heartily at the disembarkation
of troops from India, wherein 250 supers and
about 20 undertakers’ horses take part. The
Lyceum will soon pass from the tenancy of Mr.
Anderson, and probably “The Ladder of Life”
will see out the season.
** * *
The extra strain of talking to people at
the back of Sydney’s big Town Hall has damaged
the rounded contour of Mel. B. Spurr’s voice and
left it somewhat frayed at the edges. No matter
what that cheerful entertainer gives his audience,
voices arise from the serried rows of grinning
faces demanding the “Little Tin Gee-gee.” The
Town Hall season was brightened up by the
inclusion of classic music by De Groen’s band.
Spurr’s rendering of Thomas Bracken’s “Not
Understood,” to a zither accompaniment, would
have sent the late Thomas on a joyful jamboree
for a month. Spurr has now gone back to the
Queen’s Hall, Pitt-street, where he can be hoard
to better advantage.
** * *
“ The Darling of the Gods,” introduced to
Australia at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) on Saturday,
has been properly styled a Remarkable play. A
melodrama of no literary pretensions, it is remark-
ably decorative all the time, and strangely
impressive some of the time. The principal
figures in the plot are unconvincing, the situations
might have been designed by Wilson Barrett, and
the minor characters are irrelevant surface effects,
like broken threads protruding from a piece of
tapestry. For instance, a discarded mistress of
the Jap Minister for Murders and Sudden De hs
crops up casually in the 4th act and gives x o ban
to understand that the Minister’s mercy can only
be obtained by a pretty woman on termswhich
The Bulletin would blush to mention. Llaving
fired off her statement at Yo San the dis-
carded one encounters the Minister and glares
at him, and is promptly cast into a torture
chamber for her foolishness. This suggests that
the Minister must be a monster of persistency
like Baron Scarpia of “La Tosca’’—where a new
girl is concerned. But he is not. When he makes
certain overtures to Yo San she shoves him away
from her, and subsequently obtains the release of
her rebel lover by revealing the hiding place of
his associates. The Minister doesn’t go back on
his word, or annoy Y@ San with any further
references to his unholy desires. He might keep
her in custody, but he lets her go free. Considered
as a drama, “The Darling of the Gods” is un-
satisfactory. Regarded as a panorama of alleged
Old Japanesque habits and customs, with a vision
of two immortal souls for the climax, it is an
admirable show.
♦ * * *
The plot is confined to four characters.
Yo San, daughter of a Prince, has just “come
out” in a society way of speaking, and the one
thought in her pure young mind is Man. She is
so innocent that she congratulates a giddy Geisha
on her extensive acquaintance with Man, where-
upon all little Jap damsels giggle and squeak. All
the same Yo San is strictly select in her yearning.
She loves Prince Kara, an outlaw, whose face she
saw by lantern-light when he was posing on the top of
a mountain, therefore she declines a feeble J apanese
Gussie of the period. The Gussie is nephew to
Zakkuri, Minister for Murders and Sudden
Deaths, but their relationship has no bearing on
the course of events. Zak. is bound to kill Kara
and his outlaw band, anyhow. The Emperor of
Japan demands the extermination of those 10
outlaws because they are the remnants of a Pro-
gressive movement. Kara, for insufficient reasons,
walks right into the palace of Yo San’s father
when Minister Zak. is there. By the sacred laws
of hospitality the visitor is protected from assas-
sination as long as he remains on the premises, so
he squats down beside his host and drinks tea
whilst Zakkuri, in quaint Gilbertian style,
chaffs him about his approaching doom.
In the meantime Yo San makes up her
mind to save her Kara if she can, on
account of his face. Her chance comes when the
outlaw finishes his tea and prepares to leave the
palace, claiming his right as a guest to have the
lights extinguished that Zak.’s swarm of Govern-
ment assassins may, peradventure, miss their mark
in the darkness. A timely swoon prevents him
going out to get murdered. When he swoons
e is carried by Yo San’s servant to her private
apartments, unbeknown to dear papa. Zak. and
his gory myrmidons guess what has become of
Kara, but Yo San tells them a sweet little fib
which disarms their suspicion, so the sick hero so-
journs in her boudoir for 40 days under the im-
Eression that he has been there only 40
ours. She restores him to health, and feeds him
with opium and lollies until he insists hpon re-
suming business as an outlaw. Just then Yo San’s
father proposes to decapitate his artless daughter
with a snickersnee, but he gives her a parental
curse instead, and turns her loose ; also he gives
Kara up to the myrmidons of Zakkuri, whence
arises the aforementioned episode in the Torture
Department. Yo San having revealed the moun-
tain lair of the 10 Progressives, their rebellion is
soon wiped out. Kara and Yo San are the
last of the fugitives, and they kill themselves
after agreeing to meet again in a better world
1000 years later. The penultimate scene
shows the shade of Yo San seeking her best
boy in the River of Souls, and the last tableau de-
Eicts their reunion in the misty Kingdom of the
■lest. Those rolling clouds of Heaven, likewise
the purgatorial River, are capital illusions. All
the earthly portions of the spectacle were effec-
tively done on Saturday, but it remained for the
final pictures to ensure a successful season for
“ The Darling.”
* * * *
Miss Maud Jeffries makes a charming Ye
San, the childish, amorous young woman whose
name, under happier conditions, might have been
Yum Yum. The tall artist conceals much of her
height, lightens her voice and dissembles her
mannerisms so that she is hardly recognisable as
the Miss Jeffries of “Resurrection.” E. A.
Warburton is generally effective in the com-
manding character of Minister Zakkuri; the
heavy father, played by Arthur Wontner,
is hardly weighty enough ; and the heroic
Kara is simply Julius Knight at his heaviest
and hoarsest. Certainly Kara is entitled to seem
sorry for himself. The character is that of an
outlaw waiting for assassination. But he might
show a little of the reckless dare-devil spirit which
prompts him to go looking for trouble in the palace
of Yo San’s parent.
« # * sie
“Mama’s New Husband,” the Yankee
frivol, drew a satisfactory crowd to the Princess
(Saturday, April 2nd). First-nighters seemed to
take a charitable view of the cheery, bustling
little show, which is still in full fizz when the
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York,
SETTLEMENT BASED ON PRESENT EXPERIENCE.
The following policy has recently matured, and the result will be found worthy of the
consideration of persons seeking a safe investment combined with Insurance:—
Policy No. 568,531. 10 Year Endowment; 10 Year Distribution*
Age at Issue, 40. Single Premium, £443 11s. 6d. Amount, £5OO.
Issued in the Year 1893. Matured in the Year 1903.
SETTLEMENT.
Policy £5OO O O
Bonus 103 12 6
Total Amount Paid £603 12 6
Cash gain to Policy-holder £l6O Is., being a return equal to over 3 per cent, compound
interest on Premium paid, and insurance for £5OO during 10 years, free of cost.
Accumulated Funds exceed £80,000,000
Surplus above Liabilities exceed £15,000,000
articulars of Policies to meet every requirement may be obtained at the Head Office for
Aus alia, or at any of its Branches.
COMPANY'S BUILDING - - - - Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
once.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O
for this?
<S^i
X
Write for our Illustrated Booklet, mailed Free on application. Ask for Catalog 8.,
explaining what can be done with the Pianola.
AH Records supplied from our immense Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
Sole Agents for
Australasia,
323 George St., SYDNEY; 185=7 Collins St., MELBOURNE; &at Finney, Isles & Co., BRISBANE.


curtain falls on its comparatively early close.
Granting that the plot has a spice of novelty,
it is the energy of the performers which makes the
thing go. Most of Stephenson’s “Fun Distri-
butors” (see programme) talk American-Eng-
hsh; their singing voices are not above music hall
standard, nor is marked personal smartness more
in evidence among them than extra chic toilettes
or gorgeous stage-accessories. Nevertheless, on
first night, they kept the ball rolling fast enough
to lull misgivings as to whether there might not
have been sites in Melbourne more suitable to
“Mama’s” household than the Princess.
* * * *
“Papa’s Big Step-daughter ” would fill the
top of the bill better than “Mama’s New Hus-
band,” for it is a saucy American seventeen-
vear-old who influences the madness not only of
her lovers, old and young, but also of “Mama,”
latter’s new husband, and a band of servants
who arrive in periodical gusts, and sing and dance
rather cleverly. Olive Evans makes ‘ ‘ Mamie, ”to
begin with, “not quite the sort of girl one cares
about,” a gipsy-haired minx, long of leg as an
Indian-runner duck (thanks to Mama’s fad for
dressing her offspring ten years behind her age),
and further handicapped by unmelodious singing-
methods. As time passes she is applauded for her
cute and humorous impersonation of something
between a tomboy and a coquette. Stine,
the new husband, is a stout, orthodox,
elderly young man from America, winning
laughs by queer grimaces and intonations.
Sometimes, besides being funny, he’s quaint (in
the American sense). An American, sitting near
this scribe, classified the plump joker as “ quaint ”
when he pensively parted his coat-tails and
absent-mindedly turned his back towards the
audience, as if he were warming himself at a fire-
place. Charles Bates, Marjorie Ford, and others
(but Bates in particular) come to the aid of the
misplaced comedy at odd moments, and the
dancing servants work hard.
# ifc Jfc *
At Melbourne Royal the horrors of ‘ ‘ The
Face at the Window” were received with many
shudders on Saturday. This was Melbourne’s
first experience of the renowned Andersonian
nightmare, and the effect of a galvanised corpse
upon a holiday public can’t be fully estimated
until the local hospital returns are made up.
Moreover, it is hard to say whether the galvanised
corpse of a detective is not somewhat in the
nature of a redeeming circumstance—a green
oasis in the desert of gruesomeness. Anderson’s
creepy entertainment is reserved for future
comment.
*
An interesting entertainment will trans-
pire at Melb. Athenaeum Hall next Wednesday,
tor tbn benefit of Fred. B. Norton. The pro-
gramme, largely musical and considerably drama-
tic, has a very fetching appearance, and is
expected to draw the most numerous audience the
hall can hold. Therefore the management advises
ticket-holders to book their chairs at once and get
fixed early on the eventful night, when the curtain
will rise at something to 8, and set in due course.
* *
New arrival Nat Gifford, an extraordinarily
grotesque dancer, who sings in a rather breathless
nasal tremolo, and patters when not otherwise
engaged, is a potent attraction at the Opera House
these times. There is something of Tom Wootwell
and a shght suggestion of Johnny Coleman in the
leg-play of Nat Gifford, but take him for all
m all, he is the most distinctive song-and
dance humorist that Melbourne has seen. Nat
represents an absolute novelty in a bill which is
mostly new. The “first part” is dressed and
arranged differently from any previous combina-
H? n o and a number of individual turns—
Ihe .Swifts, Maud Beatty, Fanny Powers and
others—have come from Sydney or elsewhere to
assist the Easter boom at the Melbourne house of
Kickards.
The Wild Cat Column.
it. , . . .
lwriciof- •n W t llcA 1S ' 3eill & ruined by Socialistic
miiit v . snow some remarkable figures when the
• ar ® lss ued for its financial year just closed,
w 1-™= Ine first 11 months of 1903-4 with those of
TrpoonU e , revei } ue increased by £547,000, as against the
ivLr,i., Urer s e ™ te °I an increase of £Bl,OOO for the
«noie year. Customs duties have grown by £292,000,
and stamps^post* £ l9 >o°°,
ably. Even the beer dutv in «’nifp <i nf al fu o taX c £uv? er ’
campaign, l fiooo2heS&t£ o
ally without increasing laves A,,, i,77 “Tv , ■ rrac .
which is a remarkable tribnie J'n . - uu
wealth and prosperity under the blivbfW ?nm?ennot ef
Protection and ISsm bbghtm g lnfluences of
* * * *
theE^endonan^FieminJton?vtc?oonnei’irb? S H^ t 0
their streets to the A. E. Morgans electric tramwav
eate. The agreement that
Morgans shall have trarrmrnnni no-J 5
Flemington and the present terminus of the N Melbourne
least- eio-w 6 S -A° be uniformly 2d., and oars must travel at
eight miles an hour. Total length of line is 64 miles
TrLn , c< ? uncils interested may, when the Melbourne
.met .i S , ? ex P lres in ’l7, purchase the ways, rolling-
intSLf Qd J at cost P rice 4 per cent, simple
uieeresc. or they may purchase at the end of 20 or 25
jears, at the then value. Failing any such purchase
me ways, works and rolling-stock become the abso-
we property of the councils at the end of 30 years.
ASLif® offer is nearly always the right bait. The
a-councdlor mmd sees in it a magnificent scheme
* g a whole tramwa y service for nothing. It never
Kerns to occur to that mind tha,t a Westralian speculator,
eYT 3 reason to love Essendon, isn’t likely
nJri ei \ a present of £ lo °.ooo. He hasn’t made it a
present of even 100,000 d. so far; but still that
*J ot , wei S h - Of course anybody who knows
we synmeate knows that to make a present of anything
unon I* . thinks of. It reckons
Words is ? 10n ®y, hack mside 30 years ;in other
line at u? s t ar t making the public pay for the
havino-o-nt v i °f.?° Vears it reckons upon
hand ovpi-T e °i itscapital, and it will then
of renair j haven t been kept in a high state
Public will they became obsolete. The
have naid Hit, f,?ii e ’i Ihe spherne works out all right,
not e-et them . val . ue °I the works, and after all will
them And nbo-l-l g u fc be worn -° u t remnants of
meantime the chances are that, by some new
development of electricity, other suburbs will have penny
trams, while Essendon will he paying- 2d. ; whereupon
the Essendon landlord will kick, and the Bent of the day
(if there ever is another Bent) will speak kindly to him
when he comes as a deputation to ask the Government
to buy out the co. for £300,000.
* * * *
Dr. Maxwell’s report on the Queensland cen-
tral sugar mills gives some idea of' the size of the
contract which Premier Morgan and Treasurer Kidston
have taken on up North. Under the “ business ”
administration of Philp and Co. £498,800 was ad-
vanced to the central sugar mills, established for the
excellent purpose of encouraging sugar-growing by
providing convenient mills and eliminating the middle-
man ; but Philp and Co., instead of seeing, as they ought
to have done, that the mills were put in suitable places,
allowed them to he dumped anywhere. The result was
that the money was spent in some cases where “ most of the
land was owned by some of the directorate.” After that
huge initial blunder, the “ business ” Government allowed
the directors to pay themselves and their fellow-growers
whatever they darned well pleased for cane, and they
paid themselves so much that there wasn’t anything left
for interest or repayment of principal. In fact, the
“ business ” Government seems to have allowed the sugar
companies to treat the provision for paying back principal
and interest as a joke. Five mills, which had borrowed
among them £214,142, and should have paid off £20,493,
had actually paid to June last only £5OB. Besides
being £19,985 behind in repayments they were £44,365
behind in interest —altogether £64,350. The Proserpine
mill, which borrowed £68,100, has never paid a penny,
either of interest or of principal, and is behind £20,817.
Treasurer Kidston, of course, is trying to get in this
money, but bumps up against the fact that the mills can’t
earn what they ought to because Philp and Co.’s “busi-
ness ” administration allowed them to be built where they
ought not to be, and no amount of good administration
on Morgan and Kidston’s part can get rid of that handi-
cap. Meantime Philp, who landed the State in this mess,
stands aside and watches Kidston struggling to get
Queensland out of it, and cheerfully tells him that the
only way he can do it is by selling the public lands. And
PhUp has actually the gall to suggest that he is the right
man to be trusted with that business, too.
* * * *
Perkins and Co., brewers, of Brisbane and
Toowoomba (Q.): —
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Div. Duty. Reserves, serves.
1894 ..£12,086 6 p.c.= £3,062 £9,024 £9,024
1895 .. 10,035 10 „ „ 6,125 3,910 12,934
1896 .. 11,784 10 „ „ 6,125 5,659 18,593
1897 .. 12,945 10 „ „ 6,125 6,820 25,413
1898 ... 15,067 13J » » 8,167 6,900 32,313
1899 .. 19,456 13J „ „ 8,167 11,289 43,602
1900 .. 24,404 15 5-6 „ „ 9,698 14,706 58,308
1901 .. 26,165 16| „ „ 10,208 15,957 74,265
1902 .. 28,496 18j „ „ 11,229 17,267 91,532
1903 .. 26,565 23£ „ „ 14,292 12,273 103,805
1904 .. 23,435 25 „ „ 15,313 8,122 111,927
The dividend has again been increased, the seventh time
in 10 years, which is about an Australian record, for the
past 10 years at any rate. (The co.’s which jumped up
the divs. seven times in the previous 10 years are mostly
very sorry for it now, or are too dead to be sorry for any-
thing.) In each of the last two years the profits were less
than in the preceding year, while the dividend was
greater ; and it is a bad rule to increase dividends while
profits are dwindling. What may be said in favor of the
co. is that, though its div. is at the rate of 25 per cent,
on paid capital, its profit was at the rate of just over 40
per cent., while the reserves are very nearly twice as large
as the capital. Moreover, it has not borrowed anything
to buy properties with ; and it maintains a comfortable
credit balance. Further, it writes off something sub-
stantial for depreciation—£437l during the past year.
It’s a large dividend, but there seems a good deal more
justification for it than there is for most large dividends,
especially in the risky beer trade.
* » * *
Brisbane is very tired and depressed these
times. In Queen-street, the principal business thorough-
fare, there are fully 20 shops to let.
* * * *
m
Two witnesses for the defence in the Godhard-
Inglis libel case gave the coupon business away worse than
usual. Most of the witnesses were storekeepers, but
these two were the chairman and a director of a coupon
co. at Broken Hill, where the system has had a great
time. An outsider having formed one coupon co. there,
the grocers and drapers started another on a paid capital
of £125. In the first year it made a profit of £sos—over
400 per cent, per annum ! The first coupon co. charged
traders 225. 6d. per 1000 coupons; the other co. even-
tually brought the price down to 12s. 6d. per 1000, and
still made a profit, and was able to buy premises lately
for £1950. Some of this profit came from giving an
eighteen-penny ornament in exchange for 2s. 6d. worth of
coupons ; but more of it came from coupons that never
showed up after they were issued ; the co.’s experience
was that 30 per cent, never came in. The director of
this co. (also a trader using the coupons) said that he
and the other coupon-using- traders simply marked up
prices to pay for the coupons ; so it was “no benefit to
the customers, for they bought their goods at a higher
price, and sustained a further loss by the coupons that
were not redeemed.” Also he might have said that they
paid the higher price merely to keep an entirely
unnecessary middleman going and to pay the rent of an
entirely unnecessary shop, and the cost of an entirely
unnecessary lot of advertising. .
* * * *
“ The 20s. Gift Syndicate,” the amazing wild-
cat which lately broke out in Sydney and got some notice
in The Bulletin (17/3/’O4), has now attacked Melbourne,
and is getting rid of boots there on the same cheeky
plan. There ought to be even more profit in getting
rid of boots than of pound-notes. The person who is
beguiled into having anything to do with the ingenious
Yankee notion deserves to fall in the soup ; and a great
portion of him certainly will.
* * * *
The Scapegoat : Don’t recommend that bank in
the circumstances: they have a reserved liability of £lO per
share. If there are no dependents, why not an annuity ?
W. Osmond: Person asked for was a mineowner, of
Stawell (Victoria) chiefly ; had been there about 40 years.
* * * *
The Union Trustee Go. (Melbourne): —
Investment
Fluctua-
Ordinary tion Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1893.. £4306 6 per cent. = £4429 £2043
1894.. 2797 4 „ „ „ 2953 1887
1895.. 3649 4 „ „ „ 2953 2583
1896.. 555 2 „ „ „ 1476 1662
1897.. 2742 4 „ „ „ 2953 1451 £2789
1898.. 3005 4 2953 1503 674
1899.. 2299 4 „ „ „ 2953 849
1900.. 1066 l£„ „ „ 1107 808 819
1901.. 2722 3J„ „ „ 2584 946 306
1902.. 2886 4 „ „ „ 2953 879 1006
1903.. 2848 4 „ „ „ 2953 774 314
1904.. 3255 4 „ „ „ 2953 1076 301
The paid capital is £73,822; so that the total earnings,
which are the best for nine years, are equal to £4 7s. per
cent, on shareholders’ funds. Interest and ordinary busi-
ness profits are, as usual, bunched ; but as the investments
even at per cent, would yield about £2750, it is clear
that, even in this unusually good year, there has not been
much profit in the trustee business. As hitherto, all the
investments, except the £32,400 which are in Victorian 3
per cents, and Queensland 3£ per cent, debentures in
terms of the law, are included in the balance-sheet at
present market prices ; those mentioned are included at
par, which is about £2400 above present market price.
If all securities were written down to market value the
whole of the reserves would therefore disappear.
* * * *
Another man who wrote to the Sydney daily
papers to show how “ our oppressive mining- laws ” were
driving capital out of the country has fallen in with a
loud splash. The tale of woe told by this correspondent
was that, just when he was going to bring in a large but
indefinite sum from abroad to develop our great natural
industry, a stupid Mines Department rushed in and can-
celled the lease for non-fulfilment of labor conditions, and
so the large but indefinite sum was lost to the country.
Then a Mines Department which has grown rather weary
of pricking bubbles of this sort turned up its papers and
found that the injured correspondent who wasn’t allowed
to save his country had taken up the lease first in 1897,
had got suspension in 1898, had sold the claim for £l5O in
the same year, had bought it back a few months later
for 10s., had sold it in 1900 for £35, and then had himself
reported the new lessee for non-observance of the labor
conditions, and endeavored to obtain the cancellation
of the lease. So, having twice already sold the same
lease, he tried, according to the Mines Department, to
get it to do the awful thing which he now denounces it
for doing. The lease was cancelled late in 1901. During
the 3£ years it had been in force labor suspension had
been granted for 19 months ; and the original applicant
had sold it twice, for £lB5, while all told “ probably not
more than £150” had been expended on the property
(local warden’s report). After that the same man took
it up again, got a lease in July, 1903, and was along
again in October after another suspension ; but this time
the Mines Department got rather tired of the gentleman,
and fired him out. And then he made one of the mistakes
of his life, and wrote to the papers; and so gave the
department the chance to show the public what sort of
people they are who write to the papers about “ our
oppressive mining laws.”
* * * *
Present most unhappy family among Broken
Hill companies is the Junction North. For some reason
or other Broken Hill people have bought into the show
considerably—it isn’t clear why, for, unless its prospects
are wholly changed by the magnetic concentration pro-
cess, its future looks just about as dismal as its past has
been. It has no great quantity of ore, and it is situated
in one of the most unreliable sections of the field. Broken
Hill people have, however, the idea that magnetic
concentration could do wonders with the ore,
whose chief trouble hitherto has been rhodonite—an
intensely hard and tough mineral which makes
ordinary concentration unprofitable, in spite of the com-
parative richness of the ore. The magnets are said to get
this stuff out with great success. The office in Melbourne
is, however, an oyster, from which shareholders can get
no information ; and though that sort of thing is tolerated
in connection with a co. which closes the shareholders’
mouths with dividends, it won’t go down in connection
with a co. which has been going to do large things for 16
years (Zeb. Lane first boomed the show in a small way
that far back), but has never done anything but recon-
struct and make calls. Both Broken Hill and Adelaide
shareholders have so little confidence in the management
that it is hardly worth mentioning ; yet when they seek
representation, they are met by a circular letter issued
by the directors to the shareholders in general, calling
upon the latter to jump hard upon the “ agitators.” As
a side issue, the “ agitators ” want to know who pays for
that circular —the directors or the co. If the latter, it is
most improper. In any case, things can’t be worse with
the co. than they have been under the present regime,
and the change might be for the better. It is worth
trying, anyhow.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary’s mineral produc-
tion is now within a little of the highest point it ever
reached. Its past four months’ returns have been :
Lead. Silver.
December .. 5210 tons 300,044 oz.
January .. 4864 ~ 362,019 ~
February .. 4289 ~ 400,361 „
March .. 5880 „ 463,318 „
This one mine is yielding nearly l-12th of the world’s
supply of lead.
* * * *
Broken Hill North, which ceased breaking ore
on June 1, 1901, has set itself going again in a small way.
The usual piffle is published about its “ enormous
reserves —“ when mining ceased, nearly three years ago,
the manager estimated that there were quite 200,000 tons
of payable mill sulphides in sight, and if he erred it was in
estimating the quantity too low.” This is nonsense, of
course ; probably there were 200,000 tons of ore in sight,
but it wasn’t payable at the price. If it had been the
mine wouldn’t have been closed. As a matter of fact, in
the half-year prior to the shutting down, every ton of
lead cost the co. £l3 11s. to produce. When the market
slumped, something was knocked off this by economies
and by selecting the richer and more easily got-at ores,
but still the co. had to stop when lead got down to
£l2 55., at which price it was losing considerably. Since
then the machinery has been improved out of recog-
nition, but it still remains to be shown whether it can
make a profit with lead at anything below £l2.
* * * *
Special mining commissioner Curie, of London
Economist, has been discussing Broken Hill mines and
sulphide processes. He thinks well of B.H. Prop., South,
Sulphide Corporation, and Block 10, and says—“ During
the next year or two I shall expect to see a series of im-
provements (in treatment) introduced, which will gra-
dually tend to a much more profitable existence for the
mines. . . . I feel inclined to think Block 10 would be the
best mine to buy into.” As to which, however, it is to be
noted that Block 10’s have already within a month
jumped from about 225. to 335.
* * * *
“M.C.” : Under the Bonus Bill it is proposed
to give 12s. per ton on Australian pig-iron ; the bounty is
limited to £250,000 and will cease in 1909. The bonus
would operate during the manufacture of, say, 400,000
tons of pig-iron or puddled bar-iron, extended over four
years. The amount distributed in wages would equal the
annual expenditure of one of our big mines, a modest
start for what is sure to become a big industry. Two es-
sential conditions are rich ore, free from contaminating
substances, and cheap coal and fluxes. Mr. Jaquet made
a report on the deposits of iron ore in N.S.W., which was
published by Government, He stated that most of the
ore contains phosphorus, which prevents the cheapest
and best method of furnace treatment. If the works were
started near the coastal coal fields, iron ore could be
brought from various parts of Australia and Tasmania. It
is not essential that coal, iron ore, and fluxes should be
found close together. America produces pig iron at a cost
of £ll2s. ssd. per ton, with high priced labor, and brings
the ore (high-grade, easily-treated material) to Pittsburg
from much further than our Broken Hill lead ore is
carried to Port Pirie. English pig iron costs £2 12s, 2d,
to produce, and most' of the high grade ore is imported
from Spain and Sweden. Carnegie estimates British iron
ore will he practically exhausted in 25 years, so Australia
as a big iron producer is not such a remote contingency
as some may think. What we require just now is em-
ployment for our people, and that can only be provided to
a large extent by high Protection on the numerous sec-
ondary industries of iron, steel, lead, copper and zinc.
The production of pig iron will not in itself give rise to
much employment; converting the iron into steel would
involve a much larger outlay of capital and give more
labor. Nothing but the importing craze prevents a large
development of the secondary metal industries. We can
galvanise iron, and already have the works ; there are
also factories for nails, screws, rivets, but they are mori-
bund. The people of Collingwood, a Canadian town,
give a bounty to a factory making wire, nails, screws, &e,
America protects its industries effectively ; lead has a duty
of £lO per ton. The Australian bounties to be given to gal-
vanised iron, wire-netting and steel pipes (10 per cent, on
value, limited to £50,000) are inadequate. The industries
that give the most employment are to get the least help.
If heavy Protection is not resorted to the proposed
bounties will not do much good. The proposal to spend
£20,000 to establish spelter manufacture is well meant;
there are such big possibilities for this trade that the
money may be well spent in helping experimental work,
in. which more than £20,000 has been spent already.
Nothing is said about white lead, which is imported in
quantity. It may be noted that British trade in manu-
factured iron is approximately £133,000,000 ; in addition
there is an immense trade in white lead, tin plates and
copper ware. Bluntly put, we want some of this trade.
Except the Great Fingall, there is not a mine
worthy of the name- on the great Murchison goldfield,
which is larger than the whole of Tasmania. Ten years
ago great things were predicted of the Murchison. The
Emerald at Yalgoo was a 4oz. show, and right up to Peak
Hill, 400 miles further on, the country was being pros-
pected with good results. Twelve months sufficed to
work out the Emerald patch, the whole of the crushing
stuff being contained in a small dyke only a few feet in
depth. There was no reef—simply a lot of boulders and
loose stones, the interstices being filled in with red cement
and white kaolin, very similar to the famous Peak Hill
patch. Every stone in the Emerald dyke carried gold,
very evenly distributed through brownish quartz of
wonderful transparency. But gone is the golden stone,
and with it the sole hope of Yalgoo, formerly the busiest
and rowdiest mining camp between the coast and Cue.
There were more fights to the square foot in Yalgoo than
in all Coolgardie, and new chums from t’other side didn’t
linger long to admire the scenery in that district.
Cue was the lode star, and from the outset it
had a big pull over the other Murchison camps
owing to the warden being located there. This was after
Bayley made his first big rise at Nannine, 60 miles further
north. Said that he “ specked ” 700 oz. in one day, and
the spot is still known as Bayley’s Island. Just now Cue
is being outstripped by Day Dawn, which possesses the
Great Fingall—the show originally owned by the late W.
R. Wilson, the Horn Bros., and other Crow-eaters under
the name of the Day Dawn. The mine is managed by
Bewick, Moreing, and Co., and all news concerning-
erushings, &c., filters through their Kalgoorlie office, and
the dull, stodgy Perth papers publish the returns as
though the mine was actually in the Kalgoorlie district.
This is decidedly misleading to outsiders, and obviously
unfair to the Murchison, which badly wants a lift.
* * * *
There is going to be a slump in the pearling
business in Westralia ; and before there has been time to
put it down to “ socialistic legislation,” Tiie Bulletin gets
in first to say that it isn’t due to that. Eighteen months or
so ago, and even less, there began a very temporary boom
in prices for shell, which American fashion petted ; and
there was such a rush to build boats that within the past
12 months it is reckoned nearly 100 luggers have been
built in the south, mostly at Fremantle, and sent to
Broome. But the price of shell, which went up to £3OO a
ton, has slumped to £l6O or even less ; while the pearling
grounds have been overcrowded, and the take per boat
has fallen considerably.
* * * »
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903:
“ When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
* * * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etci, call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* » * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
jjc * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Rivited Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited,*
* * * *
The field of concentration after stamps or
amalgamation is an old and recognised one, yet this treat-
ment is now improved upon in certain instances by con-
centrating direct from the stamps, as it is found that gold
heavy enough to sink through the film of water moving
rapidly down the copper plate is heavy' enough to be
successfully settled upon the deck of the Wilfley Table,
and thus concentrated. A large number of Wilfley Con-
centrators have now been sold in Australia, and they are
daily coming into more universal use. The Austral Otis
Engineering Company of South Melbourne, who are the
Agents and Sole Manufacturers of the Wilfley Tables, are
kept busily employed in turning out the tables, and have
some difficulty ip keeping ahead of the demand.*
* * * *
The Chillagoe Etheridge (North Q.) railway pro-
ject is off, so far as the Queensland Government and
Bewick, Moreing and Co. are concerned. 8., M. and Co.
took up 11 mining leases at Etheridge, which were going
to be manned at once and vigorously worked. This
announcement was followed by “negotiations,” concern-
ing which there was much mystery, but which now turn
out to have been a request that the Government should
practically guarantee 21- per cent, per annum on the cost
of a railway which the firm would promote a co. to build
from Chillagoe to Etheridge. Meantime, it transpires,
the announcement was made in London that the Govern-
ment had actually agreed to give the guarantee. Appar-
ently this was. mere kite-flying. Anyhow, Bull-,Cohen lejt
the Government know that he disapproved of any new
juggle to add to the State’s debt; and 8., M. and Co.
were not, therefore, surprised when the Government
declined to take up the business on these terms. B«, M.
and Co. then lost interest in the 11 Etheridge leases
which were going to be vigorously worked at once, and
abandoned them, and subsequently even applied for a
refund of the money they had lodged with their applica-
tions ; so if the Etheridge gets its railway it will probably
be only through the Chillagoe Co. trying to retrieve its
position by helping to raise the money. And 8., M. and
Co.’s action in abandoning their 11 leases be much
of a help in doing;that.
Continued on page SO.)
rram ways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
IP INTERESTED, write
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
a. e. leplasteier, Manager. 4-0 Hunter Street, Sydney.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
IJorax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street*
Melbourne ;
II Pitt-st., Sydney ; -68 Currie-.st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINCER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834.


Society
Elijah Dowie blasphemed and black-
guarded throughout Australia with a certain
degree of impunity until, in Adelaide, he dared
to say something about King Ned. It was a very
harmless something, too —a mere remark that if
Christ came to earth again King Ned would soon
have to take a back seat, a statement that all
Christians should believe. But Respectability
turned on Dowie in horror for this, and rended
him like Samson tearing up that damp blotting:
paper lion in Israel. Mayor Cohen especially dis-
tmguished himself by writing feverishly to the
Prophet:—
a J 1 am sure that the corporation of the city of
Adelaide has never before permitted anyone to use the
town hall for the purpose of expressing- disloyal senti-
ments towards our beloved King, and, although you may
nilf A, » encan ./ e t you are a disgrace to your nation-
„ Your . utterances appearing in this afternoon’s
press aie an insult to every British subject of our empire,
and 1 enter my strongest protest against any further
utterances of a disloyal character, and, if they should so
occur, I shall have no hesitation in instructing the police
to eject you from the town hall.—Respectfully yours, L.
Cohen, Mayor of Adelaide. J * ’
Which, from its opening joke (suggestive of that
ancient bull— His name is Smith, yet his in-
juries are not likely to prove fatal”) to its con-
cluding respectfully yours” is a very gem, a
Kohmoor of humor. And the S.A. Government
THE STRIKE.
THTE FAIR DULGINEA : “ O dear, dear. How I
wish they could settle it by arbitration.”
solemnly decided to exclude Elijah from all public
buildings ; and when he wanted to baptise some
followers in the public baths he was shut out
Dowie insulted Christianity and took up a hog
attitude on most other subjects in Australia, and
earned only the contumelious carrot of the “lower
orders, which didn’t matter much. , But a whisper
that the King is not as great as Christ was a
different business; it brought the respectable
classes down on him like an avalanche, and he was
at once a lost prophet.
* * * *
V°n Doiissa, the S’Australian Minister of
Education has found Dowie guilty of “ diabolical
license and practical sedition” in suggesting that
King Edward can only hope to “get to Heaven
by the skin of his teeth.” An ordinary parson
who threatens his little flock with burning h—l is
apt to be revered as an earnest reformer. Probably
VonDoussa has often been advised to take heed
lest he perish and so forth, and it never struck
him that the shepherd’s comments on his sinful
state were diabolically nasty. But when he heard
or Dowie including King Edward among those
likely to catch the Hallelujah bus with difficulty,
Doussa called the hairy disloyalist a malignant
liar, a wicked aspersionist, and a miserable
humbug. Erorn which it appears that every king
must necessarily be Good in the best kerristian
sense of the term, in the limits of his own particu-
lar empire. On the other hand, any professional
preacher may indulge in sulphurous prophecies re
a foreign potentate—the more sulphurous the
better if the potentate happens to be out of favor
with the preacher’s audience. The Bulletin
wouldn’t have given twopence for the life of a
rash clergyman who walked down Collins-
street, Melbourne, on Mafeking Night proclaim-
ing the sure and certain salvation of old man
Kruger. And how would Von Doussa feel to-day
—what width of loyal smile would he wear—if
JJowie had slung his nonsense at the Czar, instead
of chucking it at his less religious rival ?
* * * *
Adelaide confidently expects now that
Mayor Cohen, consequent upon his slaughter of
Elijah Dowie for reflecting on the King, will be
made either a Lord Mayor, a C.M.G., or a Privy
Councillor. Cohen reported his action to the
Council on the following Monday, and then
solemnly invited its members to rise and say ‘ ‘ God
Save our gracious King ! ” He was doubtful as to
their vocal acquirements, and so did not ask them
to sing it. It is not known whether or not a special
report of the occurrence was cabled to Windsor
Castle.
* * • •
Elijah Dowie seems to have been a fraud
and a posturer even in the matter of his “out-
bursts of passion.” They, anyhow, looked like
the real thing; but now it turns out that they
nave all been used before, and are just as much
part of the Prophet’s stock-in-trade as his beautiful
calves are part of Dill Macky’s. For instance,
this is from his address at Los Angeles, Cal., on
his way along to Australia :
Oh you Presbyterians, Catholics, Methodists, Baptists—
all of you. Outcasts, stinkpots, and unfaithful dogs is
what you are. And there are the users of tobacco. They
spit and they squirt, and you call yourselves Christians.
You parade the street with a vile cigar, and you throw it
away as you go into church, and you call yourselves
Christians. Dirty dogs you are—dirty dogs. Look here,
do you know what your wife says after you leave home in
the morning for your office? “Bridget, put up the
windows ; the stinkpot has gone.’’ Yes, that is what she
pots j^° U> an< * is what you are. Phew, you stink-
So even the old man’s rage is carefully rehearsed
and carted round the earth along with the collec-
tion-plate.
* * * •
Sydney gaud-Mayor, Lees, with a fine
flourish : “We look upon Sir Harry Rawson as
nni, ma a amo ’}B' men.” An exhaustive eulogium.
Ihe State Governor has evidently some solid
human qualities of his own. He might have been
a plesiosaurus amongst goats, or a crayfish
amongst beetles, or an angel amongst aldermen.
But gaud-Mayor Lees, with his fine perceptive
Gyo, discovered that His Excellency Rawson was
none of these things, but a man among men.
This puts up a record.
* * * *
A Warragul (Vic.) farmer took a fatal dose
of poison last week, after writing a letter of fare-
well to his wife, and enclosing a cheque of £lOO
to tide her over the grief.” There is a certain
amount of consolation in a £lOO cheque, anyhow.
* * * *
The long arm of coincidence and the
cussedness of things in general are responsible for
a little difficulty in which Fred. Hayward, of
Melbourne, just now finds himself. He, lately
annexed an unattached bike at the Customs
House. A week or so later he rode down to the
Port Melbourne Sugar Works to apply for a job.
Out of a hundred applicants he got the billet, and
was going to put the machine inside when an
interfering stranger asked him to account for
possession thereof. This person explained that
he was the lawful owner, and that he happened to
be Customs clerk at the Sugar Works. Now
Frederick dwells in a cool cell considering the
odds against such a thing happening again. You
png the bike of one casual mortal out of 500,000.
You get a job among 100 applicants, and Luck,
by eliminating the other 499,999 people that this
particular bike might have belonged to, and the
countless other bikes that might have been stolen
just as easily, and the 99 other people who might
have got the job, lands Frederick in a cell with no
job and no bike.
SECTARIAN STRIFE.
SMALL BOY : “ What’s yer muvver an’ farver
fightin' for, Billo”
B ILL: "Oh, it’s only a religious difference. The
ole woman wants to be married in the Carth-
lick Church, and me father he's a Wesseleyan!"
Alderman Ralston, proposing the toast of
“the Royal Agricultural Society of New South
Wales” in Sydney the other day, said : “When
the Ministries of to-day and to-morrow were for-
f often the names of the men who had helped to
uild up the Royal Agricultural Society would go
down to posterity.” In the name of the Prophet
—Pigs !
“Hiphen”: Before success
can be obtained in the Dowie-
Brigham Young line of religious
effort, two things are necessary.
The first is the capability fey
deceiving others ; the second (and
far more important) is being
able to deceive oneself. These
are rare gifts not vouchsafed to
all. Nor are they to be con-
founded ! Most of us can deceive
others—some of us can deceive
ourselves. It is only when the
two are sufficiently blended that
they connect with money in
the religious-speciality business.
Worthington had the former gift,
but lacked the latter. Worthing-
ton is in gaol. Dowie seems to
have a blend of both—he is still
out of gaol. He will remain
there while he can still convince
himself that he may be what he
convinces others that he is.
Directly he begins to have doubts
about himself, his business collap-
ses. The fool part of the world
(the majority) takes its neighbors
at their own valuation if the assess-
ment be high enough.
• * •
‘ ‘ Ebenezer, ” on the Hawkes-
bury, was the first church in
Australia built by voluntary sub-
scriptions. The C.E. churches
fmnerTalSTocaf built ° ut ° f public funds ’
penal or local.
Even King Ned’s official paper, the Court
CIRCULAR does not trouble to know much
o Australian geography. It announced the
other day that General Talbot had kissed the
monarch s flesh ‘‘ on appointment as Governor and
Gommander-in-Chief of Victoria, New South
Wales.”
“ Zif ” : What’s tho
matter with Government
establishing a State Baby
Farm, where infants could
be bought, sold, or ex-
changed ? Unwelcome in-
fants could be acquired at
low rates, and retailed to
Society dames, who could
thus collect a family without
any discomfort, and with-
out any damage to their
sylph-like figures. Ladies
who brought forth a girl
when a boy was wanted,
could exchange at the
“Farm” and get the desired
bouncing boy. In my pro-
phetic eye I can see a city
branch of the “ Farm ” with
embryo citizens on show,
labelled after the following
fashion. “Fine athletic
boy, 17s. 6d.,” “Musical
girl slightly shop worn, 10s.
6d.,” “Pair girl twins,
would make splendid song
and dance sisters, 305.,”
“ Brainy boy, Bs. 6d., or would exchange for a
poetic girl.” This is only the idea in the rough.
* * * *
Victoria’s well-groomed, superbly-dressed
Chief Justice Madden has lately been obtruding
great hunks of his character on the community.
His childish spirit came out in his determination
to sit in court late and say stupid, pettish things
because the Age published some nasty remarks by
Bent on the Judges and their work. Again, in
making a speech to the Boys’ Naval Brigade, at
St. Kilda, Madden revealed the reason why he
wears such superfine clothes. He said, “He was
sorry to see that bright, smart uniforms were
being done away with in favor of those less bright
and smart. A uniform was not only to make the
wearer attractive to the girls, though it was very
useful in that way. The clothes a man wore had
a lot to do with his character. An untidy, ill-
dressed man was ready for any row. He was quite
prepared to roll in the gutter and then go on
again. The spirit of self-respect was wanting in
him. On the other hand, if a man were clothed
in such a way as to remind him of his duty and
purpose, he remembered his flag and the duties he
owed to his country.” All of which seems to point
to the fact that Madden wears splendid clothes to
prevent his getting into rows, rolling in the
gutter, jumping on the dear old flag, and then
going on again. He wears clothes to remind him
of his duties. There is no telling what he
will get up to if, some fine day, he forgets to put
on his magnificent clothes.
* * * •
It is in a sense a creditable thing that the
gentlemen “ representing the shipping and com-
mercial interests of Melbourne” should ask the
Victorian Government to mitigate the punishment
of the pilot who put the Petriana on the rocks.
Ordinarily Fat is not too well pleased with the
pilot who runs his ship ashore, but the Petriana
wreck allowed Fat to do such a great deal of lying
about “ the tyranny of labor legislation,” and so
on that he made a big profit dn tho incident. And
he is magnanimous enough to show it by pleading
for the pilot who accidentally supplied him with
opportunity for as notable a piece of slander and
perjury as Australian politics have known.
THE DECREASING BIRTHRATE.
(Scene: The Last Day.)
GABRIEL, JUNIOR (to Gabriel, Senior): “Knock off, dad:.
Here comes the Australian population.”
f f ardly a week now but one or other,
of the wheat-and-wool fleet captains lying at Mel -
the local gaol, and (AsTeady
to depart. Geelong gaol opened its doors last week
to no less than 15 of the Glenelvan’s complement
these being composed of two Italians three
Brazilians, two Filipinos, two Portuguese one
negro, and five Japs. The band will now dis-
course “ Sons of the Sea.”
ABSIT OMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Muscovite Monster,” kc.—S.M. Herald.
The ferocious Russian Bear
Has come raging from his lair,
Pilled with blood, and bones and hair—
And his eyes with fury glare,
And his claws are sharp and bare
As a sword.
But the brave brown little Jap,
Whom we nursed upon our lap
To be such a valiant chap,
In his nose a ring will clap,
And will lead him in a strap—
Thank the Lord !
Wait awhile. The Samurai,
Gun on shoulder, sword on thigh,
May be with us by-and-bye. . .
Will you whoop and shout “ Banzai !’■
When you see each slanting eye
Shooting flames ?
And how will the prospect please
When they come here overseas,
Like a hive of swarming bees,
And demand from you your keys,
And the Herald, if you please,
Shall come out in Japanese,
Mister James?
N.S.W.
C.R.
LOVE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prom the lawn her bosom shows
As from its green sheath, the rose
When the sheath parts slowly thence—
Sweets of myrrh and frankincense ;
And as melting clouds disclose
In the morn the heaven-set snows,
Breasts to love their charms display
When the lawn is touched away.
Might I, Sweet 1 thy bosom bare
Kiss till roses blossom there !
M.L.
OHANNES C. ANDERSEN.
He shall go down with a halo of glory
When. Se 6, Wise and Lyne lie in sepulchres drear ;
He shall be famous in song and in story
Who grew the Prize Pumpkin, the pride of the year.
Heroes we have w£to in African battle
Distinguished themselves in a waj\ Man, alive,
The Breeder of Pigs and the Breeder of Cattle—
He is the Hero whose name will survive 1
DAVID JONES
\
COMPANY,
The "D.J. Orient ” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
NARROW
OB
ROUND TOES.
Special |
Value. • j
16/6
Carriage Free to any P.O, in the States.
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney.
No
Previous
Knowledge
Required.
k
S 8
j
Instruction's tiZn Prpf g Thr^n/ ne v^?«n in^^»^ p ' fc0 ' date Cameras, with which a Book of Simple
or SrTfaE^™.^ V ,C ™R CAMERA is marvellous value. It is suitable for Ladv
Lens imDroved wLwwt w tS ’ G !' ou ? s ’ Vlews or Snapshots, is compact and neat, fitted with good
in N S 7 31/3 - to ofW^Klff es for photos. 4j x 3Jin. Posted to any address
makino- finished Phnin<vrni« Sv" ?n/ VICTOR OUTFIT, containing all Appliances and Materials for
malting nmshed Photographs, price 10/-, or posted in N.S.W., 11/3 ; other States, 12/6.


There is a Maoriland movement to prove
! that the State’s vanity is flattered at having
a battleship named after it—a shilling sub-
scription for adults, the proceeds to provide prizes
i for gunnery; and a pence subscription for children,
ito purchase a piece of plate for the battle-
: ship- The adults’ subscriptions will probably be
voluntary, but apparently the children are to be
forced to take a penn’orth of jingoism, whether
: they like it or not. At a meeting at Timaru
(whose self-advertising jingo mayor has initiated
t the movement), addresses were given by the chair-
;man of the district Board of Education and the
'.headmaster of the largest public school, and several
letters were read from other headmasters. All
were unanimous in intimating that each child
should be rruide to do its duty in the matter. Joe
Chamberlain announces that “our children should
oe made to think Imperially.” Now, can the
Hempire afford to allow young Maoriland to be
early seized with the idea—the very true idea—
that jingo Imperialism means forced levies ?
WASHING DAY IN THE LONG AGO.
The sin of a Kerang (Vic.) newspaper has
'found it out. The proprietor was let in for £lO
and one shilling damages, plus his own law costs,
for publishing a libellous ode, beginning:—
Stripped of disguise you howl and bark,
And try to hide the job in Alexandra Park.
The Judge presumably gave the plaintiff a “ bob”
for the libel and £lO for the indignity of being
attacked in such bad verse.
CAESAR'S WIFE.
“ Well, old man, your wife made a charming hostess last night. By-the-bye, I did not see
you about.”
"E r— no! Fact is, since I've been in Parliament I have to be more particular than ever
where I am seen about.”
“B.” shows again that the law—or
some of it—is an ass
This is the tale told me by a widow. She married,
28 years ago, a man who hadn’t a cent to his name,
but earned a small salary. She herself had managed
to scrape together a small property on which they
lived pretty comfortably for 14 years. Then he died.
During her widowhood of 14 years she has managed
to keep going, but lately decided to sell some of her
property. On trying to dispose of it, legal difficulties
cropped up in connection with the defunct husband,
who had died intestate (the poor beggar had had
nothing worth making a will for). To solve these
problems, her solicitor advised her to take out, as a
matter of form, letters of administration. On ap-
plication to the curator of intestate estates, the man
she interviewed inquired if the deceased had left
any relatives. She answered that he had a couple of
sisters somewhere. They had never corresponded
with her husband, but she had heard him mention
them now and then. The curator’s office went
through with the thing, and the widow got her
letters of administration. So armed, she proceeded
with the sale of her place, when she was thunder-
struck by a demand from the far-off sisters’ solici-
tors for two-thirds of the deceased estate, their law-
ful portion, together with a claim for 1U years’
rent. So for going through an empty form required
by the law itself, and simply to oblige the law itself,
she has to hand over her own property, earned by her
sole efforts, to utter strangers. I assure her that the
law has enough loopholes to let her through, but
she says that her lawyers can’t see how to get her
out of the mess.
* * * *
Sydney Zoo is in Queer-street. The
tendency of the public to visit the Zoo only on
Sunday (when admission is free) has got the con-
cern so far in debt that it has had to dispose of
the favorite elephant, “Toby,” for £2OO. If the
depression in funds continues, other animals and
creeping things will have to go to the hammer.
• * * *
Necessity for a Gun License Act is again
impressed by the tragic death of the lad Keith
Wood, accidentally shot, the other day, at Sydney.
There are four good reasons for a gun license: It
would make impossible many of the didn’t-know-
it-was-loaded tragedies; it would help to preserve
native birds and animals; it would bring in some
revenue ; and it would compel many assassins to
fall back on the meat axe or the poker—weapons
which a reasonably swift runner can dodge. But
the trouble about this generally useful and unob-
trusive little reform is that it can’t be made a
party question of, and it can’t be opened with a
champagne banquet; and so it doesn’t rouse any
special political interest.
During the last few weeks The Bulletin
has collected, in a casual way, nearly 200 adver-
tisements published by people rich enough to keep
servants, for employees “without encumbrance.”
Two hundred cases collected in a few weeks from
a few papers, in which the population we so much
need is denounced by the class to which the Birth-
rate Commission mostly belonged as an “ encum-
brance.” Two hundred cases in which the baby
must have been either “prevented,” or murdered,
or got rid of in some way, in order that its mother
might get employment. It is to be hoped the Tory
is proud of his class.
* * * *
The great Adelaide judicial separation case
has been hung up for the holidays, and no end to
it is anywhere m sight. No case that hadn’t a
shocking impropriety in it has ever been so profit-
able to the Adelaide dailies. As for the public, it
discusses the chances as to whether the doctor
really hurled the soap at his wife (as she swears),
or merely tossed it so as to attract her attention
(as he swears), and whether any of the half-
crowns hit the baby, as earnestly as if the parties
were a cricket match. Justice Way has occasion-
ally interfered to prevent examination on trivial
points. But a case like this is all trivialities—
though doubtless they might loom large enough in
the circumscribed area of domestic life.
* * * *
Port M‘Donnell, situated on the coast in
the south-east corner of S.A., has had a curious
history. In the early days, before Mt.
Gambier and the large tract of sur-
rounding country was blessed with a
narrow-gauge railway, all the produce
for hundreds of miles around was
carted down to Port M ‘Donnell, and
shipped to Melbourne or Adelaide.
Things boomed with teamsters in those
days. There were hundreds of them on
the roads towards the coast. Along the
beach were piles of “spuds” yards
high, and all the remaining space near
by was taken up storing something.
The people in their flourishing state
built a fine Post Office, one quite big
enough for the Federal Capital itself.
And then the Government decided to
build a railway. The teamsters and
people of Port M‘Donnell saw that the
building of the railway would do them
no good, so petitioned against it. The
State granted their wish, and the rail-
way stopped at Mt. Gambier. It was
here that the people “fell in,” for the
district’s produce was taken into Mt.
Gambier and other stations, and sent
away by rail, and thus Port M‘Donnell
lost both the railway and the shipping.
The town is now a sad little seaport
with a mammoth Post Office, which
also serves as Police Station, Shipping
Office, Telegraph Office, Customs, ana
probably everything else, and there is
still plenty of room.
A pathetic advertisement from a recent
Sydney paper
AXRIMONY.—Two Teachers who prefer the woes
-iVJ- 0 f married life to difficulties presented by new
syllabus are anxious to communicate with two gents,
in high positions ;no teachers need apply. Doreen,
G.P.O.
At last there is a chance for the birth-rate.
A most evil sample of what happens
in “private enterprise” lunatic asylums has
turned up at Mitcham (Victoria), and the facts
ought to be printed on the bats of all those mem-
bers who, at the dictation of Irving the Iceberg,
passed a Lunacy Act providing for the unlimited
extension of the principle of private lunatic homes.
The Irving brand of private enterprise in the
keeping of lunatics is not yet in full blast, but
here is what crops up under the old, very much
more restricted, system. An unmarried woman,
named Annette Leonora Rowcroft, 70 years of
age, was brought before Melbourne City Court
and committed to the Kew Lunatic Asylum. She
had been boarded out with a nurse, named Rachel
Ballam, of Mitcham. Dr. Beattie Smith, in his
evidence, stated: —
He found the patient in a room Bft. Bin. by sft. sin.,
partitioned off from the back verandah, without a bed-
stead or furniture of any kind. She was lying in a corner
on a blanket over three bags filled -with straw and coir
fibre, all wet, dirty, and evil-smelling, while she was
covered by only an old shawl and a patchwork quilt, both
of which were offensive and foul. The woman herself was
covered with vermin, but was fairly nourished. Nurse
Ballam told him that she locked her in her room fre-
quently whilst absent from the house, and on the 22nd
inst. she was absent from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m., leaving
Miss Rowcroft with some milk and bread and butter
on the floor of her room. At nights the patient
was also locked in till the morning without
supervision. “ Her mental state,” concluded Dr. Beattie
Smith, “is one of dementia, with, I am informed,
epilepsy. She is insane, and unable to care for herself,
owing to defective mental power, forgetfulness, and
visible enfeeblement. She requires much and constant
care and attention. My visit was paid about half-past 10
a.m.’, and Nurse Ballam was found reading a paper on the
front verandah, and Miss Rowcroft was in a miserable
plight, huddled up on filthy sacking in a small room on
the back verandah.”
Miss Rowcroft is a native of Tasmania. She is provided
for by a married sister, who paid Nurse Ballam £4 4s. a
month, and provided the clothing of the patient.
At latest advices nothing in particular seems to
have happened to Private Enterprise Nurse
Ballam.
* * * *
A semi-military person writes :
Soldiering in New South Wales is a lackadaisical pas-
time. There’s nothing of the go of first-class cricket in
it. Football excites human passions, and even quoits
rouse enthusiasm ; but soldiering is tame, flat, and, if
rank and file are to be credited, miserably unprofitable.
The Easter Encampment was a sorry spectacle. Rain
made it sorrier. The country was a drenched desolation,
the men shivered, the officers covered epaulets and facings
with overcoats, rugs, and even coverlets. One went
around with a pair of serviettes on his shoulders. Colonel
Burns yelled at his “ brave compatriots ” in a voice loud
enough for a moderate-sized drawing-room. Colonel
Finn pranced and shouted. Now and again the
men even laughed at themselves. If they did a turn
well they laughed—derisively ; if ill, they laughed
companionably ; but even the laughter was without heart.
The men ranked along the Kurrajong Range were fine,
stalwart fellows and good war material. Footmen and
horsemen, they were up to, and in several respects a head
or two over, the stuff other countries provide. But there
was no “ touch ” between men and officers. Where there
was something like “touch ” there was too much “touch”
—Jack thinking himself something the better of the two.
The relation of bosses to workers answers the question.
The men are material, the bosses ornamental. The orna-
mental carry the glory with, in many of the positions,
substantial monetary additions ; the material are treated
like benevolent asylum residents out for a holiday. Rain
was a damper, but this relation a worse one. Military
work or knowledge is not at the top ; political work and
society work are there, and while there rank and file will
laugh at themselves, or with themselves, but continuously
(weather permitting) at the system which brings them
out to make fools of themselves at Easter.
* * * *
S. Australia’s one public pub., run on the
Gothenburg system at the small Renmark irriga-
tion settlement, made a profit in the past 12
months of £7OO, which is more than it ever made
before. A partly-elective committee runs the busi-
ness, and what is made out of it is applied. to
public purposes. But neither the prohibitionists
nor the Bung party like it, and Jenkins Iscariot is
too much afraid of both of them, to turn any lime-
light on the interesting experiment.
IN SHEOL.
LLATEST ARRIVAL: “ Well, anyhow, a bloke can
always get a light for his cigarette here
A wild, weird sight at Beaconsfield (Tas.)
on St. Pat.’s Day was an Irishman drifting into
many successive pubs., followed by a large yellow
dog with a green ribbon round its neck.
COMPENSATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You may talk of the affection
David had for Jonathan,
Of the love a faithful dog will bear his master ;
For in every direction,
Both in animal and man,
There are mates as true as Pollux was to Castor !
I have heard that even robbers
Share the proceeds of a till,
That the brigands honestly divide a ransom,
But there never were two “ cobbers ”
Beat myself and Ginger Bill
When I drove a ’bus and William drove a hansom 1
But the days have long departed
Since good fortune we enjoyed,
W ith a very tidy trade from Redfern station.
For, since all these trams have started,
We have joined the unemployed,
4nd the outlook causes no exhilaration !
And I put the time in reading
All the letters that you see
In the papers on this Liquor Legislation ;
And it seems what we are needing
(That’s my “ cobber ” Bill and me)
Is what publicans are calling “Compensation 1
Though I think the cabs and ’busses
Were as useful as the pubs
(Spite of divers literary contributions),
William says that “ chaps like us is
Not the same as pubs and clul p,
’Cause we ain’t Important Social Institutions . ”
And although the trams have bested
Poor old Ginger Bill and me,
We have got to grin and bear the situation 1
For “ our interests aren’t vested,”
Though we paid a license fee ;
And of course we’ve got no right to Compensation !
It’s not only cabs and ’busses—
Look at all the bullock-drays !
NMidftJhe waggons, and the horse-teams, and the coaches I
It’s no wonder people cusses
At the Gov’ment’s sickening ways,
-And tjiefpapers all art' filled with strong reproaches !
iTfiough the publican’s petition
vYery possibly may be
. Just a feur,idp;nand for honest legislation ;
Still,tfie Gov’ment competition
Killed, poor Ginger Bill and me,
And I reckon WE ’ve a right to Compensation 1
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
O TEMPORA, O MORES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The time is out of joint—oh cursed spite
That ever I was born to set it right.”
And while man can articulate, he yet
Will rail at having Old Time’s bones to set.
M.L.
JOHANNES C. ANDERSEN.
II AIR
■ ■ We abso
DESTROYED.
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Destroy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or Injury
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits) but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DRUG CO., 8 Bond St, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS.
At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all days on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade thgi-rung from George-street to King-st.*
| FACILE PRIIMCEPS. |
SEMPER IDEM. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality.


A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, April 5, 1904.
My Dear Arini, —
Have just been looking at the plans for the
Hotel de Venice, which is to eclipse all Sydney’s
waterside resorts in one magnificent burst of
Adriatic splendor. That huge building of the
Pastoral Finance Association at Kirribilli Point is
to go out of the wool-pressing business and be
transmogrified into a marble-lined palace where
the new arrivals will be landed on mosaic steps
from real motor gondolas in the great central
“water-court.” The hotel is to be modelled on
Pompeiian and Venetian masterpieces, and
special inducements are to be offered to wealthy
families at present simmering in flats. Suites,
with the best of attendance and the most exquisite
of food, will make the life of the Hotel de Venice
apartmenter, or flatite, one long dream of luxury.
Sydney has had many projected marine hotels
and waterside residential dreams, but there is
more than the usual chance that this one will
materialise. The only risk attached to the venture
is that in these days, when the sins of our great
old individualistic “statesmen” have come home
to roost in the shape of an enormous interest bill,
there are not enough people in Sydney who can
afford to pay £l6 per week for bed and board.
A small, gay theatrical set in Sydney is going
to start the season with what it calls an “olive,”
to be provided by a sporting gentleman of ways
and means. This “olive” wdl be a prize fight!
And the small, “picked” body of women and
girls who are to be present are so excited about
its oliveness that the races are, so far as they
are concerned, things of no importance. The
fighting is to be quite decorous —that is, no
blood is to be spilt, and the pugilists are to
be clothed somewhat more amply than usual.
Also the fighting platform is to be backgrounded
with palms and ferns. A string band will play
“appropriate music,” says one of the excited
invited. Now what is the appropriate music for
a prizefight? The “pugs” will be the genuine
metal, but even those for whose amusement the
fight will be do not yet know its address.
I have been trying to recall impressions of
openingdayof the “agricultural” show, that annual
exposition of engineering, horses, canaries, mil-
linery, and sundries which is opened by a
Governor-General - (or a Governor), entrenched
behind a speech I saw a moleskin coat —that’s
one impression—and a skirt-board (for ironing)
which lurked unseen midway in a kitchen dresser.
You touch a spring and out swivels the board
hori zot! tally. The image of Steele Rudd’s ‘ ‘ Dad, ”
even to the patch on the back of his tubular
garment, vowed he would take it back to Sal. Then
there’s a blurred memory of vice-regal carriages
splurging through the mud under a grey, rainy
sky, of vice-regal women in mourning (for him of
Cambridge) or in dingy rain-proof cloaks, of a
dreary ceremony on the grandstand and the march
past of beautiful beasts, high-mettled, fiobly-bred.
There were fierce-eyed stallions dark as night,
with white stars on their foreheads, showing
naked teeth, and cream-white bulls with ribboned
necks—all criticised by poor humanity. If the
oxen that dragged the State vehicle of the poor old
Merovingian kings looked anything like these,
then that faded race had at least something to
comfort it in its fall. Many a dethroned king
could fill in time in his monastery thinking of
those bulls.
Another recollection is of the new ruler’s private
sec., Captain Bulkely Johnston, and our own
Governor’s Robertson Clark, coming into the tea-
room together. If one were to kill the seven-foot
Johnston, would that be giganticide? And if
Robertson Clark were treated the same way,
would that be infanticide ? (We once, in the long
ago, had an aide, to kill whom would have cer-
tainly been insecticide.) I was working out the
point quite clearly when a girl in a white silk
knitted sweater came along and distracted me. If
she had had it glove-fitting it would have been a
jersey revival.
The mole-skin coat looked like an iron-grey
plush that had been caught in a rain storm and
then left creased up in a bundle until it dried. As
is usual at big, public out-door gatherings, there
was one woman whom no one seemed to know,
but of whom everyone was asking “ Who is she ? ”
She was very tall, a real heavy-weight, but splen-
didly proportioned, and wore a tight-fitting dark
grey tailor-made, with apple-green satin and lace
decoration down the front of the bodice. Taken
all round the dressing showed distrust of the wea-
ther. Mrs. T. Hughes brightened her black attire
with a hat covered with pale pink tremulous
poppies.
Our Easter races this year will not linger as a
brilliant memory. Dressing on the whole was not
worthy of respectful superlatives. On the other
hand, the weather deserves all the disrespectful
positives one can command. Easter Monday, a
beautiful hot day till about four o’clock, then
rain poured on the last race and the expensive
frocks. The great race crowd, and the greater
Agricultural Show crowd (70,000 persons at t' e
latter on this day), tried to get home within the
same half-hour in the same tram—a difficulty the
transit people never had thrust on them before.
Trams built to hold 90 crawled along under 300,
and some of us were an hour. and a half on the
journey from course to G.P.O.
The Court is still in mourning, as they say in
London. Miss Rawson mourned only to the ex-
tent of a black hatthe rest of her was cream-
clothed. Miss Yenables-K'yrke, Lady R.’s niece,
is a credit to the rainy island. Very pretty and
dark, looks as if she had fed on chocolates and
coffee. Another is the Forbes-Sempill importa-
tion. How her turquoise-stud earrings accentu-
ated her eyes and coloring ! If her portrait were
used to advertise the soap by which the family
made its money there would be a boom
for that brand. The most decorative visi-
tor Melbourne sent us this year was
Mrs. Arthur Brooks. Her conning-tower (reading
of naval battles affects one’s vocabulary) was
crowned with an emerald-green chiffon toque, from
which sprouted an aggressive white bottle-brush.
Her gown seemed to be white cloth. Other Mel-
bourne visitors, who turn up as regularly as the
weather, were the C. M. Lloyds and Miss Carter,
the latter in a frantic, witch-like hat that made
her look like a fortune-teller with no connection.
It was tied with chiffon strings of bright blue.
When Sydney people see this trio without a
certain grey beau who came over with Batman,
they feei defrauded and ask querulously, “ Where
is Reggie Bright ?” Mrs. Harry Osborne, who
keeps up the Madden complexion and dim’ple re-
putation, is down from her wool-bale. The' local
Hay family, mostly made up of handsome
young women, was picturesquely gowned. Dr.
John Hay has a balloon at his place at the Crow’s
Nest, North Sydney, and his neighbors watch
anxiously for its ascent from his grounds.
Baronet Rupert Clarke and brother Ernest
were lucky at the race meeting. The former
escorted a startling Melbourne novelty with
golden hair. At first night of “Admirable
Crichton ” she took the concerted stare of the
house, being very prominent in the box. Her
hair was combed up straight from her forehead
over a pillow with an immense pink blossom above
one eye.
There were some beautiful hats abroad. Mrs.
Tom Rolins’s was one—a mauve chiffon with a
crown of violets, and a drape of violet velvet.
Miss Norton Russel’s was another —a picture hat
in royal blue panne, with one big blue plume, and
a gold cord and tassel with a gold button in the
centre of a whirlpool of chiffon under the brim.
What wonderfully and expensively dressed
women one sees at these race meetings (and
nowhere else) accompanied by men who look like
night-watchmen or jockeys. There was one
middle-aged lady at Monday’s races who wore an
overdress wholly of costly lace. The underskirt
was coral-pink silk muslin, embroidered with
leaves and flowers of chiffon. Her hair was
golden, her teeth were solid gold with the excep-
tion of a few remnant strips of her»own ivories,
and her escort didn’t look worth 7s. 6d.
Such numbers of women wore their hair on the
upper spine—a curtailed pig- tail effect; and masses
of leaves, green or otherwise, below the upturned
hat-back, filled in the waste place on the
cerebellum.
The unexpected win of Chere Amie on Satur-
day’s races brought out some fearful French.
“ What,” screamed someone on the grand-stand.
“ ‘Sheer Amy’!” “And I was told,” wailed
another, “that ‘Shurammy’ was a cert.” A n
exasperated lady turned round and told the grand-
stand that she had backed Francis Foy’s mare
because the nuns of St. Vincent were to get some
large sum if the animal came in first. She made
certain St. Michael would ride it, and now—a sob
broke her voice—“ Cheer-a-mee ” had done the
trick.
State Premier _ See, looking very well, and
daughter Ruby, in deep mourning, were fare-
welled by a lot of friends on Monday, on the
Sierra’s departure for Auckland. Another de-
parter, whose farewellers swamped the ship, and
whose cabin they filled with flowers, was Mr.
Owen Cox, managing director of Federal S.S.
Line, one of the most popular of Sydney-
siders. He goes to St. Louis Exposition, then to
London on a six months’ trip.
A Sydney bride of last Easter is only now telling
the tale that among her wedding presents was a
whisky-flask, and that her shocked mother removed
it from the show-table and put in its place a card
by which it was made to appear as “ a silver and
crystal scent-flask.” Which reminds me that I
read lately of a ’Frisco bride who got among her
presents 12 whisky-flasks, all from intimate friends
too. It was time for the groom to inquire if his
bride ever drank tea or coffee.
The military coat has not found grace in Sydney.
A very fine one of blue cloth, with gold buttons
monogrammed with wearer’s name, came to the
Show. A Melbourne visitor was inside it. She
explained that “she would not wear it in Mel-
bourne for anything; all the girls in the jam
factory at St. Kilda wear military coats (at 7s. 6d.)
with brass buttons and sailor hats.”
Miss Stella Franklin, who wrote “My Brilliant
Career,” ought to make a financial success of her
promised volume on Maryanning. Journalist
Elizabeth Banks’ book, relating her experiences of
being general, housemaid, and nursemaid, has had
a great run and brought its writer considerable
profit. Miss Franklin followed the Banks’ lead.
But what will the missuses whose houses she
entered for “copy” say of, or to, the lady who
gave her references ? Families at North Sydney
and Potts Point, as well as a superior suburb
in Melbourne, have had the benefit of Miss Frank-
lin’s Maryanning, but one household, it seems,
was studying her whilst she was studying it. Its
missus was made aware of the masquerade within
a week of the misfit’s arrival. Now every
“superior boarding-house” and fashionable private
household that has changed slaveys within the
past 12 months is wondering if Miles Franklin
was one of their capped and pinnied damsels.
The demand for women typists must be on the
decline in Sydney. One in receipt of 255. a week
recently resigned from her billet, and there were
applicants offering to do the work at 10s. weekly.
There is an awful lot of sweating in the typing
trade. But some of the foolish typist folk calk it a
“profession,” and decline to form a union by
which they could ensure themselves a living wage.
In the U.S. the Erie Railway Co., which employs
thousands of men and women clerks, is dismissing
the latter, and is deciding that in future only men
shall be engaged. In London the demand for
women typists and stenographers is falling off.
The companies all give the same reasons :
That women cannot do the many kinds of miscellaneous
work which men stenographers are required to do ; that
they cannot work such long hours, suffer more frequently
from illness, and, above all, are constantly leaving their
employment to get married just when their services
become most valuable.
Also wives discourage the employment by their
husbands of women clerks. Recently a local lady
called at her husband’s office, inspected the new
typewriting girl, and insisted on her dismissal
“ because she was dressed above her position.”
A picturesque figure at A. J.O. races has been
Mrs. J. Fischer, wife of an Adelaide stock-broker.
She was Miss Thistle Anderson, daughter of a
former master of Melbourne Mint. The Fischers
have a pretty taste in horse-flesh and motor-metal,
and now they have secured Mr. Owen Cox’s gilded
hansom cab and prancing steed.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ Tennis is being taken up by the cloth—with
massive Archbishop Carr in the lead. This is
probably as an indignant protest against the
influx of femininity on croquet lawns. Such spry
femininity as it is—short-skirted, trellis-liosed,
and, in a general sense, larky. Muffins and
curates have no place now where are the mallet
and hoop. But is it advisable to suggest to the
lay mind the picture of over 2001 b. weight of
Archbishop hurling itself and its racquet at a small
ball which can’t be excommunicated if it breaks
away ?
“ The fine old mansion, ‘Airlie,’ has passed to
George Chirnside, who seems to buy property as
fast as he sells Ayrshires and merinos. ‘ Airlie ’
was part of the Tom Hall estate.
“Agent-General Taverner and his jolly dame
took a niece to England with them. They have
no bairns of their own, so pass on a fund of good
nature and affection to numerous young relatives.
Why haven’t we all fat, jolly and rich old uncles
of the Taverner type ?
“ Melbourne friends of Victor Dougall hear of
that confident young man’s engagement with a
London Shakspearian co. He is booked to play
Benedick. The best thing he ever did in Mel-
bourne was Little Billee, in Tyrone Power’s
‘ Trilby,’ at Her Majesty’s.
“For absolute nonchalance the palm has been
awarded to a young matron who persistently did
the block in Colhns-street, while hubby was
struggling to pull off the decree nisi in another
State. Most Melbourne people knew that the un-
defended suit was on, and Collins-street was
mostly in a state of open-mouthed amazement at
the lady’s audacity. At least, the feminine green-
eyed portion was, especially the very green-eyed
ones who never were exposed to any risks of nisi,
not even in their younger days.
“The ‘Country Girl’ went off to Maoriland
the other day with many tears, hugs, and kisses
from its Melbourne admirers. At the final heave-
up of the anchor the scene was one of desperate
grief. Strangers wept in sympathy on each
other’s shoulders, and several impetuous youths
dragged their lockets and railway passes or soup
tickets off their chains and hurled them to their
enchantresses. One youth, indeed, was so torn
with emotion that, having no trinkets to cast at
his girl, he threw at her feet his gold-plated false
teeth—but this is a picturesque falsehood which I
have just invented.
“Mail-letters tell that artist Gordon Coutts has
developed into a bandbox dandy of speckless
appearance. Also he has married money. A
recent Coutts canyas gets the loan of a nail in the
National Gallery here. The subject is a homely
one of the Xmas supplement order, but well done.
“ An amusing feature of St. Pat.’s concert in the
Melbourne Town Hall was the effort of the R.C.
front-rankers to hide, with programme or fan,
any open chest area from the eyes of the Arch-
bishop. One leading dame kept her cloak on and
steamed for the sake of Rome. But by the
immediate side of His Grace sat a large, Anglican
matron, with the top-tier published in a liberal
fashion for all. Now, if the prelate can gaze
without harm on a bare Protestant back, why
cannot Roman Catholic shoulders be unveiled
before him ?
“ The successor of Peacock as leader of the
Opposition has a wife of some importance. Mrs.
Donald Mackinnon, a daughter of Judge Bunny,
is a large, handsome, dressy woman.
“Canvassers for Dowie’s Zion take their cue
from their bearded Prophet, and heap abuse upon
the Unbelievers. A few mornings ago an agent for
John Elijah D. called at a house in South Yarra,
inquired for the matron, and straightway attempted
to drag her into the Kingdom of Zion by moral
force. She was unsympathetic, not to say scorn-
ful, so the stranger at her door impatiently desired
her to choose there and then between salvation and
the other ‘ ation ’ that begins with D. When she
chose the latter, the irate Zionite went through a
form of shaking the dust of that house from his
feet. He kicked his boots against the scraper,
and then he knocked them against the side of the
bottom step. ‘ You see what lam doing, madam ? ’
snuffled the saint. In a hard practical tone of
voice the matron replied, ‘You can shake what
you like, as long as you don’t shake my new
door-mat.’
“Four spinster lady missionaries, who left
Melbourne in 1898 for the purpose of talking
Scripture to the inoffensive Chows in China, are
now back—‘on furlough.’ If it were not for an
occasional—very occasional—massacre, Chinese
missioning would be about the rosiest profession
on earth.
“ The return and partial eclipse of a Victorienne
who went to London with starring intentions
leads to the conclusion that the singer who is pre-
pared impartially to accept a good musical or
matrimonial engagement is the Wise Virgin of her
feneration. There is the notable instance of Miss
fora Dane, the big, breezy, good-looking
singer. Her voice did fairly well—but her
appearance scored some more and now she is
Signora Valentini, with a handsome well-to-do
husband and snug quarters in Paris.
“The yarding of she-voters on the occasion of
the M ‘Eacharn-Maloney contest took all kinds of
forms. One party of women drove round and
collected the Mary Anns of the electorate, at their
respective kitchens, and casually mentioning they
had Lady Forrest’s brougham waiting (the dame
gave it up for the M ‘Eacharn cause), yarded them
in. Some of the domestics were interviewed m
the drawing-room to their secret enjoyment, and
when a carriage didn’t fasten on their imagina-
tion, a motor was suggested. -So Mary Ann was
whizzed off to vote against her class in a motor.
And yet M‘Eacharn failed ! There was one case
in Royal Park. This Mary Ann was run to earth
by some of the vigilant sisterhood (toiling for
M‘Eacharn), and coaxed, implored, entreated, and
scolded for an hour. A brougham and a motor
failed to prove attractive. Nothing availed ; she
went back to polish the fenders and (counting
the vote ‘rubbish’) to do extra graft for the
wasted hour.
“Miss Hamer, the dark dazzler who plays in
‘ The Marriage of Kitty,’ took the same part when
the Marquis of Anglesea was running the show
in the English provinces. Melbourne tourists who
have sat through the Anglesea performance
describe that crank as being effeminate and inane,
with absolutely no notion of stage art. The
family diamonds (there are clothes-line strings of
them) are lent, with the stage properties, some-
times, to the leading ladies.
“ In the Easter crowd that bulged Her Majesty’s
to the doors for the Saturday debut of ‘ The
Darling of the Gods,’ the feminine thatch showed
a further stage of decorativenes. It towered up
to a shining apex, with all the ends tucked in, and
had ornate oxidized wings outspread on the back
slope, or tortoise clasps divisioning the whole
structure. It was as gaudy in some instances as
any Red Indian or nigger head garniture.
“A smart and much - travelled Melbourne
charmer of good status takes her first sniff of the
grease-pots in ‘A Darling of the Gods,’under a
stage name.
“ Mrs. Charlie Fairbaim—the champion of the
folf links —farewelled her associates at Sandring-
am the other day. She follows her Western
chums ’omeward. Mrs. Tom and Mrs. Fred
Fairbairn are also gadding abroad, and Mrs.
George (even this isn’t the end of them) only
dallies because her daughter is leading star just
now in Society.
“ Lady Northcote, in sedately chic toilette blend
of black, needle-worked with white, led her little
lord round the stalls at the Druids’ Bazaar (in aid
of Melbourne Hospital). She did most of the buy-
ing, but now and then he stretched out a paw and
grabbed a lavender-sachet or a pincushion and said
he’d take that, as much as to infer that being
the, husband of an heiress doesn’t imply
that a fellow himself must have been a perfect
pauper till matrimony financed him. A brace
of aides followed up their principals and kept
the accounts, resting sheets of paper on
the crowns of tall hats, which they propped
on their knees as they wrote uncomfortably. A
neat pocket notebook would look a bit too pro-
fessional, too much like a book-keeping Johnnie,
don’cher know. These military sprigs in appear-
ance are the exact type for amateur mummers to
model themselves upon when they’re impersona-
ting officahs and gentlemen. Tall, fair, slim
young things with high noses, short upper-lips,
rather prominent blue eyes, and an expression of
amiable reserve. Very much like the better class
of cray-fish. Cray-fish are classy folk, you know ;
next time you’re catching them, note what haughvy
countenances they’ve got.
“Mr. Bulky Johnston, the Northcote private
secretary, is also a model for amateur theatricals
to ponder. He’s a huge person with a large, round
red, infantile face. The sort of being who, on the
stage, is named ‘ Lord Algy.’ wears a single eye-
glass and speaks with a lisp. Brave as a lion,
gentle as a dove, he’s generally represented as
hopelessly in love with a smart girl, who chaffs
him. ‘ I’m only a fat-head, Miss Flowence, but—
I love you ! ’ That’s his brand of stage dialogue.
“ Rupert Clarke’s announced retirement from
politics is the first intimation most people have had
that he ever was in politics. But he certainly
was, and will ever be remembered by a few people
for the one big speech he tried to make. It was
on the congenial subject of the Sex and the
Suffrage. On the eventful night scoffers and
suffragists crowded every available seat or inch of
foothold. Rupert was tossing on the crest of a
wave of eloquence, when he made a slip in refer-
ence to all the girls in Adelaide he had been
questioning as to suffrage blessings. The old
baldheaded Landlords roared loud and sinfully.
The baronet corrected himself. They roared
more, and finally the orator sat down amid a
sudden odor of fried meat. It was the odor of a
baronet cooking in his own blushes. That was his
first and last political appearance.
“ A leading Comic Opera star is accumulating
an amazing store of precious stones. Her treasures
are so great that a special caretaker guards them
during the intervals and locks them up in an iron
safe every night. She explains the diamond-craze
as a provision for old age—a snug and satin
slippered old-age, with those diamonds converted
into real lace caps and beef tea and chicken broth
and easy chairs, and such quiet joys. But after
all, it’s better to buy an annuity.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
&
as
IV®
<\
a
«
O
S
[
NEW
THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS
RD.
jefwoee/
In the United States pensions are con-
tinued to the widow of the recipient. An old"
soldier named Hiram Crook, having attained the-
alleged great age of 104, the authorities increased
his allowance. As a result, he promptly received
514 offers of marriage from women ranging from;
21 to 50.
Miss Nellie Stewart writes: “ ‘ Valaze' Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “ Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles, freckles,
tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples, roughness
and all blemishes and eruption of the skin, rendering it
soft and transparent. Guaranteed to improve the worst
skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and 3s. ; Posted 6d.
extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein Dept. D. 243
Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4<L stamps for illustrated
guide to beauty.*
Are
Dress faßßies
Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. «.
trade mark
THE VARNISHED BOARD


PERSONAL ITEMS.
DR. MALONEY , the new Representative of
Melbourne.
A woman has presented an old hat of Cecil
-Rhodes’ to Launceston Museum. The old clo’
was accepted quite respectfully.
Lands Minister Crick’s electorate has been
cut into mincemeat in the recent sub-division.
He fares even worse than the Owe’Sullivan.
In one of the latest Sydney divorce cases
the lady’s maiden name was Screech, and she got
a dissolution of her marriage with Wyld.
Judging by the dark glossiness of his mane,
compared with the snow of his beard, Dowie has
a legitimate claim to be called Elijah the Hair
Restorer.
The new ecclesiastical head of N.S.W
Judaism, Rev. F. L. Cohen, is an English Hebrew,
lorty-two years of age, and a London University
man of distinction.
Victoria’s roaring Premier Bent is a native
°f Wales. His father was a small contractor—
chiefly a road-and-culvert contractor—at Penrith
and Ihomas was born there.
Earl Carrington, one-time Governor of
IS.S.W., celebrated his silver wedding in July last
Carrington will enter his 62nd year on May 17.'
Brother Rupert is 10 years younger.
Another Eureka Stockade man has gone
to join Peter Lalor John Tattersall, who died
last week at Deniliquin (N.S. W.). He was one of
the first settlers on the Ballarat goldfields.
The rumor that a prominent member of
the 1 ederal Parliament makes friends uneasy by
what are judged to be symptoms of mental dis-
order is probably traceable to political dislike.
Rumoied that continued ill-health may
Rad to the retirement of Q. Labor Minister
Browne, and that he will be succeeded by Labor-
leader Airey ‘P. Luftig,” of many Bulletin
verses.
There is a woman 80 years of age, who
walks 22 miles into Tumberumba (N.S.W.) for
her groceries, which she humps out home again
next day. I his she does every week. She carries
her age, and her groceries, well.
The release of Mrs. Maybrick, after serv-
lng 15 years of a commuted death-penalty, gives
hopes to the friends of Willoughby Andrew.
Andrew has now been 14 years in gaol, having
been convicted in March, 1890, of the murder of
Bartlett, a King-street (Sydney) draper.
Malcolm McEacham
has two things to his credit,
anyway, which is more than
a good many of his class
can muster. One is his
administration of the elec-
tric light department of
Melbourne City Council, in
which he has taken deep
interest; the other, his
efforts to swing Sydney
D.T. over to Federation.
When, at the start of the
fight, D.T. wobbled, Mc-
Eacharn came over from
Melbourne and used all his
weight as a pretty big
shareholder. Of course he
didn’t succeed. Malcolm
became interested in a
round-about way in the
D.T. long ago. The D.T.
was started . by Angus
Mackay, ex-Minister of
Mines in Victoria, and
proprietor of Bendigo Ad-
vertiser. McEacharn was
greatly interested in Ben-
digo—he got his wife from
there ; she was a daughter
of mining m'llionaire J. 8..
Watson, who dug about 15
tons of gold out of one
claim. So he became in-
terested in the Bendigo
venture at Sydney. " The
D.T. was projected 'as a
Protectionist daily; it was
gjoing to be the Age of
Sydney. But Sydney was
too jealous of Melbourne
in those days to give the
new idea a chance to live, and the original scheme
was soon completely changed. A younger daughter
of J. B. Watson married W. L. Murdoch, the
cricketer, so that McEacharn and Murdoch are
brothers-in-law.
McEacharn, just defeated by Maloney for
the Melbourne seat in the Representatives, owns
very large interests in the daily press of three
Australasian capitals, and is negotiating for the
purchase of some large interests in a fourth.
A youthful Adelaide bank clerk is a per-
sistent and firm believer in Elijah of the purple
wings. Despite the jibes and banter of his fellow-
clerks, he haS grown a flowing beard in imitation
of “ the Restorer,” and in hopes of a billet in the
“ Zion City Bank,” intends leaving S.A. shortly.
One of the chief witnesses quoted by
the British Colonial Secretary as to the “abso-
lute necessity” of Chinese labor for the Rand
was the man who, at the time of the Jameson
Raid, sent the lying telegram about “the women
and children” being beleaguered at Johannesburg.
Died the other day at Wantabadgery, A.
J. A. Beveridge, one of a party captured by
Moonlight in 1879, just before that bandit’s
gang was “dispersed” by the police. In the
final attack Beveridge got between the fire of the
police and the bushrangers and narrowly missed
being shot by both parties.
G. W. S. Dean has resigned from the
secretaryship of the Victorian Citizens’ Deform
League. The Deform crowd, when last heard
from, had a bank balance of £25, and it was
clearly time for any man who thought more of his
salary than of saving the country by a blessed
process of Deform, to get out.
Alf. Lumsden, an active and popular mem-
ber of the A.N.A., intends to fight Frank Madden
for the Baroondara seat at the next Victorian
State elections. Lumsden is announcing his
intention by means of a pictorial post-card,
wherein he figures boiling Victoria’s billy over the
blazing log of Land Settlement.
One member of N.S.W. Public Works
Committee stated, two months ago, that he
would absent himself from the sittings, and thus
do his best to close up the useless and costly show
by making it more difficult to get a quorum, but
he still jumps around the country with that body
of hard-faced patriots and pockets the pelf.
“ Mr. Janies,” of the S.M. Herald, who
generally carries himself warily in contentious
matters, was nearly had the other night. He
agreed to preside at a lecture in Sydney, delivered
by Rev. Francis, late chaplain to the St. Peters-
burg American Embassy, on the current war.
“Mr. James,” whose Herald is pro-Jap, did not
show up, however, and the lecture, which was
emphatically pro-Russian, was delivered without
his blessing.
Australian Treasurer Turner’s old St.
Kilda residence was little more than a cottage ;
the one to which he has just removed is a stylish
and beautifully-situated house out Hawthorn way.
Of course Turner’s womenfolk are responsible for
the change. The new place is far too magnificent
for a mere little spectacled man in a shabby brown
hat ; yet it is impossible to imagine a bell-toj -
p '■ Turner with a fashion-olate coat and 1-.
HENRY'S DILEMMA.
HENRY ARTHUR: “Wh-what I can't ma-make out is how the
bucket fills itself evewy time.”
That yarn is going all over the world that
Melbourne’s gaud Mayor, Malcolm M‘Eacharn,
volunteered to fight with the Japs and bring 1000
volunteers and a cohort of nurses if required. The
time is ripe for Malcolm to state formally that he
was not such a gorgeous ass, or to draw his sword
and start for Corea.
, , -.11 i
A large-girthed and reputedly heavily-
laden moneybag of N.S. W. Legislative Council
was dutiruily notified of the approaching marriige
of his niece. Ihe M.L.C. congratulated on Par-
liamentary letter paper, and forwarded as a
wedding present two years bound copies of
Hansard, with his own speeches marked in a
special index.
Sydney Telegraph
paid this tribute to its poli-
tical enemy, Dr. Maloney,
on the eve of the Mel-
bourne Federal election :
His hold on his constituency
comes from a variety of causes,
but principally from his bene-
volent and charitable nature.
While other men talk socia’ism
Dr. Maloney practises it. W lile
other men believe in levelling
down everything that is above
them, and keeping down every-
thing that is below them, Dr.
Maloney gives away all that
he hath. An M.B. of the Mel-
bourne University, he has built
up a considerable practice in
the poorer quarters of the city,
partly, no doubt, by his medical
skill, but mainly by his absolute
indifference to his fees. Some people
may pay him occasionally, but the chances
are that not many do, and those that do do it
purely as a voluntary act. So that in many a squalid
street, in many a poverty-stricken home, where
growing families make the struggle for existence
a desperate game, the name of Dr. Maloney is held
in affectionate remembrance and esteem. The men
and women there who have been the recipients of his
kindness do not ask what his politics are and they do not
care. They vote for him because he has been good to
them, and while gratitude remains one of the cardinal
virtues it is no dishonor to them that they do.
A good many men have worked up a reputation
as apostles on poorer material than that.
Obit, at Dalby (Q.) recently, Frederick
William Roche in his 88th year. Mr. Roche went
to Moreton Bay in 1840 and to Dalby in 1847, and
had resided there ever since. He kept the chief
store in that town in its early days; Dalby arose
in this way : Samuel Stewart had been a hut-
keeper for Henry Stuart Russell at Darling
Downs, and was anxious to start a pub. at Myall
Creek Crossing. To oblige an old and faithful
servant Mr. Russell built the house—the first in
Dalby—-and around the pub. the town grew.
“ Kip Ling” : Had dinner with “the little
Doctor ” the evening after his victory over Mel-
bourne’s Lord Mayor. Can now fully understand
the hold Maloney has over the people, who this
time let no chance slip. Directness of purpose
and a concentrated form of magnetism mark him
as a man for the masses: Told us that he had
probably beaten the record of the President of the
U.ri.A. for hand-shaking that day, but had a
method—thanks to his profession—that produces
n o of Umdness for a maximum
‘ ‘ The Prooshan ” : Late John Channon r
inter-State chess-player, recently drowned within
five yards of the bank, after swimming a quarter
of a mile in Clyde River estuary (N.S.W.), had a
wonderful memory. Lave seen him play a game
of two hours’ dur tion, and next day replace the
men in their position to show the aspect of the
game at the 33rd move.
Patrick O’Sullivan (lately deceased) was
once one of the most truculent Radicals that sat in
the Queensland Assembly. He grew out of the
Radicalism. Patrick had a rugged eloquence of
his own, and that, combined with a large degree
of hastiness, made legislators treat him with
marked respect. One night an unwise member
made some sarcastic remark about O’Sullivan, and
the veteran streamed up on to his feet instantly
with the yell, “The honorable member lies.”
There were shrieks of “ Order ! order ! ” from all
sides. “ The honorable member lies —under a
misapprehension,” said O’Sullivan when he could
get a word in edgeways. “The House might
really allow me to finish a sentence.”
C. B. Dutton, who died at Barney Downs
(Tenterfield, N.S.W.), the other day, was the only
politician who seriously tried to put Henry
George’s land theories into practice. As Queens-
-1 ind Minister for Lands he framed the Land Act
o. 1884, based on a purely leasing system. The
bill was carried through its second reading, but
i i committee it was so hacked about that, with
t ie except, on of the 80 years’ grazing farms lease,
every vest ge of Henry Georgeism was carefully
mislaid. *' Mein grashus ! ” exclaimed one legisla-
tor, “vhere vould my securities be if dem varmers
exchange dere certificates for leases ! ” And most
of the opponents of the leasing system had just
the same brand of tomahawk to sharpen.
C. C. Kingston, who has been seriously ill
in Melbourne, used to be considered a man of
remarkable physique and strength ; he was in that
f imous S. Australian Cabinet, consisting of Colton,
Playford, Rounsevell, Coles, Baker and Kingston,
which was getting on for 40ft. long, and an acre
r mud. While he was “ serving time ” with Sammy
Way (now Chief Justice) he was one of the State’s
most dashing footballers—he played for West
Adelaide, where he was born, and for which he
sat in the Assembly, and still sits in the Reps.
C.C. had only one brother, “Pat” ; he died some
years ago, at under middle age ; but their father,
who was a fine old devil-may-care from Cork, and
the first of S. Australian Rr dicals, lived to 74. and
died at sea While taking a kip to Lngland. There,
is no son of the house live g.
SENATOR PULSFORD’S MAP OF AUS-
TRALIA.
“SO AS TO AVOID BOTH MELBOURNE AND ADE-
LAIDE.”—Phrase from Senator Pulsford’s letter to
the Sydney press showing the ad vantage of having
a Federal capital which can he kept from the
contamination of Melbourne and Adelaide influ-
ence.
Francis William Cox, the oldest parson in
Adelaide, died on March 29, aged 87 years and a
few months. He was born in London, and was a
schoolmaster before turning preacher. He came
to the City of Steeples in 1857 —the year the State
received Constitutional Government—and he was
40 years in charge of the oldest Independent
Church before he retired from public life. Up to.
within a week or two of his death he used to walk
round the Adelaide racecourse, near which he
lived, every morning: He was one of the first
pupils of Isaac Pitman, the shorthand expert.
' 1.-0 Tip i - : V■ V > ‘' f~' i -•■Vw.l IV'' •
IN TRIBUTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ It is cabled that old Paul Kruger is dying- at Mentone
(Prance;.” — IVews item.
And Kruger the warrior is dying—old Kruger who coun-
selled his land —
“ Now give not the miner of Europe a yard for his pick
in the Rand.”
Old Kruger who fought and who triumphed—who fought
and was beaten to Earth,
And who paid for his triumph by dying afar from the land
o: his birth.
I care not who jeer and defame him—the rugged and
gritty Oom Paul ;
He was, not brought up to be dainty and measure his
steps in a hall ;
His youth was the youth of a Nimrod ; to God and God
only he knelt,
And fought, as his fathers before him, to hold for his
people the veldt.
And ever he warned them in counsel: “Be cautious, be
wary and bold,
And see that ye give the Outlander no place when he
cometh for gold ;
For the miner is but a forerunner of Ruin that waits for
our Breed,
And the moment a pick he hath driven ye give up your
souls to your Greed.”
And thus did he ever admonish in simple and rugged old
Taal,
And well had it been had they heeded—the farmers ’way
over the Vaal—
But the fever of Gain was upon them—they opened the
land in their lust,
And the thud of the thundering stampers—it pounded
their Freedom to dust!
And Kruger was ailing and feeble-but sound was the
heart of the man,
His arm was no moS in the battle—his soul was aye
there in the van ;
He saw how his folk were defeated—the legions of Britain
were strong,
And the merciless Heavens seemed battling beside the
battalions of Wrong-!
And now he is failing—they tell us; and some will
recount with a smile
The story that said he was venal—the story that told of
his guile ;
But I—l see only a giant—too big for the things of
the Rand
An 1 feel—had his farmers obeyed him—how well it had
been fir his land 1
Q.
P.L.
“HATED ALL FOOD.’ 3
Every dyspeptic knows those wretched signs—the fickle appetite, the disordered heart, the coated tongue and
bad breath, the headaches and heartburn, the biliousness and belching wind, the drowsiness and despair. The victim
is sallow, languid, thin, down-hearted. There is no charm in the most delightful dinner. A light lunch lies like lead
upon the chest—a good meal causes hours of unspeakable distress. And the blood is to blame for it all—for the
stomach cannot possibly get strength for the work of digestion unless the blood is pure and rich. That is why
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mr. Craig—they actually make new blood.
“ Indigestion made me wretchedly miserable,” said
Mr. Wm. Craig-, of 128 R’ley-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
“ I first felt a sort of tight, gripping pain round my heart.
Then, later on, after the lightest: meal, a heavy load seemed
to be staving my chest in. The pain used to travel between
my shoulder-blades, and I re illy thought my lungs were
affected. At nicht I couldn’t sleep, and every morning
there was a horrible coppery t vst; in my mouth. I hated
ail food—the sight of it made m i sick. I grew very thin,
and looked so bad that people used to say' I was going into
consumption. Sometimes I could hardly stand with the
awful pain in my back, and my head troubled me a lot, too.
The doctor gave me some medicine to take, but it did me
no good ; so I got some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, after I read of them curing Indigestion by actually
making new blood. The first box gave me a bit of an
appetite, and every dose after that did me a little more
good. In a little while I could eat a real good meal and
thoroughly enjoy it. Soon mv blood was built right, up,
and my health was capital, and has remained so ever
since. I am always telling my friends how much good
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills did me.”
CAUTION.—Beware of common pills dyed pink and sold as “just as good as” Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. As
far as can be ascertained, these cheap substitutes have never even made one cure, but the thousands of cures which Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills have made are reported almost daily in newspapers all over the world. If offered a substitute, send direct to the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., r He"o' ? 1 • 1 w e lalosio - *?s. Od. for one box or 15s. 31. for six boxes; they will b * sent post free.


Aboriginalities.
SARCASM IN THE BUSH.
FATTY JACK: “Now, what are you going to do about that dog
of yours biting me? ”
JIM THE RINGER: “ Well, I reckon we'll say no more about it.
The dog seems to be recovering all right."
“Hopkins’ Reporter” contributes this :
Sorry to have missed a mail—or is it two—in acknow’
ledging the honor done me (8., 28 2/’O4). You predict
the day when haggard and wild-eyed farmers, trying to
grow potatoes on a rock, will breathe curses on the head
of Hopkins’ reporter who lured them to the West. Now,
come off! What do you know about the West? You’ve
got a faint idea that it’s a somewhat large-sized, sandy
setting for the Golden Mile and a few other “ wild-cat ’’
shows, and you but drew at a venture when implying the
presence somewhere of a rock. Why, in dealing with the
West, are you for ever content to walk in the ruck with
the Eastern dailies, neglecting to familiarise yourself
with the “splendid natural resources’’ of this great State ?
Why not go into the merits of this youngest, largest, and
easily most prosperous State of the Commonwealth ? For
the moment I’m dealing only in generalities because,
although I’m here and you’re there, you can, as
easily as I, turn to figures dealing with our cereal
and root yields, our rainfall and climatic records.
But I’ve seen the agricultural areas, and you haven’t,
and I’d like to whisper in your ear that, before
the mines peter out (who dares speak of petering
out ?), this State will be doing a large export trade in all
farm products. And this, too—tell it not in Gath—
despite the lugubrious forebodings of The Bulletin.
What you don't know about things coming within your
purview, is misleading heresy ; still, I never read in your
columns a par. concerning the West but I want to abduct
you, pour a whisky into you, and add a mote to your
education.
It may cheer up “Hopkins’ Reporter’’ to know
that the par. he complains of came from a man
who has lived many years in Westralia, and is
there now. As for Westralia’s crops, The Bul-
letin knows something of them. The most
notable thing about them so far is that the wheat
crop for 1903 was hardly any larger than that for
1900, and that the quantity which had to be
imported in 1903 was the largest since 1898. But
Westralia is publishing a gorgeous estimate of its
1904 crop, though, even with all the gorgeousness,
the State doesn’t expect to be able to quite supply
its own requirements.
“The Prooshan”: Can confirm “Bull’s
Hide’s ” statement re ants of different kinds
inhabiting the same nest peaceably, but he must
not imagine these industrial exemplars never war
with each other. I got half-a-dozen into a cup
the other day, and it was soon brimming over
with battle. I find by experiment that the big,
red bull-dog is the biggest cur of all, and tries to
escape (a sort of treadmill performance in a cup)
after the first round. An ant fight is really a
wrestle, and all depends on grips. The attack
is generally made from the rear, and the
neck, or sometimes the first wrinkle above the
abdomen, is collared and sawn at till a severance
is made. The stings are of no use against the
horny casement. Knew a war to rage (small
rage) on a shelf at Jingellic for six months
between two rival armies of little ants, and
during that time that little field of Troy was
strewn with heads and legs and abdomens.
• • • •
“ Boree ” writes :
“A. Zelwood”(B., 10/3/’O4) seems to know what he is
talking about when he discourses on the Haunted Hill
between Moe and Morwell. (As Hazelwood is justforninst
Morwell, this is not unnatural.) lean vouch for it that
no drover in his senses would camp with cattle on the
steep and barren ridges of the H.H. As for rumbling
thereon, that is an old yarn of the very early days (origi-
nating with the blacks), and may be attributed to the
bunyip, whose long suit these times doesn’t seem to be
rumbling. Corroborees and initiation ceremonies used to
be held there, and the sounds were probably those of the
“ bull-roarer.” I have, however, heard weird sounds on
the Haunted Hill by daylight. Was travelling Sale-wards
in the van of a goods train, the only other passenger
being a soulful damsel, who was expending much enthu-
siasm on the pink and white heath which grows right up
to the line. We were crawling up the slope at the rate
of one mile an hour behind a Bentian engine, so the
guard, who was young and susceptible, volunteered to
get out and gather some flowers. He gat, and had an
armful, when the train arrived at the summit and com-
menced to descend with rapidity. The damsel shrieked,
the guard yelled, cast his heath away' and tore for his
life, and I jammed the brake on. He got in, but it was a
near thing, and for awhile he lay on the floor and gasped.
When he recovered he un-Bent, and it was his language
that rumbled on the Haunted Hill.
* » * *
“F.” : Wellington, N.S.W, (B. 24/3/’O4),
has been dreary since its foundation, 80 years ago.
It was originally a convict settlement, where
’victs of the better sort were sent, not necessarily
good-conduct men as understood in the early days,
but well-connected convicts, who, at Wellington,
had a toney sort of society of their own. Lieu-
tenant Percy Simpson was the first Commandant
(Feb., 1823). The Simpsons have property there.
* * * *
Professor Martin, beloved of students at
the University down South, was an ardent searcher
after a cure for the bite of Australian snakes,
and his experiments in his
hunt were many. Shortly be-
fore his departure to take over
the London Jenner Institute
he delivered a semi-public
lecture on his beloved theme,
and amongst other tilings he
said that the Australian tiger
snake, for its size, is the most
venomous reptile in the world.
The Indian cobra is the dead-
lier, but it is more powerful in
every way. To be absolutely
immune from the eff( cts of
snakebite it would be necessary
for a person to be inoculated
with the anti-toxin virus of
every known venomous snake,
for while the constituents of
the poison in each species is
the same, the formula differs.
Snakebite acts on the bitten
person principally by effecting
coagulation of the blood, and
paralysis of the nerve cells.
Bad air, such as affected the
sufferers of the Mt. Kembla
disaster, has a similar fatal
action. No known antidote
can be relied on—strychnine is
the best so far discovered.
Snake virus is the most expen-
sive drug, by reason of its
scarcity, on the market, hence
the fact that no anti-snakebite
toxin is available in the Com-
monwealth. In India there
are depbts for the use of the
antidote.
* «
“ F.” : Apropos rum in
the early days (B. 24/3/’O4). A
ship captain lost in Sydney
streets, such as they were, in
the teens of last century, a
draft on London. In adver-
tising the loss, he offered a
reward of 2gal. of rum for the
recovery of the document.
« * • *
The fox—introduced, as usual, for fun by
some idiot with English sporting notions—has
become one of theworiies of the squatter’s life
in south-east S’Australia. One poisoner’s tally
was 15 on a recent day. But the red beast soon
“ drops ” to baits,
**. * *
“F.H.R.”: The railway signal wire here
(Coolabah, N.S.W.), was quite slack during the
hot weather, but after a few cool davs it
became taut, The other nio-ht it wn« up™
f i g • lfc WaS V ? r Y
a ~ ® cold contracted the wire so much that it
pulied the signal lever down from ‘Danger” to
“Line clear.” That might be the cause of a seri-
ous accident in the back-country, where tempera-
tures vary greatly.
* • • «
Durintr a recent cattle «tenlinnr coca
a rece^ lt Cattle-Stealing case in
Laims (Q. ),. it was shown that the accused owned
seven milking cows and 140 calves. Evidently
the Q. cow birth-rate is in a healthy state. And yet
years ago many a team of working bullocks bred
? n „ xv® ti •
} n a Way th ** P ut / abblts to the blush. This,
however, pertains to the history of the First
Families.
“ Fish ” : Your
correspondent of 3rd
inst. mentions a re-
markable incident,
re a spider’s web and
a sparrow. I have
often liberated swal-
lows from a certain
spider’s web in
Maryborough (Q.).
The owner of the
web resembles your
correspondent’s in-
sect somewhat.
The upper part of
its body and legs
are grey, and the
underneath part a
reddish - brown
color. In size,
from leg to leg, not
more than 2|in.
The peculiarity
about its web is its
strength and elas-
ticity, combined -
with a sort of sticky-
feel. This spider
seems to sleep dur-
ing the day. When
sleeping or resting it
does not remain in the
web, but secretes itself
under the eaves or spout-
ing of a building, to which
one end of the web is
secured. (They frequent
gardens more than any
other place.) The spider
comes down from its lair
about sunset, makes a
feast on whatever insects
have been caught, repairs
the web when necessary,
and awaits the home-
coming of the casual
beetle and the dun-
derhea ded moth.
• *
“Hex”: A splen-
did way to feed poul-
try is to give them boiled cat or kitten. Know a
party who does this. Care should always be
taken that the cat is dead before it is boiled.
* * * ♦
Concerning the difficulty of killing the
average drunk. A fossicker at Eidsvold
(Q.) made a practice of getting drunk and
falling down old shafts, without sustaining
any injury in particular. One night, while re-
turning to camp in the usual state of mind, he
lost the road, and after a while came to anchor in
the fire-place of a deserted hut, with the chimney
still standing. Woke about 2 a.m., and after a
look round, concluded that, as usual, he had
“fallen in.” Commenced to work his way up the
“shaft,” per medium of the timbers. After much
labor, succeeded in gaining the top, paused for
wind, then, drawing himself over, stepped out for
home. When he got over the shock he crawled
to the township on all fours, and lodged a com-
plaint against some party unknown for leaving
his shaft sticking 12ft. up in the air.
* * * *
“ Kyain ” : Saw a strange accident in
front of a shanty. Horse tied up to rail. Flies
bad. Neddy kept biting at his ribs, and when
swinging round got near side stirrup-iron fast in
his teeth. Broke away from rail, and after about
half a-dozen turns, fell on his head and broke
his neck, dying instantly.
“ Wallaroo ” : Re population problem and
some other things. I encountered an agricul-
tural funeral t’other day consisting of a
middle-aged corpse, and GO relatives
and connections thereof, who
shared about three names
among the lot of them,
and were all mentally
and physically di-
minutive, likewise
unanimously cross-
eyed or slant-mouthed
but exceedingly fruit-
ful. Every woman
who wasn’t just after
“doing as well as
could be expected ”
was just about to.
Noticed that, in most .<
cases, mama was habited
in short skirts and bluchers,
while the liliputian papa
carried and prattled to braces of abnormally
bloated infants. For New Womanism the literary
and political females are not in it with wizened,
wee things named Clementine Clare, who help
the old man grow pigs and praties.
• * * *
“ Thurla The ordinary bull ant is not
nearly so aggressive as most ant authorities write
him down. As a rule, he is very retiring, even
when in a fighting mood moving backwards in
short, jerky motions with his face to the enemy.
Not so the green-head and the black jumper.
There’s nothing retiring about them. When up
to mischief the green-heads will advance with
mandibiles wide apart, and stings ready and in
good working order ; and the black jumper is ever
ready on the slightest provocation, leaping up-
ward and forward at least an inch each leap. This
ant prefers to place its insignificant nest at the
buts of grass roots, where a person cannot help
standing on it. When he does, that is regarded
as an ultimatum.
A FISH STORY.
BOSS: “Holiday! What d’ you
want a holiday for ?”
ANCIETN : “ Well, sir, I want to go to me pore
ole grandmother's funeral.”
“ F.E.P. W.” : Re our national boast of our
“keen-eyed bushman”—in C.Q., at least,it should
be “sore-eyed.” The Australian in Queenslai.d
outback parts may have had sight rivalling tl e
telescope once, but blight, flies, &c., are altering
that. One has great fear as to the sight of the
rising generation in the West. Some of the larger
schools give pitiful exhibitions of weak eyes.
Gauze wire is likely to, be used in future school
buildings to keep out the flies.
* * » »
“Nulla”: Worthy of note that the big
stretch of country known as the Bogan scrub was,
when used as cattle runs some 30 or 40 years ago,
clear, open country. When sheep displaced
cattle, the scrub, which had been checked by
the grazing and trampling of cattle, made such
headway that, some seven years ago, the scrub-
bing of the area loomed large in the Reid
“reproductive works policy,” and absorbed
thousands of loan money.
FROM PROPHET TO JACKEROO.
Stated that Elijah Dowie has taken up land in
Westralia and intends stocking it with the famous
long-horned Texan cattle.
“ A.P.R.” : In the heart of the Out-back,
when the tucker-bag gets low, strange substitutes
are provided for the flour, sugar, tea, currants and
tobacco. Tea is replaced by “ Scotch coffee,” i.e.,
flour roasted in an oven. This, when brewed, is
reminiscent of tea in the vague way that some inci-
dents suggest to us a past existence. In lieu of
brownie, when the sugar runs out “dogs’ Jews’
harps ” are cooked, i.e., dumplings punctuated
with currants. When the baking powder is
used up, unleavened bread is cooked in thin
wafers, so that the crust on both sides meets,
leaving no room for dough between ; this is called
“ leather jacket.”
AB-O-RIG-IN-AL-I-TEE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whene’er you read of snowy crows with cunning ey r es of
green ;
Of kine that feed on other kine, like Pharaoh’s fat and
lean ;
Of fish that travel overland ; of sheep that sleep by day
And bark b.y night around the lambs, to keep the dogs
away';
Of festive rats that live with cats on sweet, fraternal
terms:
Of whisky no more deadly than the deadliest of germs,
You’ll know, by all these blending signs, you’re grazing
fancy free
In the paddock that is christened Ab-o-rig-in-al-i-tee !
When butcher-birds collogue at night with frisky Murray
cod,
And whalers catch them both at once with cunning line
and rod ;
V/lien gay “ goannas ’ nail a calf and gulp him live and
whole—
And push him down by rushing hard against a handy
bole ;
When rabbits rush in billions off to fatten on the sand,
And hunt the cocky for his hide about the brassy land—
It’s not the gay Munchausen who munchauses merrilee ;
It’s only fact entitled Ab-o-rig-in-al-i-tee !
When Mallee men yoke up their wives to pull the Mallee
plough,
And farmers train the wallaby to milk the merry cow ;
When cockatoos go on the booze, and hens begin to talk,
And western winds so fiercely blow that crows have got
to walk ;
When wheat has grown so cursed thick you reap it with
an axe,
And fill your barns with one per cent, you crowd within
your sacks ;
When all these wonders congregate, you take it, sir,
from me,
You’re in that curious quarter—Ab-o-rig-in-al-i-tee !
When every sheep cavorts around with half a ton of
wool;
And sober men retail the deeds they dreamt when they
were full ;
When wondrous lies festoon around the bird that has the
lyre;
And cattle feed on fencing stuff and fatten on the wire ;
When quaint discussions curl around the weary wallaroo ;
And busbies sketch a bunyip that they’ve captured for
the Zoo,
It is not, sir, a carnival of sinful phantasie—
It’s but our truthful brother’s Ab-o-rig-in-al-i-tee !
Q.
P.L.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of ;the •Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
PEOPLE WITH ONE EAR.
It is really surprising how many people have
only one good ear. People who are thus afflicted
are usually very sensitive. They do not like to be
thought deaf, and always try to turn the good ear
to the person they may be talking with. Then
there is the danger that as one ear is affected the
deainess is very likely to extend to the sound ear.
This is why anyone who is afflicted in this way
should seek relief for the defective ear. For
information on the latest and most successful
method of treating deafness the reader is referred
to the “ Review of Ear, Nose and Throat
Diseases ” published in London, England, a copy
of which can be obtained post free by sending
name and address to: —“Review” c/o Box 241,
G.P.0., Sydney. With the “Review” there is
also a report form by means of which anyone can
obtain free advice by post.*
BY APPOINTMENT.
Mardy g
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS and SILVERSMITHS.
Double Set of
Silver=Mounted
SOUP IVORY
CARVERS
in riorocco £6 10s.
..Case,..
Double Set with
Silver-Mounted
Buckhorn
Handles, £5.
Single Sets from 25s
Write for HARDY
BROTHERS com-
plete 190 k C Illus-
trated Catalogue.
B HUNTER STREET SYDNEY, &AT BRISBAHEALONDON


“ Myrtle ” :
touring Queens-
land at present
are two “Pil-
grims of Christ,”
as they term
themselves.
When I last
heard of them
they were at
Isisford (Q.),
having been on
the track for ten
months. Their
starting point
was Cook town.
They speak at
street corners,
denounce all
other religions,
illustrate dreams
and prophecies,
don’t take up
any collection,
and ask no favor.
Asked as to how
ends are made meet, one
replied, “ The Lord inspires the
hearts of some to give clothes and food.” Strange
to say, they don’t carry a water-bag on long, dry
tracks.
* * * *
“H.P.” from Wellington (M.L.) :
Maoriland has its Jenolan in the Waitomo caves amid
the wilds of the King country. There are about a dozen
caves, all richly decorated with stalactite and stalagmite
formations of incomparable beauty. Two of the most
remarkable are the Blanket Cave'and the Organ Cave.
The former is draped with perfect representations of
hanging blankets in stalactite, the light effect even pro-
ducing the orthodox border to the stony garment. The
Organ cave has a parody in stalagmite" of a large pipe
organ that resembles the Sydney Town Hall instrument
petrified. The Maoris own the preponderating interest
in the caves, and for superstitious reasons will not allow
the Government to light them up or improve the access,
so as to induce the bloated tourist to drop his shilling in
the slot.
* * * *
Re queer names of Australian townlets.
Here are some culled from the Q. “Postal
Guide ” :
Bringalily, Happy Valley (11 of them), Pinpinbrigie,
Gray Mare, Unumgar, Bony Mountain, Square Top, Jing-
hijinghi, Gingin, Scotland, Bonebroket, Bungeworgoria,
Byzantium, Fridaymine, Mt. Debateable, Limpus, Bastard
Head, Auchnieroitch, Dismal Creek, Catfish Hotel,
Charon’s Ferry, Venus Jump Up, Jumpinpin, Ginger,
Tambourine, Barneysview, Terrors Creek (5), Paradise
(4), Hunohy Mama Creek, Blibli, Ebenezer, Innot, Jericho,
Sugarloaf, Coldwater, Weatherboards, Olio Blackbull,
Mended Hill, Punchbowl.
HIS WAS MISSING.
BILL (bachelor): “It's easy enough to find a wife in Australia if
you want one.”
JIM (benedict): “ Yes, if you ain’t married to her!”
Quandong ” ; Saw a young gohanna, the
other day, bite off a bit more than he could chew.
He found a bit of hard, dry meat, broke off a piece
and started to swallow it—not an easy job, as it
just fitted his mouth at its widest stretch. He
gulped and swallowed to not much purpose. Next
he rubbed his face, first one side then the other,
on a smooth log ; got beef out of sight at last, but
it appeared to stick in his throat. He stood up,
roo-fashion, for fully three minutes to let it sink
by its own weight. Finally he rubbed his abdo-
men backwards and forwards on the log to per-
suade it to go down another inch or so. Appeared
to get relief after a bit, as he went away all right,
but carried the sort of drawn expression about the
eyes and face that a man does after swallowing a
hot spud.
SPEAKING OF COOKIE HOBAN.
QUINN: “ Shtoile I Well, I shud tink so. Whoi,
he's havin' his front room papered wid green
paint."
“Hardy”: A young man in this district
(Crow’s Nest, Q.), while carting maize fell under
the dray. The wheel passed over his chest.
There were nine bags of maize in the dray, equal
to 21 cwt. His injuries were slight, and he was
all right in a few days. Made inquiries re similar
experiences, and found there were many. The
survivors were those who carried the wheel on
the chest. The greatest weight carrier was one
who bore the hind wheel of a timber waggon
loaded with logs.
* * * *
Re Drover Harrison’s trip from
Manuka (B. 25/2/’O4). If he delivered 14,000
wethers without the loss of a single, head he must
have had a very good-natured man giving delivery
or a very bad counter taking delivery. Still the
first 400 or 500 miles he travelled form the best
piece of droving country in Australia in a good
season—such as he had. Your correspondent
must have been dreaming when he talked of scrub
in the early stages of the trip—that is, unless it
grew up within the last two years.
“G. Elburg ” : Your
galloping porker (“Aborigi-
nalities,” 5/10/’O3) was slow
compared to some animated
ham raised on Waikerie
(S.A.) village settlement.
During the drought the
settlers became too hard up
to keep anything beyond
themselves alive, so turned
out a litter of young pigs to
graze. There was nothing
edible for miles around but
rabbit, and so quickly did
the disinherited hog adapt
himself to circumstances,
that coursing matches—rab-
bit in front and hog behind
—became the settlers’ favorite
means of whiling away the
time between Government
grants. Bunny had no show,
and the surface supply of rab-
bit was soon exhausted. The
porkers further adapted
themselves to circumstances
and burrowed after their
prey, and there has now been
evolved a species of hogs re-
sembling legged torpedoes.
* * •
“ J.F.D.” : When at
school, have seen boys cut the
hinder sections off bulldog
ants and carry them into
school to drop down inside
the shirt-collar of an enemy.
The business end was sup-
posed to be aggressive for an
hour after amputation. The
other portion of the bulldog
would walk off home, turning
round and walking back-
wards every few inches to see
if the other half was follow-
ing him. There was a bull-
dog camp near the school-
gate, and the youngsters
mutilated dozens, yet no one
ever saw half an ant coming
out from the camp. I think
the others murdered them
when they came home with a
section missing, or else, see-
ing they were useless as
fighters, the boss bulldog put them at inside work,
making beds and dusting and sweeping-up.
* * * *
In the Upper Castlereagh the jew fish
alone of its species survived the drought—saved,
presumably, by its habit of lying in the mud.
Bushmen never eat the head of the jew-fish, be-
lieving it to be poisonous. In 1902 hundreds of
cod-fish were secured by stirring up the mud in
depleted waterholes, causing the fish to suffocate
and rise to the surface. These fish, however, had
a decidedly “muddy ” flavor.
+ * * *
“ Les.” : Sent a sheep-dog of mine re-
cently from Forbes to the Murrumbidgee, and he
came back (120 miles) in about 48 hours. Didn’t
look much the worse for his trip, either.
FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
SALT
Oncers and stores.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
MINDING COCKATOOS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Now then, Bobby ! Get up, Dick 1 ”
Wake us every morn ;
“ Cockatoos are coming—quick,
’Fore they’re in the corn ! ”
Out we tumble in the cold,
Frost cracks under foot!
Not too young to work and scold,
Yet too young to shoot.
So we run along and yell
Through the dripping weeds,
Heading for that sentinel
O’er where cocky feeds.
Coo-ee ! Coo-ee ! Up they rise,
Like a snow-white cloud,
Circling round with blatant cries
While we shout aloud.
Soon they settle in the trees,
Seem to think it fun ;
Well they know our naked knees,
Know we’ve got no gun.
When we dance on log or stump,
Cocky looks aslant ;
Seems to like to see us jump,
Cackles “ Elegant! ’’
We have learnt to know their speech,
When they cry “ All’s well !”
And the sharp, quick danger screech
Of their sentinel.
We resort to strategy,
Hide where cover’s thick ;
Re-appear beneath the tree,
Armed now with a stick.
When we point it like a gun,
How they screech and fly !
While we beat the corn and run,
Lest they linger by.
Homeward, for ten moments sweet,
When the fiends retire,
Warming frozen hands and feet
O’er a blazing fire.
Then their hated cries again
Break upon our ears ;
Swooping down upon the grain,
Same old flock appears.
Day by day till harvest’s o’er,
Hours of sleep we lose ;
Hoarse with shouting, tired and sore,
Minding' cockatoos.
N.S.w.
EDWARD S. SORESSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insu liciently stain) ed. Name and
address must apoear on M ■?. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by lost or handed in ; ami in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
istatej accompany.
Elgin Grey: “ Object Lesson ” well-written, but
not a wildly interesting subject—in other words, a poor
joke well told. “ Proposal ” nearly gets there—just
nearly.... Alice R. : “Tablespoonfuls” is preferable.
“ Tablespoonsful,” “ the Misses Brown,” &c., are insisted
upon only by those who are ignorant that the best English
usage, in its tendency towards simplicity, rejects these
grammatical stiffnesses, unless when in a strictly formal
connection... .Lad y Bobs : Ideas vague and metre
staggery B.C.V. : You are answered, B. 10/3/’O4
Noddy: Yes; it has moderate promise Thick Neck:
Interesting letter received, with thanks Nota Bene:
Rather a hymn than a poem, and we don’t hymn much.
Demos: The latest published and audited returns,
when The Bulletin’s par. was written, showed £35,337 as
the year’s receipts. Bulletin couldn’t tell what was
going to happen a week later when the Treasurer’s
returns for another year came out G.B. : Neither
“Music” nor “In the Bush” up to standard
T.N. : Hardly well enough done.... Salter : Circumlocu-
tory without being humorous.... Dick W. : Lamentable
doggerel.. ..H.A. : “ Faulty” falls rather flat Selma :
You are wrong. In presenting English dialogue, italics
are often necessary to give ;he emphasis on which the
meaning of the phrase depends, hut they should be little
used in ordinary composition Wauhope : Not a trace
of real poetry about them. You might, perhaps, do
better in prose. All accepted matter is paid f0r....
Helen D. : “Memory” too ordinary. “Battle” still
more ordinary... .M.E.L. : The selector who talks about
“ adumbrations’' and “cataclysms” is absurdly unreal.. .
Kiara : Very old and ordinary confidence" trick,....
X. : “ Anthea” is well-written, but the material is
too scanty. You require a larger idea to start with.
J. W. : Once more (for the last time, let us hope), it is his
son’s portrait, Will Australia please give that silly riddle
a long rest ?.... Mariquita : Haven’t space to answer
adequal eh* Send address The Wobbler : On the con-
trary, your literary gait is too stiff and rigid W.N.T. :
The best you have done yet. You are possibly beginning
to “ arrive.”.... Amy G. : Too school-missv as yet....
Roddy : Over-didactic N.A. :No use searching with-
out a more precise date J.T.YV. : “ Macquarie-street,
Sydney,” will find him Don’t remember number hut the
postman-will do the rest.... Haddon T. : Some grace of
expression, hilt mongrel metre and ruinous rhymes....
VV.G.P. : One is feeble and ineffective and the other dull
and trite... .Onnud : Crude and unconvincing... .M.C. :
Considering the writer’s years, there is promise in it.
Advise him (or her) to get off the beaten track... .Siva :
Very unequal. In places you almost sparkle, but then
the fog settles down again.. ..Archie T. : Very tyro-ish
and unformed Peto : “ AftervJßehool ” rather too
rugged.... Rev : Bot h right. The equinox occurs each
year about 20 minutes earlier in time, but only 50
seconds (of a degree, not of a minute) earlier upon, the
ecliptic. 2. Alphit Centauri, the brighter of the two
“ pointers,” near the Southern Cross. Its distance from
the earth is estimated to be such that a train travelling
40 miles an hour would take /0 million years to traverse it.
....Guard: All very true, hut mostly cpvers matters
already dealt with.... Marat : There is softie provision of
the law, or of custom, which prevents the eviction of a
woman about to be confined from a hotel, house, or
lodging house Subscriber : Technically, the British
Crown could compel Australians to enlist for foreign war
since Australia is a dependency of Britain, and a British
Act of Parliament could over-ride anyjaws existing here.
Practically no such action is even remotely possible. The
war of American Independence put an end to colonial
coercion as a policy Perplexed : You have not a ghos
of a chance. Having signed the agreement yor.t
must abide by it.... Horace M. M. : On the right
track, but verses not nearly skilful enough yet
F. : If you got two shillings for two poems of the
quality you send us, you were shockingly overpaid....
0.0. K. : The contributor in question is a farmer and
sheep-breeder... .Baltic: Undoubtedly, as you say, the
opening of the Panama canal should lie of great benefit
to Eastern Australia... .Constance N.: Only one will do ;
others either stale or weak.... Parson : (i) I).T. publi-
cation of Mr. Longmuir’s impudent gibe at B. R. Wise,
as “ the views of a working-man,” was not exactly can-
did. Mr. Longmuir is not a w'orking-man in the sense of
one affected by the Arbitration Act, though doubtless lie
works hard enough running Johnaynes’ secession weekly
newspaper. Anyhow, what was said doesn’t much
matter. (2) You are not quite right : the organiser of
the bogus M.S.U. was a shearing contractor who
does pay his employees on the weekly wage system
Tydvil : Remarkable thing about your poem is that
Death “crowds round with vibrant clang.” That’s about
as good as Marie Corelli’s hero who spoke with “ the silvery
clang of veiled satire.”. .. A.R.T. : Too wobbly C.':
“ Woodblock Sawyer ’ shows some promise, though not
good enough ; others are mere rhymes.... J.M. : Better
give up writing “ poetry ” Grey Gum :Of our troubles
there would he no end if we countenanced verse contro-
versies. ..F.R.M. : Not quite up... .Bernardine : None
quite up to standard.... First Attempt: Hopelessly bad.
Roma : “ Kettling ” is scrappy and unsatisfactory
Bobalink : The moment his lip “ curled disdainfully ” we
had done with him W.A.M. : Betrayed by its bathos
and slain by its syntax.. . .Riverina : “ Bush J.P.” excel-
lent S.T. : “ Sheoak by the Rail ”is pretty and musi-
cal, hut the old sliprail has been so completely worn to
death by poets leaning on it that it must have a rest....
G. : No use for poem about British person of high
descent farming in Canada... .Billie : “ Love’s Linger-
ing” only a kissy-kissy poem Inkling: “Query-
Answered” is solid truth, but very rugged verse.. .
Geo. H. : What breaks us up is our inability to decide
whether the shipwreck poem or the “Eventide” poein
on the bear picture is the worst... .Alone : “Her Sons”
is below par... Marchfly: Verse not very had, hut ideas trite
and subject worn out Jill: “Disillusioned” is an old
idea—too old.j..Ain: Declined for various reasons
A. E. O'BRIEN, the declared winner of the
“ Sydney Thousand. ”
Photo, by Brand, Sydney.
S.D.: Your complaint about your poem being added to
Tub Bulletin’s museum deserves publication :
Added to our museum of humorously bad verse
Good gracious me what a shock I ave received
Me nerves is all upset. The criticism is so very terse
And I was goin to be a poet all me friends believed.
Added to pur museum of humorously bad verse
Apologisin' to, all you Gents umbly, I’ll withdraw
Wid me tail between me legs, and the bulletins blightin
curse
Back to me shell, What a ornet’s nest I struck 0 lor.
Dym-oak : One is a fearfully old chestnut ; others not
much account....A. Ker : Very many verses and no
poetry.... Viet Armis ; “ Rosemary ” rather a purposeless
lament. Comes under the heading of premeditated
melancholy Reg B. :So nearly good enough that it
balanced on the edge of the basket quite a while before
dropping in....G.T. : “Noted Songs”and “Bush Fires”
quite unusable Zloliver : A shockingly jagged affair
....M.C.M. : A good idea, but when one line is like a
giraffe and the next like a Japanese general things are
too rugged.... H.D. : “ Interlude” mild meek subject....
R.A.S. : Best that can be said for “ The Abandoned ” is
that it is nicely typed.... Unsuitable: Argo, L.A.P..
Poynter T., M.C.G.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.K-.8. : Suggestion no good G.B. : None quite
up in an artistic sense, and some of the jokes
as old as Tubal Cain Kanger : None of them
nearly good enough.. .H.M. : Trumper joke is a sillv
thing Moc. : Not much of a jest A.B.C. : Quite
impossible; jokes weak, drawings worse... .Olive M. :
The joke isn’t new, and we wouldn’t publish it if it were.
.. . .P.’S.S. : Not quite good enough this time Unsuit-
able : Thos. M., Sibi.
Dr. Thomas’ 57 and 59 Swanston-St., Melbourne,
is unsurpassed anywhere in the world, for painless
and skilful dentistry. Establishment sumptuously
fitted. Latest American appliances and methods.
Right up to the minute. Charges amazingly
moderate.*
LINKS.
Not Federal Links—
which strike us rather
as being fetters—but
Gold Sleeve Links.
Solid 15cfc. Gold,
hand-made, 30/- pair
With Turquoise,
40/-
D
In plain 15ct. Gold, 40/-
VVith choice Diamonds, Ruby
and Sapphire, with Enamel
Brushes, £8 10s pair, in case.
The “ Fx. & R.” Link,
15ct. Gold, 32/6
with Any Initials in
Monogram.
We make, in our Hunter-street workshops, High-class Elegant Links that a man of taste can wear.
Solid heavy Links of distinctive designs that appeal to a man of quiet refinement.
Then our Prices—as those of actual makers can be—are the lowest at which good Links can be sold.
London Prices
Plus Duty.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
Our assortment is enormous, ranging from 8/6 per pair to £lO 10s per pair.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.


The SEAT OF WAR
CARTOONLETS.
la order to get- a.< .near the truth as possible, T»k Bulletin seat ■
correspondents to the war—one to follow the Russian army and t other .n
Japanese. Well, this morujpg comes the following cable from our Russian uian :
«p ORT Aktuv'r, April Ist—Borthoviskenski flin Scrwthlavinkoff thlmosk. |
Sphflingst hustemupp snooksky sliotisthumoff. Vladhumthrupkinsk ell bottly ,
vodki o’ kvass. Dam risk i.”
Then, before the wires have had time to cool, we get this from our Jap p
correspondent :
Which, of course, puts a different light on the allair.
'1 lie spectacle of the Russian Rear and the Japanese .Monkey on
opposite sides of a snow-drift writing despatches of victory over each
other is “ magnificent, but it is not war.”
The. climate of the, Bombala district, according to Bill Dyne, even in summer
time is too rigorous for a capital site. Rill views all capital sites from a
picniekian standpoint.
Rhjan Downs b;u been "abut-out of all public building* in S.A;’ ! for speaking disrespectfully of Edward TIL In a
previous state «t existence ho also spoke disrespectfully to King Ahab 1., hut he made amends bv girding up his loins and
• tunning before tho Kings chariot all the way to Jezrecl.— First Kings, xriii., (Again—Tub Bvjuusm is perfectly aware
that the bear belonged to Elisha, but the animal is put in for effect:..) .


Rkhob et Me lb:- He in V
etSawn «^°^!|gl
ftnnikil isMv - We W*
>/Oftr Rev W been nTjisteborM if does
iltV ifaf 1°“ ial^tfdl 1«» : JjswnW Y? ur
SSrts W"S «S ?Jf •*£ excellent^
re \\sieno exiting Pe+Weerr ms
Friers, &r
(oanl^yrrjen.— 1 >
v/b< posyblc j
ftiod Will.lfje |
tejlway do *to
He does*r
in (bm^lsory
c everybody Krjov/s Knows ll^r
everybody K170W5 ir '*lf* r
everybody k*
(Jvipy
k He Uje gre<l%T sym^y
rn for n. J«^ne s wfro
l W Joinc^in^iS^W - *
I|| -ftey were “fold to WkVe i
B 1 fei To Dfe promised l**d of v/or)S k
|||| " J»eofl« were oj oPirpon
■ Win* L?%“ e «*> *L' ce fV
j|j| /V e>tec«TiVe no?^lecf>
Mf Mta.lhf.c-l’resideht:
f n r«o°4\*- 'k.rsl«hf-»K«v\,
r V do _-weii ,t
Ap Jj&c(i*ir/'
K /"I-t would
%j\np if Lord
CiFy sl?0«ld be
before pvetitj .
45*2!4,
<^
Ttje return o^*W 0,, *y
(by ey« witncss^
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


A. SAUNDERS, for WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELLERY.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver
WATCH, Full Jewelled, f-plate,
30s, £2, £2 10s, £4, £4 10s ; Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS in
Every Style and Pattern Made,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £slos,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Choice Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
22s 6d ; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 255, 80s.
l
Hi
6^
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted, Polished Crocodile Skin
PURSE, 30s ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Tn Morocco, same mounts, 22s 6d.
SMS
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE LIFT and HOOK, in Silk-
lined Case, 7s 6d ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
15ct. Gold, Opal, Half-hoop BRACELET, 13 Opals, £l2 10s; with
Diamonds, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £2O ; 9ct. Gold, 11 Opals, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver Eirst-class HAIRBRUSH, Beautiful White
Bristles, in Silk-lined Cases, 30s ; Other Styles, 15s 6d, 21s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN, CHAIN,
and Photo. CHARM,
8s 6d. To hold Midget
Photos.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamond Cluster and Pearls, £5 ;
Diamond and Rubies, £3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Red or Blue Stone
Centre, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 3-bar BROOCH, with Double-cut
Diamond Centre, £2 10s ; Larger Diamonds,
£4los.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A SAUNDERS.
Gold. Floral Forget Me Not BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct, Gold 2-bar Opal and 4 Diamond BROOCH
£2 10s. Very Effective.
•JAOTBai
JfLJ.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Very Neat, £3.
*2
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell, Chased, 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 22s 6d.
9ct. Gold LINKS, 12s 6d;
15et. Gold, 255.
A. SATJNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
22s 6d ;
loot. Gold, £2 ;
Solid Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, Splendid
Timekeepers, 15s; Other Styles, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 20s, 255.
ttlllL™
1 A/P Pure Silver, large size, HAIR BRUSH, 1 H/fi
IU/ 0 extra long hand-drawn bristles, beauti- -L V//
fully chased and embossed, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s. Post free.
8/6
8/6
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted Morocco Leather PTXESE and CARD
CASE combined, 8s 6d ; other styles, 4s 6d, 6.s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
15s, 20s, to £2.
I : :
■
i gfll \
A. SATJNDEES.
Bamboo Gold BEACELETS, all the Latest Styles and Fashions,
Prices According to Width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; Isct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Diamond BBACELET, 15ct. Gold, 3 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Bubies, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted GLOYE STRETCHER, SHOE HOOK,
GEO YE HOOK, and SHOE LIFT, in Nice Leather Roll, 255.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Gent.’s WALLET and POCKETBOOK, All Improvements,
Silver-mounted, as above, 12s 6d ;
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Initials Nicely Chased. Is Extra.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
The Loud Watch
Between Me
m
mg®
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
CHARM,
Extra Large, 8s 6d ;
Smaller, 4s 6d, 5s 6d.
6s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buttercup Pure
Diamond BING,
£3, £4, £5.
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Amethyst BING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2los.
Plain Signet KINGS,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
18ct. Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £3los, £4,
£4los; s Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bushman’s and Miner’s Pocket Compass,
a Boon to Tourists, 10s 6d ; Similar,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Polished Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE, Pure Silver
Mounts, 17s 6d; Other Styles, 5s
6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BOOT,
CHAIN, and PIN,
6s 6d.
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
Latest Fashion Pearl, Bed, or
Blue Stone Set PHOTO. PEN-
DANTS, 15s Rd, 17s fid ; Extra
Large, 20s ; Other Styles. 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s, 255.
15ct. Gold HEART.
Double-cut Diamond,
305,405;
I Ruby or Sapphire, 255.
18ct. Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2 10s ;
Size Larger, £3 10s
15ct. Gold, Diamond
and 2 Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2 10s ; 3 Dia-
monds, £3.
18ct. Gold Half-hoop,
5 Double-cut Diamond
RING, £5; Larger Dia-
monds, £6, £7 10s, £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
Nickel
20s.
/
\
i
Silver,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable Knockabout WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s>
17s 6d, 20s, 255, 27s 6d, 30s ; Eirst-class Sdver
Hunter English Lever, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4los, £5,
£6 ; Gold, £8 10s to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s ; 15ct.
Gold, 35s ; 18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAINS, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £3 ; loot. Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
r.
W:
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. Gold BRACELET, Pearls, 3 Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds,
£l2 10s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Pearl-set Buckle BROOCH, 355.
□
a
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl BROOCH,
£5 10s. Very Neat and Attractive.
A. o.vbNDERS.
2-bar Eloral BROOCH, with Diamond and
Blue or Red Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. , _
Forget-me-not Floral Design Heart ana Ren
Gold Brooch, 12s 6d.
Band RING, with
Name, 9ct. Solid Gold.
12« 6d, 15s; loot. Gold,
20s, 25s ; 18ot. Gold.
255, 30s £2.
18ct. Gold Buckle, Dia-
mond and 2 Rubies, or
Sapphires £2 10s ;
3 Diamonds, £4.
Hand-made WEDDING KINGS and KEEPERS, 9et.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each ;15et. Gold, los; Excm
Heavy, 255; 18ct. Gold, 20s ; Extra Heavy, 30s, 3os,
40s. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS
Sidney’s Leading Jeweller &
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-STREET, OPPOSITE RAILWAY
Optician,
STATION, SYDNEY.


Sisters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Six o’clock—at the Convent gates
I see the white-veiled Sister stand,
The massive key within her hand ;
A moment there she idly waits,
Then locks and bars the Convent gates.
Above her head the tree is fair
With mist of jacaranda flowers,
Yet for another world than ours
She lives ; though bud and bloom are rare,
She finds the barren walls more fair.
Her calm eyes ask not blame nor praise
From aught outside the Convent wall;
A Perfect Peace broods over all.
And shuts out all the noisy ways,
Men’s love and lust and foolish praise.
Beneath the shapeless, sombre dress
The rounded woman’s form is hid ;
She moves and acts as she is bid ;
No worldly yearnings to confess
All hidden by her saintly dress.
Six o’clock ! In the stifling town
Leila leans forth to catch the breeze,
Smiles at the jacaranda trees
And twines a wreath in her locks of brown ;
Leila—the beauty of the town !
The snowy muslins on her breast
Disclose the bosom’s rise and fall ;
Her laughing lips are ripe for all;
A Sister-of-the-World professed
Quick impulse only rules her breast.
And Nature gives with lavish hand
The roses unto Leila’s life,
And Good and Evil hold their strife...
I see a white-veiled Sister stand
The rosary held in her hand !
Oh, Sister ! when you lock the gates
And hear the vesper bell a-toll,
Grieve not too much for Leila’s soul.
Outside a world of laughter waits,
Although you bar the Convent gates !
Q.
M. FORREST.
The Inky Way.
“ War E.”; A pretty smart move was made by the
editor of a country “ rag ”on his “reptile contemporary”
tother day in a N.S.W. Northern district. The “rag”
died a natural death, and the other fellow, lost to all
ae mnrtum, etc., sentiments, rejoiced in large type
announcing the demise of his rival. But the rival
nastily got together the remains of “formes," etc., and
issued a sheet, in which he apologised to his readers for
the m publishing, owing to a breakdown in the
plant. Then he went over to the other fellow, and
demanded to know the reason why he had published
a par., which was calculated to do his “ journal” injury,
ite failed to see reason, and breathed anger, litigation,
damages and beer until a cheque was handed over as
atonement for his injured feelings. A very drunk editor
and a very mad one were seen— not together but
separately in that town for several days after !
„„•. * * *
a short time, some years ago, on the staff
of aGippsland bi-weekly. Myduties consisted of scrubbing
the formes and delivering the rag. One of the cherished
possessions of the paper was a wooden tin-type concern
representing a seaport town, showing shipping and
wharves. What it was originally intended to represent
the Lord only knows. During my brief term it did duty
as the birthplace of any eminent man who happened to
2.1?' „e Boer war broke out it represented Port
Elizabeth. But a few weeks later an absent-minded
foreman ran it in as a “Bird’s-eye View of Pretoria:”
then even Gippsland, which usually skips everything bar
the price of spuds, saw something amusing, and the
plate was consigned with some bad language to the scrap
neap. But it has evidently been resurrected, for it has
lately appeared as Port Arthur, Vladivostock, and “ The
town of Aalesund recently destroyed by
* * * •
Goulburn gaol (N.S.W.) once possessed a unique print-
ing press. It was made in 1888 by a long-sentence
prisoner from drawings published in an encyclopaedia
belonging to the prison library. It was a simple arrange-
ment, but for 13 years it printed all the forms, &c.,
required in the gaol, besides the yearly reports of all the
gaols in the State. Then the authorities removed it to
Darlinghurst, and ultimately replaced it by an old
“Columbia.”
* » * *
" Saw erstwhile shipping reporters “Davey”
Millar, of the Argus, and “ Charlie ” Clarke, of the Age, in
Oollins-street, the other da3% and was struck with the
wonderful state of preservation of the ancient pair. In
days long gone by, when the present haughty skippers of
the great liners were brass bound apprentices on the
sailers that insited Hobson’s Bay, these two were people
of no little importance in the shipping world, and were as
particular in recording the latitude in which a ship made
her easting as the commercial editor of the present dav
is of recording the rise or fall of wheat.
. “ C.C.” :So “ Pucha” (8., 10/3/’O4) Knows oi a large
insurance company in London that employs able-bodied
men as clerks on 30s. a week. I! a man asks for a rise he
gets the sack.” “Pucha” evidently knows little about
the labor conditions in London, or he would never quote
30s. a week as evidence of sweating No fear of any of
those clerks risking the sack by asking for a rise. A
vacancy in that office would cause such a rush of able-
bodied clerks, getting 15s. or even 10s. a week, that some
of them would get killed in the crush. Writer once had
a billet as sub-editor in a London office that ran three
trade journals. The sub. wrote, or stole, every line in
them, for the Jew-proprietor was “editor-in-chief by
courtesy only. Sub also made up the “ dummies” every
week, as the journals were printed by contract. Salary
was on the princely scale of 40s. per week. The man
(married) to whom the sub dictated pars., leaders, trade
reports, &c., all day was a speedy shorthand writer, and
he dressed decently (barring the bulge in his frock-coat
where he carried his 2d worth of specked apples
for lunch) on 20s. per week. Another smart
typewriter and Pitman prize-taker received ss.
per week. He was a bright little crippled hunch-
back, and the editor-in-chief regretted that he couldn’t
give him more screw on account of his hump, though
how that protuberance affected his work was never
explained. Thirty shillings a week for a mere office
clerk 1 Why, it’s colossal. Writer has a lively recollec-
tion of being offered just half that sum by Tit-Bits
Newnes himself to patch up pars, and alleged stories sent
in by amateurs chasing the elusive guinea prize. At
that interview he admitted that he read The Bulletin,
but complained that it was too, too—well, not easy stuff
to lift into Bits, as it required so much toning down.
Thirty shillings a week ! Did “ Pucha” note the boy
reporters (at 155.) with glossy belltoppers and round
jackets, or the lady interviewers in long ulsters that
cover a multitude of repairs, finished off with crushed
bonnet shapes, and rusty black cotton gloves. They
“do ” the fashions from the rails in Hyde Park, anil
write up smart weddings at per line with the same
enjoyment of the proceedings that the hungry boy
reporter feels when, after dining on a few apples,
he is sent to do a city banquet—from the gallery.
Apropos of apples : I was once standing in Queen Vic-
toria-street. Time, 1.30 p.m. Close by in the gutter
was a barrow-load of apples, presided over by a typical
London “coster.” At short intervals he weighed out a
few and put them into a paper bag Each time he did
so a top-hatted youth sauntered up to the barrow,
picked up the bag without pausing a moment and popped
it under his coat. When business slackened at 2 p.m I
interviewed that coster, and asked what instinct
prompted him to weigh out a pound of his stock at the
moment a purchaser appeared? He replied: “Yer see,
guv’nor, most on ’em is regulars from the noosepiper
orifices. They gets their penn’orth o’ apples every dinner
hour—all as they do get, I reckon. Such toffs, too!
They don’t like to be seen buyin’ apples orf a barrer, so I
’as to humor ’em a bit. Them as I don’t know by sight
stands oppersit agin the shop winder till they
catches me eye, then they ’olds up their
‘brown.’ I weighs out the apples, an’ when they
sees as they’re ready for ’em, they walks back a little,
turns round, passes the barrer close, scoops up the
apples, unbeknownst like, drops the ‘brown’ on the
barrer, and walks on quite ’orty. ’Ave a penn’orth yer-
seff, guv’nor ; they’re all ripe.” Having no respectability
to imperil, I had a penn’orth, and munched them as I
ruminated on the joys of pursuing literature in London.
Even in the ranks of skilled labor there are thousands of
men who can’t command 30s. per week. Know at least
two large firms of brass and iron workers with men em-
ployed who served seven years’ apprenticeship with them
30 years ago, and some of them are still only earning 255.
for hours’ work. And if they were kicked out of the
door they’d crawl in again at the window. As for a 30s.
clerk—why, if he was thrown from a top-storey window
there would be 100 applicants clamoring for his billet
before he struck the ground.
*'* • •
Few men are better known in Hobson’s Bay than
Duncan Smith, the “ boatman ” of the Arous, who has
probably boarded more vessels than any other man con-
nected with the press. Duncan, who is still feeling well,
is close on 80, and continues to board incoming vessels
and take copious extracts from their “logs.” In the
days when “Johnny” Sandes was on the Arous, Dun-
can’s extracts were the foundation on which many a
graphic and interesting article was built. All the big
Australian dailies find a “ boatman ” necessary—the Age
and Argus at Hobson’s Bay pilot station, the D.T. and
S.M.H. at Watson’s Bay. It is their business to see
incoming foreign vessels which, owing to quarantine
regulations, cannot come up to the port at night, to
“ interview” the officers over the side, and to get what
papers they have. The billet is not a well paid one, but
there is not much to do.
* * * »
The Monkey’s short way of dealing with British and
other press correspondents sets them turning up the
Jap. Press code; and they find it a pretty good match
for the Russian censorship, which has always been held
up as a horrible thing Says Article XIX. of the Jap.
newspaper regulations . “ When a newspaper has printed
matter which is considered prejudicial to public order
. . the Minister for the Interior is empowered to sus-
pend its publication.” The Minister is judge of what is
“prejudicial to public order”—and the Minister is a
party politician. The Monkey, they are beginning to
say, looked a lot better from a distance.
* * * *
“Free Lance” complains?—The “free lance jour-
nalist has a hard row to hoe by reason of the many forms
of cheap labor opposed to him. I was once shown a
letter, in which a civil servant, drawing £3OO a year
salary, offered to do a two-column weekly Sydney letter
for a country newspaper for ss. a week ! Some clergymen
have great ideas of their journalistic merit. I know a
Northern minister, who owned a bi-weekly paper, but
ran it in the name of his editor. He made a specialty of
police court cases of a decidedly cerulean shade. The
worst enemy of the “ free lance ” pressman, however, is
the cheap advertising agency that offers to do a weekly
letter, and throw in an occasional leader, for the privi-
lege of being allowed so much advertising space.
* * * *
Palmer, formerly Principal of Wesley College, Mel-
bourne, who took the sub-editor’s chair of the Cape
Argus when he arrived in S’Africa, now owns and edits
the Owl, a comic weekly. Editors of satirical papers
have few friends anywhere, and, as Palmer is an Aus-
tralian, he probably has only one friend in S’Africa—
himself.
*’ Cheetah ” : Am sorely afraid that liberality will bring
about the undoing of Fitchett’s New Idea. In the March
number two contributors tied for the half-crown doled out
monthly for the best suggestion sent in to “Miss Query’s
Column,'’ and then the donor said that, strangely enough,
the suggestion had occurred to herself a week before
the suggestions aforesaid were received. Then the
magazine became rashly generous, and offered half-a-dollar
to the exhausted fool who can get the most words out of
“reverberates.” After offering a prize for a “Chicken
and Orange” puzzle a month previously the prize was
withdrawn This reckless throwing around of opulence
must tell its own tale sooner or later !
* » » *
‘ Bunny A London penny paper, V.C (which initials
evidently stand for “ Very Crawlsome ”) prints the follow-
ing among its editorial observations : “ We publish a few
of the answers received to our question, ' Who is the best
man in England, and why?’ The reasons given for the
selection of the King and the Prince are so excellent that
we have published them along with the other essays.
We hope that no feelings will be of ended by this easy
association of Royalty with humanity." “ Royalty ”is
printed with a capital “ R” ; '■ humanity ” has to be con-
tent with a small “h” —so great a thing is royalty, so
small a thing is Humanity," in the eves of an English
editor.
* * *
London Daily Chronicle and Daily News, for many
years issued at Id., have reduced to the plebian ha’penny.
The Daily Mail, Express and other cheap papers, have
caused severe slumps in the circulation of the more “ reli-
able” but less up-to-date journals, and they found that even
by Americanising and being interesting it could not stand
on the penny level much longer. Predicted that within
a few years the Times will be the only paper costing more
than the modest ha’penny
* * * *
“ Kaylee ”. Met an Afghan to-day who held a paper
towards me. “My name in your paper,” he said, smiling.
“No,” I said, incredulous, taking the paper The name
was there right enough, but the paper was a trades’ cir-
cular and stated that Ghoolum Bang had given a bill-of-
sale over his goods and chattels Ghoolum was a proud
man when I congratulated him.
* * *
“Alba”: The London-bred literary man is a queer
study at times. I met one of him once at a boarding-
house near Richmond. He wrote the “ Sea Drinkers ”
and the “ Sky Galleons.’ He built up novels with the
North Pole as a background. He had never been out of
London, yet his stories of Central China and Thibet had
a tremendous vogue. He also turned out Australian
yarns with the celerity of a knife-grinder, and the editors
chased him until he grew bald and incoherent. He used
to potter about Fleet-street in a silk hat and an um-
brella, and wore goloshes and under-socks. It is your
true bed-gown author who writes thrillingly of icebergs,
whales, and typhoons. The real sea-dog who whistles
through a North Atlantic winter, and keeps a sharp
look-out for ice and bears, writes bloodless stories of
baronets and moated granges. Does the Australian
Cockney write our bush yarns?
* * * *
When vacancies occur on Maoriland papers the leading
members of the Journalists’ Institute, styled the
“M.A.S.”, or “Mutual Admiration Society,” by press-
men who decline to belong to it, importune proprietors
to engage an institute man in preference to any other.
The efforts of two leading editors to get a man on a little
country rag lately caused the owner of the rag to look up
the applicant’s references, and he discovered that he had
never been employed by either of the enthusiastic
editors They had simply recommended him because
they had been told that he was a member of the precious
institute. So the proprietor wrote back stating that as
he was such an excellent man they could doubtless find
work for him on their own sheets. The institute has
never had any influence with newspaper owners in the
matter of improving wages, and the miserably-paid
journalist hurries through life envying the unionist in
the soiled clothes whom he has to write so much about
now and again.
» * » *
Sample from speech by a Westralian
municipal candidate: —
Mr. Moore said that the secretary had informed the
employee that if he did not attend the church his billet
would be in Jupiter.
A Voice : You mean in jeopardy.
Mr. Moore : Never mind about me. We can have your
legal knowledge afterwards.
“ Deeby ” advances a theory :
In Australian country towns squalor and caged birds
are always associated. Call at any dilapidated-looking
hut labelled “ Washing done here,” where dirty-faced
children are playing on a filthy verandah and the’goat is
browsing on the wood-heap, and there surely enough you
will find a screeching cockatoo or galah, or a draggled
magpie. Why is it that feathered pets, like the wash-tub,
are so often associated with poverty ?
In Sydney, shorthand writers and typists
are divided into two camps on the question of
unionism. Some wish to form a union, and
appeal to the Arbitration Court for a common
rule to establish a fair minimum wage. Others
look upon unionism as an expedient far below the
“dignity” of their calling, affect to regard a
minimum as a maximum wage, and object to
“the thoroughly skilled professional being re-
duced to the level of the mere beginner.” This
latter appears to imply that the typists think the
Arbitration Court fixes the wage of an apprentice
at the same rate as that of a skilled workman.
There is a good deal of sweating in the shorthand
and typing business—especially does this affect
the girl employees—and unionism is the only way
to put it down. The shorthand people had
better go in for unionism and blow their
“dignity.” Dignity is a poor substitute for
square meals.
N.S.W. Law Almanack, published under
the auspices of the Supreme Court Judges of the
State, while very carefully giving particulars of
the Royal Family, the Governor-General of the
Commonwealth and all the Governors of all the
States, absolutely ignores the High Court of Aus-
tralia, which is the boss Court of Appeal now
over the State Supreme Court. Yet the N.S.W.
Judges can hardly claim to be unaware of the
existence of the High Court. A Judge professes
to be ignorant of many things—he doesn’t know
what “two-up”means, and he isn’t officially certain
whether the Melbourne Cup is a horse-race or a
pannikin on the banks of the Yarra; but if his
ignorance goes to the extent of not knowing
about the High Court then he ought to be sacked.
Those who suffer from the popular delusion
that the Public Servant is always a well-dressed
dandy should see the flight of Victorian officers
from the public buildings at 5 o’clock p.m. Soft
hats and shabby sac suits are the rule. It is,
perhaps, the worst-dressed crowd working in
offices in Melbourne.
“ J.D.” : The R.C. clergy have taken up
the sledge hammer of reproof and threaten to
bring it down with a whack on the heads of the
faithful who try to regulate the dimensions of
their families. A Sydney couple took a baby to
be christened a few days back, and admitted that
the child preceding the present infant was five
years of age. Whereupon they were addressed in
terms of such dignified reproach by the soggarth
that the woman fled from the scene in tears
leaving her husband and the infant and his
Reverence to fight the matter out.
From the report of the meeting of another
dirty Sydney suburban council —St. Peters this
time: —
At the last, meeting of the council the dairies and sani-
tary committee reported that the council’s refuse depot
in Wentworth-street was in too close proximity to the
dwellings recently erected in the vicinity, and was there-
fore likely to interfere with the comfort of the residents.
The committee recommended that its use he discontinued
forthwith. The local park would make an excellent
refuse depot. A recommendation was made that the
park trustees be asked to consent to the park being
vested in the council. The report was adopted.
The place where some people live being too close
to the present tip, it is proposed to shift the tip
to where all the people are supposed to go for
fresh air. The first thing that the average
suburban alderman thinks when he sees a park
for public recreation is that it is a most desirable
tip. A tip is the earliest idea that occurs to him.
lie has the tip variety of mind.
THE KING AND THE PRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The King’s Message to the World’s Press ... is a
remonstrance against that tone in journalism, iri England
as well as abroad, which may be read as expressing too
keen a partisanship on one side or the other during the
present conflict.”— S.M.H. March 19.
This shocking journalistic tone
Has made us well-pleased with our own.
And we are proud to say that we
Have ne’er shown partiality.
Our judgment evermore we base
Upon the merits of the case,
Our motto long shall be, we trust,
“E’en to your enemies be just.”
Our gracious King who works for Peace,
(Long may the tribe of Guelph increase !)
Would in our columns, we believe
Find nothing that could make him grieve.
We would not grieve our gracious King
For—well, for almost anything.
It shocks us—saps our faith in man—
To hear of papers partisan.
Why can’t they like the Herald be
From prejudice and rancor free ?
So spake of old the Pharisee.
C.R.
THE INSCRIPTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was dead I walked for years by night;
I vvas alone : there was no star in sight.
I saw far-off a gate whereon did glow,
“ He fears no friend who is his own worst foe.”
O.R.
How to Judge a Man.
Some people judge a man by his face, some by
his bands, most of all by his clothes. If there were
slavery in Australia, a market where you could
buy a young man outright to work for you all his
life without wages, people would make as great
mistakes in their purchases as they now make in
buying horses. To be able to stand, walk, run,
lift, see, and hear is not enough. Can he digest
his food ? That is the question. For the man
who cannot digest there is but one hope—fortun-
ately a sure one—Mother Seigel’s Syrup. Mr.
Medlar, 257, Liverpool-street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, N.S.W., is notan unusually strong man ;
yet (thanks to Mother Seigel s Syrup) he has come
safely through an illness brought on by exposure
to the weather while working as a boundary rider
in the interior, “Doctor’s medicine and hospital
treatment did me no good,” says Mr. Medlar;
“but Mother Seigel’s Syrup restored me to
health. lam now as well as ever I was.”*
The Crowning Triumph
ir<
'NATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE”
a
OF:
m
ffife
THE ORIGINAL
AND
genuine;
of modern medicine lies in the
pleasantness of its great reme-
dies. This is exemplified by
the unparalleled popularity of
California Syrup of Figs, the
pleasant natural laxative, of
which millions of bottles are
sold every year. It is made to
do pleasantly, gently, naturally,
that for which violent purgatives
were too often used with harm-
ful effects upon the system. It
is a tonic, a strengthener as well
as a cleanser of the liver, kid-
neys and bowels, and its use may
be discontinued as soon as the or
gans are cleansed and corrected.
WORDS OF ADVICE. —Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and
see that the package bears the name of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Imitations are numerous, but as you value your health you cannot risk
taking a substitute. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
TIRED AND
LISTLESS
“ Tired and listless ” is an expression that
most mothers are familiar with at some period
or other of their children’s lives. The child-
ren do not seem to have anything else the
matter with them except the listlessness
which is not in itself a disease; yet it has a
cause which if not removed leads to disease.
Scott’s Emulsion should be used immedi-
ately. It corrects the cause of the weakness
that makes the child listless because it renews
the strength, hardens the flesh, helps the
growing bones and finally makes the child
thoroughly strong and healthy. All children
like to take Scott’s Emulsion because of it’s
pleasant taste and the fact that it has none of
the nastiness and indigestibility of plain cod
liver oil! Scott’s Emulsion is three times as
effective as plain cod liver oil! It is equally
good, also, in more serious cases of weakness,
as witness the following :
Percy-street, Rozelle, Sydney, N.S.W.
June 12st, 1903.
Dear Sirs, —Six years ago, my son Siegfried
had a very severe illness which left him very
Siegfried Pendlr,
weak, and ever since
that time he has con-
stantly suffered from
vomiting and hem-
orrhage of the
stomach. On occa-
sions the attacks
were so very severe
that I thought he
would die. I was
ad v ised to try Scott’s
Emulsion, which he
took readily from
the first, and the
effect of that valu-
able remedy has been
rnn.irkable— he has
gained in weight,
appetite, and spirits, and is never tired and
listless, like he was before taking Scott’s
Emulsion. The vomiting and hemorrhage
have entirely disappeared, and he is now
quite strong and healthy. Yours truly,
(Mrs.) A. B. Pendek.
Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.
If you want perfect Health your-
self, or desii'e it for your children,
write to Messrs. Scott and Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent-street,
N.S.W.,send 4d. (forpostage),name
this paper, and you will receive a
free sample bottle. Note this Trade
Mark when buying. Of all chemists.


POLITICAL
POINTS
'VVV7'/'V V %
Since the opening of the war, Port Arthur
has been reported captured, burned, abandoned,
and sealed. Japanese warlike ingenuity will next
have to represent it as towed to Tokio.
More picnics have gone out to look at pro-
posed Federal capital sites. If this sort of thing
goes on much longer, the proposed sites will be so
silted up by bottles as to be unapproachable.
In view of England’s decision to give the
mining jobs in the Transvaal to Chinese in prefer-
ence to its own people, the Cold Country requires
rechrist«ming. What is wrong with “ Ching-
land °
Sydney IELEGRAPHhas lately been heading
a column in heavy type, “What does the Bible
say?” Well, it says that they who bear false
witness against their neighbors are accursed and in
danger of eternal damnation, and even a large
circulation won’t save them.
British Government, following the example
of America and Australia, has introduced an
Immigration Restriction Bill. John Bull is
rather dense in his Conservatism, but has at last
recognised that it is only the country which keeps
out the undesirable that gets the desirable immi-
grant.
It won’t do any harm to Labor politics to
have Yarra-banker J. W. Fleming denounce
Labor members and call for anarchy and blood
and dynamite. He accentuates tfyp clear-cut
division between Laborism and the cult of revolt
and violence—a division which it is the constant
aim of the Tory press to slur over.
Last Friday (31st March) was a day of
notable happenings. On that date the country
learned that some of the cronk cyclists of the un-
savory Sydney Thousand episode had been dis-
Sualified, that the importation of Kanakas had
efimtely ceased, and that Maloney had badly
beaten M‘Eacharn at the Melbourne election.
That was a fair supply of good news for one day.
ENCOURAGING OUR AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE[?].
Sydney “ Agricultural ” Show earning its subsidy.
There are again rumors—the same old
rumors—of a coalition between N.S.W. Govern-
ment and Opposition parties if John See finally
retires from the Premiership. There is not much
notice due to such talk. If there is any coalition
the Government will probably prefer to come to
some arrangement with the Labor members. The
hopeless flabbiness of Joseph Carruthers makes
any agreement with him about as difficult as a
league with a quantity of loose soft-soap.
The spectacle of N.S.W. State Governor
Rawson presiding as a Court of Appeal, to re-hear
a road ease decided in the Court of Quarter
Sessions by Judge Murray, is a curious anachro-
nism. Notwithstanding that lawyers constitute
so large a proportion of both Houses of Parlia-
ment, slipshod Bills and slipshod Acts are common
acquaintances. The old Act which turns the
Governor into a judicial Aunt Sally (for his Ex.
does not profess to know anything about the legal
knots in the case) should have been repealed <n
the advent of the new law, but the lawye s
slept, and continued to sleep till one Hallor n
prodded them. Now and again the consolidation
of a number of Acts is taken in hand, but general] v
the work is distributed among friends out of
collar, and although the expense is high the
results are indifferent.
It has come ! At Gyrnpie (Q.), the other
d , a y. complainant in a wife v. husband court-case
charged the old man with beating her because she
refused to go and vote at the Federal elections.
Despite the spanking, she declined to exercise her
privilege as a free citizen. Later, she did vote,
because he coaxed her, but never-r-r would she
have yielded to threats. Was proceeding to tell
the Court whom she voted for, when the Bench
hurriedly interposed with a “ Better not.”
Spruce Myth, in the House of Representa-
tives the other day, condemned the extravagance
of the Federal Government in appointing a High
Court, “ which had practically nothing to do.”
.Now even that venomous enemy of Federation,
the Sydney D.T., refers to the High Court with
its three officers as overworked, and discusses the
necessity of additional appointments to the Bench.
Practically all the work that used to go to the
Privy Council is now done by the High Court.
N.S.W. Premier John See deprives his
party of all hope and chance at the coming State
elections by retiring again to Maoriland, carrying
with him the Premiership. The only hope of' the
party is by ad pting, and showing a disposition
to carry thj|> a, a vigorous financial reform policy.
Nothing cHn bo done whilst the head of the
Government ; on the sick list. By the time he
returns the State will be. on the edge of a general
election, arid effective organisation for the cam-
paign will be impossible.
The ne u synabus of instruction issued by
the N.S.W. Instruction Department states that
schools must be provided with supplementary
reading books, modelling clay, free-arm drawing
boards, colors for brush work, tapes, rulers, paint"
ing brushes, thermometer, rain gauge, compass,
etc., etc. The department coolly informs teachers
that no assistance can be given at present towards
providing these necessaries, and that the teachers
will have to raise funds locally for the purpose, if
the parents will not provide them. Teachers will
have to buy the things themselves in many
instances, as it will be almost an impossibility to
raise funds.
The bulk of the Federal Ministers have
again been away looking for capital sites and the
like, and in their absence the Ministry, as usual,
has been constituted as follows :
Virtual Premier and External Affairs.. George Turner
Treasurer Geo. Turner
Acting Customs Minister .. .. G. Turner
Acting Minister for Home Affairs .. Mr. Turner
Acting Attornev-General .. . Turner
Acting P.M.G plain Brown George
Acting Defence Minister g.T.
The report that Turner held a tempestuous Cabinet
meeting of himself, at which high words were ex-
changed and several of him handed in his resig-
nation, hasn’t been confirmed-
Premier Tom Bent is for ever posing
as a miracle of energy and an overcomer of
enormous difficulties. • And an awestruck press
seems to be playing up to bull-necked Thomas.
Take a recent par. from Melbourne Age :
The list of works which the Premier is preparing, for
announcement next week will include the sewering’ of
fourteen schools in the metropolitan radius. These works
ar ® to be proceeded with at once. The sewering of the
public offices is at last in progress, and Mr. Bent expressed
himself as determined to bring the Government buildings
into line with those belonging to private individuals, as
far as sanitation is concerned.
Which would lead one to suppose that all the
forces of society are arrayed against Bent in
sewering these buildings, but are powerless to
retard the advance of his sanitary reforms.
Bent is determined to make the Government sub-
servient to its own drain legislation. What a hero
the man is ! What a worker—what a plugger !
The latest issue of the Statistical Register
for Victoria contains one new and gruesome
feature. During 1901, it shows, the number of
illegitimate births was 1729, and of all these children
441, or 2o\ per cent., succumbed before
reachinp the ape of 1£ months. The
death-rate among the legally-
born up to 12 months
old was less than
11 per cent.
OUR NEW FRIEND.
“Mr. Seddon, in a speech last night, said that at the
time of the war it was not thought that the Chinese
dragon was to be emblazoned on the Union Jack in the
Transvaal.”
St. George, of Merry England, changes his tactics
toward ye dragonne and forthwith stretches out a
helping hand.
The names proposed by the Commissioners
for the 90 N.S.W. electorates, include 21 new
to politics. If the scheme is adhered to 56 old
constituencies, as known in the last Parliament,
will disappear. Roughly, the idea of the nomen-
clature seems to have been that if one old
electorate preponderates in a new one, the new
one takes the name of the old one, but if two or
three about equal sections of as many old con-
stituencies are required to make a reformed elec-
torate, it takes a brand new name.
The Tasmanian Government, in its desper-
ate anxiety not to tax the absentee who doesn’t
occupy his land, is fooling again with its Occu-
piers’ Tax. This tax, it is specially provided, must
not fall on the landlord, who is a blessed and
sacred person, but on the tenant. It hits even the
man who occupies a humpy worth £5 a year ;
there is no exemption whatever. Further, it gets
at the person who lodges instead of occupying
in the ordinary sense of the term. The
widow who runs the hash-house will pay
Occupier’s Tax on the full value of the house, and
the boarder in addition is to pay Id. in the £ on
his board and lodging money. The Propsting
Government says this proposal is “broad-based,”
which is almost as weary a by-word now in Tas-
mania as ‘ 1 the magnificent natural resources of
the country.”
British Colonial Secretary has been
baited in the House of Commons into a rash
promise that wives will be provided for the
Chinese slaves to be imported into the Trans-
vaal ; but he was more wary and fenced
with a “fishing” question as to whether he
would undertake to provide them with idols
at British expense !
The Sydney daily papers publish hints
from correspondents for Yes-No Reid to
come back to State politics. Playing the
low-down sectarian game has certainly killed
his chances for Federal leadership, and Reid
is said to be seriously measuring up Carru-
thers’ neck to calculate if he would squeal
much when throttled.
The cheeky “ British New Guinea
Syndicate ” is again to the fore with its claim
for compensation because Australia wouldn’t
complete the land grab job which the syndi-
cate almost succeeded in smuggling through
by wholly illegal means. The B.N.G.£.
wants £5OOO, and Premier Deakin is “con-
sidering” the request, which doesn’t deserve
consideration—what it requires is a refusal
as rude as the gentle Premier knows how to
make it.
When it was announced that Mrs.
Maybrick was going to the United States—
whose people took such a strong interest in .
her release —the Commissioner of Immigra-
tion wired to the Washington law authorities
asking whether she should be excluded as a
“convicted alien.” The point is whether
she lost her original American citizenship by
marrying a British subject, and it has not
been settled yet. The American Immigra-
tion law is, by the way, to be in future applied
to theatrical companies, whose members will
be treated as “contract laborers,” and
rigidly shut out.
The Owe’Sullivan has decided to knock*
up against the Owe’Connor in Phillip division
at the N.S.W. elections. When Owe joins
Owe then comes the tongue of war.
If traffic in Chinese slave labor for the
Transvaal is actually entered upon (about which
there is still some doubt, the outbreak of the
plague on the Rand postponing the iniquity
again), the world can look to a return of the
horrors of the Chinese coolie trade to Hongkong
and Macao last century. A Hongkong journal
in an article on the subject recently, speaks of
Coolies kidnapped, imprisoned in barracoons, flogged to
make them sign the iniquitous contract that binds them
to a life of slavery, marched with a strong guard to make
them testify at the Government offices to their signature
as given voluntarily and freely, tossed overboard or left
on some barren isle to d.e if loss of sight or sickness
rendered them useless to their masters.
These horrors lasted at least as late as 1874.
A Bulletin correspondent :
The “ separate representation ” clause in the late Vic.
Reform Bill is likely to have some results that the Irvine-
cwm-Bent Government never realised. Any State servant
may announce his candidature for the position of repre-
sentative of his fellow employees. And when canvassing
he can, of course, explain his views about the service, and
its political requirements, and in doing so make public a
multitude of things which the Bent Ministry would
rather have kept dark. Then he can answer questions—
written questions, handed up by fellow-employees, in
which they ask if he is aware of the amazingly rapid pro-
motion of somebody’s relative, or the sweating in some
department, or the muddle in some other branch. Bent
may roar, but how can he gag the candidate for the seat
in Parliament which he has created in his wrath? It
appears possible, too, that by nomination day every
second public servant will have announced himself, and
will want “ reasonable time off ” to canvass the electors.
“ Office closed. Employees on leave, electioneering,”
may be the legend posted on the Victorian public offices
bef re very long.
The S.A. system of allotting land has
some good points. The application must be, if
possible, personal, and the examination of
land seekers is conducted publicly. But
some of those responsible for this wise
legislation are not concerned in the
purity of its administration. Land
Boards receive many letters from M’s.P.
enclosing lists of constituents whose
very special claims are earnestly urged.
A letter from a mining engineer in
S’Africa to London Spectator :
Coercion is a very real thing here. In many cases it is
a question of signing the petition (the bogus petition
asking for Chinese instead of Englishmen) or dismissal.
I myself have been requested four times this week either
to sign petitions in favor of Chinamen, or else to go to
meetings and put up both hands, with the same object.
Two days ago I was handed a list with my name upon it,
asking me to sign it in favor of Asiatic labor, or else to
state why I did not sign. A well-known firm is paying
men 30s. a day to stand at street corners and obtain
signatures. A number of men were practically ordered
last week to go from the mine and interrupt a
meeting of the anti-Chinese party, railway fares being
paid.
A letter from Melbourne :
Maloney’s majority over Money McEacharn at the Mel-
bourne by-election for the Representatives was won
against heavy odds. McEacharn’s brother fatmen of the
city brought all their power and influence to work to
secure Maloney’s defeat. They, as a rule, had no city
votes of their own to give to McEacharn, but they went
about among their employees who had, practically order-
ing them to vote for him. The Melbourne city councillors
and aldermen sank their differences, and on every body
of which they are members endeavored to influence —
almost to intimidate—the employees. The nurses in the
Melbourne Hospital were told in pretty plain language
that they had to vote for McEacharn. On the day of the
election McEacharn had nearly every motor-car in the
city placed at his disposal. The jibe has already been
thrown at Maloney that he won his seat on the vote of
the “ real lydies ” who frequent a certain portion of the
city attired mostly in flannelette wrappers. As most of
these women are under the thumb of the landlord to a
greater extent than the ordinary tenant, it is more than
likely that pressure was brought on them to vote the
McEacharn At any rate, the postal ballot papers
from that end of the city showed that on the last occasion
they went solidly for McEacharn However that vote
was cast this time, it is certain that on the morning of -
the election a strong McEacharnite went to one of the
courts in company with a notorious keeper of houses
of ill-fame, and bailed out one of her girls. The three
afterwards drove off to one of the polling- booths.
MR. “JOHNNY” FORD PATTERSON,
Ex-President Vic., Art Society.
The “National Liberty League of Wes-
tralia ” is the latest combination formed to dam
back the tide of democracy. A fervent appeal is
being made to “men of means ” to provide a big
fighting fund, but the response is not encouraging.
At a meeting of Perth and Fremantle publicans,
the manager of the Swan Brewery, a big concern
owned by Melbourne shareholders, gave a cheque
for £lOO towards the campaign. Leaders of the
Labor party promptly threatened to boycott that
E articular brand of beer. Then that manager
astened to explain that his intentions had been
misunderstood. The money was merely to fight
the teetotallers—which, seeing that the Labor
party aims at State regulation, comes to about the
same thing.
44
•>1
L
set*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
JONES
Ttfe Great South African Remedy for
Gout, Rheumatism, etc. solo by all chemists
2/9 -per Bottle, jjysted direct .tan
DEFECTIVE
VISION. ro
' O'JNTRY READERS
who cannot vi-ii ns
personally, we send,
Pot Free to any ad-
„ ...... dress, with full in'-
structions and 1 rice List, our marvellously.accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you-
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite 'Strand Arcade
Before booking your Steamsnip
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
thos. COOK & SON,
260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-et, Sydney.
0-0 TO lI3SLL-
I<. i i[, A ' l< for Pt* ity Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Ha^co,
FOREIGN stamp importer
74 Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists graMb


Buy a
Lipp
Piano
Ir you want the Best
German Piano made.
Lipp Pianos have been sold
in Australia for over
35 years.
They are the most
Popular Pianos
on the market.
*
Thousands of Lipp Pianos
have been sold and given
unqualified satisfaction.
Pure in tone, and built
to last a lifetime.
*
Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
PALING\S
338 George-st.,
Sydney.
Paling’s
Victor I.
Piano
(Patented).
Overdamper check
action, full iron
frame, trichord,
ivory keys, best
burr walnut case,
3 pedals.
One of the grand-
est instruments for
wear ever imported.
Specially made to
our order, of the
best materials, in
up-to-date Factories.
*
Catalogues Free.
Sold on Easy Terms.
*
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
v ****
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
I
A Fine
Violin
£1 :11 : 6
n
"STUDENT'S”
MODEL.
Complete with Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
ARE YOU ANXIOUS
TO GET CURED ? If so use
—VITADATIO—
You will be fully satisfied
with the result.
RHEUMATISM AND SCIATICA CURED BY
VITADATIO
Stawell, July 14th, 1903.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I testify to the
wonderful effects of VITADATIO as a medicine. For over
twelve years I suffered from Rheumatism and Sciatica. I
became so bad that I was on the point of giving up my
employment, which I might state is that of engine-driving.
After trying several remedies, which failed to give me
any relief, I was induced to give VITADATIO a trial, with
the result that after taking- twelve large bottles I was
perfectly cured, and now, after four years, I can, without
fear, testify to its permanency. I would strongly urge
anyone suffering as I did to give it a fair trial.
I remain 3'ours gratefully,
G. W. DARE.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N» t
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
Theprice of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
wn
m*
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 157-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
Missing Friends.
Kopje, of Birmingham, is earnestly
requested to COMMUNICATE WITH
HIS FRIENDS.
At least one gladsome event befell The
Bulletin last week. It received two photos., one
purporting to represent “Smiler” Hales meeting
the chiefs of the Macedonian insurrection (in the
presence of a handy photographer who put
“ Smiler ” where the biggest glare would fall on
him), and the other representing “ Smiler” Hales
and other Macedonians taking the oath before
battle (in the presence of a photographer who hap-
pened to be there). Apparently the up-to-date in-
surrection always gets photographed and swears
before the battle. If this paper could now get an
authentic photo, of Saul before his last battle on
Mount Gilboa, its happiness would be complete.
Meanwhile, the sub-editor has gone out in naste
to get a picture taken showing him helping
Admiral Cervera to steer the Vizcaya during the
great naval battle off Santiago.
Mr. W. R. DUNLOP, Wolf Creek, Ala.,
writes :
“ An attack of measles had left my son with the MOST
AGGRAVATING COUGH I EVER HEARD. His mother
began giving him Jayne’s Expectorant. By the time he
had taken one bottle, and started on the second, HE WAS
ENTIRELY CURED.”*
The petitioner in a Sydney divorce case of
a couple of sittings back saw the respondent and
co-respondent off at Redfern station last week.
Whether he reached there by accident or design did
not appear, but he courteously raised his hat and
bowed to the carriage window.
Melbourne
Branch—
W. WOOLLEY
AND SON,
Equitable
Building.
Queensland
Branch—
H. J. DIDDAMS
AND CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
LSllSfi!
»*G3^§y
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do you believe in NEW IDEAS
and NEW METHODS ? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
They Cut down TIME and LABOR—does that
mean money to you ?
The PRINCIPAL has “grip” and control of
affairs hitherto unknown.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St«, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent.
HDMF.QTIinV ” A beautifully - printed
numc OIUUI. pamphlet of great value
to every home student, containing particulars with regard
to our courses of Postal Tuition in Shorthand, Type-
writing, Bookkeeping, Office Routine, Business Writing,
Block Lettering, Engrossing, Advertising, Correspondence,
English Grammar, Composition, etc., Business Arithmetic,
Commercial Law; Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Applied Mechanics, Civil Engineering,
Architecture and Building Construction, Mechanical
Drawing, Architectural Drawing, Freehand Drawing, and
Pen and Ink Sketching, post free on application to Stott &
Hoare’s Business College, Moore Street, Sydney.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Our Selection."
THE
BUTTON BOOT
FOR
LADIES.
16/6
♦
m
♦
♦
i
♦
♦
♦
Post Free
Duty Free
Except W.A.
Fob
NEATNESS
STYLE
COMFORT
LONG WEAR
ALL
YOU -
COULD
DESIRE.
It is hard to choose words that
will cai'ry conviction, for words
are often misplaced and can be
used for inaccurate statements as well
as for the ttuth. We will only repeat a
statement that you will find The Callaghan
Boots and Shoes “ALL YOU COULD
DESIRE for neatness, style, comfort and long
wear.”
15/11; Post Free and Duty Free, 16/6
To any part of the Commonwealth except W.A.
A thoroughly good reliable BUTTON BOOT, .made of American glace-kid, "■
with a dressy stylish patent leather toe-cap. Wear as well as comfort assured.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct.
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., syd


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON <sc CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banin of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GKOßGß STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,330,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,330,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Ohas. K. MackellAß. M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walker.
lion. Reginald James Black, M.L O.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T Ae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
hanking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banicing Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,040,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,040,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.O Deputy -Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.O.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. _J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks. ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
DEBILITATED
■\X7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
W trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Vlotoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A. few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. "NVrite to-day for treatise, posted two
'stamps. Address *
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
10.0 k r.OT.T.TNR fiT'R/P.'RT Mot/imutuvh 1 --
Shipping.
KT. 13. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
of
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
eta BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 13th APRIL.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent-
Ouisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•ABERDEEN
♦SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
T. F. Gambell
A. H. H. G. Douglas
R. B. V. M'Killiam
Noon, April 8
Noon, April 15
Noon, May 14
* Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beioon3field Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Q O 33A.2XT1 CJ STB A.MSHIP COMPA.3XTY.
A. AND AT LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD .
Bpecial Rates, Including St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Fret.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security—
LOWEST INTJBKEST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
discounted.
3NT-S.-W.
jQont deplete Go., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST.,
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—TH E-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - ICS Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
Mon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. ROBSais
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Buuck Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.br.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305—assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Cannt. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250/100 ... £350.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Olynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a. boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATION^.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
"ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
April 18, May 16, June 13.
The New Twin Screw Steamer,
MANUKA,
SAILS ON MAY 16.
Quadruple Engines Ensuring Steadiness and an
Entire Freedom from Vibration.
Salt and Fresh Water Baths such as on
no Other Steamer on the Pacific.
ROOMS LARGER, LOFTIER THAN ON ANY
OTHER STEAMER.
Manuka’s Passengers reach St. Louis as Early as
Exhibition is Ready.
SPECIAL RATES. CHEAP FARES.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J IjIMIT ICl). «
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62.00 C
£695,46?
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
Th? Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROHOHITIS,
DIAREHCEA, be "' 3
the Government Stamp the mvinO
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLBS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS g*
Sept. 28 1896. says:
“Ifl were asked which single medicine t should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Uhlokodynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its hast rect >mn iendatipn^_^__^_^^__^___
rNLOROPVNE
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MMITI3D).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Ylotorian and Queensland Ports*
FOIt MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POIiT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAIT
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Konoowarra, Friday,.
April 8, at 5 p.m.
Connecting with
S.S. Grantala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), from Melbourne,
April 13.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oalrna
5.5. 9, afcNoon
3.5. Koonoowarra, Friday,
■ April 15, at 5 p.m.
5.5. Friday, April
22, at 5 p.m
Heat anil Chenpeat lloute to Ooldflehla.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-Stnte Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime s
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with Sha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE*
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Onm*
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to ii 77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meek
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
In landing ahdpassing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . .
“e. and n.” line.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on l
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and!
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe t‘i» Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
ij
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,.
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate-
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s. (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nlghti
Prevented.
Nenralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTERS
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
‘•As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hare
used it successfully for years.’*—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D t
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Ov^pepsia,Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, «kc,
Of all Storks.


ANOTHER ABSENTEE.
MISS DRYPISH : “ What! Going bee-nesting on the Sabbathf Mark my words the Lord will
punish you.
BUSH KID : “Gam! ’E ain’t at home or we’d er copped out fer larst Sunday."
The Continued Influx of Aliens.
Thk Parliamentary return for 1903 under the Im-
migration Restriction Act of 1901 shows that,
•despite legislation which, if firmly administered,
should be effective, there is still a very large influx
of aliens to the Commonwealth. During 1903 only
165 persons were stopped at the ports and sub-
mitted to the Education Test of the Act. Of
these, 13 succeeded in passing the test, while 152
failed and were excluded. But, in addition, there
were 44,117 admitted without the test. Of
these, the bulk were Europeans and welcome
immigrants, but 3486 were colored Ameri-
cans, Chinese, Japanese, and so on. Deducting
from the 3486 the number of Kanakas (1036)
admitted in obedience to the provisions of the
Kanaka legislation affecting Queensland, there
were still 2450 colored immigrants to Australia
who were admitted without test. Of these 986
were Chinese, 558 Japanese and 526 Malays. The
reasons given for their free entry are various,
ranging from “pearling” (which secured the
admission of over 1000) down to “State permits”
(which brought in 572 Chinese) and “desertion,”
y which means 82 aliens of all sorts secured
admission to Australia. The figures of the
return are very unsatisfactory. An Act which
allowed 2450 colored aliens to enter and only
barred out 152 is not the sort of Act-or the
sort of administration—that Australia expected.
It is possible—and this point should be elucidated
hy Parliamentary questioning—that some of the
anens admitted have not come permanently, that
it is understood or arranged that they shall be
only birds of passage, and that the facts, there-
fore, are not quite so bad as the return seems to
• qw. But that they are bad enough in all con-
science is clear. The Commonwealth wants an
Act which will stop 2450 colored aliens and only
152~iKl 52 ~iKo fc a( l n ? lts an y- A Restriction Act
which bars 152 and lets 2540 enter doesn’t restrict
up to the standard that White Australia demands.
♦
No State in the Commonwealth can hold its
own against South Australia in the production
o Pious cranks—people who have large bees in
r ll r, W h° worry about Armageddon and
the Beast of Revelations, and the opening of the
Seventh Vial, and things like that. And the S. A.
papers generally print the crazy epistles of these
people epistles that in a less wild-eyed com-
munity would drop gently into the waste-paper
eceptacle. For instance, Adelaide Advertiser
is now publishing shrieks like this
. r ,—.Japan and Russia are now engaged in a severe
struggle, and before long, it appears to me, that the
whole world will be plunged into the bloody vortex of
£ r “^ don - Tfus will be the last and bloodiest war
foretold in the Bible. The question is—How is this war
f a T n out ,Most likely England, the United
states, and Japan will smash Europe and the rest of the
xvio! powers to smithereens. Then, in accordance
lnri h rhp ?h wi “JT* the Second Ady ent of Christ,
and the end of the world.—l am, &c., .
Also this :
f , ar easfc as Japan, and it is
her h?pL-^ a >r' *l 00 £ s have to be put in her jaws” to turn
h 38th chapter.) Afterwards she is to be
for .. h 1° the mountains of Israel ”in “ the
SnlrpA • 6t °' '• • Tbis is the “ intention of the
B concerning Russia, as many oommen-
v f f are that the two chapters referred to have
Th!!!! nce t° the great northern Power of the latter days.
hicfpr„ VVh ° i S u y i 1- r ? f ? rs to some great event in past
=,;h° e ” U ? fc be b . hnd > mdeed, as the whole tenor of the
Wpml^ ptUre - 3 13 , d ®? d against them. As to China
•npf°?£ a universal Empire, it cannot be, because it is
not the intention of the Supreme Being. Neither will
Britain or Russia ever have universal dominion, as there
were only to be four such empires, and the fourth—the
If.now divided and broken. The next universal
empire will be the Kingdom of God.
And the “universal” Reiman empire, at its
greatest, was no larger than the United States,
and had a population less than that of Germany,
while the other “ universal ” empires were a
good deal smaller. Presumably we are still
waiting for the first “universal” empire to rise
over the rim of the horizon, and at that rate
Armageddon may still be at a safe distance. Any-
how Ihe Bulletin has a suspicion that Arma-
geddon will prove to be, not a battle, but a new
kind of fashionable fowl, like Cochin-China and
Brahmapootra.
Once a week is not too often to call attention to
the dangers surrounding the “ closer settlement’
boom of the moment. On all sides now big land-
owners are offering to subdivide their estates and
sell to the small settler at an alarming sacrifice.
In some cases the offers are reasonable enough.
In many others there is not the shadow of a hope
that the prices asked for will allow the small
farmer a decent living. This is a “ boom ” year
in land values. After the long drought, good
rains have fallen, and the ground, rested and
refreshed, has a capacity for production which
may not be equalled again for many a season.
Good prices, too, rule. The drought made stock
scarce and exhausted all carry-over supplies of
fodder and grain. To buy agricultural land on
the basis of this year’s prospects is therefore to
court ruin. There will be, probably, fairly good
seasons now for a while ; but prices cannot main-
tain their present level long, and dry seasons will
assuredly return. For landowners to wish to
unload on a boom market is natural. But for the
State to buy extensively for closer settlement at
boom prices is foolish. In fact the various States
should refrain from buying at all until a more
stable range of prices is established, and until the
inevitable .progressive land-tax has settled the
market.
— : — +
A “National ” Political League has been formed
in Westralia—“ to counteract the ruinous effect
of threatened extensive Labor representation
and the ’Groper is being told some strange and
wonderful things. The mover of the chief resolu-
tion at the meeting when the Ass was born, after
calling upon everybody to vote for only men with
a stake in the country, and prophesying that
Labor rule would ruin every business in the West,
said : “ Many of those present would remember to
their cost that the Labor party had brought ruin
and disaster to many a home in Victoria.” And
those who were present, and were t’other-
siders, remembered that most of them had
gone over to the West several years ago,
when just such another Ass crowd as this had
filled the country with bogus banks and
building societies, and had made such an unholy
mess of things that Victoria hasn’t recovered
from the shock yet. Probably the blunderer who
was talking had the railway strike in his mind ;
but for every man whom that drove to the West,
the knavery and folly of the fat crowd “with a
stake in the country ” ruined thousands and
drove away hundreds. A political organiser who
can rake up memories of that sort ought not to
have many terrors for Westralian Democrats.
+ :
A woman writes from one of the inner parts of
Westralia
I’ve just returned from a nine days trip in the bush,
and I’m quite satisfied that Billjim here is not the great
hearted, kind, noble and tender white man I have always
supposed him to be. My trip has proved to me that he
is cruel and brutal to his horse and dog, and an outrager
of little native children. He is not satisfied with adult
wives. In one case the child herself, aged 10, told me
she was the only “ Miranda ” between Billjim. his mate
and their tracker-she told me this with herarms around
my waist and her head buried in my frock. She was so
thin that her photo would make a great advt. for the
Indian Famine Fund. I tried to take her away, but Bill-
jim, mate and tracker went 12 miles out of their way to
recover hter, and they left with her and my bag of chaff
next morning before I was up. Truly Billjim is a great
fellow. Three days after she escaped with two native
boys down the Gascoyne River Next morning Billjim,
mate and tracker were after her at daybreak and drove
her before them back to bondage. This child is mother-
less. Besides being wife to the three she makes all the
damper on the coal, boils all the salt horse or mutton
&c., does all the washing (Billjim is a flash sort when he
comes in to knock down his cheque and give the white
girls a treat. Boiled rag and clean moles are a necessity •
if not, he would lose caste with his push), helps muster
cattle barebacked ; and all for her tucker, salt horse
damper, and an old cut-down pair of Billjim’s pants
about once in a blue moon. And yet this is a free
country, and we have an expensive Aborigines Protection
Society. A few days ago met six of the Billjim species
coming in to knock down their oheques, etc. Two miles
in bush met their pack horses, their babv wives in
charge. I said horses—but I’m sure the Zoo would refuse
to take them at any price. There was not a square feed
on the lot for an able-bodied lion. They were covered
with sores, and were turned out on the bare rocks. But
Billjim here is too mean to live when not drinking.
Quaint S. Aus. Government Gazette notice
dug up after a little over 50 years :
CONVICT DEPARTMENT.
In consequence of the impracticability of procuring a
sufficiency of stone to employ the convicts, and until
labor prisons can be erected for their full employment
the Superintendent of Convicts will be glad to let the
labor of the undermentioned mechanics at the gacl at
the current rates of pay for work, with a deduction of 25
per cent, on its price as a compensation to the master for
waiting for the workman 1 watchmaker, 6 shoemakers
3 wheelwrights, 3 carpenters, 3 blacksmiths, 4 tailors’
The material for the work will be received any dav
between 6 and 6. *
They got nearer to common sense in those days
than they do now, when there is a dread of prison
labor doing anything for its expensive keep lest it
should come into competition with free labor •
wherefore the honest man outside gaol grafts
hard on irregular meals so that the dishonest man
may loaf and have regular meals inside gaol.
nty years ago the S. Australian prisoner was
expected to keep himself ; to-day practically the
only gaol industries the State has are quarrying
and stone-breaking (ballast, mostly, for the rail-
ways) at the Stockade, for the long-term men and
olive-growing at the Adelaide Gaol, for short-
termers.
»
“Stony”: Melbourne Argus, under date 12th
March, quotes thus from an unnamed “ English
representative of a Melbourne firm,” in reference
,P certain samples of Australian-grown cotton :
Your remarks are all very fine, and would have
practical result if you could produce hundreds of
thousands of bales, but with deportation of black
labor from Queensland, how are vou going to pro-
duce in quantities such as are* wanted?” The
representative,” of course, takes the uselessness
of the white worker for granted. The anonymous
people who supply information to the Argus
always do. Whatever may be written of Egypt
and India and such all-black cotton-producing
countries, there is something to be said right here
as to the TJ.S.A. nigger’s relation to the cotton
industry, by one who has it fresh off the ice of his
own personal experiences during 1903. Al-
though the plantation coon is popularly
supposed to be a necessary article when it
comes to working cotton, the white is
nowadays quite as much in evidence as the colored
laborer. The great majority of white workmen in
the Cotton Belt—and they are by no means
white trash,” but good average men—have had
REALLY!
THE VISITOR: “Ah! Charming! Is it from a model, may I ask?"
THE ARTIST: Well, the figure is, but the face and expression are my own."
cotton-experience in some way or other. In fact
it would be difficult to find a worker in the Belt
who has no boast as to his record day’s earnings
in cotton-picking. Moreover, wages are distinctly
up to a white standard, because the white man is
the best worker and gives the best results. Fifty
cents a hundred for picking will bring a really good
man a couple of dollars a day, while a man who
only draws a dollar and a half has had a fairly
easy time hardly poor wages for unskilled labor,
even compared with Australian rates. This does
not look as if the nigger were entirely necessary,
either in America or Australia. Nor does it seem
to show that the nigger’s labor is any cheaper in
the end. Nor does it help along the hybrid-Aus-
tralia cause by proving that the white man wilts
and wavers under conditions in which the sturdy
black goes right on. In southern U.S.A. the nig.
is regarded as an indifferent worker in every line,
in the cotton-field as well as anywhere else, and
he does no work whatever which the white does
not do at least equally well.
♦ r
The Australian High Court has decided that
suitors shall not be allowed that short cut to jus-
tice which some of them fondly looked forward to:
The Chief Justice said it had been laid down by the
Court that it would not grant special leave to appeal
from a single Judge straight to the Court, and it could
Full^ourt^ 6 appllcation - Applicant could appeal to the
That is to say, before the suitor gets to the end of
his legal possibilities he must go through (1) the
Supreme Court in its ordinary capacity; (2) the
Full Court; (3) the High Court. The proposal
to sink the intermediate court—which is slow,
expensive and congested, and doesn’t make things
final after all—is sternly suppressed as being dele-
terious to Costs. If the Bench had been a brick-
Jayer m its early life it might not be so shocked at
the idea of a lawyer grabbing only two sets of
Costs when he might grab three. If it had been
itself much of a plaintiff or defendant in early life
it might realise that the person who has to pay
three sets of Costs when two are quite sufficient
calls for some consideration. If it had been any-
thing but a lawyer all its days it might realise
that the whole glittering universe doesn’t revolve
round Costs. But a youth and middle age spent
in hunting for Costs have left it quite unable to
look at Costs from the public s point of view.
Jimbill, of the mulga country, never had much
of an opinion of either Fashion or Political
Economy, and isn’t likely to increase it just now.
Last year, as he was getting off what little wool
there was on what sheep he had dragged through
the drought, he remembered the S.M. Hebald’s
remarks to the working people on “ the immuta-
bility of the law of supply and demand,” and
reckoned that, if he had little to sell, he would,
anyway, get a thumping price for it. So he
wasn’t as miserable as he might have been —until
the reports of the wool sales came through.
Then something seemed to have gone wrong
with the blessed law of supply and demand ;
the supply wasn’t there, and neither was
the demand. It was then explained to
Jimbill at great length that, as he couldn’t
supply enough merino wool, the people who used
wool had fixed up their arrangements so that they
could use crossbred; also, Fashion had been
bribed to smile on crossbred, and had smiled
accordingly, leaving Jimbill with no better price
for bis merino than he would have got if he had
thrown mountains of it at the market. Naturally
enough, lie has the idea that it is a fool of a law
which is liable to spring up and hit a man like
that. And this year he is finding that he hasn’t
done with the unreliable thing even yet. Last
year they told him that when the supply was better
his merino would be used again, and the price
would go up (in other words, that the law of
supply and demand would turn a somersault and
face two ways at once); but now he finds that,
having started to use crossbred wool, the foreign
manufacturer is getting along with it better than
he expected, and consequently isn’t rushing Jim-
bill with any enthusiasm. So his faith in the
great law of supply and demand is shattered, and
his opinion of the Fashion that turned against
him m his hour of sorrow is unfit for publication.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
A pair of boots exhibited in a Sydney old
clo’shop, recently, bore the legend, “Once worn
by the Duke of York.” If the label was authentic,
who has been wearing them since the Duke was
done with them ? The precious relics were sold
the second day they were on show, and jjhesuui-
ably they now repose on some loyalist’s front
room mantel, or else a Woolloombbloo pushite
goes round m them and puts his feet up proudly
on the threepenny bar for inspection.
AMATEUR REPOUSSE WORK. For finest
tools and materials; most practical manual ; most artistic
designs and best cement, write Gavvthorp, 10 Pong Acre
London, Eng; Art Metal Worker to H.M. King Edward
VII. Impressions of tools and illustrated price list free.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stihpe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Siukt.-*
are highly recommended.
33/-per Half-dozen, free by pout throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SOKS DS2I2BANE,


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Biggest turf sensation Sydney has known for
some time was the scratching-, last week, of Sea Kale for
Doncaster Hep. The nag had travelled peculiarly in the
betting for week before. One day some evidently well-
primed Ikeys would stretch the odds from eights to tens,
or tens to twelves, and the guileless punter would come
along and bite freely ; then Mo., apparently fearing that
the backers’ information might be better than his, or
perhaps that he was being used in the matter, would
shorten the odds a couple of points, only to stretch them
a day or two later. Meanwhile Sea Kale was showing
fine form on the track, even to the extent of
putting up a gallop equal in merit to one of Glad-
some’s record-breaking feats the same day. The mare’s
trainer came along on Thursday morning last with the
information that his charge was never better and her
latest gallop indicated that she would give the race a big
shaking-, but at 2.25 that afternoon Sea Kale’s name dis-
appeared from the list of eligibles, whereat the trainer
waxed indignant, and announced his determination to have
the horse bundled out of his stable straightway. Writer
hasn’t heard whether this threat has yet been put into
effect, but he does know that an exhaustive inquiry into
the whole thing is what the A.J.O. owes the betting pub-
lic and all connected with the mare, for bookmakers bene-
fited largely by Sea Kale’s elimination, and one or two big
punters “ fell in ” very heavily over the happening.
* * * *
Much-discussed M.L. filly Gladsome, of famous
gallops and track record-breaking performances since her
arrival in Sydney, stripped, Saturday, for the Autumn
Stakes (l£m.), and was so eagerly pounced upon by
punters that some laid 2 to 1 on, but she started a point
less, while 7 to 2 was accepted about Air Motor’s prospects,
with 6 and 7to 1 Sweet Nell plentiful. Faithful and Rae-
burn were very much outsiders. Gladsome went to the
front straightaway, and set a solid pace from flag-fall,
with Sweet Nell always at striking distance till opening
the concluding 4fur., when she was almost level. ’Twas a
match between the pair then, Raeburn and Faithful, after
momentarily threatening danger at the home turn, being
completely out of the hunt, while Air Motor, who was
last off the mark, remained last throughout. Entering
the straight, Gladsome moved away and looked like
clearing out, but Lewis dug his heels into the Caulfield
Cup winner and the pair were level in a few lengths and
battled down the straight. An advantage gained by
Sweet Nell above the Leger stood to the Victorian always
(though the Maorilander wiped it off a little every yard)
and she ultimately finished a head best amidst wild
excitement. Unquestionably the superiority of Lewis’
horsemanship had as much to do with the result as any-
thing else. Conditions under foot considered, the time
was undeniably good. Air Motor’s miserably poor show-
ing was the surprise of the race and demonstrated beyond
contradiction that heavy going isn’t to that mare’s liking,
though a bad bump at the start may also have taken
something out of her.
* * * #
First Steeple (Monday) of A. J.C. autumn gather-
ing proved a runaway thing for outsider, Galtee More,
from a bigger outsider (Teamster), with 2-to-l-against
favorite (The African) a bad third. Rise Up, heavily
backed, came down opposite the stand, and Signet
(second favorite) toppled over six furlongs from home.
Galtee More literally flew his jumps, and rider Whalley
received an ovation equal to that accorded the Cup
winner.
* * * #
Regio, who ran second in the Flying Handicap
earlier, was the only withdrawal from Sydney Cup on the
course, leaving 16 to line up—the smallest field in 13
years. Emir was favorite all day—mostly at 5 to 2 and
occasionally 3 to I—while, here and there, a persevering
punter got 7 to 2, but the bulk of the money went on
Lord Cardigan (8.7) at 4to 1 and 7to 2 near flagfall. The
owner (Mr. Mayo) and all closely connected with
Lord Cardigan expressed the greatest confidence con-
cerning his prospects. Sensation of Saturday night’s
betting was the backing of Ossian by owner Crick to win
over £5OOO. _ But the horse wasn’t much inquired for,
though nothing better than 12 to 1 was obtainable about
him, and in this division were Sweet Nell and Belah.
Fact of Mallard being a good stayer and having a big pull
(7.11) in the weights caused thinkers to “ spec.” on his
prospects. Some hard-headed old punters came at the 11th
hour for Saida (in the same stable as Ossian) and backed
her from fifties down to twenties. Many of those who
saw Lord Cardigan shape in Melbourne recently wouldn’t
have him at any price, and despite that Emir (9.1) was
asked to upset all records for his age, and win with lib.
more than Carbine brought to the front at 3yrs., they
singled him out as sure to settle the Melbourne Cup winner.
Others insisted that Lord Cardigan wasn’t a weight
carrier at all. Emir, making considerable play at
the post, had to be held, and got away last with Faithful.
Sweet Nell and Marvel Loch were first to the front, but
the end of a furlong saw Mallard in that position, and,
setting a sound pace, he stayed there for close on lfm.,
where Alias and Marvel Loch were nearest, with Sweet
Nell, Emir and Fanfare in close proximity. Here Lord
Cardigan, previously in the thick of the ruck, could be seen
Working his way along the inner rails. Entering the
Btraight Mallard still led (and was already acclaimed the
winner by.hundreds of throats), and people took a very
short price about him. He was headed by Lord Cardigan
and Sweet Nell, with Saida coming fast in the centre.
Lord Cardigan was too tough, and, shaking the Caulfield
Cup winner off, went away and won as if he had only just
joined in the struggle, literally romping home. Sweet
Nell and Saida swerved out gradually from the
half distance, and finished in the centre, Saida
just pipping Rupert Clarke’s filly for second
place. Bridegroom, who didn’t show till near the
end, was fourth. _ Time, 3min. 31fsec., was very fair,
though 3fsec. behind Wakeful’s record. Interesting that
Lord Cardigan’s owner won the Sydney Cup ten years
ago with that colt’s dam, Lady Trenton ; also that only
nags before Lord Cardigan who succeeded in appropriat-
ing Melbourne and Sydney Cups were old-time The Barb
and Carbine.
* * * *
Biggest disappointment of Doncaster Handicap
was miserably poor showing by well-tried Queenslander
Madras. Evening before, all the coin available at 100’s to
3 (totalling £5000) was taken, and, prior to the start,
money came in heaps for him, causing odds to drop from
25 to 12 to 1. Trainer O’Brien expressed extreme con-
fidence regarding the result, but the nag wasn’t sighted
at any stage of the race. Said that a trial with Beauclerc
had resulted in easy vanquishment of the latter, and also
that, at Rosehill, Madras had run six furlongs in 1.17,
with shoes on.
* * * *
Punters had a rough time on opening day of
A.J.O. Autumn meet, for in six events only one favorite
got home and he, Emir, at 7. to 2 on—betting that didn’t
admit of anything approaching a pull up and at which the
majority of the punters rarely come. Four of the results
—Lamrock (Hurdles), Sweet Nell (Autumn Stakes), Chere
Amie (Doncaster Handicap) and Hadrian (Maiden Stakes)
—meant almost “skinners” to most “books,” and the
Doncaster “ turn up ” lets Ikey clean out of all his
doubles.
* * * *
A.J.O. St. Leger, Saturday, enticed three
starters only—Emir and-Mallard (Victorians) and Belah,
N.S.W.’s rep.. Emir was hot at 7 to 2 on, and a good
pile was placed for Belah at fours against, while Mallard
remained the pronounced outsider of the trio—
tens being freely offered he wouldn’t win.
Belah went to the front straightaway, and made
the running strong—he wanted it so—but Mallard hung
on to him always, and close to 6fur. from the finish they
were together till nearing the turn, when Mallard tired
and fell back. At the Leger, Belah seemed to hold the
Victorian champion, till Lews called on him, when Emir
moved up in a not-to-be-denied fashion and, fast as Belah
travelled, the other travelled faster, eventually scooping
the coin and the red riband comfortably, three parts of a
length to the good, with Mallard tailed off nowhere. Despite
the holding nature of the ground Emir’s time (3min. lOsec.)
has only been beaten twice in. the history of the race—by
Cobbity (3.7£) in 1895, and Abundance (3.6 J) last year;
latter is the record. Since Newhaven’s triumph seven
years ago, until Saturday, only Clean Sweep (1901) scored
for Victoria.
Twenty-three of 24 acceptors stripped for Don-
caster Handicap (lm.) on first day of A. J.O. Autumn meet
at Randwick ; only scratching' on the course was Aus-
tralia. Favorite (Playaway), for days before, lined up
most m demand, best price against her at any time being
11 ~A lou B'h one period (in places) 7to 1 was avail-
able Contest, that nag started only a point longer than
Playaway. Fancy offers ruled against the majority,
ravonte and Ibex were first away with Regio, Chere Amie
and Haloya close behind. Turning into the straight
Haloya was clear of all others, but Contest and Chere Amie
were catching him fast. A moment later Chere Amie was
in front and Contest passed Playaway. At the distance
Chere Amie and Contest had the race to themselves, Chere
Amie just leading, and a hair-raising struggle resulted
down the straight. Hard at it, with every ounce up, and the
jockeys W. H. Smith (Contest) and C. Thomas (Chere
Amie) strained to top tension, the nags battled along,
blit the holding nature of the going and the feather-weigh
(0. <) stuck to Chere Amie, who ultimately won half-a-
neck to the good in I.43Jsec.
* * * *
Champagne Stakes, on Monday, saw all ten
acceptors at the barrier. Koopan and Vitula had Iolb.
and 71b. penalties respectively. Jim Dorset was favorite
throughout, and started at 2 to 1, with threes and fours
offered Koopan, and fives Mangosteen. Biggest out-
sider of the field was Jim Dorset’s stable chum,
Lord Fitzroy. Miramar, Koopan, and Lord Fitzroy
were first into the straight, and a little later
Lord Fitzroy literally shot away from the others,
and won comfortably from Koopan, with little fancied
Warroo third. Jim Dorset made no show at all,
and Mangosteen (voted a “ good thing ” by her party)
failed badly also. How Jim Dorset’s trainer felt after-
wards may be gathered from the fact that he previously
told how the horse could give Hadrian 100yds. and a
beating over the distance any time, and yet Hadrian
annexed the 2-year-old Maiden very easily on Saturday,
while the other nag couldn’t gallop even decently in the
Champagne Stakes.
* * * *
Australian Cup winner, Marmont, is another
proof of the wisdom of not working thoroughbreds till
they are full grown. Marmont was not broken in till he
was four years old. Since then he has run in 25 races,
won ten, worth £3906 in all, and is still smart enough to
extend most of the youngsters now in training.
At Onkaparinga (S.A.) meeting Monday, tote
business showed £2OOO less than last year’s. Thirteen
stripped for the Cup, with Bright Pilgrim favorite, and
Rifler, Aurate, and Chassepot next in demand. Magda
made pretty well the whole of the running, but Chassepot
cut her down in the straight, beating Bright Pilgrim,
with Magda third—a long neck away. Money invested
on the machine totalled over £3360, and dividend paid was
£7 odd. Only withdrawal from the Great Eastern Steeple
was Leiroo ; 18 started. The Actor went out favorite,
while Riccarton and Syringa found solid support, and a
big load of shekels was unloaded on Tom Brown. Moving
off to a false start Wirrawa dropped dead. At the logs
Convoy and Mulcra fell, Murawai clouted the rider off,
and Persist belied the name by stopping hard and fast.
Later, The Actor and Ben Nevis each came a cropper.
At the last fence Syringa led from Isis, Drummer and
Riccarton, and Tom Brown flopped. Ultimately Syringa
won easily by 15 lengths, with half a length between second
and third (Isis and Drummer). Money speculated was
£4089, and the div. £5 4s. Tom Brown’s jockey (Holmes)
rode most of the trip with one foot out of the stirrup.
Barr (on Ben Nevis) had his jaw broken, and was carried
off unconscious. In the amateur chase the base of Mr.
Bawden’s skull was cracked through Tornado’s fall, and
he, too, was removed insensible. Only sof 13 starters
covered the 2m. in this event, and the favorite (Tattoo)
won. Nita Carlyon led from jump to judge in the Hills
Railway Stakes (sfur.), and paid £41125. for a sovereign.
Success of Onkaparinga R. O. (S.A.) has been
remarkable ; in 15 years the club has spent £ll,OOO on
buildings and improvements and donated £l7OO to chari-
ties, while disbursements reached £62,500. Next year
(the 30th of the club’s existence) will be marked by the
giving of £2OOO for the big steeplechase. Owner, trainer
and breeder will all participate in the prize money. One
provision is decidedly novel: £5OO equally divided among
starters is to be invested on the tote and the div. added to
the winner’s money.
* * * *
When the Council of N.S.W. League of Wheel-
men got loose on the Sydney Thousand suspects it hit to
kill. It broke up Floyd MacFarland’s handicap kingship
and ended his cycling life with a three years’ disqualifica-
tion ; L. Corbett got a two years knock-out; Hardy
Downing, D. J. Plunkett, C. Bathie and B. Kett twelve
months each, and H. Gordon escaped with six months.
This slaughter left A. E. O’Brien (commonly known as
“ Widow O’Brien ”) first and Major Taylor second. As
there was no official record of who occupied the positions
after the fourth, the League did not place the third prize,
and appropriated it to pay exes. Had this money been
placed it would have fallen to Don Walker, who was
certainly as deserving as anyone in the race.
Why the Council gave A. E. O’Brien first
money is somewhat hazy. The Bulletin didn’t see
O’Brien pace worth a cent, and as it was one of the rules
of the contest that each competitor should take a fair
share of the labor of making speed for his bunch, no one
who shirks that obligation should be allowed to annex
any prize. On the other hand, it may have been shown
at the inquiry (from which the press was foolishly ex-
cluded) that O’Brien was never given a chance to pace for
fear of getting a break on the field. In this paper’s
opinion, the proper thing would have been to disqualify
all the competitors, all the spectators, all the promoters,
declared it no race, and donated the money to the Hos-
pital for Sick Children. The premises should have been
disqualified, too, and the Sydney Thousand abolished.
The thing was a delusion from the first, and
as “ teaming ” was forbidden, it should have been
declared no race on that account. The now generally
accepted yarns are that the front markers met and decided
upon a distribution of the money that was agreed to by
all; all hands to pace impartially to the last fifty yards,
and then the best man to win. The back bunch also
held a meeting, and is reported to have agreed that
Major Taylorand Floyd MacFarland should each take £250,
Hardy Downing and Don Walker the other £250 between
them ; all hands to pace in an order agreed upon till the
front bunch was overtaken—and then each for himself
and the best to win—the distribution of the money not to
be affected, whichever of the back-markers won. These
two arrangements are said to have lasted till shortly
before the race, when other influence was
brought to bear. Somebody outside wanted some
specified person to be the • assured winner, and
a new arrangement was mooted by which Larry
Corbett was selected. There were heavy wagers in
the city, and somebody was going to scoop a pool. The
front bunch, it is alleged, agreed to the new arrangement
—all but Widow O’Brien, who lay low and said nuffin’.
Ever since the alleged original agreement Major Taylor
was said to be suffering scruples about cutting up the
prize, but he was told bluntly that if he stayed out of the
bunch he would be “ on his own,” and might win “ on his
own,” if he could. In the interests of the game it was
better for him to be in the bag, and out of the wet. But
when the new scheme came along—so the tale continues
—MacFarland suddenly discovered that his color-line
prejudice wouldn’t allow him to cut a prize with a
goldarn nigger. Then on Wednesday, midday, the Widow
O’Brien is said to have asked for more money. He felt
certain that with his handicap he could win, and it was
ridiculous to expect him to agree to any arrangement
that would result in monetary loss. No business re-
sulted, so, immediately before the race, O’Brien is said to
have very straightforwardly informed the bunch that he
was “ on his own.”
When the race started, Don Walker and Major
Taylor are supposed to have been ignorant of the new
arrangement, and faithfully kept to the original “ team-
ing” agreement, which, although against the rules of
the race, was absolutely honest and common-sensible,
and calculated to give the public a good run for its
money. They kept their share of the bargain, but Hardy
Downing and MacFarland did not. But so many knew of
the arrangement on Wednesday morning that it was
almost useless for betting purposes. When the race was
run O’Brien was beaten by inches only, and Floyd
MacFarland and Hardy Downing played their parts
too conspicuously. O’Brien lodged a protest, which
the stewards threw out, with contempt. O’Brien appealed
and threatened to bring the matter into the law
courts where MacFarland would be compelled to give the
evidence he had refused before the Council of the League of
Wheelmen. The Council made full inquiry, and the story
O’Brien told was such a staggerer that the Council, by a
majority of ten to two, rushed out to distribute sudden
annihilation. And now Larry Corbett is threatening legal
proceedings, so that there is still a hope that the public
may learn from sworn evidence what an insatiable lot of
pie-biters are roaming the bike paths of this continent
disguised as good sportsmen.
The strangest part of the business was the dead
silence of the sporting papers. They barely mentioned
that, judging by some hooting, a portion of the public
was not satisfied with the manner in which the race was
run, and expressed no opinion on the matter themselves.
Even the daily rags were quite vigorous in their denunci-
ations compared to that portion of the press which claims
it as its special mission to see that our sport is clean. A
Sydney paper remarks that, wherever the prizes are large
enough to excite cupidity, we will have swindles. Quite
likely. Why, even when Kalomenes won the crown of
parsley at Sparta he probably squared Aristobulus,
who was fleeter of foot, but less hungry for
public glory. Still, it was more difficult in those
days ; the Spartan money was iron, and the
spectacle of Aristobulus leaving Kalomenes’ residence
carrying about two tons of saucepans and rails must have
been liable to arose suspicion. The better way to prevent
scandals like Sydney Thousand is not to give valueless
pewter trophies, but to give big prizes and ruthlessly dis-
qualify for life the fellows who are found running crooked.
In other words, arrange things so that straight running
will pay best.
* * * *
At the Druids’ Annual Gathering on Melbourne
Exhibition Oval, Saturday afternoon, Major Taylor won
the Druids’ Plate Half-mile by five lengths from Middle-
ton, in 57 l-ssec. Don Walker, who won his heat, and
the second semi-final with comparative ease, was badly
beaten in the final, being only fourth. The Five Mile
scratch brought him better luck, and he finished first in
llmin. 33 4-ssec., with Pye and M'Donald second and
third. The slaughter among the Sydney Thousand pie-
biters should make things better for Walker and the rest
who are left going. They were looking forward to a good
time at Adelaide, but the S.A. body foolishly abandoned
its meeting when it heard that “Handicap King”
MacFarland had been wiped out; which was a mistake.
Taylor was available, and would have drawn even better
than Mac.
* * * *
Died, last week, A. J. Body, aged 31, for many
seasons a prominent scratch rider, and one of the best
handicap riders in Australia. Body threw the wheel
aside a couple of years since to persevere in an idea to
invent a torpedo, and on his way back from the second
trip to the Gold Country contracted the disease which
killed him. As an unlucky rider he took the palm.
Besides scooping in several minor races, his best per-
formances were second in 10 miles championship (which
many swear Body won) and second in the ’97 Austral
Wheel Race.
* * * #
If it be true that Sandow’s health has broken
down—what joy for the flabby-dabby citizens whose prin-
cipal muscular exercises are movements of the hands
towards the mouth 1 They will point a fat, yellow fore-
finger atSandow, the “ shocking result of physical culture
carried to excess,” and complacently refer to themselves
as shining examples of moderation in all things.
* * * • *
Broken Hill, which a few months ago could
hardly raise enough water to mix with its whisky, has
had a two-days “ swimming carnival,” with Read (prof,
champion of Australia) and Moon (S. Australian champion)
among the competitors. Read, of course, had things his
own way. A feature of the show was the swimming of
Woodman, a local one-legged competitor. The municipal
council owns and runs the baths, right in the middle of
the town, hut has not been able to make them pay
expenses so far.
♦ * * *
Champion Dick Cavill’s recuperating trip to
M.L. evidently set him up completely, for at Auckland,
Friday last, he won Northern Amateur 220 yards cham-
pionship in 2min. 29sec. —easily the Australasian best,
and only 2-ssec. slower than Australian Lane’s record
accomplished at Weston-super-Mare (England), August 1,
two years ago.
* * * *
Brisbane ped. handicap promoters recently
(with sanction of A.S.A.) tried amateur events, but are
not going further with them. The boss of one show vows
there were more “dead’uns” among the amateurs in a
single contest than he had seen in a dozen professional
races, and several of the starters would have joined Larry
Corbett, MacFarland and Co. had it been in his power to
act. Probably the amateurs were not half as bad as the
professionals, but they haven’t reduced crook running to
the science the pro. has, and they give themselves away.
* * * *
“0.C.” : Charley Lawrence is the last survivor
of the first All-England XI. (8., 24/3/’O4). William Caffyn
died a few years ago. He visited Australia twice, the
second time with George Parr’s XI. in 1864. He then
decided to remain, and was assisted into business as a
hairdresser at 19 Hunter-street, Sydney, four doors from
Dan Tierney’s Currency Lass, and within two doors of
taxidermist Palmer, the father-in-law of the notorious
Bertrand, murderer of Kinder, the City Bank teller.
Charley Lawrence, the sole survivor of the first English
XI., is resident in Melbourne, where he is employed in
coaching junior clubs. For many years he was clerking
on the railways at Newcastle (N.S.W.), for which he
enjoys a pension of £Bl 10s. per annum. He is now 75
years of age.
* * * *
More bowling feats that want some catching
up to. Playing in a match near Roma (Q.) recently,
one Timbury gathered 9 wickets for no runs, and
meanwhile did the hat trick. Opposing side got 7
runs—4 off the bat and 3 sundries. Wicket was of the
ordinary mud variety, without matting. At Wellington
(M.L.) a week or two since, Ernest Judd (aged 16) scat-
tered wickets with five successive balls —all on the leg
side.
» * » *
Bantams Toohey and Condon recently fought
20 rounds at Charters Towers for championship. Scrap
drew £l4O house. Owing to the men whispering, and to
their general conduct in the last round, the referee
declared the go a draw. The general aspect of recent
North Queensland scraps has been unsatisfactory, and a
real good “ fighting” town is growing tired of pugs.
* * * *
Much boomed alleged welter weight champion
Blackmore went under a second time in succession
at Sydney National Sporting Club, last week.
On this occasion it was to T. Nelson. It was a
thrillful fight. Blackmore hooked with both hands
as usual, but never landed on a vital spot, and many of
his blows never landed at all, owing to Nelson’s pretty
footwork, while the fellow who is called after Horatio did
considerable damage with straight lefts and occasional
swings and crosses.
* * * *
J. Smith (fine, non-committal name) and
“ Spider ” Kelly put up a rather stubborn fight, at Sydney
Gaiety Athletic Hall, Saturday night. “Spider” was in
difficulties early in the scrap, and Smith was rushing him
in a ruthless manner when “Spider” swung one on the
jaw, and Smith subsided. He heaved himself up by a
jagged sort of motion and floundered around till the gong
gave him respite. After that, he was not quite so keen
on the attack ; he still bored in gamely, but with a
courage tempered with discretion. “Spider” hit out
straight and methodically, but Smith’s superior skill began
to tell. Then, impatience getting hold of him, he relaxed
his caution, and caught a heavy right jab under the ribs
that laid him out again. That time the gong sounded
before he was counted out, and he came up smiling.
The ninth round saw things mixed beautifully, when sud-
denly, out of the whirl of blows, a heavy rig'ht fell on
Smith’s jaw, and while he lay on the floor his seconds
solemnly dropped certain drapery in the ring, and left
Spider panting but victorious.* *
Loch Ryan, the man from Forbes (who tried to
catch a few unconsidered gleams of reflected glory by
calling himself Otto Cnpps which is something like
Otto Cribb), struck a black snag in the shape of
negro Walcott, at Sydney Golden Gate, Saturday.
The superior weight and capacity for punishment
stood to the negro, and the white man was laid out
four times before a stinging upper-cut outed him alto-
gether. It was a savage go, and the white man could
make no effective impression on either the ribs or head of
his woolly opponent. # # *
, * , ... ~ w ,,
Crack Yankee welter-weight pug., Al. Neill,
came to Sydney by the last ’Frisco boat looking for the
scalps of Australia’s 10.8 men. Neill is a very likely-look-
ing bruiser, with a physique apparently capable of any-
thing athletic and a record that places him close to the
top-notch plane. On one occasion he knocked out four
men—Australian Tom Tracey, Thurston, “ mysterious ”
Billy Smith, and ex-American champion middleweight
Rube Ferns—in five weeks. The outlook for Australian
welters is blue.
* * . * . *.
S.A. lawn-tennis championships provided some
surprises this year. Bowen, local leader for years past, is
out of health. Dr. Harbison and Parker (M.L. champion)
easily put down all opposition, including Saxon and R.
Heath (Victoria). When they met in the final there was a
fine tussle. Harbison is about 6ft. 3in., Parker about sft.
sin.; but the little man’s round-arm top-spin swishing
strokes finally disconcerted the doctor. The two together
seemed to have a good thing on in the Doubles, but Heath
and Saxon (who were beaten by both S.A. pairs in the inter-
State), played the final as if inspired, and battled away, in
the presence of a wildly-excited crowd of over 2000, till at
nightfall the stewards stepped in and stopped play.
Score—two sets all, seven games all. When it was
re-played, Parker was quite out of form, and the “boys”
(who are probably some 27 years younger than their
rivals) scored a popular win. All ladies’ championships
were, as usual, divided between S.A. pair, Miss Payn and
Miss Parr, who volley and “ smash ” in an effective mascu-
line way that puts all opponents to confusion,
* * * *
Sunder Singh, a wiry Indian wrestler, described
as “ late of Australia,” met George Riordan, a miner, for
“ the middleweight championship ” at Greymouth (M.L.)
recently, and the initial go was a pretty tough one,
Riordan securing the first fall after an hour-and-a-halfs
manoeuvring. This pretty well burst the colored man
who was outed in Smin on the second trial.
* * * *
Recent Australasian swimming championships
demonstrated more than any previous gathering how
vastly superior New South Wales cracks are to those
0 f the rest of the Continent. Only two visitors to
make any sort of a show were the Queenslanders, Spring-
field and Gailey ; first-named particularly. Explanation
is that swimming facilities and inducements are much
greater in Sydney than elsewhere this side of the line,
and further, Sydney swimmers have always had set them
through the Cavill family (from “ Ernie ” to Percy, then
“ Turns,” “Sid,” and last, “ Dick ”), a high standard, and
the spirit of emulation has done the rest. Twenty years
ago Victoria owned the best swimmers of the day, and some
of them were little inferior to the fore-fronters of the
present time, but they dropped out, and the game fell off
till swimming was almost unheard of ; latterly, however,
it brightened up a lot, but not yet to the extent
of developing any man even the equal of the best in
Queensland or Maoriland, although there is more
swimming in Victoria than anywhere else outside N.S.W.
Likely that Dick Cavill, now on a visit to M.L., may stay
there if he can get a fair billet, in which case swimming
t’other side of the Tasman Sea will probably improve.
* * * *
Dr. Roth is dead against his Queensland abo-
riginals being encouraged to take part in any publi*
athletic competitions whatsoever. The professional pede-
strian turns out a loafer ; “the racing men (black) will
not work.” Evidently Warrigal is built on much the
same lines as his white brother,
A New Woman
Disease. makes many a woman prematurely
old. Dark-rimmed eyes, hollow cheeks, and
wasted form are accompanied by listlessness and
loss of ambition. Some duties are a weariness,
and social pleasures have no attraction. One of
the commonest expressions of women cured by
<0?
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills is this, “ They have
made a new woman of
me.” There’s a world of
meaning in the words. It
means the sparkle brought
back to the eye; the com-
plexion tinted with the
rosy hue of healthy blood ;
the form rounded out
anew in graceful curves;
the whole body radiant
with health. No better
testimony as to the value
of this remedy could be
offered than that of Mrs.
S. C. Funnell, Waiowaka,
Wellington, New Zealand,
who writes:—
“I think it is about time I let you know the
benefit I have received from Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. My back was that bad if I tried to
sit up straight it felt as if it would break. I
also suffered with sick headaches since I was
twelve years of age; I am now twenty-five.
There was scarcely a day but what I had a head-
ache more or less, till about two years ago I tried
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, after trying many
other patent remedies. After taking about two
bottles of the pills I felt better, and after taking
six bottles I felt better than I had done for years.
I have not had a bad back since. When I happen
to get a headache —which is not very often —a dose
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills sets it all right.
My husband says they are the. best pills he has
ever used.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills make weak
women strong and sick women well. They dry
debilitating drains, heal inflammation, and cure
female weakness. They make new women of
those prematurely aged by disease. They are a
positive and permanent cure for all diseases arising
from a disordered stomach or liver, and they will
permanently cure constipation, biliousness, and
sick headache, at the same time acting as a perfect
blood purifier. Packed in amber bottles and sold
throughout Australasia.*
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL.
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
IS St. Dunstan’s Hill,
London, E.C., England.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


Continental Caoutchouc & Guttapercha Co.
HCA.TXTOVER.
MAKERS OF
Wallace Continental Bicycle Tyres,
Wallace Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
AND
The Celebrated Continental Motor Tyres
(Winners of Gordon Bennett Oup, 1903).
Total Yearly Output—over 600,000 Tyres.
DEPOT AT—
WALLACE PNEUMATIC TYRE COY.,
274 FLINDERS ST., ITELBOURNE.
Branches in all States.
t
*6
II
DIABETIC
Patients will hear of
something- to their ad-
vantage by writing to
the Diabetic lnstitute f
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY.
You can save Repair Bills
by buying a
RED BIRD bicycle
The^TAII-Red^Wheel
Branches Everywhere
in Australasia.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ALTHAM WATCHES
The American Waltham Watch Company, Waltham,
Mass., U. S. A., is the largest watch manufacturing
concern in the world. The buildings have a frontage
of 769 feet, with numerous wings which, if placed end
to end, would extend 2,827 feet, or more than half a
mile. The floor space is about six acres. The daily
product of this factory is 2,7oofinished watch movements.
Nearly twelve million Waltham Watches are now
in use.
All Waltham Watches are guaranteed.
One possible reason why China hesitates
to attack Russia, and thus give the Japanese a
valuable lift, is the ill-timed British invasion of the
tributary Chinese territory of Thibet. Britain is
the friend of Japan, and the opponent of Russia,
and Britain’s moral influence is supposed to go
towards maintaining the integrity of the Chinese
Empire and resisting Russian aggression. But
when a peaceful British embassy, with 3000 men,
and considerable cannon, is pressing into Chinese
territory over the dead bodies of 750 Thi-
betans, the pig-tailed brother probably thinks
that it will be another event like the British occu-
pation of Egypt or the Russian occupation of
Manchuria. This may make him feel doubtful
about the disinterestedness of Japan’s ally, and
consequently of J apan itself : also when the friend'
who morally supports him against Russia thus
bites him m the rear it distracts his attention a
little from the enemy in front.
DON’T GET THE GLOOMS !
If you ever get “ On the Tank ” and need a
Mental Bracer read
“MORE EX-TANK TALES”
(First published in the New York Sun).
Orisp, Inimitable, American. Make a Corpse Laugh.
Tells the funny side of the booze business.
Pr i Ce ,, 3 . S ; 6 e' ? ost paitl ‘ Ameri can Book Agency, Box 457,
G.I .0., Sydney, or Dymock’s Book Arcade, Sydney.
1 ‘ Boko ’’: Malcolm McEacharn’s supporters
have a pleasing fiction among themselves that the
gaud Mayor is a “fighter.” From what I’ve seen
of McEacharn, I have doubts. In and after the
riotous meeting at the Masonic Hall he was a calm,
composed man surrounded by a body-guard of
police, but if I had 24 policemen round me I’d tell
even Bent what I think of him.
Q
"POR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
vu ONECOFFp; p\I, A CE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is Ellis King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Port
omce - Proprietor—GEO. W, ELLIS.
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
U
E
E
N
S
T
NO.
“CHECK.”
Dept. 1.
If the bargain is not satisfactory, return the clothes within ten days and
you shall have your money. If they do not wear well I shall be glad to pay
for the loss at any time. J
, , The P l- i ce is the same to everybody, and as low as it is possible to sell such
clothing for ; and the quality is as represented.
This Check identifies the transaction—keep it! Besides, I ask as a favor
that you inform me of any cause for dissatisfaction of any sort.
I am doing my best to make a perfect store, perfect salesmen and a perfect
merchant. Help me by pointing out my shortcomings.
CHARLES GILBERT.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
The above signed guarantee is given with every suit leaving my store and
speaks for itself. ’
SUITS TO MEASURE \
Hand-finished - - /
60s. to 85s.
355. *o 50s
“ECONOMIC” SUITS \
to measure - - - - j
Write for Samples of New Season’s Suitings and self-measurement forms.
You see you run no risk.
B
R
I
S
B
IA
N
E
lUE
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
m By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/« nett. •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, MelbournSa
(Greener’s Representative).
WILLIAMS’
1 SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR.
tfSTEvery Bar
weighs 17
Ilonest English
Ounces, divided
into Six Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN
SLICES. 232
Clarence St.,
Sydney. Elliott
Bros. Ltd, Bris-
bane, sole ag’nts
for Queensland.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
Argus, before the Melbourne election :
The very thought that the election for the greatest city
constituency in Australia may turn upon the votes of
paupers and Magdalens should rouse the electors to an
effort in favor of decent government which will leave the
contest in no doubt.
And then the “Magdalen” Vote went to
M‘Eacharn_and the “pauper” vote was about
equally divided, and the aroused electors voted
for decent government and put in Maloney, and
the contest wasn’t left in any doubt.
Since long Bill Lyne rent Sydney Tele-
graph asunder, like Samson splitting the
lion, by reprinting samples from its old leaders
(written when he still had billets to give
away) to the effect that his career as State
Premier of N.S.W. had been a marvel of
honest and brilliant statesmanship, there has
been a great silence. It is quite a week now
since the D.T. implied that long Bill was
a callous and bowelless political miscreant, whose
public career was a blot on the landscape and
a carnival of debauchery such as was calculated to
make a gorilla feel ashamed —or any trifle like that.
A quaint item from Melbourne Arghs :
The annual meeting of the Charity Organisation Society
of Melbourne .was held at the Town Hall yesterday after-
noon. His Excellency the State Governor, Sir George
Sydenham Clarke, presided, and there was a fair
attendance of subscribers. Mr. J. A. Levey read a letter
from Lord Hopetoun thanking the society for the
assistance always given to him.
It was certainly understood that Hopetoun left
because the salary was insufficient, but very few
people imagined he was so hard up as this.
According to cabled information, the pay
of Chinese miners on the Rand is to be 255. a
month, _or they may take piecework on terms
which, it is said, will enable them to make 50s. a
month. As a special inducement to work on
Sundays they are to be paid overtime for breaking
the Lord’s Day. It is to be hoped that the crowd
of preachers who are so strongly anti-British and
pro-Chow will keep an eye on this pious clause in
the agreement. The Jew capitalist and his
Sabbath-breaking Chinaman are the special pets
of the average degenerate “Christian” pastor,
and they make a worthy trio.
DUNLOP
m
H
H 1 -|
Filled to a
Cycle, ensure
Comfort. Ease of
Propulsion and
Durability.
the Dunlop pneumatic tyre c<? of aumtd
2c d 6 -. 5YDN£Y - ADELAIDE. BRISBANE
Perth chch n.z.
V.S.W. House:
150 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
RUBBER HEEL 5
FVevcnt jarrinftg, make
walking a pleasure..
Obtainable all Boot
all Sizes.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE 0>0f AU5.LTD.
MElB. SYDNEY ADELAIDE.BRISBANE
PERTH. CHRISTCHURCH N Z.


ONE WORD ONLY.
If you stop and think a minute, you will realise how impossible
it is to depend upon certain words in the English language. There
are some words which have been used so promiscuously that they
have lost all significance. .
Take our English word “GlRL”—it means a female child
anywhere between 3 and 21 years of age; but, nowadays, we call
them all “girls” up to 100. When the baby’s sex is asked, we say “IT
Is a girl,” and, when you engage a 65 year old cook, she is still “a
girl.” • ••••••«
Go into a Restaurant and ask for lamb, and you will probably
get a two-year-old sheep—ask for chicken, and you are sure of
getting hen.
If you are a smoker, you will have found out by now, that
according to the Tobacconist, everything is “THE BEST,”
“COOLEST SMOKING,” “SWEETEST,” and a few other super-
latives in common use. The fact is, that you cannot, in the
least, depend on adjectives when tobacco is up for discussion;
but use one word only
“HAVELOCK”
and you have solved the problem. You will be handed a Tobacco
that needs no adjectives, no bolstering up, and no other evidence than
your own taste and observation. . . . . «
EVERYBODY SMOKES “HAVELOCK”
because it just SUITS everybody, and that’s all there is to it.
Plug and Cut.
Aromatic and Dark,
lom Mann lately wrote to an English
cleric, stating that he wanted to capture the
Ciiurch for the Labor party. Ballarat Dean
Parkyn, in a recent Melbourne sermon, replied:
“ What this Church wanted was to capture the
Labor movement for itself.’’ Now, which is to be
the fisherman and which the fish ? The Bul-
letin’s theory is, that the present Church won’t
capture the Labor party, because it is too
slow to capture anything faster than a cater-
pillar ; and that if the Labor party captures the
existing Church it will immediately drop its prize
with a shudder.
Statement by Mr. (in-
terviewed by the Brisbane Courier), a director of
the Proserpine Central Mill, 90 miles north of
Mackay (Q.): —
All last year’s cane from the farms of the shareholders
in the mill was cut with white labor, and of the total
cut of about 30,000 tons, two-thirds was by white labor.
No difficulty was experienced in getting plenty of white
labor, and the men on the whole worked very well.
The climate didn’t affect the men at all either in cutting
or stripping. Wages-men earned 30/- to 35/- a week and
their keep. Contract-men as much as 10/- to 12/- a day—
providing their own food. The cane was mostly cut by
men from outside the district, and more offered than
were required. The class of men was very good. Some
of them got drunk, but there was no difficulty in filling
their places. White men on an average crop cut four
tons a day of 10 hours. Kanakas cut about one ton per
day. The white man is a superior laborer.
Approach of the Victorian Upper House
elections recalls the expensive fight old George
Sirnmie, M.L.C:, put up against Joe Sternberg,
M.L.C., for the Northern Province, about 14
years ago. Shortly after his victory a friend
called at Simmie’s station, just as the shearing
was finished in one of the best years the run had
known. “Splendid clip you’ve had this year,”
the visitor said, eyeing the bales. “Yes ! ” spoke
the old man; “ but it will take a few more like it
to clear my election expenses.” The contest was
reckoned to have cost the victor over £12,000;
while Joe Sternberg is reported to have dropped
£6OOO. Sternberg got a seat in a walk-over
shortly after. Sirnmie has been ailing for a long
time now, but he will probably make a great
effort to retain a seat in the new reduced Upper
House. He has £12,000 invested in that seat,
and it is an awfu’ lot o’ siller to drop.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Sixty-one members of the British House
of Commons are already pledged to support an
Alien Immigration Restriction Law for the
British Isles, and it is believed that very many
more will be on the same side. It is almost cer-
tain that, within a very few years, Six Hatters
will have a much worse time at Liverpool or
London than they had at Sydney. Apparently,
Britain isn’t shocked at the Commonwealth legis-
lation on this subject, as people like Jack Want
and Hugh Nelson profess. Rather it seems
inclined to imitate Australia.
BETTER THAN PILLS.
You will never wish to take another dose of pills
after having once used CHAMBERLAIN’S
STOMACH AND LIVER TABLETS. They
are easier to take, more mild and gentle in their
action, and more reliable, as they are always to
be depended upon.*
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Price, 6d. ; Posted., Bd.
Visitors to the Old Cotmtry
*OVAL P,,
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUT// KENS/NGTOU,
JLO/VDON.S.IV.
3
L
THE NEW LOUNGE : ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
Self-c out aiued suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has solved the problem of how to LIVE LIKE A LORD on a SMALL INCOME.
This is how it is done—
First Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR, WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE —Thus they
will only be charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER from Is. per meal.
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
I TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
| room on arrival, and Moals as they are had.
Engage Rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
w
\
A Gold or Silver Watch Free!
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to
give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE :
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
D**T. M**S T**S C****E
and addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have
won the Watch. We are making
this offer solely with the object of introducing and advertising our
goods. Forward your letter to our address [or Box SCS G.P.O.]
GOLDSMITHS* COLONIAL CO., PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Two On
Suit /
in the tU
World.)
To Mr asr . j/
ca
Write for Pdflef n$ £,
Self-Measure,
forms,
Post
free
Lincoln, vStuart6o>wi-
-6 rielb.
Acetylene
Gas
TABLE LAMPS.
OUR ADVANCE M
-entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
ACETYLENE GAS
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Large Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO.
161 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
■JJUSHMAN
and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.


At the meeting of (he Victorian Associa-
tion for the Prevention and Cure of Tuberculosis,
held in Melbourne lately, it was stated that
318 deaths had occurred from miners’ disease in
20 years at the one little town of Eaglehawk,
which is part of the Bendigo goldfield. Since
1898, 85 miners had died from this cause, and at
the present time there were 49 men on the books
of the_ Miners’ Association suffering from the
complaint. In addition to these a large number
of miners on becoming affected gave up their
situations and left the district, and so were lost
sight of. The figures are in shocking contrast to
those of America, where preventive measures
and proper ventilation, and such like restrictions
on the liberty of the subject and socialistic inter-
ferences with private enterprise, are enforced by
law.
* * « *
One of the N.S.W. R.C. papers on the
subject of the birth-rate and prevention :
The Catholic Church is, of course, the only great safe-
guard and the greatest moral force in the community.
She protects her children from the cradle to the grave,
and no such practices can take place within her house-
hold. She and she alone has authority over her people ;
she directs the individual conscience through the con-
jessional.
Which assertion is directly contradicted by
figures, which show that the birth-rate among the
Australian R.C. population is not greater than
the average Australian rate. The R.C. church
is firmly Convinced that it is the same power as
of old, but the dry-rot of indifference is at its
foundations also. For instance, there is talk of
the Pope throwing an Interdict at France. The
Interdict was once a mighty power; even such
truculent, hard-fighting potentates as John of
England and Henry IV. of Germany and
Philip- Augustus of France realised that by
experience. But now it is merely an amiable
old gentleman throwing a piece of fluff at his
enemy, and Paris would doubtless pursue the
green devil of absinthe under an Interdict just the
same as it would under a verandah.
The birthrate, again ! At Cooktown (Q.)
recently a youth of 18 was proceeded against for
the maintenance of his three illegitimate children.
* * * *
A witness in a Melbourne court was re-
cently asked : “Do you know what an oath is?”
“Yes. If you tell a lie you are liable to be struck
dead any minute.” Which was strictly true. If
you tell a lie you are liable to fall down
dead; if you don’t tell one you are liable
to have your hat blow off. If you tell any-
thing you are liable to be bitten by a horse,
and if you keep dead silence you may be stung
by a bee. This world is an unlimited liability
concern. The writer once bought 60 preference
shares in the Commercial Bank of Australia at
£4 10s. a share, and less than half a minute after-
wards a painter dropped a pot on him from a
ladder. That clearly proved that if a man bu}'s
bank shares cheap he is liable to have pots fall on
him.. The doctrine of liability has never been
sufficiently investigated. It is a boundless
subject.
• • * *
“Marat”: I am waiting for an under-
taker to come forward and announce that in all
funerals conducted by him the hearse horses will
be galloped to the cemetery. When he does
arrive, he can forward me 1000 of his business
cards, which I shall distribute gratis. Why make
the affair more monotonous by crawling along at
a mile an hour while the whole cortege is stewing
in mourning coach and hansom, and cursing the
deceased for living so far from the cemetery ? I
attended a funeral the other day. I hired a cab
coming home, and told the son of Nimshi to drive
like Sheol to my solicitor’s office, where I added a
codicil to my will giving instructions as to my
interment. I wish to be taken to the nearest
cemetery behind four grey horses, and if the
driver doesn’t get there inside ten minutes it shall
be declared no race, and the stakes shall not be
paid over, and all bets shall be off. And any
mourner who doesn’t keep up with the procession
shall forfeit his legacy.
After the yellow men begin to arrive at
Jewhannesburg the region thereabouts will be
known as Chowth Africa.
T
G
HI nrjy t* biliousness
ULUI.II ... CONSTIP4
»' INDICESTION.
' 16 BOX.
A Purely Vegetable Compound.
CONTAINS NO MINERAL.
SIMPLY EATEN AS A CONFECTION.
Two Tablets a Dose, taken first thinsr in the
Morning-, will make you Bright all day.
Obtained all Chemists. Distributing Agents—
Fau!ding & Co., O’Connell St., Sydney
Do Yoc Want a New Suit ?
For £2 we will forward Post Feee to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Heady-Made
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and I unshed, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Price List of other goods on application.
Address:—
T. C. BEIRIME & CO.,
Valley, Brislbane,
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
Free to Men.
%A/ItITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
* " book, which w ill show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The hook is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will he filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Moms. Arm and Gouraud, 82 Little Fli inters St., Melbourne.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0., or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, Brieffach, Germany.
18Z1
1872
m
Sf
1878
1877
film
3
1888
1881
3
1885 s
188?
1885
1886
1887
THIRTY-FOUR YEARS SELLING RELIABLE
WATCHES.
msm
m
This shows a really dainty little watch, popularly
known as the “Princess.” Although we sell many of
these every year, we seldom have a complaint reach
us, and this should be a good guarantee that it is a
reliable article. We make with silver or gold engraved
cases in open face and full hunting. The movement
is keyless and properly jewelled. 18et. Gold Hunter,
£5 10/-. 18ct. Gold Open Face, £5 10/-. Silver
Hunter, £2 10/-. Silver Open Face, £2.
/
This is a modern Lever Watch, with finely finished
gilt movement, exposed polished steel winding wheels,
strong keyless mechanism, jewelled in 14 actions, and
guaranteed to be a correct timekeeper. We supply
this watch in four styles—Crystal Front, Polished
Steel Case, 25/- ; Hunting Polished Steel Cases, SO/--
Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case, 35/- ; Hunting Solid’
Silver Cases, 4-0/-.
READ :THIS
LITTLE BIT OF
OUR -HISTORY.
iN the year eighteen-seventy-one we occu-
pied a small store in Park Road, Liver-
pool, England, where we sold a watch
now and again, but not nearly so often as
we would have liked nor as often as we con-
sidered such reliable watches should be sold.
Wo were confident that our watches were as
good as could be got—the trouble was how
to get the public to know. We pondered
over this subject day and night and finally
concluded that we would try what the news-
papers con’d do for us. Such a thing as
selling watches through advertisements had
never been done in England before, still we
were convinced that once the general public
knew that our watches were what we said
they Avere —Reliable—we must succeed.
You know liow it is with a man who has a
dependable watch—he is proud of it and
loves to speak of its accuracy, and naturally
the firm who supplied the watch comes in for
a full share of the credit. Well—we put
our everything into the venture. How we
succeeded our eight splendid Australasian
stores give testimony. Orders flowed in
from all over the World, particularly from
Australia and New Zealand. In fact, so
numerous were the orders that we decided
to open in Sydney. Our success was
phenomenal, and in Melbourne, Auckland,
and Dunedin we had to open shops, followed
later by Perth, Wellington, Christchurch,
and Brisbane, each being a success. What 1
better proof of the satisfactory performance <
of our watches do you Avant ? <
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Cased Watch,
suitable for young ladies. It has a reliable jewelled
movement—exquisitively engraved solid 14ct. gold
cases—strong keyless work, and altogether is a sound
and serviceable watch. It is possible to sell a gold
watch at a lower price, but as the time-keeping and
construction is not such as would give lasting satis-
faction to our customers, we do not stock them.
Price, £4 10s.
/
S'
M
30
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths, is
rightly named the “ Triumph,’’inasmuch as, although
sold by us at such a low price, it is a gigantic
“Triumph” in quality over any other low-priced watch
already in the market. It has a very fine-finished, J
full-jewelled keyless short-winding movement, and
the case is made of a very hard nickel, beautifully
polished, fitted with unbreakable crystal glass. Price
18/6. With Silver Case, 30/-.
Our Watch Booklet,
48 Pages, entitled
“Honest Watches,”
will be sent Free
on request.
We sell all Kinds
of Watches in Gold,
Silver and Metal
Cases —except the
Unreliable Kind.
they had not been Reliable we could not have existed.
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895
1896
1897
189?
m
BOO]
1901
190?
1903
1904
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious'that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
The London Medical Record
says “It is retained when all
other foods are rejected."
The British Medical Journal
says “ Benger's Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


February returns for the principal W.A. mines :
Fine Gold—Golden Horseshoe, 14,3100 z. ; Perseverance,
14,2880 z. ; Great Boulder, 12,9890 z. ; Oroya-Brown Hill,
12,4070 z. ; Great Fingall, 10,9030 z. ; Ivanhoe, 10,0850 z. ;
Associated, 62110 z. ; Sons of Gwalia, 51950 z. ; L.V. Con-
sols, 42060 z. ; Cosmopolitan, 30330 z. ; White Feather,
M.R., 1020 oz. ; Golden Link, 9770 z. ; East Murchison Ud.,
17320 z. ; B.M. Reef, 9450 z. ; Associated Northern, 23530 z.;
Bellevue, 888 oz. ; Hannan’s Star, 858 oz. ; Golden Age,
6920 z. Lancefield, 6580 z. ; North Kalgurli, 5890 z. Stand-
ard Gold —-Kalgurli, 42600 z. ; Hainault, 11260 z. Bullion—
Mt. Morgans 45030 z., Princess Royal 20300 z., South
Kalgurli 28390 z., Ida H. 11850 z., Golden Ridge 8610 z.,
Menzies Consols 7620 z., Champion Prop. 7430 z., Cumber-
land Niagara 7470 z., Yando 7750 z., Greenmount 6250 z.,
Hannan’s Reward 5030 z., Golden Arrow 3650 z. Although
Govt, has specially requested that all returns be computed
in fine gold, a good many managers, as will be seen, con-
tinue to entirely ignore the request.
* * * *
The divs. declared by W.A. mines during
March total £130,265, against £160,110 for March, 1903.
The mines responsible are :—Great Boulder, £65,625 ;
Oroya-Brown Hill, £56,250 ; Princess Royal, £4OOO ; W.F.
Main Reefs, £4OOO ; Golden Ridge, £390. For the first
quarter of the year divs. tot up £407,304, against
£326,630 last year, an advance of £80,674.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), looks like
coming to the end of its tether. The mine is all right
down to 8 level, but the two bottom levels are poor, and,
unless the reef improves at depth, the life of the mine is
limited. Five months ago the ore reserves were estimated
at 90,000 tons, since when the mill has been eating
them up at the rate of 8000 tons a month ; and
very little fresh pay ore has been discovered.
February’s gold return was only 30330 z., against 46610 z.
for January, a falling off of 1600 oz. Comparisons with
previous months can’t be fairly made, as returns were
formerly published in bullion. The 50-head mill was
erected too soon, and the big influx of water, by stopping
all developments for a long time, and the unexpected im-
poverishment of the reef in the lower levels, have added
to the difficulties. It was thought that the Altona reef
would come to the rescue, but, though it is being worked
by nearly 100 tributors, it is too small and irregular to
make up the deficiency. The quartz reefs of W.A. have a
nasty habit of suddenly petering out, or losing their gold,
which comes to much the same thing.
* * * *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), in spite of
the low assays published from 10 level, is probably quite
as good there as higher up. The lode averages 13ft.
wide, and sometimes the footwall and sometimes the
hanging-wall is driven on, and often the driving is in the
poorest part. At Bellevue the assays for months never
read higher than 4 to 5 dwt., while the mill regularly
treated 2000 tons of 15dwt. ore monthly. If the assays
were a correct test, where did the milling ore come from?
It looks as though the same thing were happening here.
Eighty head of stamps are now running, and the full
100 are expected to be going very soon —there have been
the usual transit delays. When completed the mill should
treat from 15,000 to 16,000 tons monthly; but, as the ore
will run under loz., it remains to be seen whether the co.
will head the list of producers or not. The div. of 7s.
is the highest so far declared, and means a distribution
of £87,500. The sinking of the main shaft, which was sus-
pended for some time, was resumed on March 1, and will
have to be kept going constantly, as the enlarged mill will
deplete 100 ft. in four months, or, with the low grade chute
thrown in, andan all-round average of about 15d wt., in eight
months. It is interesting to note that the working costs,
exclusive of development, upkeep and London expenses,
are only 14s. a ton, which would be highly creditable
were it not that it has been brought about by the whole-
sale introduction of Dagoes to supplant the Britisher.
* * * *
Golden Arrow, Broad Arrow (W.A.), share-
holders appear to be magnetised by chairman C. E. Hogg.
At a recent meeting Hogg’s proposal of a fourth recon-
struction withls. assessment was duly carried, and the old
company is to be woundup voluntarily. Hogg told share-
holders that he held 40,000 shares, and would have to pay
up £2OOO as his share of the swag, but he didn’t tell them
that he would get most of it back in director’s fees. Since
1895, about £120,000 of Bull’s money has gone in one way
or another, and the deepest shaft is 725 ft. The reef is
what the chairman calls very “ intricate,” ranging in
width from 9in. to 12ft., and in value from 3dwt. to
2oz. I7dwt. The last reconstruction took place exactly
two years ago, since when £13,000 has been fruitlessly
spent. So far, the mine has produced 18,2410 z. of gold,
worth £70,684, from 28,549 tons ; and all this money has
likewise disappeared ; so that, in round figures, the direc-
tors have received £200,000 and paid nothing. The mine
is totally unsuitable for a highly-capitalised co., but
might be worked to advantage by a small party of work-
ing miners. This will eventually he its fate when Bull is
tired of putting his hand into his capacious pocket.
* * * *
The W.A. quidnuncs, who persisted that the
continuation of the rich Oroya chute twisted round to
west, and would he found in the Kalgurli, have quite
changed their tune. As the underlay of a lode must
follow its outcrop, and the latter takes a tremendous
twist to the east through the North Boulder and Bank of
England, as frequently pointed out in The Bulletin, it
naturally follows that the lode at a depth must take the
same direction. Three diamond drill bores from the 9
level of the Oroya have, so far, failed to locate the con-
tinuation of the chute in the Associated, because they
were looking for it to the west, when, if it is anywhere, it
must be to the east. It seems pretty certain that the
continuation of the rich chute will sooner or later be
located ; of the continuation of the lode itself there is no
doubt whatever. The cross lode discovered at the 1300 ft.
level of the Associated is to be thoroughly prospected,
and developments generally are still being eagerly pushed
ahead. The chances are that before long Bewick, Moreing
and Go. will take over active control of the mine. When
that happens the continuation of the Oroya chute will
probably be located promptly.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe, Kalgoorlie, is now in charge
of W. Loring, who put Sons of Gwalia fairly on its feet,
when it had been run to a standstill. There has been a
clearing-out already; for Loring runs no deadheads.
Bewick, Moreing & Co. guarantee to reduce costs 10s. per
ton. In guaranteeing this they have the softest snap
anyone probably ever had. Last year’s costs, exclusive of
London exes., totted up 68s. All B.M. & Co. have to
do is to give short instead of long tons, and costs fall 10
per cent., or 7s. right away 1 By fixing up the boilers
properly they can reduce the number to half, and thereby
reduce water consumption and fuel by 50 per cent., and,
without effecting any other economy, the costs will be
reduced much below the 10s. guaranteed. Then the 50-
head of stamps will further help things, and B.M. and Co.
will get more kudos.
* * ~ * *
Ralph Nichols has cabled out denying that he
is leaving the Perseverance (W.A.) ; but, as the control
of the mine has passed into the hands of Albert Reitlin-
ger, who has just handed over the Horseshoe to Bewick,
Moreing and Co., it is pretty safe to say that the Perse-
verance, South Kalgurli, and Boulder Deep Levels will
shortly be in the Moreing stable. Giving one firm supreme
control of the State’s mines is good for shareholders, but
not for the country, as B.M. and Co. import all stores,
explosives, “spares,” &c., and don’t encourage local in-
dustry.
* * * *
The Carlisle, at Bendigo, has a record which
ought to make the Jewhannesburg mining men who are.
crying for cheap Chow labor ashamed of themselves.
Working for the past 10 years at the great depth of from
2000 and 2500 ft., it has rarely got more than sdwt. per ton
(equal to about 19s. 6d.), yet it has not only paid all ex-
penses, added machinery, and done a very considerable
amount of prospecting, but has also paid £36,000 in divi-
dends, equal to £1 per-share.
Some remarks by Judge Gaunt, at St. Arnaud
(Vic.), caused the legal profession to sit up and rub its
eves hard. The St. Arnaud Tailings Co. went into liqui-
dation. The assets were £l6B, and the liabilities were £B2l.
A. S. Bloomfield was appointed liquidator, and he called
in solicitor D. E. Brayshay to assist him. When the
matter came before Gaunt he found that the total
expenses amounted to £155 145., the solicitor’s bill being
£7S, leaving a balance of £l2 6s. to be distributed among
the preferential claimants. Judge Gaunt said he saw no
reason why the liquidator had called in a solicitor, and
be made a memorandum that the whole business was a
public scandal. The making of the memorandum seemed
to rouse him up for further efforts, and he went on to say
“ that the bill of cost was a tremendous one, that the
creditors must be protected by the court, and that it was
monstrous that the whole of the assets should be mopped
up by the liquidator and solicitor.” Then he refused the
order for distribution.
* * * *
Bendigo mining is in a bit of a flutter, but share
dealing is dull, though local ink-slingers say to the con-
trary. Melbourne does not turn over 500 Bendigo shares
a day. So far as South New Moon and New Moon go, a
few odd tens complete the business. Melbourne brokers
would like to have a finger in the pie, but the public won’t
pay two corns. —one to them and one to Bendigo brokers.
So they deal direct, and more power to them. Rich
stone in Sea is the best strike of the field for some time.
But it is at only 624 ft. At 1644 the country is unsettled.
Still the strike is important, as it will result in the open-
ing up of a lot of the higher ground neglected for years.
United Devonshire prospects are also more encouraging.
When divs. come, as Bendigonians believe in their mines,
a lot of useful prospecting is assured. What luck it is
for Victoria to have such a field 1 Without it mining
there would be dead’
* * * *
Mayne’s (Tas.), reported to bave got on to a
seam of tourmaline, would be far better if it struck a
decent stream of tin, and showed that shares deserved
present value.
* * * *
Tanks at Spring Hill Leads, Smeaton (Vic.), are
helping pumps, and so water is being reduced. But it
will be a stiff and long job to drain the mine.
* * * *
After all, Great Southern No. 1, Rutherglen
(Vic.), seems to have had the All England lead. Life of
mine, therefore, appears to be two years, as the lead seems
to be going east into G. Northern Extd. Consols ground.
A narrow run of wash coming in at No. 9 shoot may help
a little, but that has to be proved.
* * * *
Campbell’s Creek, Castlemaine (Vic.), turned
the corner in February. The low cost at which bucket
dredging can be done in clayey country (the past half-
year’s run was 101,640 cubic yds. for 618J0z., with a profit
of £586, may inspire hope for Creswick dredges.
• * * »
Who is wrong over the latest development of
the Outtrim-Howitt (Vic.) coal-labor trouble? Jennings,
of the Coal Creek, says he is told that the strikers ask for
the co.’s unconditional surrender. The coal - miners’
officials say no. Jennings ought to give the name of his
informant, or to have kept out of print. Is it that any-
one is firing bullets for some of the Outtrim-Jumbunna
combine ? Winter is at hand, and more picks are needed
to increase supplies to consumers. Without them, and in
the face of Newcastle Brown’s opposition, the outlook for
Vic. coal-mining for some time ahead is as cold as the
hearts of some of the Fatman directors. If the strikers
want a straight tip, why don’t they tackle David Syme
and big Baillieu’s connection with the field ? King David
does not like criticism.
* * * *
After all, the Transit (Victoria) “corner” was
settled. Most people doubted if the case would get into
court. Claims made for shares undelivered were about
£2 each ; amount paid, about 10s. minus price (55.) at
which they were sold. So ends another lesson. Speckers
part up, while the “ corner ” kills the stock. Each.side
gets its deserts.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ It is better to lie a little,” drawls Yo San, sweetly, in
the “Darling of the Gods,” “than be unhappy much.”
And the Jap sentiment is accepted right heartily.
The Permans’ cheerful.panto.—“ Little Red, Hiding
Hood” —seems to be going the round of the States.
From Melbourne it went to Adelaide for three weeks,
then hack to Vie. before proceeding to Brisbane. Sydney
is to have it at the Palace Theatre by the 23rd, according
to present arrangements.
Thomas Kingston, who struck Australia hard as the
Federal officer in “ Secret Service,” fell on his feet on his
return to London, getting in almost at once with Lewis
Wallace and Mrs. Pat. Campbell. Critics speak of him as
a “most picturesque swaggerer” in a cloak-and-sword
part.
“Fairplay”: Last week’s Poverty Pointer re the
amateur “ Sunset ” co. was rather unjust to the one un-
mentioned member of the co. who acts under the stage
name of Harry Danby. Among amateur low-comedians
Danby is about the best that Melbourne has raised of late
years, and in the “ Sunset ” performance he shapes more
than fairly well.
The Australian Protectionist tariff is turning the poor
old S.M. Herald’s head. It had this notice the other
day:—
CUSTOMS SEIZURE
Four members of the new comedy company which Mr.
J. C. Williamson has engaged to tour Australia arrived
from London this morning by R.M.S. Orizaba. They com-
prise Wilfred Draycott, who has played in many successes
at leading London theatres ; Miss Florence Hamer, Mr.
F. Permain, and Miss Florence Le Olercq, niece of the
late celebrated actress, Carlotta Le Clercq.
That scene in the “ Flood Tide ” where Bland Holt is
mobbed on the racecourse and valiantly rescued from the
supers, by Baker was too realistic on one of the last
nights of the Melbourne season, and Baker was fined 40s.
and 655. 6d. costs for saving Bland with an energy which
the court held to be quite uncalled for.
J. E. Barron sends this comprehensive contradiction :
Will you permit me to correct a report which appeared
in Bulletin (10/3/’O4) regarding my brother-in-law, Signor
Nerli, which stated that he was a relative of Pope Pius X.,
and had gone to Rome to become a sort of official painter
at the Vatican, and that his painting of Robert Louis
Stevenson, which he executed in 1892 when on a visit to
Samoa, was sold for £4O. Nerli is not related to the
present pontiff, but to the late Pope Leo XIII., his father,
the late Marquis Nerli of Siena, being also Count Pieri-
Pecci. He has not gone to Rome with the intention
reported. Accompanied by his wife, he has gone to
Genoa, thence to Leghorn. Nerli has no need of the
Vatican appointment, his family being wealthy, and
moreover one of the oldest families of the Tuscan
nobility. The portrait which he painted of the late R. L.
Stevenson in 1892 was sold by Nerli for £lOO, the pur-
chaser afterwards disposing of it at a higher figure to the
Edinburgh gallery^
Well-written ai’t well-printed, the Theatre, a stage
annual just published, deserves to become a perennial.
Mr. F. J. Broomfield undertakes the editorial work, and
is responsible for an interesting review of the past
theatrical year.
“J.A.C.”: Your correspondent “T.D.,” referring to
Mrs. Sims Reeves (24/3/’O4), states that her late husband
was what “opera-goers nowadays would call a ‘stick.’”
I have frequently seen Sims Reeves in musical drama—
for instance, as Henry Bertram, in “Guy Mannering”;
Francis Osbaldistone, in “ Rob Roy ” ; and Tom Tug, in
the musical farce of the “ Waterman ” ; and I remember
him as one of the best actors on the lyric stage. By the
way, the only performer, male or female, who ever gave
anything approaching an imitation of Sims Reeves was
Mrs. Howard Paul. She not only “ made-up” in his very
image, but caught his actions, and succeeded in re-
producing his voice to a very great extent. Her own
was a deep contralto, which, in the lower register, closely
approached to tenor quality. Vernon Rigby, once a well-
known English tenor, used to try to copy Reeves, but
only succeeded in mimicking his mannerisms.
A pitiful example of what imprisonment
means to the prisoner’s family was seen the other
day in a Brisbane Police Court. A man who, in
a drunken fit, had assaulted a policeman was fined
£o with the option of gaol. In Court stood his
wife with two kiddies clinging to her. She assured
the Bench that imprisonment to the father meant
starvation to the family. Finally the poor woman
tendered all she had—9s. —as an instalment of the
fine. A merciful Bench suspended the sentence
for a month. In Russia (which we are assured is
a barbarous country) they have sufficiently pro-
gressed to allow the imprisoned man to work on
behalf of his family. Australian penal authorities
are too much enslaved to the old British tradition
(which is barbarous) to even think of such a com-
mon-sensible method. We send the drunkard to
gaol, and his hard-working, honest, sober wife to
starvation and the streets.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.—
If anything can “minister unto a mind diseased”
it is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which
weighs upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of
therapeutics, being speedy, sure and gentle.*
Sydney D.T. seems to be “going off its
dot.” It no longer scientifically combats the
Labor party in the interests of Toryism, but rushes
at it, foaming at the mouth like a howling
Dervish ; and in this 20th century the effectiveness
of a howling Dervish policy is small. From a
D.T. leader last week:—
“ Socialism in our time ” is now the avowed aim of the
Labor party in Australia. Land, production, and trade
are all to be nationalised. Society is to he levelled by
justice. One man one value is to be the ruling' principle
of law and government.
The only Labor party in Australia that ever put
forward such a motto as “ Socialism in our time”
was the Queensland party ; and it has dropped
the motto. And Socialism does not suggest
“one man one value” as the ruling principle of
law and government, though Communism does,
and so does Christianity—the Christianity which
D.T. Editor Ward used not to preach in his
parson days.
N.S.W. Acting-Premier Wise remarked
pleasantly at the Agricultural Show luncheon last
week that “ If the G-overnment proposed a vote of
£lO,OOO to again carry the two morning papers
free upon the railways at the taxpayers’ expense
there would not be a word of protest from the
champions of economy.” The D.T. swallowed the
gruel m silence, but the Herald wept in a leading
article that Mr. Wise’s remarks were “ in ex-
tremely bad taste.
Anybody who keeps his or her eyes fixed on
Stott and Hoare’s advt. re “ Home Study ” in this issue
will find that his eye has been put to a good use, and will
feel hiiiself amply repaid for any consequent wear and
tear of the optic.*
“ Brands may come and brands may go, Hin-
nisey,” said Mr. Dooley, “ but it sthrikes me right in th’
cintre of me powerful intilligence that y’r namesake’s is
the brand that ‘ goes on for iver.’ The three brightest
stars in the hivins, I’m tould, is Sirius an’ Canopus an’
Alpha Cintury (or something like that), an’ thim three, I
allow, is the identical lumin’ries that figures on the label
of Hinnissey’s famous ould Three Star Brandy.”*
Amusements.
piTZCERALD BROTHER S’
CIRCUS, MENAGERIE, HORSE FAIR,
and the OSAKA TEAM of
JAPANESE WRESTLERS.
HELM ORE
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS !
SUCCESS! SUCCESS! SUCCESS!
of
The Team of Wrestlers,
DIRECT FROM OSAKA, JAPAN.
CHEERED NIGHTLY BY THOUSANDS.
THEY NIGHTLY CREATE A FURORE.
Another Great Attraction,
DOCTOR GORDON,
STRONG MAN, a Splendid Specimen of Manly Vigor,
who Lifts Great Weights, Breaks Chains by Muscular
Expansion, Carries a Horse up a Ladder, and Lifts the
same quadruped with his teeth.
The Splendid Band led by HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Paling & Co.’s.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, and ALL
HOLIDAYS.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERT EVENING, TO-NIGHT,
BLAND HOLT
and his
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATION OF DRAMATIC
FAVORITES,
in the Mastodan Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
HAWTREY'S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
HUGE and UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS of the
Great English Society Play,
THE TWO MR. WETHERBYS.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elry’s and Co.
Amusements.
LJER MAJESTY'S THEATRE,
■ 1 sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
A BRILLIANT TRIUMPH of
J. M. Barrie’s Bewitching Romance in 4 acts,
THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON,
Interpreted by Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
Headed by the Popular Young Actor,
MR. CUYLER HASTINGS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Management of
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and EDWIN GEAOH.
EVERY EVENING, GEORGE WILLOUGHBY
and Company of English, American and Australian Artists
in the Funniest Farce that Ever happened,
A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.
Admission —ss, 3s. 2s & Is. (Early Doors 6d Extra).
Plan at Paling’s. A. COWAN, Manager.
ST. JAMES’ HALL, PHILLIP STREET
(2 DOORS FROM KING STREET E.).
IMMENSE SUCCESS
OF THE INIMITABLE MIRTH PROVOKERS,
The Pierrot Entertainers,
EVERY EVENING.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s.
"the mutgscope.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. 0?” Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manairer— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Great Success of Mr. FRED. RUSSELL & Mr. TOM DAWSON
A Success of Enthusiasm, THE TWO BELLS.
Also, THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS.
Splendid Reception of Mr. JULES GRAHAM and his
World-Astounding Educated MONKEY, DARWIN.
Emphatic Success of MR. JOHNNY JOHNSTON.
Miss FREDA MAHER, Mr. HARRY LEGGETT,
Miss RAY JONES, Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Mr. SAM WILSON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Great Success of NAT CLI FFO RD , the World’s
Greatest Eccentric Dancer.
MISS MAUD BEATTIE.
JENNY. CRAY, MAGGIE FRASER, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Mr. Rickard’s New Coon Sketch,
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWER- and Miss MAUD FANING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
The Famous Japanese Play,
The Darling of the Gods,
will be presented by Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S
COMPANY, including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT.
-J-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Re-appearance after 12 Month’s Absence of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.,
headed by
Miss EUGENE DUGGAN,
in
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW*
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
and Until Further Notice,
Mr. CEORCE STEPHENSON presents his
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY
in the Funniest Play Since Time Began,
Mama’s New Husband
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—Ss., 35., and Is.
STEYNE COURT, MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
New Attractions—BlJOU THEATRE, “BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO.
BEAUTY IS POWER.
DR. LYKUSKI S
VALAZ E
RUSSIAN
SKIN FOOD
WILL MAKE YOU BEAUTIFUL,
"Valaze” Eradicates Freckles, Wrinkles, Sallowness, Sunburn,
Blackheads, Acne, Pimples, Roughness, and all Blemishes and
Eruptions of the Skin, rendering it soft, white and transparent.
"Valaze” is guaranteed to improve the worst skin in one Month.
MISS NELLIE STEWART Says :
•’I have tried face preparations from all parts
of the world, and paid fabulous prices for
some, and nothing has proved half as good as
*Vala Zt*, If I run short, and write you from
London or America, will you kindly forward
it immediately, as I would not be without it
no matter what cost. It is absolutely the
very best Skin Food I have ever used. I can
never praise it enough. It is simply marvellous.
Price 3/6 and 6/-, Posted, 6d. extra.
HELENA RUBINSTEIN & CO., *43 Collins St, Melb.
Send Pour id. stamps for Illustrated" Guide to Beauty”. ,
MADAMOISELLE HELENA RUBINSTEIN may be consulted on the com-
plexion UNTIL HAY 7th, at WASHINGTON SOUL & CO., Chemists,
268 Pitt Street, Sydney.


The Austral Society, Bendigo, (Vic.) “ for
the encouragement of Australian literature, ” heads
its competitions “ Essay Gladstone and Disraeli,’’
and meanders gently down through 34 “ Empire ”
subjects before reaching the 'first (and only)
Australian item; “ Open Recitation, from an
Australian Author.”
* * * •
An Ashfield alderman stated at a charity
fete the other day that, during the preceding
week, six consumptives from England had been
landed m Sydney. Although an alderman’s
statement, it may be taken seriously, especially as
much evidence in corroboration exists. There is
v ITw y P. revalent belief in England that the
.\.S. Y\. climate benefits consumptives. More-
over, investigation shows that numbers of con-
sumptives are quite recent arrivals ; in 1902, 18
consumptives died after a residence of less than a
year in the State. In view of all this, what are
the authorities doing ?—or what sign is there that
they contemplate doing anything ? And if there
is neither work nor sign, where is the responsi-
bility to be laid ?
* • * *
From Henry Lucy’s London letter :
T v arrayed in a robe of Royal red,
, w,th erm ' ne , entered from below the Bar,
walking between two Peers similarly arrayed. The way
was led by Black Rod, with Norroy, King at Arms, in
in
Peer, having taken the oath, and signed the roll of Par-
liament, was conducted to the Barons’ Benoh, on which
he sat between his sponsors. Not a word was epoken.
The Lord Chancellor, who, by exception when seated on
the Woolsack, wore a three-cornered black cap set awry
on his full-bottomed wig, raised it in salute. The three
Peers on the Barons’ Bench reverentially rose and doffed
their three-dbrnered hats in response. Thrice this was
repeated, and the procession, reforming, returned to the
Woolsack, where-
And so on. It isn’t a description of a new comic
opera—at least it isn’t intended to be comic opera.
It is merely an ordinary part of the proceedings of
that great British institution, the House of Lords,
And because Britain has a fool-House of that sort,
w . e have a Legislative Council, which is just as
a nuisance and doesn’t provide us with half as
much fun and cocked hat for our money,
* » » •
The Australian public seem to look on the
Federal High Court as a settling ground for all
sorts of petty squabbles. During a recent sit-
ting a lady sailed into court and led off with a
demand for a writ against the Postmaster-
General. Also, the Supreme Court Registrar had
not been doing his duty, and the lady wanted the
Court to make its Registrar bark at the other one
aad cause him to sit up generally. She informed
the Court that for the last 14 years she had been
striving and could get nothing done. Had “ read
up eminent authorities and they all concurred ”
about something not clearly explained. Some
money was due to her, she said, on an order of
the Divorce P°" rfc - a " d to “ U P> fihe h / d »
grievance against an attorney. It was a confused
and addled sort of case of which no one could
make head or tail, and plaintiff, as usual, was
hustled away into the outer sunshine.
* • • •
i. t l. /m \ e
At Launceston (Tas.), a young farmer was
put in the dock, a few days ago, for perjury. The
bpeck is 70 years behind date in all matters of
law. To prove the perjury, at the General Sessions
Court, a lasmanian-bred justice was called, and
he read a dozen pages of foolscap about what the
prisoner swore. When he had done, Chief Justice
Dodds saicfhe didn’t know what it was all about,
and asked the jurymen if they could give him a
wnnkie. But the jurymen looked at each other
and then a t the ventilator, and rubbed their noses
with their The case for the Crown
was closed, and barrister Matt. Clarke called
somebody, aged 18, 6ft. 3in. in his socks, who said
he was a professional potato-digger. He was the
prisoner s first potato-digger, and proved the
Hamlet of the play. The prisoner’s alleged per-
jury was that he delivered two lots of potatoes to
, .nhim..** r n . c . , . K. ~
l„. ~ ..P. * first potato-digger said
0 naa brou £>ht als p°oks with him, and thereupon
* lO *°°k from his waistcoat pocket a tome, 3in. by
2in., in which lie had registered all the potatoes
he had dug for a period, and where they went,
Then “ Tnhnnv ” twmo u • u a , ,
" d ,° .? y Dodds > having had a confab on
Jen °h with the great murphy-miner over the
account-book, told the Crown Prosecutor to enter
a nolle prosequi. The prisoner looked nervous,
and looked at the gaoler, but that humorist onlv
told him to clear out. But the accused, not ex
pecting to be taken at a disadvantage like that,
had taken off his boots in the dock, and couldn’t
go till he put them on. It wasn’t noticed till
then that he had a pair of powerful hobnail
weapons handy, with which, if he was anything
like a good shot, he might have slain Dodds, C. J.,
if he wanted to. The point of this par is that a
Tasmanian teak smothered sense and fact in a tub
of words and a spud-getter let light in on the
whole case with a few square inches of dirty
paper, having notes therein made with a pencil-
stump.
... *
“ Too weak to fight and too slow to run
away ” is how a British naval expert describes
Australia’s hired naval squadron.
DECLINING BIRTH-RATE
vV
*Z/
1
b
a
faTwe/u
■J
HP
%
OF
to
rPI
r^T.
THOSJASHASPERC
v_r
&
hlhooiedof
*b':- f
LIVER COMPLAINT
Merl/ears of Suffering
ft the eor/g oge o/24i/rd
RIP.
3i
jr'l
cr.
'TV
&>
•k
o.
Tii
■C^
e»
<=3
C 3
V
Causes that have Crumbled Empires.
THE Royal Commission’s report concerning the causes compassing
the decline of the birth-rate has been widely read and commented
upon. It is positive in its contention that the decline is due to
artificial means practised in favor of the prevention of the multiplication
of the human race, thus causing a disastrous national effect. The report
deals principally with the cause as applied TO THE FEHALE SEX.
Views expressed recently by many persons, per medium of the Press,
suggest many reasons why the birth-rate has diminished.
There are many other potent causes. Did the Commission consider the effect to the
national birth-rate by the exodus of over 20,000 of our best types of manhood to the Boer
war ? The absence of this army comprising
Tho Flower ° r Australian Chivalry * Physical Strength,
had its effect upon the birth-rate and it must be reckoned with. Again, did the Commission
rfmrar J'* I ®. * act there are living in Australia to-day thousands of WEAK and
m INCAPABLE MEN who are useless to the State, and cannot, through
ILL-HEALTH and POVERTY, render that service to posterity that national progression
naturally claims of them. There is in the Commonwealth to-day a lack of
Strong, Healthy and Vigorous Men
s and to themselves, and by the fulfilment of the conditions im-
, bring about a national greatness much to be desired. MEN
MANHOOD and who are WEAK, ANAEMIC, STRENGTH-
LESS, who are but BURLESQUES upon MANHOOD, who exist in thousands in the
State, in these lie a great, but remediable, cause. Let us have STRONG, HEALTHY
MEN ; men ambitious to be successful in life, who will aid the nation’s financial as well as
populative prosperity, and Australia will be the better for it. The SPECIALISTS of
Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
change weak and anaemic men into strong and physically active men, and may be consulted
FREE OF CHARGE in all cases demanding expert medical opinion. The records of the
INSTITUTE prove that all sorts and conditions of Weak and Strengthless Men are to be
found in New South Wales alone, and the decline of the birth-rate affects greatly the
MALE as well as the FEMALE SEX. *
Warning Words to Weak Men !
Our colonial soldiers are splendid specimens of perfect manhood. The authorities have decreed
that the lame, the halt, and the blind shall be barred from military service. Think of this and act. Why
not be a leader among men yourself ? Every young man should aspire to perfect manhood, even if he
does not wish to go to war. At school, at college, on the farm, in business, in politics, and in the pro-
fessions the leaders are, as a rule, men of robust health, who have never violated Nature’s physical laws.
Should war again come, the leaders of our Federal army will be officers with sharp eyes, quick ears, clear
heads, and the physical strength to endure hardships and privations of the field and camp Is not the
respect, admiration, and honour of the world worth more than evils which may pave the way for Weak-
ness, Nervousness, Despondency, Insanity and earthly Death ? Young Men and Middle Aged Men, who
know now that they have made a serious mistake, and want to recover the lost ground, should lose no
time in consulting the Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Medical Staff. We guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken. Evils in the past years by young men, and irregularities and excesses in middle-
aged life are the causes of poor memory, lack of ambition and manhood, so common to the men of to-day.
You can be restored, but will tod ? 4 * The glory of young men is their strength." Young man, would
you win respect, love, fame and fortune ? Start right, and start at once. Husband your strength. Is
there any drain upon the fountains of your vitality ? Stop it. Is some disease undermining your consti-
tution ? Get cured to-day. We will gladly aid you.
Have you a Trouble ? Does it concern your health and all that depends upon health ? Does it
trouble and perplex you ? Is your manhood trembling in the balance? Do you feel the need of sym-
pathy, counsel and aid ? Then come to us and tell us nil. We will do more than help you discard your
trouble. We will help you to forget it. Diseases fully cured soon cease to be even matters of memory.
The safest, the surest and the best place of all for you is our consultation rooms, for there you will find
relief, and restoration to health and strength and manliness. If you cannot call there write us fully and
freely. We will tell you candidly if you are curable or not. We have thousands of testimonials from
cured and now happy men.
to do their duty to the Stat<
posed upon them by Nature
WHO LACK PERFECT
™ FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
Sydney and
Melbourne
Do not Buy an
Electric Belt tor £lO
until you have seen
the
Freeman & Wallace
“ INVICORATOR ”
BELT,
Sold tor £1 only.
And read the'r ONE
SHILLING
MEDICAL WORK.
It will save you Pounds.
Medical Specialists of Great Skill and Practices
There would not be half the decline in the birth-rate had the thousands of WEAK and DEBILITATED men in
Australia, who know they are not as they should be at their age, but studied the laws of Health and built up their
constitutions m order to meet the demands made upon them by Nature. Thousands of such men have been cured bv
the Specialists of J
THE FREEMAN ANP WALLACE MEPICAL INSTITUTE
during the quarter of a century they have been in active practice in Australia, and the national birth-rate has been all
the better for it. Any mail who feels that he is not as strong as he should be, who would like to regain the Health that
I*T>’r 5? » y ’ ad °P tin & the Specialists' system of treatment, be cured when perhaps he thought himself
t if Atm • • A ll Patients are under the special care of Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P. E., L.F.P.S. E.
L.M the Physician-in-Chief, who is registered by Australian, English and American Medical’ Boards. * He is a
specialist of International reputation in the treatment of MEN’S SERIOUS AILMENTS
THE PARCEL POST SYSTEM.
Persons residing in the country will find the parcel post system of the Inutitute invaluable.
n , t .. , ... . 2 All medicines are packed securely from observation or breakage in postal transit, and dis-
P with the care of a perfect system and reliable medical methods. To those who live far from professional aid, vrhere medical men
aie few, this improved system appeals. A man may be treated as well in his own home as if a personal visit hact been naid to the
J h T an< £°i --would now have been in their graves had they not received timely aid by adopting these methods by
which they were benefited by the finest professional skill available in Australia. v y auupwug vuese metuous, oy
DEATH and DISEASE
are at all times
certain.
The Hearse, the
Coffin, and the
IRlume follow it.
Do not court Death
by DELAY,
INDIFFERENCE, or
NEGLECT.
Opportunity Is not
always yours.
NOTE!!
Any man may, if he so desires, through
Specialists, by P addr e ess?ng “privaUly'®
Stre e ts el b ourii n*’ Sydn ,?D’ Cor - Bourhe and Elizabeth
mav e not a°hll n * ’ ° P M G p -°- l» some instances, a man
not be able to call personally, and may prefer to write
upon matters seriously concerning* himself All such
letters are promptly replied to by the Physician-in-Chief
medfcaf ntate^ e TI' Ca h W °/ k ’ “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.*’ 150
STA APS P w»f be 3 L«l«S t ? r8 ’ P° st -P aid > ONE SHILLINC IN
®ia nrs, will be posted to any address on receint of a
post-card or letter. IT IS A BOOK ESSENTIALLY FOR MEN
™LFREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney, and at Melbourne
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN, Director of Institute. Dr. RIOHARD WALLACE, Physiclan-in-Chief.


The union coal miners of Victoria had an
average tally of 217,000 tons per annum, while
under blackleg labor Victoria has produced 50,000
tons for the last 12 months, representing a loss of
167,000 tons, through lack of compulsory arbi-
tration.
Representative McWilliams, the band-box
man from Tasmania, covets the fame of a
humorist. Extract from his first speech in the
House: “ Tasmania has the heaviest income-tax
in the world—6d. in the pound—and the heaviest
land-tax in Australia.”
Prime Minister Palmerston, in his days of
power in England, was what may be called the
architect of Melbourne Government House.
There was a dispute as to what pattern the new
building should follow, and Pam., seizing a book
of pictures, placed an accusing finger on one and
said, “ Make it like that.”
If a good Victorian Labor man puts up
against Kookaburra Peacock, that feeble person
is likely to have hard work to hold his seat. Tom
Mann has just reminded the local voters that, at
the time of the railway strike, Peacock said the
railway men “should go down on their knees in
gratitude to Irvine,” and although a bowdlerised
Hansard omits “on their knees ” both Agb and
Akgus reported the phrase at the time.
Was there, after all, ever any satisfac-
tory reason why Australia should pay £50,000
mail subsidy, or any other amount, to ships with
black seamen, or white ones, or even to ships
manned by green sailors with red stripes ? Mail
subsidies are a kind of Protection practised by
Ereetrade Britain to encourage its shipping indus-
try. If Freetraders weren’t afraid of calling
some things by their correct names, mail subsidies
would be called shipping bounties. Australia has
no ocean steamship lines to subsidise, and there
is no sense in our paying bounties to Britain’s
shipping combines, and bolstering up its boasted
Freetrade system. Subsidised mail-boats are
usually liable to temporary appropriation in time
of war as auxiliary troopships, but no non-Aus-
tralian-owned ships could be taken for Australian
troopships—which makes the subsidy all the more
wasteful. That £50,000 can be better applied in
building up manufactures in the dry continent.
From R. Logan Jack’s new book, “The
Backblocks of China ” :
No one who has mixed with the Eastern races can
doubt that the Chinese individual is, mentally and
physically, at least the equal of the Japanese. Whatever
the Japanese have achieved in the last quarter-of-a-
century, the Chinese are capable of achieving. . . But
when it is not, a' Japan with her 40 millions, but a China
with her 300 millions, which emerges from the darkness
sane and fully equipped, she will contest the markets of
the world ; she may even possess herself of a great part of
its soil. Not Europeor Asia, but the world would be involved
in a struggle to the death. The advance of a united
China in an aggressive mood would constitute a menace
to the peace of the world which no enlightened nation
can foresee without great anxiety. . . At the present day
there is, happily, no such thing as a united China. Need
there- ever be a united China f It cannot be created
except by the aid of the civilised world. The lifting of a
hand to assist in its creation would be suicidal.
Though N.S.W. Laborites were the
warmest opponents of reduction of Assembly
members and the redistribution of boundaries, it
isn’t at all certain that their party will not benefit
most by the shuffle. Being by far the best
organised party, it will not have more than one
candidate anywhere, and the whole party vote
will go to that man, whereas in many other cases
where parts of two or three old electorates have
been taken to form a new one, there will be two,
and sometimes three, old members of the other
parties fighting for the same seat. Neither
Wilcannia, Bourke, nor Barwon, for instance, has
hitherto been represented by a Laborite; yet
every time the Labor vote has been strong, and
the combined vote would certainly wipe out all
three sitting members —Sleath, Davis, and Willis
—supposing they ran for that seat. But Willis
isn’t likely to go for that district; most of his
Barwon has been tacked on to Narrabri, where,
however, he will strike another similar situation.
“Demos”: Exhausting our mineral de-
posits is spending the rightful inheritance of
coming generations of Australians. Why not
place an export duty on metals and minerals,
applying the proceeds to permanent works, which
would to some degree compensate for the loss of
nature’s deposits? This would sometimes hurt
exports, but, as it would result in smelting and
manufacturing here, instead of in Belgium, Ger-
many or elsewhere, we would get the additional
benefit of making more work for Australians.
The foreign-owned ships wouldn’t have as much
to do, but that wouldn’t worry us ; they could be
employed bringing immigrants who would as
soon work the metals here as in Europe, and we
need them badly.
It is generally concluded that Maoriland
Premier Seddon’s sudden determination on the
S’African Chinese labor question was the work of
the Wellington Post. At Kokatahi, on a Thurs-
day, Seddon, to the utter amazement of everyone
who knows him, said he had no voice in the
matter, and much regretted that he could do
nothing. Next day he sent his cable to the other
Premiers urging a meat axe. The change of mind
was so sudden that the Post theory looks feasible.
All the same, the Post is giving Seddon a bad
time, and for five times in succession declared
that he was Btraddling a fence on some question
or other, wherefore it hove bricks in the effort to
dislodge him.
Griffith’s consolidated Queensland code is
rich in curios. For instance—J'o counterfeit
French, Yankee, or other foreign gold coins earns
a maximum of seven years; but to do the same
with English or Australian coins may mean life
imprisonment. Bogus foreign copper coin means
one year; bogus British ditto, seven. It takes
some thinking to find the reason for such dis-
crimination ; and when the reason is found it
doesn’t seem worth the making of a number of
offences where one would do.
For the first time for 10 years there will
not, as far as can be seen, be any Bill or motion in
the M.L. Parliament this year in favor of elective
Ministries. Session after session for a decade
warrior Steward has struggled with his Elective
Executive Bill, never hopelessly beaten, yet never
winning ; but he is getting older and wearier, and
King Seddon’s speeches crowd out more things,
and so he has decided to let a session pass without
the usual fight.
“ A Man Who Knew Him ” writes :
Bob Best, who has been thrown out of the committee
chair of the Federal Senate to give place to Higgs, lost
his fat billet by his own tendency to blab. Robert used
to be a decent sort of fellow who drank whisky in
moderation and sang a good song ; but he got into the
hands of the dog-fanciers, and the Yellow Pup was his
ruin. He was quiet enough till he found himself elected
to the Senate for six years, and then he appeared at
Yellow meetings and hit out wildly at the Pope. Also,
when the unwise Robert was stumping the country at
the general election, and he got into remote spots where
he thought there were no newspapers, he talked loudly
and rashly against the Labor party. He was cautioned by
Deakin to keep away from sectarian societies, but he
wouldn’t. By the time he stood for re-election as Chair-
man ofCommittees he had no friend left in politics save
the Yellow Pup, and even it hadn’t a very high opinion
of his wisdom. This is the true story of how Bob Best
became a full private in the Senatorial ranks.
Maoriland politician Bedford, writing from
Honolulu to Otago Daily Times, says
The population of the Hawaiian group is (roughly)
6000 Americans, 16,000 Portuguese, 17,000 Chinese, 30,000
native Hawaiians, and 60,000 Japs. I managed to inter-
view a good number of leading American citizens, and I
heard not one opinion favorable to the Jap. The prevail-
ing hope is that if Russia and Japan come to blows Japan
will be humbled. The American planter has for many
years past employed Japanese on his sugar plantations,
and without hesitation he declares that the yellow man is
inferior to his Celestial brother from China in all that
constitutes a good workman. The Chinaman is more
industrious and more trustworthy. All the positions of
trust in banks and financial concerns in Japan itself are
occupied by Chinese. This is a general statement which
needs practically no qualification. It is a significant fact,
and the truth to which it testifies w borne out by the ex-
perience of the Americans in Hawaii. W e know tne Jap
has not the semblance of social morality ; apparently his
commercial morality is just as defective.
“ T.D.” : The very first Bill the Com-
monwealth Parliament should be. called on to
pass is one to protect its members “Om
the extortion of sporting and other clubs
in their electorates. A newly-elected Kep.
from Sydney tells me that, in the last two months,
he has discovered the existence of 127 cricket
clubs in a section of his constituency that amounts
to little more than a quarter of the total area.
He has been informed by the Assembly member
for the same district that he will get a still bigger
batch of applications for his “ patronage ” a little
later on, when football, swimming and half-a-
dozen other variety of clubs get on his track.
Also, hospitals, church bazaars, benevolent associ-
tions and Sunday-school picnics would, at a guinea
a time, mop up nearly half his £4OO a year, not to
speak of the demands privately made by widows,
deadbeats, victims of accidents and other hard-
ups. And with the £4OO a year he has to live in
Melbourne and almost completely neglect his
ordinary calling.
Those anti-socialistic farmers who obtained
from the State of Victoria money with which to
buy seed wheat are keeping up their reputation
for dishonesty. A very large number of those
who secured loans gave liens on the season’s crop.
Now that the crops have been harvested and the
farmers have the proceeds in their pockets
they are coming in clouds to the Lands Depart-
ment to have the repayment of the loans put off
for two or three years. The total sum lent to
farmersfor the purchase of seed wheat was £93,127.
Of that about three-fourths were due for repay-
ment in January last, but not half the amount due
has been received. Before he left for the red
plush seats of the Agent-General’s office in
London Jack Taverner put his foot through the
Act of Parliament under which the loans were
made, and allowed the'farmers to pay a portion of
their debts this year and a portion next year.
The farmers either have the money due to
the Government in their pockets, or they a.re
paying it away to banks, storekeepers or financial
institutions, the proprietors of which are the loud-
mouthed denouncers of socialism. They cannot
plead that the crops were failures for they were
really magnificent, and the prices for wheat were
certainly not below expectations.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wouad* that Dlaeharga or otherwiae. perhapa aur-
Maodad with inflammation and awollan that when you
nraaa your Anger on tha inflamed part it leave* the unprea-
«lou » If *o. under tha ekin you have poiaon that defiet ai.
the reraedie* you have tried, which, it not extracted, you
never ean recover, but go on Buffering till death relea.e.
you. Farhapa your knee* are awollen, the Joint* being
ulcerated; the came with the anklaa, round which the skin
may be ducoloured, or there may be wound* ; the di«ea*e
Hallowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk You may have attended vanoua boapitala and had
medical advice, and been told your caie ia hopele.., or
advised to aubmit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't aay perhapa ; but I WILL. Because
ethera have failed ia no reaaon for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lege,
Houaemaid’e Knee, Ulcerated Joint*, Carbuncle*. Poi.oned
Hand* Tumour*. Abaceaaea, Sore Throat, Bronchitic,
Bunion* and Ringworm. Of all Chemiata, Store*,
in Price In Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared bv
ALBERT ’ 73, Farringdon-atreet, London, England.
Agent* : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchaser* *hould
look for theregiatered trade mark of the Graaahoppar on e
green label ea each box. (Regd. copyright}*
£l,OOO for 1/- £l,OOO
A Fortune for Is. A Fortune for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
FIRST 1
GREAT \
PRIZE J
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
Or 12 months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all
Expenses paid, and £6OO in Cash tor one person, or
eight months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from
£1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours 48th Annual Great Art
Union.
48th—The Oldest and Most Popular— 4Bth.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Charge*.
A list of winning numbers will be posted to any person
sending an addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 23rd April, or
send direct to the Representative, 312 Flinders-street,
Melbourne, and secure a chance in this Great Art union.
Tickets— Is. each, or 11 lor 10s.
All direct applicationt must reach Melbourne before the
date of drawing, 11th May, 190 U.
BE SURE AND TRY YOUR LUCK.
CHAS. HARRIS, Secretary.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Building, 312 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted,
tS&£2. lOto £5.5.0
Ounlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kims.
[Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
[CARRIAGE PAID to any
|port In Australasia.
■Motor Cars and Motocycle*
I Tyres, A ccessories. Sporting Goods &
►Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
►Write for Catalogs and Special or.
. ter using sufficient foreign postage
MEAD OYOLE CO* Dept. 839 b
CHICAGO, 0.8. A. sad UVKUPOOL, KNULAHD.
<5
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as run-down” cr “out of sorts.’* Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
M
■ «as -
lOOKS
SOLD
BY
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACDJ
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Db. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright f-uture, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG-
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
AlsfY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magio Uf-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book 0d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Like,
10s 6d Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 8d ’ Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario 2s Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
costed ’ Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniqut’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How TO Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. *).
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morganis if Ree-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6(1., ana
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., wnn
full directions, Is. posted. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to > a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Somi
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. •
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posceo.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and bUGAE-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use it,
Is! 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and- Its Cure, Is. 2 “-P OSt ®~
Webster's Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1/00 pages.
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paw.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete mk-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. Thk
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Timk
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. P oBt ®,’
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, is.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. nosteo.
v
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney


When the police raided a gambl ng shop
at Broken Hill (N.S.W.) the other day, the first
thing that caught the leader’s eye was a wall-text
—“Lead us not into temptation.”
“ Grease Spot ” : Country local rags have
had some good tall surgical yarns lately, and each
one is about a foot higher than the last. First
we heard of a man getting rid of a worn-out
stomach; next of a liver that was taken out, scraped
all over and put back again ; then they took out
a girl’s heart to hunt for a bullet in it; then half
a brain that had gone on strike ; after this a man
made a hole by cutting out a couple of ribs,
through which he extracted a lung that was only
useless cargo to its owner; and now they have a
little girl who has had both her kidneys removed
and still lives, and is well. We’ll be able to get
along without ourselves at all soon.
“ J.F.D.” : Discovered the cause of much
of this weird expectancy. Focussed a baby yes-
terday who was sucking vigorously at a rubber-
teat arrangement called a dummy, and he wore
the expectant look of one who thought that milk
might arrive at any moment. I returned an hour
afterwards, and the expectancy had changed into
a tired-feeling expression. A few minutes
afterwards he threw the dummy away and a pes-
simistic look that would have done credit to
Schopenhauer crept down his countenance like the
falling of the curtain at the Lyceum when they
have finished playing “The Skull at the Ven-
tilator.”
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
4
(Itegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
g
DAY
£ a
ms
F ° r Nightdresses, EOO » OMICAL
Pyjamas, BECAUSE
Children’s
Frocks, Ac. DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: •* * Viyella ’ nas
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
A.L.P. Cameron writes : —
Re Mr. Harry Stockdale’s article on aboriginal marriage
laws. He is right in many particulars, but not in alj.
Each tribe is divided into two or more classes. Origi-
nally, I think, no tribe had more than two classes, which
were evolved for the purpose of preventing brother and
sister marriage. Then each of these two primary classes
was again divided as a further reformatory movement.
Distinguish the two primary classes No. 1 and 2 ; then on
sub-division No. 1 is divided into A and B, while No. 2 is
divided into 0 and D. The marriage law provides that A
shall marry O, and the resulting child is D ; B marries _D,
and the child is 0 ; O marries A, the child is B ; D marries
B, and the child is A. They have animal or “totem”
names, which also, to a certain extent, restrict the area of
matrimonial selection. The marriage laws are not very
intricate when you understand the principle on which
they are arranged.
Mr. Stockdale is right that consanguineous marriages
are looked upon with disfavor ; but wrong, according to
my experience, in saying that marriage of first cousins js
never allowed. Where descent is in the female line, as it
certainly is in nine tribes out of ten in Australia, the
class laws prohibit a man marrying his father’s
daughter, or his mother’s sister’s daughter, but permit
marriage with the father’s sister’s daughter, or the
mother’s brother’s daughter. The relationship is no
doubt equal in each case, but the automatic operation of
the class law prevents marriage with the one kind of first
cousinfend not with the other.
Where descent is in the male line it would be the other
way about; that is to say, a man could marry his
mother’s sister’s daughter or his father’s brother’s
daughter.
I may also say that where descent is in the female line
the father has no control whatever in the disposal of his
daughter in marriage, as he belongs neither to her
“class” nor totem ; the disposal of the girl rests either
with the mother, the brother, or the mother’s brother.
Mr. Fison’s ideas as to communal or group marriage,
I think, arose partly from the fact that an aborigine
sometimes calls every woman with whom the class
law allows him to marry “wife.” When Ipai, for in-
stance, marries, he takes a Kubbitha woman ; therefore
all Kubbitha women are his potential wives; but, as a
matter of fact, individual marriage prevails. Speaking
from memory, I think Fison only contended that present
conditions pointed to group marriage having existed in
the past. From an experience of 30 years, during which
time I have been brought into contact with many tribes,
I think Mr. Stockdale fixes the age of marriage too low.
I would put it at i3 to 14 years.
A circumstance not mentioned by Mr. Stockdale is that
of avoidance of the mother-in-law, which is an invariable
rule. From the time a man marries he must never speak
to his mother-in-law, and she is equally careful to avoid
any contact with him. This is by no means confined to
Australia, but is to be met with in different parts of the
w jrld among people at low stages of civilisation.
As far as marriage laws are concerned, the Australians
occupied a much higher position on the plane of civilisa-
tion than did the primitive peoples in many parts of the
world. The Botoeudos of Brazil only form temporary
marriages though they exact fidelity while the alliance
lasts; the Incas of the royal house of Peru married their
Bisters; the Thibetans, the Nairs of Malahar and others
practised polyandry, and the Hassinyeh Arabs had a
peculiar system of three-quarter marriage, in which the
woman was free to select every fourth day a partner
other than her husband.
The alleged discovery by English and
American engineers of the legendary treasures
of the Incas, amounting to £3,200,000, recalls the
fact that little authentic information is available
concerning the pre-Spanish civilisation of South
America. Seemingly, long before tbe rise of the
Incas, Peru was inhabited by % people of an
Aymara origin. Gigantic ruins of buildings,
apparently never completed, exist in various
parts of the country, seemingly commenced by
powerful sovereigns with unlimited command of
labor to give employment to a conquered people.
Apparently these mighty building contracts were
interrupted by the collapse of the Government
that conceived them, or else the building society
refused to advance any more money. Upon the
ruins of this vanished empire—which, after all,
is only a theory—the Incas of Cuzco and the
Vileamayu built up a more civilised State.
The work, which probably took five centuries,
was completed when the Spaniards dis-
covered Peru in 1527. The Incas had a well-
considered system of land tenure; an elaborate
system of State worship, with a ritual, and fre-
quent festivals ; history and tradition were
preserved by the bards, and the drama was
encouraged by the Court. It was in the course
of the Spanish invasion, when the fortune of
war had declared against them, that the
Incas are alleged to have buried their treasure
in some spot which has been a mystery ever since.
So the story may be summed up thus : It is
supposed that an old Peruvian race, name
unknown, was conquered by another power, of
which we know about as much, but the vast
unfinished buildings abovementioned suggest that
some old Peruvian Pharaohs were nigger-driving
their Israelites in the building trade, and that
theory pre-supposes that somebody conquered
somebody else. There is another theory that the
latest Peruvian empire was founded on the bones
of both these parties, supposing they ever had
any bones. It is assumed that the Incas had
some superfluous treasure which they buried,
though they may not have had 2d. And now the
treasure, if there was one, may have been dis-
covered or it may not—more probably not.
STOMACH TROUBLE.
Your tongue is coated.
Your breath is foul.
Headaches come and go.
These symptoms show that your stomach is the
trouble. To remove the cause is the first thing and
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH AND LIVER
TABLETS will do that. Easy to take and most
effective.*
It is when one comes to individual cases
that the conscienceless meanness of the Victorian
7s. a week old age pension system becomes
apparent. A while back a pensioner had a little
legacy of £50 left him. The Kyabram Govern-
ment promptly annexed £10 of the £50, stopped
the pension and told the recipient to make the odd
£40 spin out for at least two years. That was in
July, ’02, and the thrifty old boy of 80, having
managed to make the £40 —the weekly income of
many a landlord—last till now, has asked to have
his pension restored ; but Bent’s Government tells
him he is a prodigal waster, who has been spend-
ing his substance in riotous living, and that he
deserves to starve till next July, anyway. Also,
when an ancient Bendigo miner died, the other
day, with nearly a week’s pension due to him, his
poverty-stricken widow was told she couldn’t get
the paltry 6s. Sd. due till her dead mate’s funeral
expenses were paid. Bent evidently wants Bull-
Cohen to know that Victoria has reached the very
nadir of penury.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
At a coroner’s inquest on a child in
London lately, the mother testified that she
consulted a qualified lady medical practitioner
about her child’s illness, and paid (for advice and
medicine) sixpence! Bedrock !
The Pretender to the throne of Morocco
seems to be a gentleman of resource, according
to an account in the Spectator : —
Near Tazza the Sultan’s troops inflicted loss on the
Pretender’s forces, which was inconvenient, as the
Pretender had' promised his followers immunity from
bullet wounds. One of his firmest supporters reported
disaffection. The Pretender pondered, took hisinformant
into his confidence, dug a grave in his tent and therein
buried the informant, with a hollow bamboo placed in
the man’s mouth so as to communicate with the surface
air. The Pretender then summoned the disaffected, and
pretended to address Abd-er-Rahman, who had been
killed the day before. The voice of the accomplice
through the tube described the joys of Paradise, and
exhorted the faithful to fight for the Pretender. The
deputation was satisfied, and the Pretender placed his
foot over the tube through which his accomplice spoke
and breathed, smothering him. He then announced
that the spot was sacred, and ordered his followers
to erect a shrine by piling large stones over the place.
So ended the Pretender’s famous trick. Also his most
faithful accomplice.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID j
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a T urkish Bath invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
’lnvigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
■
n .
mm.
WEIGHTY EVIDENCE.
A Fellow and Lecturer of St. John’s
Coll., Cambridge, writes :
“St. Martin’s, Cambridge.
“Dear Sirs, —I am thoroughly satisfied
with your Kutnow’s Powder. It is pleasant
to take, and mild and efficacious in action.
“ Yours faithfully,
“(Rev.; C. E. GRAVES, M.A.
“Fellow and Lectr. of St. John’s Coll.,
Camb.).”
A Presbyterian Minister writes .*
“United Presb. Manse, Bo’ness, N.B.
“I tried your Kutnow's Powder, and
found it efficacious in relieving constipation.
“(Rev.) S. SLEATH.”
The Rector of Swinford writes:
“ The Rectory, Swinford, co. Mayo, Ireland.
“ Kutnow’s Powder is decidedly the best
remedy of the kind I have ever tried for
stomach trouble. It acts like a charm. I
mean to stick to it.
“ (Rev.) D. P. KINGHAN
“(Rector of Swinford).”
A Note of Warning.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirchensprung, or Deer
Leap,” are on the outer carton, and also On
the label on the bottle. This signature and
trade mark will alone insure your
obtaining the
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
THE CASE IH A NUTSHELL
Question.—Can a man’s brain give way when he is otherwise healthy ?
Answer. —No—impossible ! A man’s brain is as strong as his heart, and given that he has
a sound heart, a strong stomach, an active liver, healthy kidneys, and regular
action of the bowels, he cannot, possibly suffer from mental breakdown.
Question. —But don’t worry and brain-fag sometimes cause insanity T
Answer. —Certainly! Madness is usually the result of acute tension of the nervous system
beyond the strain-bearing capacity of the victim of overwork with the brain,
and it is only when this overwork has weakened and deranged the great
digestive and excretory organs that the brain loses its ability to bear the
strain. As long as the brain can rely on the healthy activity of the great
contemporary organs so long can it stand enormous strain and work.
Question.—Does worry and brain-fag upset the digestive and excretory functions ?
Answer.—Yes, undoubtedly ! Too close application to study and business will severely
test a man’s health. Nature, however, can be materially assisted in her
efforts to keep pace with the strain. What is required is a cleansing, refresh-
ing draught each morning before breakfast. This clears the undigested food
and waste products from the stomach, stirs up the liver, flushes the kidneys,
and sweeps out the constipated matter lying in the intestines.
Question. —What do you recommend to achieve this desirable result 7
Answer. —Kutnow’s Powder, which possesses the same virtues as the medicinal spring waters
which HIS MAJESTY KING EDWARD VII. has taken this summer
with so much benefit. If you keep Kutnow’s Powder in your bedroom
you will have a ready friend always at hand in the time of
need. Hard brain-work, study, anxiety, financial and domestic worry,
sorrow, or any brain-strain can be borne with ease if the system is concurrently
regulated with a morning draught of Kutnow’s Powder.
Kutnow’s Powder can be obtained in
Capsuled Bottles from all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors throughout the World.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon
Road, London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS.
853, BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
DOCTORS TESTIFY
Dr. W. A. Rust WRITES :
“254 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
“ Oct. 15, 1903.
“Gentlemen, —You may be pleased to
learn that the bottles of Kutnow’s Powder
sent me some time since have done good
service. I gave one of them to a gentleman,
who informs me that he would not be without
it in the house, as it has given him greater
relief than anything he has ever before tried
for indigestion, with much flatulency and
colic pains, which have afflicted him for a
long time past. I am fully satisfied that
your preparation is superior to anything of
the kind with which I am acquainted.—Very
truly yours, “ WM. A. RUST, M.D.”
Prof. W. R. Jones, M. D., writes :
“ Dear Sirs, —I am constantly prescribing
Kutnow’s Powder, with invariably good re-
sults. I also use it myself in order to regu-
late the inactivity of the digestive and
excretory organs. It is especially beneficial
in stimulating a sluggish liver, preventing
biliousness and dyspepsia, and permanently
removing the baneful effects of chronic con-
stipation.—Yours truly,
“ W. R. JONES, M.D.,
“Professor of Medical Chemistry and Toxi-
cology, University College, Virginia. ”
Dr. Atkinson writes :
“89 Albion-street, Leeds,
“ August 28, 1903.
“ Gentlemen, —I am employing Kutnow’s
Powder constantly with complete satisfac-
tion.—Yours, &c.,
“E. ATKINSON, M.R.C.S., &c.”
A Draught» f
[4—lol ■■■ ■
Kutnow’s Powder Brings Health
- ■ - • V . . * ■ - •• • ■'


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having’ imposed a tax of On# Penny
on evex-y Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall'g on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each 5 &
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 11,50,000 at 5/1 each. I BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE OE WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4. 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Elemington, Vic., July 2, 100,060 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
OONTINTTES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise G KORG E ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any FAROEL
DELIVERY CO. or EIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA oe Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For aii information regarding Rates, Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cnre.
tmjh famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. e &
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
COO ILL TO LEAYB HIS BKDt
A OOMPLETH GURU
Vr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the oough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually Improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, 8.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS' OA8&
RELIEVER AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the cheat,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t he licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEH.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’B
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
email bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
un for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria,
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE. CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY BENT TO ▲ RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
" Llenwellyn,
.... “ Katunga, Via
"Mr. Hearns.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effect*
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who la 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ S Watson-street, Burton-on-Treni,
_ “ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cur* to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much cased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a Utter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Ur. John S. Mortimer, Uenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERT ILL.
BPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORS COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BT HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURB.
The extraot runs as follows" As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte hat been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you sea what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears' Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I atn happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
"Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, lend mi oni
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleaied with the results of your wonderful medicine, as*
•mall bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five yearn, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Viotorle.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY OUREn
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.' *
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charteville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne's
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l-have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.."
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.’’
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARN! E, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .


By Rail and Semaphore.
DRIVER OWEN TINTAGEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The strangest feature of Maoriland Railway Ser-
vice in the old days was the character of the great
bulk of its engine-drivers. Most of them were
deeply religious; and such as were not almost
fanatics were atheists of a loud-swearing variety.
The religious ones were a careful, thrifty class,
mostly owning a little house property in the
cities which were the head stations of their sec-
tions ; and educating their children for a “pro-
fession.”
The other section of the engine-drivers, the dis-
solute minority, was very wild. It kept the fore-
men, inspectors, and even the great Engineer him-
self awake at nights. Mostly it was a secret
drinker, and the revelation only came when some
reeling driver romped his engine gaily'through
mobs of sheep, or cheerfully tilted at bulls on
viaducts, and swore that the steam-brake attach-
ment had failed at the critical moment.
Ihere was a third streak, a mere line between
the two sections, that went about with a weird
fire m its eye, that was given to alternate tits of
blasphemy and outpourings of prayer; that ele-
vated the eyebrows and cried aloud, “Lord, be
merciful to me, a sinner ! ” what time a forty-ton
engine went leaping along at 35 miles an hour on
a road on which the maximum speed should have
been 25.
io this middle streak belonged Driver Owen
Tintagel, commonly known as “ Hell-fire Jack.”
He was a wizard. He talked to his engines,
sometimes petting and caressing them with little
pats; at others, threatening andcursingthem and
bellowing that it was well for them that they’d
no souls to writhe for ever in hell-fire. Whether
it was the talking or no, this deponent is unable
to depone; but the fact remained that old,
broken-down bundles of tubes, with a boiler
stowed away somewhere in the parcel, suddenly
became capable of wonderful speed and hauling
power when Owen Tintagel stood on the footplate
and used language.
* * • *
ffc worked the mixed service between Wood -
lands and Sliinglebar on the Rutaniwha section,
tv hen he was not driving he was ranting and
ravuig round the laburnum-dotted streets of
Woodlands, telling the quiet, decent people who
Jiad made that delightful little town, that they
were monsters of iniquity, who went in for landed
property instead of laying up treasure in Heaven;
and a spawn of unrighteousness who were doomed
to fry through the rolling ages of eternity.
Woodlands was getting very tired of Jack. His
language, though vigorous and extremely pictur-
W’ was unsu 'table for the ears of women and
children; and Woodlands was a stronghold of
prosperous, staid Anglicans, to whom all ranting
was anathema. So Woodlands began to write
letters to Traffic Manager Tripp at Rutaniwha.
Most of the line from Woodlands to Sliinglebar
ran through the heavily-timbered country, and
was unfenced. In the great clearings the feed
was rank, while along the railway line grew
clover; so all the sheep and cattle that could do
so haunted the embankments.
Owen Tintagel didn’t mind sheep; he simply
ran through them. But Cattle were a tougher
proposition. Smashing np cattle with a railway
engine is a fine art; the novice invariably damages
his engine, or fails to knock the beast, clear, and
him le rads Wl th the train piled on top of
Owen Tintagel was a past master at the art;
and it was really a treat to see the way he did it.
His accidents always happened in the day-
time and the department winked at what it was
morally certain was wilfulness. Every driver on
the road would, if he could, cut up stock by day
so as to make owners take steps to keep it clear of
the track, for there was an ever-present dread in
each driver s mind of running over a sleeping cow
by inght, and consequent wreck and death.
the southern approach to Mungawhero
bridge was a brindled bull that all the drivers
riX tr US to .7 ipe ?, ut ' He frequently camped
right between the rails, and had nearly caused
? his beast was known as
® ' An y other animal of his species had
Lv a ° ng whilst this pre-eminent
beast was using the name.
Every morning, as he went over the length on
elocipede, before the first train passed, the
surfaceman would deposit a couple of carrots, or
!S od '| WU n e ’ °r a turnip or two on that part
aW u k ‘ °7 en -fkntagel’s engine came along
about an hour after the surfaceman, so The Bull
fime a faiF chance to drop across the bait by that
w ra K U , a 1 1? ? he Bull to look for his break-
£,7 J“ojng a quick eater, he had usually
molished it and gone back to ruminate in the
™? ve [, thafc grew at the bottom of the embank-
ment by the time lintagel came along.
Une morning, however, The Bull gave way
™ ,f°“ aI . instincts. A group of strawberry
. ad Joined him in his breakfast and
fraternised with him. The Bull became spor
K an i CapCr f ed roUnd in » reat . st y le > and
f i u• a 0 m? UI i aceman came whirring across
m ld ? ? Th^ Bull ungratefully tumbled him and
BcraS ne f d r oWn th ? bai ? k ' The surfaceman
fu- a 3 ed from under his wrecked jigger and
S? n n d ,,"P th « nearest tree, where he could see
Wk ' ll ® tand ing on the line laughing at him.
When Owen Tintagel came along The Bull and
ms tnends were still on the track, The Bull
with ! leryI ery C6 ? tre group. Owen came
with a tremendous rush, his whistles screeching
one hp^f s r 6l \ he did mv Care about more th an
one beast at a time. The cattle dashed off in
;T’ allbut T , he Bull and another. The Bull
2l" ght 111 tbe centre of the track, the other
T”e PnP n i° n^ l f e b hlS lnnd le g s down tbe bank.
hriLp started to trot quietly down towards the
ot .pf\t nd f° t We ” lea P ed . al °ng in pursuit. The
. beast hesitated, till the corner of the
Btr ,r Ck ifc on tbe neck a nd bead and
sent it rolling over and over down the side
Tile Pnll^h 6 • r ° cked shgbtl y> and just then
havmg come to the cattle stop in front
conlrf y nC l ge ’ turned to get down the bank. He
Owen TW a f Um ? d a b fter position-for
L*, '. -*- I '® great engine simply bounded at him
and got right underneath him;
As the engine shut off steam The Bull rose
f l?o„ a ;.pV arr , OW ’ S ° ared throL '£ h the air, and
tltytrcfaheS o6 n * ht ' ° n the brid * e >
T J' ,a beast >y on its back across the bridge.
Jack had whistled for brakes, and applied every
ounce | ie had, but the rails were slippery with
morning dew, and in a moment the engine
ploughed into the animal. It rolled him over and
“' er ; an< ? t , hen crushed him under the cow-
atcher slowiy rose oyer him and left the rails.
o«en Tintagel burst into a frightful torrent of
oaths as he realised he was off the traok
It took him nearly half an hour to ohop that
carcase out from under his engine and lift the latter
on to the rails with the screwjacks. Then he
steamed away to Shinglebar in a more contented
frame of mind.
The only person who didn’t seem to be
overjoyed at the exploit was the owner of The
Bull; and he was ridiculously sore on the subject.
He sued the Department, but the frightful
character which the capsized surfaceman and train
crew gave the deceased animal, the stories which
other drivers told of him chasing trains anything
from 15 to 20 miles, caused the Bench to shudder,
and thank Owen Tintagel and Providence that
such a national danger had been removed.
But the farmers around Mungawhero were a
dour lot; and when they, in addition to the people
of Woodlands, made up their minds that Owen
Tintagel should go, there were more unlikely
things than that he would. They got up a
petition requesting that he be transferred.
They also filled the air with vague reports that
he was a secret drinker ; and that settled it. The
Department notified Owen Tintagel that he
would be transferred at the end of the month.
• • • »
The summer had been unusually hot, and
around Woodlands the land was cracked and
pare!led. r I hey had had a whole 16 weeks’ drought,
and that is a terrible thing in Maoriland. The
schools had been closed on account of the heat,
and the forest was like a vast expanse of tinder.
Driver Tintagel’s last day in Woodlands was
the eve of the four days picnic which the towns-
people had organised for thechildren. Twenty-five
miles away, in the heart of the bush, was Fern-
vale, a deep valley with a stream running through
it. It was a cool, delicious Paradise—a dreamy
elysnim of soft mosses and ferns of every sort, from
the dainty kidney-leaf to the giant fern-trees that
towered 30 feet over their heads.
It was Driver Lennox who took them up, and
about 11 a.m. he returned with the information
that Fernvale was almost as dry as the surround-
ing bush. But there were still pools of water
there, and the children would be able to enjoy
themselves.
Driver 1 intagel stood on the platform, waiting
for the through train to take him down to Rutani-
wha. The burning nor’-wester made his eyes
ache, and it seemed to him that even that scorch-
ing wind was hotter than usual. Away to the
nor -west he saw great masses of rolling clouds,
and suddenly he took the pipe from his mouth and
swore vigorously.
Then he rushed into the Stationmaster’s office,
and informed that individual that the bush up
Fern vale way was on fire. TheS.-M. was bend-
ing over the telegraph sounder. He looked up :
“You won’t see Rutaniwha to-day, Owen. The
Express can’t get through. There’s a fire about
ten miles wide travelling down the line, while
another arm is running crossways, and will strike
it about ten miles up. All those women and
children at Fernvale will be isolated. I suppose
they will be all right as long as they stay in the
gully.”
He tried to speak unconcernedly; but his own
wife and two little boys were in that gully, and
his voice broke.
• • • •
There was a sudden screech of whistles. The
S. M. ran back to the platform just in time to see
the engine rush past the home signal, with
corrugated iron coverings glinting in the yellow
light. Lennox was standing disconsolately on
the platform. He looked wretched.
“I didna feel that I was doing the right thing
family to go. He has neither chick nor
child, and he just went crazy wi’ delight when I
agreed tae let him hae the honor an’ the glory.”
From away down the bush came the roar of the
Ham, growing fainter every moment, till it ceased.
The town settled down to wait helplessly till it
should hear the roar of that engine returning.
The Stationmaster tried to reassure the gloomy
men slightly. J
“I assure you, gentlemen, that Tintagel will
get twice the speed the other driver could out of
her.”
TheS.M.’s composition was horrible, but the
statement was undeniable truth.
As Owen Tintagel rushed nor’-west the wind
grew hotter and hotter. The fireman was quiver-
ing with excitement, and the perspiration rolled
off him as he fired and sliced according to the
driver’s instructions. The weird old man was
talking to his engine in a way that convinced the
fireman that his brain had turned at last. They
were leaping along at a tremendous rate, and
suddenly the fireman’s ear caught another sound.
It was a succession of dull explosions, of echoing
crashes. The heat was unbearable, and their
eye-balls seemed seared.
They turned a curve, and a hill-top showed
momentarily through the opening. It was all
ablaze. Flames spouted up; great banners of fire
streamed in the burning wind; the ratas were
bursting with the roar of heavy artillery; and
that burning hill was right above Fernvale.
“Just in time, I’m a-thinking!” said Ow r en
Tintagel, with a chuckle.
Then the siding came in view, covered with
women and children. Poor creatures ; they had
streamed down there in the hope that the train
would come back for them.
While they scrambled in, the engine uncoupled
and ran down the siding to hook on the other
end. The children knew their lives depended on
their celerity, and by the time Owen had seen his
couplings made fast the platform was vacant.
As they started, the fireman turned to the
driver, and, wiping the perspiration from his
face, remarked :
“No need to risk leaving the rails now we’ve
got ’em on board ; that fire can’t travel more’n
twenty miles an hour surely, boss ? ”
“There’s no fire burning in this bush will over-
take us; but the S.M. Woodlands said there was
an arm travelling cross-ways that would strike the
line at the ten mile. Well, we’ve got to get there
afore that fire ; and we don’t know what sort of a
time-table God Almighty’s working it on. Slice
her, you jabbering, crimson, something idiot ;
stoke, you blastiferous monkey—stoke like Sheol
and shut up.”
The fireman trembled ; in the carriages the
women, children, and the few men with them
could only hold their breath. The train rocked
or rather rolled, like a ship in a gale, and many
were made quite sea-sick by the forward pitch.
The children slipped off the seats as the carriages
heeled over while they roared round the curves
and when the train shot down dangerous-looking
grades they were piled in little heaps. On they
rushed, and the adults wondered why. There
wasn’t a spark to be seen ; the tree-tops were
waving against the copper-tinted sky, but never a
sign of fire to account for this reeling speed.
Suddenly those on the northern side of the train
gasped. Two hundred feet above, a sheet of flame
shot through the tree-tops and streamed out like
ragged pennants in the tremendous wind. They
felt the train give one mighty bound, and the
speed grew dizzy. The flaming trees raced past
m a biurred picture. There were loud crashes,
sudden roars. The air grew oppressive. Sud-
denly the flame was gone from the picture. The
sounding of the rail-joints became distinct once
more. They knew the three sharp short whistles
were for brakes, and the bumping of the buffers
told that the engine was slowing-down.
1 hen the speed fell to something approaching
what they were accustomed to, and they steamed
into Woodlands. As they scrambled on to the
platform they realised the full merit of that dash.
Ihe great expanse of bush was a sea of tossing
fire and rolling smoke, and, since they had run
through, the whole of the line had been swallowed
up m the furnace.
and th fw' ungawhero are a dour lot,
m? d th R eople . of Woodlands are even more grim.
Jhey made Dnver Owen Tintagel so shockingly
16 7 aS tbree da ys.before he was in a
ht s .t ate to go dowa to Rutaniwha to take up his
P f lS ‘ tl ° , \ o '? a 3h . untin ?engine for being suspected
f se eret drinking. Even Owen felt that it was
th°ert“lt f" 11 used , *° his pity (or
S SINST b 8 ““ °"‘
C. A. JEFFRIES.
iM
■mh
\SAshJL
QD
BSPS
SSSM'S
STS :
SKfj
u^!n
*2
rv>
«
&
r*
$s
Sig§s#^s**T
?r*
ITS
Diity woodwork or any other part of the house that requires
can best be cleaned by using
light Soap
It will remove every particle of dirt and make the whole house
bright and cheery. Absolutely pure, and every bar possesses re-
markable cleansing power,
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white and wont injure the hands.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY.
YOU CAN BE CURED.
There are some diseases which are incurable, but these are fortunately rare. There are, on the
o ler lan two gioups of disorders which afflict a large number of people, many of whom seem to
oousider that there is no hope of release, for they go on suffering year after year when their cases
would readily yield to treatment if the root of the disorder were attacked. The two groups referred
to are uric and biliary disorders, and they comprise the following common complaints :
URIC.
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
BILIARY.
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Sick Headache
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
ow all th , ese disorders originate from the same oause, namely the inability of the kidneys and
which produce the^isea’e* 11611 ' funcfclon of elim inating from the system the urinary and biliary poisons
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every
. n .I s Quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight
ts U /J C anC * ot ler an . lma l and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
i.r the kidneys are wo king freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body dissolved in the
iirine, but if through weakness or disease the kidneys are unable to do their work properly, a quantity
ot these urinary substances remains in the blood arid flows through the veins, contaminating the whole
system. J. hen we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder
l cubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine,
passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it
s then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating
about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore
result Vl^°r * ° r s D lsease > Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will
l3 an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
4 ei ' tS 14 lnto atlothe r . form > and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
whk-h^l !’vp pvpi'lt’ - V rf ' 18 completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
frim inmß form d nf 'r'r and ar ? useful "° loil h r er. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from borne form of biliary poisoning, such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders. ’ uauiuuce '
, So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver that
l® re 13 a ? y faill ? re ? n th e part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labour of those* vital organs
vhich resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
H° 01 lvf VVould b , 6 «?? h ™ a n% if some medicine could be found
search 7or'ueha the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
ing a medicine which nrlpj devot ! ou ' vas eventually rewarded by their success in compound-
possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure
liver and a !, cas l B °, f functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and
due to the retention i,f V 3 ’f t - d °’ to j l . and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints
and lfver nSfrafiv ohm M ° f u " nary an< ] bd,ary Poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys
Cures effected bvWnrnßr’ ia «f S f t p G poisons ’ and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease,
ettected by Warner s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [l5.


A Vision of Empires.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One night across a magio glass
I saw the Shades of Empires pass;
The living, dying, and the dead—
A crown of gold on each proud head.
Egypt.
I wSls the Earliest of All;
I held the Israelites in thrall ;
I was the land of God and sage
Of high priest and of archimage.
My sphinx chat in the desert lies
Looks on the world with scornful eyes.
Assyria.
I watched the stars in Babylon,
And as a star my empire shone ;
And, in imperishable clay,
I wrote the story of my day.
Greece.
From Macedon to Ind I brought
The gift of beauty and of thought;
I brought the loveliness antique ;
I brought the glory that was Greek.
I civilised in subtle way
Barbaric tribes of yesterday ;
And what they have, and what they know,
From me they learnt—to me they owe.
Rome.
From East to West, I spread my wings;
My consuls trod on necks of kings.
The world whereinto I was born
Was as a land by torrents torn.
I sank deep down in that swamp-sea
The piles of my proud masonry.
The highest boast of highest men
Was then to be My Citizen.
Charlemagne.
I was Imperial Charlemagne;
I chased the Paynim back to Spain—
And, on my Aachen palace-dome,
I caught, and kept, the glow of Rome.
Attila. s
No grass grew where my horse-hoofs trod
And man named me “The Scourge of God,”
The Empire that I ruled has gone,
Like me, into oblivion.
Genghiz Khan.
My horsemen rode from Xanadu,
And slew and slew and always slew ;
They soaked in blood the marts of trade :
My Empire is the dust they made.
Timour.
I was the Wrath called Tamerlane
Let loose by God —and chained again.
But, when the time is ripe once more,
I shall be king and conqueror.
Arabia.
My Caliphs in Damascus had
Their throne; they reigned in fair Bagdad.
Dark Egypt knew their frown of fate ;
Granada saw their royal state ;
My Haroun paid with sacks of gold
My poets for the tales they told.
As though it were a baleful star
Men quaked who saw my scimitar.
Spain.
My arm was long, in long ago ;
It reached from Rome to Mexico.
The New World was for ages mine—
I am a warning and a sign.
France.
I rose from death ; I rose in fire—
A phoenix from a dreadful pyre ;
And over trembling Europe shone
The star of my Napoleon.
They said that with it proud romance
And high desires died —I am France !
Britain.
I am the Mistress of the Main,
A greater Carthage born again ;
The Sun in rising dares not lag,
For he must shine upon my flag.
In blood, in glory, and in trade
Were my secure foundations made.
All.
What grinning ape is this that comes,
With sound of trumpets and of drums,
To mar our state ? What monkey-man
Would join us now ?
Japan.
I am Japan !
(Inextinguishable laughter.)
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
The Children of the Sun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! Bulletin, you knew not what you did when
you published that cry, wrung from the heart of
an Australian woman, doomed to live out her life-
in the vast prison-house of London. Had you
guessed the anguish it would bring to the Children
of the Sun immured in that same dungeon, you
would have cast it to the flames, that its sad,
sweet beauty might have been annihilated ere it
bruised more hearts. For it returned to London,
and, in the sordid grey boarding-houses of the
Australian colony about Russell Square, brown-
faced men set their jaws bard and lied to bright-
eyed girls as they sought to hide their Bulletins
from them. But the girls found the papers, and
they found that sad half-column; and, in the
groups that gathered about the fires, they read it
out to one another until the bright eyes of the
girls were dimmed, and the print grew indefinite
as the street scene through the London fog. Then
they would be silent all, these Children of the
Sun. Their thoughts would be far from the dingy
lanes of Russell Square; they would.be living
again—yes, living—on the Riverina plains, on the
freen hills of Gippsland, on the blue bosom of the
[arbor. And they would pray to their God, their
father, the Sun —for they are all Zoroastrian by
religion, these Australians, claim what faith they
may—to provide them with an excuse for return-
ing to the land they love.
But the only excuse was a half-true confession
of failure. Lawson’s lines about the shame of
going back had sunk deeply into every breast.
They had started out so well, these brown-faced
men and bright-eyed girls. They had felt and
known that they could rise in their arts to the
level of the old world. They had been told —and
by those competent to judge—that they could sing
and act and paint and write as well as the men and
women to whom the old world bowed its hoary
head. But neither they nor their critics had seen,
beneath the gray hairs of the old world, its leering
eyes or its satyr’s grin. When they turned their
backs upon the land of the Sun, they did not
know that the Royal Road to Success in Europe
is a street; that the woman who would sell her
arts to the best advantage must first sell herself;
that the man must be possessed of a beautiful
wife or mistress, and be prepared to profit by it.
But they couldn’t tell Australia such a story.
It would appear the mere wild shriek of the
incompetent; that good work should be refused by
anyone would appear too ridiculous to be regarded
seriously by Australia. Who would credit them
if they related the truths of their London experi-
ences, in all their naked hideousness ?—the
brutalities of those who would buy, the crawling
servility attached to so many names which the
South revered as synonymous with success.
Australia would laugh if it was told that London
was the hell of the decent man or woman with
decent work to sell; the heaven of the perfumed
prostitute and the cultured pimp.
As the last word was read, they would say
nothing. The girls would walk silently out of
those dingy dining-rooms one by one and throw
themselves on their beds to cry themselves to
sleep, while the men would recall the oaths of
their land, which they had almost forgotten, to
curse to the lowest depths the land which had
tempted them from their own. And here and
there brown-faced men, or girls whose eyes
were once bright, would muffle themselves in
wraps, dash into, the muddy street, and make
their way up a dirty set of whitewashed steps to
ring a bell. Then another figure would emerge,
and the Children of the Sun, in couples, would
nestle under the one umbrella and wend their way
through the big black labyrinth to the gilded cafes
studded with incandescent lights, where European
civilisation takes its nightly pleasure. There
they would sit with their coffee before them, listen-
ing as the band played tunes that recalled to
them incidents of the golden past, and telling each
other every now and again stories of their distant
land. When together in their misery, they would
become almost happy, and the hard lines of the
man’s brown face would relax and the girl’s eyes
resume their brightness. They would sit back
watching the Daughters of the Fog—the cold,
beautiful Daughters of the Fog—sitting in hun-
dreds at little tables with belltoppered sensualists
—sipping their brandies and sodas and chaffering
like sharebrokers that they might secure the best
market for their virginity. The spectacle is sick-
ening to the Children of the Sun. They may be
lawless in their love themselves, but what they
give they will not sell. Here are Daughters of
the South who would achieve all they had hoped
for, did they choose to adopt the customs of the
Fog. But they choose to work and work and work,
trusting vainly for the opening that never comes.
And the love they will not sell, they give to the
brown-faced men at their sides. In their own
country, these eoup'eswould probably remain apart
for ever. In London they fly to one another with
irresistible attraction. As the last strains of
“ Hiawatha ” die away, they would look into each
other’s eyes and the answer would be waiting.
They would arise for the love of each other, for
the love of life, for the love of their native land,
and go out into the fog. . . .
And, if the brown face and the brown head
mingle into one blur of color, and the bright eyes
close finally with a kiss from loving lips, be not
too harsh in your judgment, oh ! Bulletin. They
are so very far from home, they are so unhappy.
And remember always that their father, the Sun,
has made his rays penetrate even into the hearts
of his children.
LONDON.
McG.
Loo of the Delusions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Loo was about the neatest thing possible in her
own line —viz., blue and gold ; but she had one
enormous failing—poor Loo was under the de-
lusion that all her male acquaintances suffered the
grand passio 1 for her ; otherwise, Loo made way
—amiable, cheeky, kittenish, and, above all else,
unburdened with brains.
Loo had been “ delusioning ” since her fifteenth
year, at which age she had started to read Mrs.
Hungerford’s romances, and not until she had
read Corelli’s did she show any signs of giving
over.
Her first adorer she believed to be her first
cousin Tom. At the age of 16 she approached
that relation, and with wet face implored him not
to care so much. Tom wanted to know what was
the game. No. 2 she considered was her brother’s
chum, Sam, a sandy stripling of 18. Sam blushed
for her when she mentioned the facts that he
loved her, and that his passion was hopeless. He
even was so confused that lie mentioned in his
mutterings something about “ hoping so.” At the
end of the interview, Loo praised Sam for hiding
his feelings so nobly.
Loo improved her mind from this Onward with
the Family Herald. Then at 22 she continued her
delusions. About this time sister Ella brought
back a husband from S’Africa, and Loo’s worst
suspicions were confirmed when, on leaving,
Archie kissed her good-bye. That morning
she went over to see her friend Nance, and told
the pitiful tale of how she had used every entreaty
to persuade Archibald to take Ell i back to Africa —
and try to forget Ella’s unhappy sister.
At 25 Loo took to Corelli, and at 27 she
1-1-oathed men and became honorary sec. to a
society of Esoteric Buddhists.
It was at ten-and twenty (true, I have only
16-year-old Muriel’s word for it) that I, aged 40,
met Loo. And now, at 50, poor simple girlish
Loo cherishes the delusion that I, her husband,
am still the lover.
OCTOPUS.
“Gilrooney”: Interesting to notice the
spelling—or rather the mis-spelling—of the
necessary “Licensed to Retail Fermented and
Spirituous Liquor ” over the bar doors of bush
hotels. One can nearly bet his life on either the
“licensed” or the “spirituous” being spelt in-
correctly ; or, if both of these obstacles have been
safely surmounted, it’s odds on that the “ liquor ”
is the stumbling block. The Alien Restriction
officials should ask the “undesirable” to write
out this apparently simple sentence.
Ulcerated
Seven Years.
MANY TREATMENTS PROVED USELESS.
“ mjy T HILE working on the Spring Creek
Ww Diggings,” says Mr. J. B. Harpur, of
* * Carthage-street, Tamworth, N.S.W.,
“ a particle of stone flew and struck me on the face.
The wound became ulcerated, exuded a continual
flow of matter, and would not heal. The wound
remained thus for about seven years, although
during that time I applied many ointments and
lotions advertised, but which failed entirely.
Zam-Buk was brought under my notice, and X
purchased a pot. The result of the first few appli-
cations was a revelation of Zam-Buk’s healing and
soothing qualities, and before the pot was finished
the wound was quite healed. I will never miss an
opportunity of recommending Zam-Buk as 1 an
invaluable healing balm.”
o *
ZAM-BUK, the Great Herbal Healing Balm, is a certain cure for PILES, RING-
WORM, ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, BARCOO, RHEU-
MATISM, NEURALGIA, etc. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES
and TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is unequalled. Asa
HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES,' SUNBURN,
FRECKLES, PRICKLY HEAT, BLACKHEADS, SORE FEET and ROUGH
SKIN, ZAM-BUK is invaluable. From all medicine vendors, PRICE Is. Gd., or
3s. 6d. LARGE POT (containing nearly four times the quantity), FOR GENERAL
FAMILY USE, or direct from THE ZAM-BUK CO., Pitt-street, Sydney.
A Free Trial Pot
sent you
to cover
on receipt of a
return postage.
penny
. Ad-
dreas The Zam-Bulc Manufacturing Co., Pitt-street, Sydney, and mention The Bulletin.
%
%
63
M
m
HEALING
SOQTHINt*. ANTISEPTIC
'|| j|§ | p ayaW I
- *
m
' -:'
Mi
:< £&
••• : •.
. SKs
M
■
•s
■
H
H
: -. :^
i
■
Si
■
SSS®
■
»
II
CENTURI
AX\^X\X\\\X\X\\\XXvm\X\\X\V
m.
m
m
m
Wik
mil


For Old and Young
Public School Teacher 30 Years. Overworked. Completely Pros-
trated. How to Get Strong and Well.
m
[o
«
Ft
Mr. H. C. Bret-
tell, Kozelle-Bal-
main, N. S. W.,
sends the photo-
graph of himself
and grand chil-
dren, and says:
“As a result of
overwork I be-
came completely
prostrated.
Friends advised
me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I did
so, and before the
first bottle was
used I was able
to get up and
dress myself. Be-
fore I had used
three bottles my
appetite had re-
turned; and I was able to walk freely. Whenever I feel poorly I take a few
doses of Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and Jam all right again. I have been a public
school teacher for more than thirty years, and I can truthfully say that I
believe Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is as good for the young as for the aged.”
This testimonial tells two remarkable things about Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
First, that it will cure people when they are very ill indeed, “completely
prostrated,” as Mr. Brettell says. It also tells how valuable a medicine it is
when one is not very ill, simply “feeling poorly.” The reason for this is
because Ayer’s Sarsaparilla goes right to the foundation of things. In every
case it first removes all impurities from the blood, and then renews and
builds it up. This brings good appetite, sound digestion, strong nerves, and
robust health. ' .
It is “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla you want, not some new, untried kind. Get
the old, genuine, original Sarsaparilla, “Ayer’s.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Prepared by DK. J. C. AYEE CO.. Lowell, Mass., U. S, A.
Adelaide has minor streets called Regent-
street and Chancery-lane, and you sometimes
come across quite an insignificant alley boasting
the name of a famous thoroughfare. The most
popular names for streets in the Holy City run :
George (17), Victoria (16), Albert (15), John (13),
Elizabeth and Rose (11 each). Wellingtons and
Nelsons are scattered round. There is already a
Mafeking Hero hotel, but no streets called like
that. As there seems to be some doubt whether
there was a Mafeking hero after all, perhaps it is
just as well.
“ Bill ” : .Please let me fire a shot at that
cursed spiked contrivance yclept a dock. It is a
f>J®|ter danger to a prisoner’s liberty than a jury
of Wesleyans. It insinuates to the small-brained
P u hh can-grocer jury that the prisoner sitting
behind is a ferocious ruffian and a danger to
society, and the impression sticks. If it is only
used to prevent a prisoner escaping, why not
chain his leg to a staple in the floor; the j.ury
0 l u (d not notice that. Even Dill Macky, sitting
behind the bars squinting to see if there was a
friend on the jury, would look a first-class tough,
I suggest that all docks be removed and used to
protect small trees planted in parks by dukes and
mayors; and that prisoners be gummed to the
Court floor or fixed in some way that wouldn’t
make them look like caged lions.
A London paper gushes over the Imperial
powers of King Ned :
As supreme head of the army, his Majesty could dis-
band it by dismissing every soldier. In the same way he
could disband the navy, and sell the ships and stores,
ne could make every man, woman, and child in the realm
a peer. He could dismiss Parliament arid summon a
chimney sweep to be his Prime Minister. He could
pardon and liberate every criminal in the gaols, and,
legally every foot of ground in the Empire and the
minerals underneath are his.
And, withal, Ned ambles along happily, setting
the fashion in vests and making immutable laws
as to trouser-creases.
FURNITURE
The Greatest Furniture Warehouse
in the Commonwealth.
Tonito 6the LARGEST and Most UP
TO-DATE FURNITURE WAREHOUSE in Australasia
OUR TERMS are the LOWEST IN SYDNEY. At th»
guarantee all our Goods Perfectly NEW
SOUND, and of the LATEST DESIGNS.
Every Household Requisite Kept.
All Goode Marked in PLAIN PIQURBB.
£ s. d.
To 7 10 0
12 10 0
17 10 0
22 10 0
30 0 0
40 0 0
50 0 0
80 0
90 0
100 0
.TERMS..
Deposit.
7/6
10/-
- 12/6
„ 15/-
- £1
« £2
.. £5
.~ £6
, .. £7
£8
£9
£lO
Weekly
Instalments.
2/6
4/-
5/-
6/0
8/-
10/-
12/6
16/-
17/6
20/-
22/6
25/-
PIANOS, £2 DEPOSIT, and 5/- PER WEEK.
Should the above Terms not suit you, Special Anum
ments can be made at the Warehouse. «wo|je
Marcus Clark & Co. if-
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTORS,
3XTBWTOWKT.
Branches: North Sydney, Waverley & Newcastle.
OUP
CO-OPERATIVE COUPONS
GIVEN FREELY
On all CASH Purchases.
The fact that there have befen few letters
to the papers lately advocating flogging is
explained by the fact that the gruesome old band
of floggers is now fully occupied writing down
“socialistic legislation.”
“ Atria ” : There is nothing hiirried about
South’stralia’s narrow-gauge railways. Travelling
once with a friend, train stopped 20 minutes for
refreshments. We were the only passengers in-
dulging in the “set dinner,” which we finished in
under 15 minutes. Sat talking and wondering
why 5-minutes bell didn’t ring. Lit our pipes and
waited another 15 minutes. Then guard poked
his head in the doorway and asked if we were
nearly ready, as he was thinking Of making a
start ! '
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
Freely stated that G. H. Reid will neither
vote nor “ pair ” on the critical division in regard
to the Arbitration Bill. He anticipates that the
Government will be defeated, and that, if he has
not voted with the Government, the Governor-
General may be bamboozled by the Foreign-trade
press into sending for him. If Yes-No’s fol-
lowers own any sort of a dog-chain that will hold
him they should make him face the division and
vote one way or the other.
The Federal Labor party, it is stated, will
leave the Iron Bonus Bill as an “open question ”
this session. Labor members will thus be free to
vote for a bonus to iron works, whether founded
by a State or by a private co. (under proper wage
conditions,). The Bill, therefore, is likely to go
through without the proviso that the manufacture
must be a State monopoly.
What is the awakened Seddon going to clo
now about Grattan Grey, the chief of M.L. Han-
sard staff whom Richard sacked for his written
protests against the S’African war ? When the
blood-blind Seddon jumped on him just over four
years ago, at the start of the trouble, Grey wrote
to Seddon setting out a view of the situation
which events have supported up to the hilt. Now
he writes again :
Can the fiercest Jingo now deny the absolute truth of
what I wrote foUr years ago? The “poor Uitlanders”
have not got the franchise yet, the conquered territories
(Crown colonies) now are run by a gang of alien boodlers,
whose puppet Milner is, and they are threatened with an
inundation of Pagan hordes in order that white labor
may be squeezed out and these financial ruffians may the
more speedily add to their ill-gotten gains by the em-
ployment of colored people to work their mines.
Again, what is Seddon going to do ? For, as an
honorable man, he must do something.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
tin i pies, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
gurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Said, that the Admiral on the Australasian
station doesn’t like Maoriland as a cruising ground
for his slatey-brown fleet. The Maoriland er is a
oanny, inquiring, pass-remarks-able person who, in
order to see how much is solid steel and how much
Saint, pokes the finger of inquiry into the naval
efence for which he planks down his bawbees.
Maoriland folks take the navy seriously, and trip
np the officers with technical questions about their
work, the range of guns, and so on. Commander
Stagger was once quite stunned when a little
Auckland girl wanted to know how many knots
his good ship Clampherdown could steam if the
Russian squadron chased him. Even the wharf-
lumper scans the head of a captain or lieutenant
in search of intellect, and looks as if he almost had
doubts about the blessed squadron. Also, there
is a stormy sea thereabouts, and if there is any-
thing that is calculated to spoil an expensive
naval uniform it is to have the sickening, stormy
sea slopping on board.
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS cleanse and invigorate the stomach
and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while
pills are more harsh in effect «nd their use is
usually followed by constipation.*
None can have a Well-balanced
Constitution without taking
BEECHAM’S PIUS
All people subject to Bilious attacks,
or who suffer from Stomachic disorders,
should never be without a box of
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
Their gigantic success and genuine worth are known
all over the world, and the proof of their excellence lies in
the fact that they are generally adopted as the Family
Medicine after the first trial.
'S
by their purifying effect upon the Blood, cleanse and vivify
the entire system, causing every organ of the body health-
fully to continue its allotted function, thereby inducing a
perfectly balanced condition, and making life a pleasure.
BEECHAM’S FILLS maintain their reputation for
keeping people in Good Health and Good Condition.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have stood the test of the most
exacting experience through many years.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price Is. l£d. (56 Pills)
and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills).
[6]
Shooters obtain the most satisfactory results by using
MEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
and U.M.C. AMMUNITION,
S 3»
ORDER
AND ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE*
b
S
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CAJttD.
Dr.MARTIN
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P..E., L.R.0.5..E.,
L.F.TO.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Van-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Soiatiea, Javer
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation foe a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate. .
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS’—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St*.
CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention tbh paper when writing


TWO SPLENDID
OILSKINS -
The best that were ever
made—best In all respects.
They’re made on honor and
have our reputation beh'nd
them. Powerful, yet light
as silk, and give more wear.
The “ DUGONG,” light weight - - - -
The “RAINBOW,” medium weight- -
SEND FOE FEEE BOOKLET (Illustrated).
20/-
15/6
PERDRIAU & CO., Merchants,
ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
-270 George St., Sydney.
'■'* ‘■' ' n 'l ii _< '".y’.
W
Mustek';
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and serni-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Tour own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUCC
and
Is. Id.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTH INGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Compound Jet Condensing Pumping Engine.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd. London.
Warren Webster & Co. New Jersey.
ENQUIRIES INVITED EOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Pocket-Knives,
—*
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
CoW£
Mbb
WOLF
or
I. ft J. MAXFIELD t>roprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showroom*—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“TBCII BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
*7-1 Clarence St., Sydney.
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturievant Ore Rolls and Crushers.
Record SHAFT SINKING in Australia
The shaft of the Queen Central Block Co., Charters Towers, was sunk a distance of 336 feet in thirteen weeks ; or, at the rate
of 26 feet per week. A depth of 140 feet (from 404 to 544 feet) was put down in four weeks and 31 feet timbered (slabbed) in
addition. The size of the shaft is 15 feet by 4 feet 6 inches, and the formation granite. This performance constitutes a record in
shaft sinking in Australia.
FOUR INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILLS Of the D 9 TYPE were used in sinking this shaft, and the men
worked three shifts, each shift doing 42 hours per week.
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT ROCK DRILLS AND AIR COMPRESSORS hold the highest average records throughout
the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain
their reputation for doing the most work at the least expense.
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILL CO., NEW YORK.
.a.ghbvet'X's—
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd., 60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Mining: and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
T. M. GOODALL & CO., ™ hay st., sydhey
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE-
Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
v
HE
m
•Size, si" x 31" x 6".
are
and have
for Sale —
xiidna mons
PUMPS
(all sis«*
for all
purpoM*}
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLA.RBKTCB STREET, S'STDKriS'Sr. V _
NOTHING EQUALS, m
METAL SOLARINE POLISH
For GLEANING GOLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL, TIN, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and LESS MATERIAL THAN ANY OTHER POLISH
ON THE MARKET. Sample Tins on application.
Sole Agents:
71 Clarence Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
