

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB'S JttUiVl.
. m, ifi
M
M
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
■i
Application.
Met
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for 010 and YOUNG, y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size —causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack' of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box % P. 0., Haymarket.
M
New York Novelty p
710 George S V
M
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
‘ <GHr«.xxc3. J=»jr±ac, ,? 3
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
•aria, 1800.
GIBSON,
— um p THE WORLD'S RECORD
cwnucv
„ t 85 Pitt Street, SlUNtl>
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
A POLICY
THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
, TTQBART.
—— ~
[jadleys Orient fiotel.
-ELQMEER
M
LEATHER
!■» JI CXrl
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St.,
(ftexi vJOtlciA' ‘ (mio
r.
LOWEST PRICE.
HIGHEST
TRAVELLING REPRESENTATIVE 18 NOW IN
N.S.W.
M
11 to
fm
m
358&*
Jat. Me Ewan & Co, Ltd.
Melbourne.
Briscoe & Co., Ltd.
Sydney.
Forwood Down & Co., Ltd.
Adelaide.
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smellier & Co.,
Brisbane,
The National Mortgage & Agency Co., Ltd.
Dunedin.
LINCOLN,
ENGLAND.
a:
E ROOMS
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa.
China and Ceylon
on
%
. -
and used bv all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports deaWs,
and merchants are invited to write for trftuS terms.
a
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, UIDI*.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
M
the world-renowned
Ediswan - Lamp.
M
M
ECONOMY IN -
- - dCRRENT
EONG LIFE.
i ij.WiiU ■
Equality 6f Light,
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TBimoflftM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltl
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrittgt6n»stre6l»
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street, krisbane.
THE
:K$K
PLUM
M
M
p ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding; Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
D /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
Frick Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sold Agentss CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
M
Price Is. Id.
Post Free.
M
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Colonial Hospital writes : “Our patients have
greatly benefited by the use of Joshuas
Boomerang Brandy. It js a very Nourishing
and Beneficial Stimulant.”
M
ALCOCIDE
U*33GISXJffiRI£D. y
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
An 1 lIM aiFN 74 VICTORIA ROAD,
■ u. Lunuucn, auburn, Melbourne.
%
"23-
o
Rflc
ock>
M
£5
C-5
HERVEYS
RACKAROCK.
18 Tears Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
M
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ELDBIDGE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
Ittftrtncis' throughout Gremt Britain mnd CtUnttss
M
taken from the System.
Nothing remain* 'which can
l produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return ot
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination audre-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerve*
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. Harold Hayes’ Asthmatic Institute.
Buffalo, N. Y„ D. S. A.
MEMO. FOR 1904 J “AUT helidon AUT NULLUS.”
■* n »ii i ' "i ■■■ ii" ‘asaggSM
The Bulletin
Vol 25.—N0. 1252.]
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsp*»pofc
[Thursday, February 11, 1904.


Boor trade Hdoertisement.
THE LATEST
AT
Geo. Robertson
Scouller (J.), The Law of Evolution, 4s, postage 6d-
Bauer, Precious Stones, 50s, p. Is Sri.
Burnand’s Recollections, 2 Vols., 10s 6d, p. Is 2d.
Ritchie, The Truthful Liar, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Moore (F.E.), Dr. Glennie’s Daughter, 2s 6d &3s fid, p. 6d.
Phillpotts, The Golden Fetish, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Ss,ton, Marine Engineering, 15th Edt., 255, postage Is.
Herring, Urethral Instruments, ss, p. 6d.
Williamson, The Woman Who Dared, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
The Great Reconciler, by Author of Miss Molly, 2s 6d &
3s 6d, p. Gd. Wilson, Freehand Lettering, 5s 6d, p. 7d.
Dickens, David Copperfield, Soho Edt., 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Send to us for any Booh or Mayasine you Want.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaida, Brisbane & London.
©
STE
The New
Australian
Publication.
MA6AZINC.
' Full Number for February, 1904.
72 Pages Reading Matter.
SOME OF THE CONTENTS:
1. Sandy’s Selection (Some Neigh-
bours) Steele Bod'd
2. Sandy s Selection (Another
Loss) „ I,
3. Going on the Land (in Verse)... „ „
4. Humours of the Civil Service „ „
5. Out-Back Realities „
6. Drought Idyll (A Poem) Geo. Essex Evans
7. Whaffor? (A Humorous Story) “Tar Boy”
' 8. A Character Sketch “FideLio”
9. The Drift of Australian
Politics... ... P. AiriN (Peter Luftig)
10. Under the Microscope. .. ... “ Microbe ”
11. Patriotic Day (A Sketch) Will Crawford
12. Tassie’s Incubus (A Story) ... “Palute”
13. Humours of the Aborigine ... A. Meston
, ( ’ .. Etc., Etc.
With Illustrations by E. ASHTON MURPHY
and G£p. TAY.OR.
Bubscription--6/- delivered, or 6/6 posted,
per annum, payable in advance.
+
FORM OF ORDER.
To the Steele Rudd Co., Ltd.,
39 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Enclosed please find Postal Note , value 6/6, for
which please forward The Steele Rudd Maga-
zine to the following address for 12 months
Name
Cbe Bulletin Postcards.
In three series of ten subjects each. Series I, Designs
by Phil May. Series 11, Designs by “ Hop.” Series 111,
Designs by Australian Illustrators.
Price Id. each card ; lOd. each series of ten cards ; 2s. 6dJ
the set of three series. From all Bulletin agents and
booksellers, or posted direct from The Bulletin office.
Thirty comical and interesting pictures. Tlu
best possible Australian cards for friendly greeting.
Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd v , Sydney and Brisbane.
George Robertson Proprietary Co., Ltd., Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Robt. A. Thompson & Co.. Melbourne and Adelaide.
Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
M
A. The Larykx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTNOL JUJUBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
1/fi nr from Manufacturer G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of
Depot: *& 7 Queen's. Place.. Agencies in all Australian States, N.Z., and 320 Regent-st., W„ London.
THE RED PAGE.
TO A PAPER KNIFE.
My paper knife, for twenty years
You ’ve worked, in bards and sages ;
Those whom the Fate’s abhorred shears
Have slit—you ’ve slit their pages.
I often wish you could reveal
If, pressed on your employment.
Your smooth, page-polished blade can feel
Professional enjoyment.
Poes hand-made paper give you pride?
Do you enjoy your mission
When over watermarks you glide
In some select edition ?
Plague on the binder’s guillotine
That shaves a good book's edges:
'T is joy to peer and peep betiveen,
Dike Pan among the sedges —
To cut, and taste, and cut again,
• And gossip with the pages;
To pick out—here a sweet refrain,
There echoes from the ages...
Old f riendships fade, old pleasures pale,
Flies creep in love’s own ointment;
Our joy burns steadily through all
And brings least disappointment.
D. B.
Canada and the New Imperialism.
[Under this title E. Farrer contributes to January
Contemporary Review a significant article that should be
read and pondered in entirety- and applied to Australia.
There is here space tor a few excerpts only.]
~W~N discussing the relations, existing or pro-
I posed, between England and her Colonies,
. 1.. Englishmen are apt to take for granted that
the people of the Colonies are Englishmen
like themselves, an error which probably accounts
for their frequent inability to understand the
Colonial attitude on such questions One can
confidently affirm that the native Canadian of
British origin is a very different person, in physical
and mental outfit, from the average Englishman.
The descendants of the U.E. loyalists who fled to
Canada at the Revolution are, naturally, much
more like-the present-day American ; in fact, are
not. to be distinguished. from him. The native
Canadian of German or Pennsylvania Dutch
descent has little in common with the modern
Englishman ; while the French Canadians, who
constitute one-third of the population, have
nothing at a 11....
At any rate, the French Canadians will never
accept the programme of the New Imperialism,
which, as they understand it, aims to uproot little
nationalities like theirs within the Empire, and
turn us all into uncompromising Englishmen;
which would certainly diminish their autonomy
and force them, natives of the New World, to
fight the battles of the Old, as their ancestors had
to do when Canada belonged to France... To
suppose that he would voluntarily return to that
form of slavery and serve England whenever she
saw fit to summon him against Germany, Russia,
or France ... is, according to his way of thinking,
as wild a dream as ever entered an Englishman’s
head.
Imperialist journals in England blame Sir
Wilfrid Laurier for refusing on behalf of Canada
to contribute to the Imperial army and navy. Sir
Wilfrid knows that to do so would be to ruin his
party in Quebec, to leave it probably without a
single seat of the 65 which that Province possesses
in the Dominion Parliament. .. Sir Wilfrid is
aware, of course, that the English-speaking Pro-
vinces are almost as much opposed to the New
Imperialism as Quebec —those Provinces , un-
doubtedly contain persons ready to go any length
in that direction, but these persons are not nume-
rous, and do not carry much weight; probably 75
per cent, of * the English-speaking Canadians
throughout the country would resist any attempt
to narrow the sphere of Canadian self-government,
or to place on our backs any portion of the burden
of Imperial armaments.
In the future, no doubt, a change in our
relations with England will become necessary.
As Napoleon, discoursing of the American
Revolution, said to Colonel Wilks at Saint Helena,
“ a day comes when the boy must cease to sleep
with his mother ”...
What have Canadians [Australians] profited by
the recent wars of England—by any war, in fact,
which she has waged r-ince she became a people ?
If it be said that at all events the British Navy
protects Canadian shipping, the answer is, with
all respect, that it does not. Were Canadian
shipping sunk in the Atlantic to-morrow, the
British Navy would not be reduced by a single
vessel. Canadian shipping and Canadian terri-
tory are liable to attack only because of our con-
nection with Britain... ,
d*
One t>f the fundamental mistakes they [lm-
perialists] make is in assuming that, given a
preference in Britain, the, colonies would be glad
to make large concessions to the British manu-
facturer. lam certain that Canada, for one,
would not. When the preferential system was in
force before, the cry was that the Canadians were
mere delvers and grubbers of raw material for the
British artisan; whereas our neighbours, with
their protective tariff, were establishing factories
of their own, and becoming a powerful nation in
consequence. There were few factories in Canada
then, none of the tariff-born, tariff-bred, tariff-fed
sort; and, as I say, the objection was that the
preferential policy, by letting in British goods at
a low rate of duty, kept us from having any.
To-day we have some thousands of factories,
great and small, which, the owners declare, have
not sufficient protection as it is against British
goods, because the present Government admits
such goods 33J per cent, below those levied on
similar wares coming from foreign countries.
Let Sir Wilfrid Laurier propose a more sub-
stantial preference for British exports, and the
cry will at once be raised that Canadian interests
are being sacrificed ; that we are being thrown
back to the pastoral stage of existence for the
benefit of Manchester and Birmingham ; that our
first duty is not to Englishmen 3000 miles away,
but to the Canadians who are being driven across
the line because of the demolition of Canadian
industries, and 500 n...
Let us imagine, however, that the Canadian
manfacturer was ready to sacrifice himself for the
freater glory of the Empire ; the next step would
e for Britain to name the Canadian articles that
should receive preferential treatment. Depend
on it, she would not be allowed free choice;
Canada would have a voice or know the reason
why. Wheat alone would not satisfy us. The
North-West is the only part of Canada which
grows wheat _ for export in any considerable
quantity, and its population is but an eighth of the
whole. Ontario, the chief manufacturing Pro-
vince, the Province, therefore, that would
be hit hardest by a further reduction of
duties in favour of Britain, would demand
a preference for staple exports like cattle and
beef, bacon and meats, eggs, peas, -fruit, hay,
cheese and butter, pine lumber, etc.; Quebec
would demand one for spruce, potatoes, sheep and
lambs; British Columbia for canned salmon and
lead ; the Maritime Provinces for deals, cod, coal
and iron ; No doubt the other Colonies would
push their claims in the same vigorous fashion,
Australia asking for a preference for wool and
wine, the West Indies for sugar, Ceylon for tea,
Newfoundland for herring, together with bounties
on cod, to enable her to compete with the bounty-
fed cod of the Miquelon. It is not too much to
say that the British consumer would have his
hands full, especially as the self-governing Colonies.
would be sure to back their demands with threats
to secede from the Empire if he refused to imitate
the example of the fabled pelican that fed its
young upon its own entrails...
■ .■■ , . : '-i
The whole theory of the New Imperialism rests
upon the flimsiest sort of underpinning. In the
first place, the notion of a federated Empire, of a
permanent union between the Mother Country
and the Colonies, is based on the unsafe doctrine
of “ once a Colony always a Colony ” ; on the
supposition that Canada [Australia], for instance,
is never to enter up'on full national life, but is to
remain, what she is now, an imperfectly-developed
organism... The boy is to remain a page dedicated
to the service of his master; is never to become
his own master or serve himself and his native
land with individual loyalty...
They have an idea, too, that by distributing
title's—the K.C.M.G. invented originally for the
people of the lonian Islands —they can plant an
aristocracy there that will overawe the rough, raw
and democratic Canadian farmer and lead him,
like a little child, to the altar of Jingo . . .
Emerson has told us that such things belong to
the age of ochre and tattooing. Canadians do not
at all feel proud when they see their knights
masquerading in Windsor uniform by the side of
plain Mr. Roosevelt or plain John Hay ; it jars
our self-respect to think that the Sovereign, or
rather the Colonial Office, which is the real
fountain of honour, rates our intelligence so low.
And when we reflect on the career of some of the
Canadian [Australian] politicians knighted in
times past—l say nothing of living knights—we
are reminded of the old lines :
L’histoire dit qu’autrefois
On pendait les voleurs a la croix;
Aujourd'hui les temps sont meilleurs,
On pend les croix a des voleurs.
Imperialists imagine also that, her political
development having been arrested by artificial
restrictions, Canada [Australia] will part with
her hard-won right of self-government, and, in
consideration of a trade preference, allow Eng-
land, as before, to adjust her tariff in the interest
of the British manufacturer. This accomplished,
she will be in the right frame of mind to share
responsibilities which she* did not incur and
which were not incurred in her behalf ; to saddle
herself witli taxes to be spent by Englishmen in
Imperial wars, and even to send her young men
to fight side by side with the professional soldiers
of Britain, who, British experts declare, are
lacking in intelligence, under the direction
of British generals and War Secretaries
of whom the less said the better. And we
are to pursue this oversea career, whilst
out neighbours to the south are draining
us of our over-taxed native population and
attracting foreign labour and capital which
otherwise might have come our way, not for any
good to ourselves, but in order to defend and
extend an Empire which, outside the British
Islands, is as much an abstraction, a mere name,
to the Canadian'[Australian] people as the Roman
Empire of the planet Mars...
The thing that concerns us Canadians
[Australians] is that we are satisfied with the exist-
ing connection with Britain, but are not going to
permit the new Imperialists to degrade us, to take
away any portion of our self-government—not
even the right to do wrong to ourselves ; and cer-
tainly we are not at this day going to break with
the faith and traditions of the New World so far
as to serve as mercenaries in the Old. Our ambi-
tion, indeed, lies in quite another direction. We
hope to grow in wisdom and stature and in favour
with God and man, so that when the. time comes
for us to proclaim our independence, we may start
in the path of industry and peace, and continue
therein to our own ad vantage and the honour of
the Anglo-Saxon name.
MEMORANDA
There is promise in Fred Booty’s drawings for
Perth Spectator . . . S. M. Herald commences a con-
tributor’s series of intelligent articles on education,
containing the notions that did not get into its leaders.
. . “ She was always a cross between tears and the tea-
pot,” writes L L. Lynch . . . “Concerning Blucher and
Waterloo, a German newspaper doubts ‘ whether the
British know their own history.’ May we plead in
excuse” (retorts Lond. Globe) " that so much of British
history has been written abroad? ”
There is a pleasant story of Queen Victoria’s
Prince Consort—that excellent German—in the recently-
published reminiscences of Victor Horsley, R.A. Land-
seer, the artist, used frequently to visit Balmoral and
give his talents to immortalising more than one royal
stallion or pedigreed puppy-dog. He made himself agree-
able with anecdotes of which the Queen never tired. One
evening the Prince had had enough, and suggested that
the hour for bed had come. The Queen wanted one more
story. The Prince “ leaned back with an air of resigna-
tion,’’ and Landseer went on to narrate how one day on
the moors a friend of his wagered that he would send his
collie away with sleeper, then hide a 5?.-note, call the
dog to heel and tell him to find the note. “Did he do
so?” asked the Queen. “Well, your Majesty, not the
note, but he brought back five sovereigns in change.”
The Queen “laughed heartily,”'the Prince “gently
smiled.” Half an hour later, to the Prince Consort’s
“ evident relief,” Landseer went to his room. When un-
dressing there was a lap at the door, and one of the
gentlemen-in-waiting came in with a message to tell
Landseer from the Prince that the Queen had not believed
the story of the 5?.-note.
Chambers’s Cyclopedia of English Literature is
a students’ classic ; and it is to regret, therefore, that the
third volume of the new edition is unsatisfactory. With
few exceptions (James Douglas should be mentioned), the
notices of modern authors show little trace of distin-
guished or illuminating criticism : the editor has too
often taken refuge in vague commonplaces and the
colourless nullities of women or hacks. Lucid and in-
spiring criticism is rarely found in England : still, it is
not precisely unattainable ; and, with trouble and ex-
pense no greater than the use and reputation of the work
warrant, the Cyclopedia could have given us a series of
succinct models of critical biography. Four pages only
are devoted to an incomplete and unintelligent survey
of Australasian literature—not without blunders of
fact and inference. Nobody nowadays calls Harpur “ the
Australian Wordsworth.” It is disputable whether
“Gordon's verse is oftenest on Australian lips.” We
read that “George Egerton ’•’ is “cosmopolitan in his
works,” though two pages later the pen-name is properly
credited to Mrs. Golding Bright. Space is given to J. F.
Hogan, E. W. Hornung, Hume Nisbet, Fergus Hume,
and K. L. Stevenson—whose connection with Australian
literature is of the slightest, while a score of really im-
portant and really Australian writers are omitted. F. W.
L. Adams is not “best known for an autobiographical
novel, Leicester" —which is now issued as A Child of the
Age. Gordon’s S.A. experience is confused with his Vic-
torian experience. For the loose statement that “ from
a lawyer’s office in Sydney Henry passed to a clerkship in
the Government service ” should have been substituted a
reference to Kendall’s debt to Michael. The statement
that Kendall “did not prosper in business with his
brothers” is a misunderstanding of his relations
with the Fagan brothers. The notice of Kendall, as
a whole, displays ignorance. And so on. The com-
piler of the Australasian section appears to have relied
on the material gathered for Chambers’s Biographical
Dictionary, and the result is quite without authority.
Occasionally correspondents ask what is meant
by “ the modern note.” It was struck when three dozen
press-cutting agents wrote to King Peter of Servia, offer-
ing for a trifle to supply him with everything printed con-
cerning the sudden death of his unlamented predecessor.
When the monarch accepted the offer of a Berne firm,
and became the meditative possessor of 22,000 clippings,
bound in three magnificent morocco volumes, that was
the modern tdp-note.
Of Mme. Curie, famous as the discoverer of
marvellous radium, Mrs. Crawford tells Truth, that “ Her
complexion is that of a dingy blonde who has long known
privations, and has often not been able to dine according
to her appetite or warm herself at a good fire.” -Thus
does one woman, brushing aside foolish male irrele-
Vancies, get at the Hoot of the Matter with another
woman.
Sydney Public Library has completed a subject-
index of the books catalogued from 1809 to 1895—a
laborious and useful task, covering a million entries and
involving special research. The’ Service to students is
great; and the index on the whole is creditable to
the compilers. One thing that strikes a reader is the
mass of rubbish that the library has accumulated. A
second is the number of books wanting in
the Australian section : many of these will be
doubtless supplied by the Mitchell gift. The volume is
disfigured by far too many misprints—due. apparently,
to this catalogue having been based upon others, without
verificatory reference to the volumes indexed. For
example, Black Country Poems is printed for Back
Country Poems, by S. W. Foss (663); two books in three
lines are accredited to “D.B.W,” and “ P.W.B.” Sladen
(661); Poems, by “C. Harper” should presumably read
“ Harpur,” and ‘Domett’s Ranolf and Amohia figures as
Omohia (665); and so on by scores of less or greater
moment.
Announced that “the Postmaster-General has
decided to offer in each State premiums of 12 1. 10s., 5 1.,
and 31. for designs for pictorial post-cards. The views are
to be typically Australian, and are to be illustrative of
special features in the wav of scenery, products, or in-
dustries. The prizes are to be awarded to the three best
selections of twelve views in each State.” That ap-
parently confines the competition to photographers. For
“designs” the premiums should be«;four .times the
amount stated.
Lond. Times (or the American syndicate that
used Lond. Times as mouthpiece) closed its “ Encyclo-
paedia” sale at the year-end. Altogether, 60,000 sets are
reported sold—3,750 sets being debited to Australia.
The Publisher’s Circular estimates the turn-over at
1,100,000?., arid the profit at over 400,000?. T) is was
earned by newspaper advertisements costing 268,000?.,
and by ingenious circulars “ personally smeared” for
every recipient. The Times itself, in a lengthy and
pompous apologia pro encyclopedia sua, relates how the
packing-eases used, if put in a heap, would tower higher
than S. Paul’s Cathedral. “ Suffice it to say that
altogether over 500,000 goats have been requisitioned,”
adds the late “ Thunderer ” innocently.
The papers which got “ Encyclopaedia ” adver-
tisements held their tongues. Tbe papers which didn’t
get advertisements talked like this f The Outlook, t)ec. 26):
“That John Bull’s good should turn unsports-
manlike, greedy, gullible, weak is bad enough, but not so
bad as that the Times should turn tout and wheedle and
jabbej and gloze like the ‘ gentleman ’ in a shiny frock-
coat and an oily top-hat who cajoles a scared kitchen-
maid into signing a paper for a sewing-machine. At this
moment there are thousands of poor clerks and unsuc
cessful professional men whose wives must mend and
darn the many-times darned and mended one time, three
fjmes,'ten times more because purses which have not been
-'wbnttospffirfcen shillings a year for hooks must screw
out a guinea a month for a work which is two-thirds
obsolete. For it is to he noted in passing that, had the
Times been indeed a patron of learning and letters, the
amount spent in thrustingupbn the pvtbli?. an old book
would have sufficed for the production-of .a genuine Tenth
Edition of the ‘ Encyclopedia Britanriica ’ which would
have been both a service to scholars and a fountain of
profit to the Times."
It appears that in the last' ten'years 10,116?. of
taxpayers’ money has been paid in subsidy to Sydney
School of Arts. This is one of the educational leaks that
ought to be stopped. The “ School of Arts ” serves little
purpose beyond providing cheap fiction for the suburbs:
last year’s issue of fiction and “light literature” was 93
per cent, of the total library issue. Suburbanites ought
to buy their own fiction : it is cheap enough ; and the
annual subsidy of 1000?. should be given to the Public
Library, which needs it badly—or devoted to general
education work. The hundred or so “ students ” in the
fifteen thinly-attended commercial classes —the institu-
tion’s poor plea of useful return for-money given—should
be directed to Sydney Technical College under Govt,
■control, ox to the private commercial schools. When
one considers how badly money is needed in N.S.W.
Education Dept., it seems monstrous that the sub-
scribers of this circulating-library should be permitted to
sponge on the community year after year for their
provision of amusement.
Articles to read are Vernon Lee’s assault on
“the rhetoric of Landor” in Jan. Contemporary, and
George Stronach’s pro-Bacon criticism of Sidney Lee and
Shakespearians in Jan. Pall Mall Maga.
Just Published.—PHlL MAY IN AUS-
TRALIA, a series of Two Hvmdred Examples
of the artist’s work for “ The Bulletin ” in Por-
traiture, Cartoons, and Humourous Pictures.
This is the finest book of its class ever issued in
Australia. The size is demy folio (full “ Bulletin ”
size); the drawings have been splendidly reproduced
and’printed on art paper ; the binding is tasteful;
and the whole book is a worthy tribute to the
genius of the most talented pen-draughtsman of his
generation.
The edition is limited to 975 copies, price One
Guinea.
Copies can be seen a/nd purchased in Sydney at
Paling’s Music Warehouse, George-street; E. W.
Cole’s, George-street ;■ the George Robertson Pro-
prietary’s, Casttercagh-street; Angus & Robertson’s,
Castlereagh-street; W. Dymock’s, George-street.
In Melbourne at the George Robertson Pro-
prietary’s, Elizabeth-street, and Messrs. Angus,
Robertson, cfe Shenstone’s.
In Adelaide and Perth at Messrs. E. S. Wigg
<b Sons’.
A verse for Omar
by Barry Pain-
Forgive me, Omar, if thine eyes
Still view with calm this world of strife,
For actions circumspect and wise,
And for a well-spent life.
“ Live for to-day ; drink long, drink deep
With Hebe’s pretty tresses toy ;
Foresee no hour ; no memory keep ;
Enjoy, enjoy, enjoy ! ”
So runs the Pagan text. Its gleams
Of reckless freedom tempt and thrill:
The wild barbarian in me screams,
“ That's excellent. I will! ”
Then the churchwardens in me wake.
All the accountants in me rise,
And that majority they make
Insists on compromise.
Rose-wreathed—’t was thine with lavish hand
To pour the medicine of thy soul:
For me one glass of claret and
A simple buttonhole.
Thus calculating, smug, devout, “
To virtuelowest depths 1 fall:
Pass-books and Bow Met and the gout
Make cowards of us all.
A.8.S.


MM
WINOHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
sYOOisna-sr.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & GO,, Ltd.
ABE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTM ENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAILS.
- ,
Ask. youp Chemist fop the Uttle Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TEE3LE-SE\7N LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, oz.—Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6 cl, 3s 6d each
DU HE'S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS—
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS. sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ ) No. 0 12 3 4 5 6
BATS/ 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS, \ No. 3 4 5 6
Cane — / 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN'S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s fd, 7s Gel, 8s 6d
Ail Cane— J 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
me:
and
:n S CANE 5
1 nUIMIER}
BATS— J
14s 6d,
17s 6d,
15s, 15s Gd,
18s 6d, 20s,
16s 6d
25s
Send for C italogue, Pest Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers-
BOYS’ STUMPS—
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS—
Boys’, 4s Gd, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s Gd, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s Gd, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS? Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, il s Gd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
15s set.
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s Gd, SSs 6d, 103 s set
Tennis
Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
iwr irir*r rt
3s 6d
LJ
MANbICAP
5.
1,
n
00,
ftj STANbAftb
f 7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, See.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SL A ZENGER’S Covered ..
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion
4* 6d doz.
Os 6d
10s
16s
8s 6d
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
.TAYLORS,
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR'S, extra quality, No.'3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped ly the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including: payment for
freight, must accomp. ny each order.
MICK
• x.-. % ' ■
i¥Y\f l rkp
fill C& ff i\v
1 *1 s
11
Stiff or Swollen Joints CURED!
Painful Sprains or Aches of the Arms,
Legs, or Body, Backache, Sciatica,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, &c.
is no class of Disease in which Treatment by Electricity
has achieved more marked success than the various affections above
described. Whether they are acute or chronic, Electricity is alike
efficacious in effecting not only relief from pain, but a permanent cure. We
have had cases where the patient could not walk, but after a couple of
days’ application of the Belt and Attachments to the weak parts they were
walking about as well as ever. Other cases, we have had under treatment,
have been using Lotions, Ointment, and Drugs for years but without
relief, who have been positively restored by us within a week or two.
There are innumerable cases of Stiffened Joints, painful and enlarged as
the result of Chronic Rheumatism. This is exceedingly common among
the aged. How many are there whose declining years from fifty upwards
i,
A
■msm.
» . %
k ; .
Emm
ill l ifiTi
n
r
m
rs
miiiiiin
1111
are rendered miserable by affections of the joints 1 Some cannot walk without pain and inconvenience, because their knees and ankles are the
seat of this most obstinate disease. Others can make little or no use of their hands and fingers, and the most disheartening thing to those afflicted
is the utter failure of drugs to effect relief. Marvellous results have been obtained by
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
With Free
Attachments
and Electricity is recognised by the leading psychologists of the old world as the pnly true Remedy for Diseases of this nature. One of the most
brilliant men of the day recently remarked before the Members of the Psychological Institute of Paris that Electricity will bring about a thera-
peutic revolution, and that its effect on Skin Diseases and all Functional and Nervous Disorders was most powerful. Take Sound AtivlCO ! If
you are afflicted call or send for our Advice, and if you can’t be cured by Electricity nothing will cure you l !
See the Great Benefits that have been Given to Sufferers. Thousands of Letters of a Similar Kind can be seen on application.
CARARA, CURLEWIS, N.S.V/.
Dear Sire,—l am very thankful for the
good your Belt has done for me. After
about three weeks use I have not a pain
about me, or the slightest sign of
diarrhoea. I have not taken one dose of
medicine slnoe I have been using the
Eelt, and I consider I am as well as ever
I was in my life.
Yours truly,
DUNCAN McLEOD.
Florence-stret PORT PIRIE, B.A.
Dear Sirs,— l am pleased to be We to say that the
Belt continues to work to full satisfaction, and
gives no trouble. As regards health it has Im-
proved me wonderfully, I have not had the
slightest sign of any pain across my back, as I
did befcre wearing the Belt. Now that I have the
Belt, I would not be without it for a small fortune.
Thanking you for putting such a cure in my way,
I am, yours truly,
A. 0. GORMAN.
EUCHAREENA, N.S.W.
-■ Dear Sirs,—l have been using your High-
grade Belt, according to directions, during the
last four weeks, and the first application com-
pletely banished, as if by magic, all the musoular
twltchings from my legs, I also feel a vast im-
provement in my back, and, In fact, I feel better
and stronger ail over. I have done more work
during the last three weeks than fo r months past.
Yours gratefully,
CEORQE CARTER.
23 Argo-street,
SOUTH YARRA, VIO.
Dear Sirs,—l am glad to tell you that
my troubles have left me, and I haven’t
felt batter for years. My chief trouble
was stricture-and bad at that, also
sciatica, and my back uas very bad.
Constipation has been a thing of the
past since wearing your bait, and I have
put on over a stone in weight.
Yours truly, A. D. GRANT.
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
mm
For the benefit of all sufferers we issue an Illustrated
Book, which deals exhaustively with the use of
Electricity as a Curative Agent. It tells of our 25
years Study of the Wonders that can be accomplished
by its aid for most ailments, with which it deals in
detail. It is also full of Engravings showing how the
Belt is worn for various ailments. Everyone should
read it. It explains the onjy way to Health and
Strength. It costs you nothing. We will send it to
you, postage paid and closely sealed, to any address
on receipt of a post-card or letter.
CALL AND LET US MAKE YOU A FREE TEST AND
EXPLAIN THE WORKING OF THE BELT.
The Dr. McLAUGHLIN C©.,
IOOW. Market Street, Sydney
Swanetoa St.
WiI Ua St „ We U l ngton .


THE
COLINTON ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane River, 5£ hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
M. A j-i of Rich River Flats, and well-
&■!t \J _ xJ I6S erassed Rid e es , cu * int ° Dairy
7 Farms,
In Areas of 100 to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the HEAD STATION BALL-
ROOM, on
EASTER MONDAY
at 11 o'olock each day
and following Days,
j Sth to lOth APRIL,
Mr, John Cameron, M.L.A., of Kensington Downs, a Director of the Q.N. Bank
and of the Queensland Meat Export Co. reported on Colinton on 7th April, 1900:
“It is impossible to ride over the rich lands of Colinton without coming to the conclusion
that no just or accurate idea of their value can be arrived at by merely treating them a*
grazing estates, as the large proportion of arable land embraced in them justifies the
belief that in the future a very much enhanced value must attach to them for cutting up
purposes.”
COLINTON is composed of a variety of sloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid perceutage of Luserne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Runs, as well as one of the best fastening Runs in Southern Queensland.
COLINTON la magnificently watered by IS miles double frontage
to tbe Brisbane River, as well as by upwards of 48 miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
COLINTON has been kept free from pests suoh as lantana, thistle, an 4
burrs, and there is no nut grass and, above all, no tioke.
THE MAGNETIC TERMS:
One-Tenth Cash, no payments for 2 years, and the balanes
up to 20 years at 4$ per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
W jgaST* A profusely Illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may be
obtained from the office of this paper, or from
ISLES, LOVE & Co., Auctioneers, Brisbane
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEIFY COMPNTITION,
WINES T ‘“ B “‘* SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. Ao.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
I/S
\tl
.
8$
w
SPECIAL
TRIAL OFFER
The finest Electric Belt in the world is
what we offer you. Our improved Belt is
superior to any other made. It is not charged
in corroding vinegar. It gives a stronger
current of Electricity than is possible with
any “vinegar belt.”
It is a guaranteed cure for all cases of
Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lum-
bago, Weak Back. Kidnev. Liver, and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
We are practically giving this splendid Belt away on trial, as the prioe has been put at
the lowest possible figure, so that it is within the easy reach of everybody.
We send absolutely free to every person writing us our beautifully Illustrated Medical
Book and the Best Improved Electric Belt on trial. We offer a better article at a lower
price than any other, and all writing us receive immediate attention.
What we offer you is this : Our Medical Treatise Free, together with our best Belt on
fair trial. Remember our Belt is positively guaranteed to be the strongest made and will
cure you. Write to-day. It costs nothing to try it. Address—
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DEPT. M.,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
New Zealand Branch: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
M
PROFESSOR /V\UDD'S
-CtoPS/*ai_r falling _gu r
) PRE VENTS B A LDMESS -
-PRICE £/6 F>OSTLD 3/3'
K R OMO
GIVES LIFE UToLOR TO GREY hAiR.
V. - con f aiMM wps -- A tv v
M
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
Wm
Ktfftv.vi
\
SEND NO MONEY.
Tins hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE -
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, oroneof our GokLFilled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**S T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform, you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St., Sydney,
Or BOX Ber,i
G.PO. |
§
OUR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
Ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 Vo.
2/9. 11/-, and 22/-pots.
Dr.ROBERTS'ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/I 54; 3 quantities, 2/9
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, KJh
Born 1766. Died 1*34.
=53
Carters
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
> FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
HOLLO WAYS PILLS
MM
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition ot ill-health
known as ‘‘run-down" or ‘‘out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
&
&
$
3
&
*
$
c?
$
$
&
and OINTMENT
JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient- water.
S 3
51
N
m
m
the best natural
Aperient' water.
79
SI
M
M
m
the best natural
Aperient water.
(ffiflWZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient* wafer.


ms
iYER
11 We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, hut a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lovell, Mass., U.S.A.
EVERY WOMAN
M
is Interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
L lnjection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Clenses Instantly,
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free—
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MHRVEL <2©.,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W*
POSTAL ADDRESS,BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
TTWFI i
SPOONER’S
M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers ,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
M
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
models £2.1 Oto £5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port in Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres, Accessories , Sporting Goods &
Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
’Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
-1 fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, G.S.A. ana LIYEIU’OOL, ENGLAND.
b
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
IDft. Collins Street, Melbourne.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Becuriiy of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Insoribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. It. J. Black, M.L.C. ; P. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
\
/
H. F. SMITH
*
BRISBANE
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading: Jeweller.
HXIIAIS ’d 'H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
.ft A
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES. *
It’s the modem and systematic manner of loading that makes
Winchester Shotgun Cartridges shoot stronger, give better
pattern and penetration and more uniform results generally than
any other makes. No black powder shotgun cartridges compare
with Winchester “ New Rival ”in any way; while Winches-
ter “ Repeater” Cartridges, loaded with smokeless powder, are
far ahead of all other makes, when the price is considered.
INSIST ON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE.
Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
“ Gentlemen, —
“ I want to tell you how delighted I am with the
Pianola. It is altogether wonderful ! In an accom-
paniment to several of my songs it has given me
splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
“ With appreciation and greeting,
“ Very truly yours,
“ADA CROSSLEY."
There is but one Pianola.
Sold Only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola free if you
will write us. Ask for Catalogue B.
Informal Recitals daily, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
You are cordially invited to attend.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
M
Works :
Birmingham, England.
These series
of Pens neither
(scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bed Spot.
He was a man of many friends,
And burnt his candle at both ends.
He heard the chimes at midnight ring,
He heard the painted sirens sing.
He filled the flagon to the brim,
And laughed at men who preached to lmn.
For he was wise in many ways—
Could paint, could pen the perfect phrase;
Could shame the song-bird on the tree
With lighter, clearer melody.
And women loved him all the while
For his sweet, rare, resistless smile.
And onward without fear or dread
He walked the world with gallant tread.
He walked the world in joy and pride
And Fate walked softly by his side.
From day to day, from week to week,
The Red Spot burned upon his cheek.
He loved a woman sleek and fair,
With velvet eyes and russet hair —
A woman of the mould antique
That gave its beauty to the Greek.
Her bosom white and seeming-cold
Was like a bastion broad and bold.
The blood in her blue veins was rife
With all the crimson pride of life.
Her lips with his hot lips were wed,
And redder burned the Spot of Red.
His dark eyes shone with fever-fire,
But she was mistress of desire.
He could not see, that man unwise,
The deeper fire in her dark eyes.
He bent and kissed her poppy mouth—
“l am the great wind from the South.”
“I am,” she said, with red lips curled,
“The wind that blows around the world.”
Then bravely rang the wedding-bell,
And all the world that day went well.
The quilt that was upon the bed
Was prinked and bossed with roses red.
She said, as one who lightly speaks,
“ They match the roses on your cheeks.”
Then on the quilt aflood, aftood,
She saw the Scarlet Rose of Blood.
And day by day, and week by week
The spot burned redder in his cheek.
And day by day, unknown to her,
His throbbing heart grew heavier.
With swinging steps she walked along,
With swinging steps and lightsome song.
She was not one who goes in stealth,
That goddess of Immortal Health.
As he grew weaker, day by day,
She bloomed more beautiful and gay.
She was the Flower of the Dawn ;
He was the Twilight purple-wan.
Her singing made his pulses stir,
And how he loved—and hated —her !
For she would walk with dancing tread
The dear green Earth when he was dead ;
Would walk the Earth and feel the Sun
When all his days were dead and done.
He saw within a graveyard lone
A single white memorial stone.
He saw her lips kissed, and her cheek,
By one as strong as he was weak.
And jealously, with panting breath,
He fought against the coming Death.
“ My young wife, vow to me,” he said,
“No other husband you will wed.”
She took his hand, the oath she swore—
“ Never, never, and nevermore ! ”
Two seasons passed. She sighed and sighed ;
Her blood ran in a rushing tide.
She married ; had a child unique—
A Red Spot burned upon his cheek.
V. J. DALEY.
The Lost Charm.
Lucia’s lost a oharm to-day:
She is not less blithe and gay;
In her eyes delight I see
As she, bending, smiles on me.
In her voice no sadness rings
As she softly plays and sings
At her mother’s old spinet,
Songs to dainty music set.
Neither has she lost the art
Which takes captive every heart.
Shines the table as before
With her dainty cakes galore.
Yet there’s something new and strange.
What has wrought this subtle change—
Left her with one charm the less,
Yet the same in tenderness ?
Hid the ankles I admired,
Gone the riband which inspired
Sundry verses to be seen
In a Southern magazine.
Lucia’s lost a charm to-day :
She her girlhood casts away ;
Trailing flounces grace her gown,
And her hair’s no longer down.
M.L.
W. FRANCIS CHAMBEAS.


GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PIIiLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT.^*
ON receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
anv address in Australia one of our Handsorne
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
r
I £LECTRICi
$
Which we send FREE
TO ALL explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STEONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explain s their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CURED by
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TROUBLES, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WEAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
M
“ acts like a charm.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CORK
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
C> R ■ 9d. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO..
Cape Town.
I and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
#
FOR BABY’S SHIN
SCIUP M UR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD bom into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing* disfiguring
humours of the skin* scalp* and blood* becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity* Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best* the purest* and most effective treatment available*
viz.* THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and soales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe ana
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by CUTICURA Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin,
cleansing the scalp of crusts scales .and _ dandruft, an d the stoppingf of faTling hair
l, for
for
clean sine: tne scaip ox crus is, bcdicb, »iiu udumuu,auu o
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and chaflngs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies are Bold throughout the world. Australian Depot. R. * Co., Sydney. Britiih
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Pail, Paris. POTTER Dkog
Corf.* Sole l J rops-» Boston* U. S. A* 41 All about the Skin,”
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR,
Yfea Bcaltblcst and molt Comfortable Underwear Ist Men, Wamaa and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as “just as good as Aerte*."_
"SOLE AGENTS !
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 7B King Street.
TTTT
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
M
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’t
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
M
WILL ANDRADE’S« « BOOKS
&
|!
BOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil. 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite HEcnjER
Is each Bell’s Standard Elocutionist latest
ifiiHnnNs 6d Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
£££. »»»»•” .VSt
oi"“ KOVKM? posted 8d! Devil, i« Sv»s«v,
COULD s PIOVELS, etc., is. House Painting AND
Barmaids, Baldb ’ K ls 3d . my Neighbor
£ API ™> 3d nos ? is 3d Amateur House Builder,
fs A 3d Geobgette.’is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hyi>notism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
iokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-To-Date,
Is Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Hr.
Warren, is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Sll* In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Bold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, is 6d dozen, 3 for
i 2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AN li ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3 :
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
1 AYNE’S EXPECT ORAN T
Cures the worstcoughs.
mm
m.
m
m
Given
away
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/ The Bunch.
/ O Post Free
3 Tips with Ospreys.
Black, Cream, or Blaok tipped with White.
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Wide To-Day. Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts.. Melbourne
Mention The Bulletin, _
VANISHED VIGOR
From any cause Speedily
and Permanently
restored.
YOU WRITE. I CORE.
SURGEON LRNGSION’S
IMPROVED
M
Has completely
Cured Thousands of
SUFFERING MEN.
IT IS NOT A BELT.
IT WILL NOT BURN YOU.
Tliere is Nothing to Wear
It is Sure, Safe,
Speedy, Secret, and Simple.
For All Forms of
NERVE, BLOOD, AND
SKIN DISEASES
Consult the Only Qualified
Specialist who has no Record
of Failure.
Let me give you back your
Manliness.
VARICOCELE CURED
Without Operation or Pain.
SUB&EOH KINGSTON,
) M.R.C.S , ENG.,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
NERVOUSNESS.
liOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
*. Gentleman bavin* tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS ol BEEF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, C.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
I THAT REFRESHING FEELING I
of thorough purification given by
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND. r ,


Before Taking Clements Tonic,
MISERY & HELPLESSNESS.
After Taking Clements Tonic,
CHEERFULNESS & ACTIVITY.
A Very Convincing Narrative.
The Case of Mr. P. B. HUNT.
(BY A SYDNEY DEPORTEE.)
The ready compliance of Mr. Percy
Bordon Hunt, of No. 8 The Terrace,
Bourke-street, Redfern, with the request
of a special interview, illustrates a
series of difficulties and complica-
tions from which there was no immediate
prospect of escape. After mentioning that
he was a native of London and a resident of
these colonies for the last ten years, Mr.
Hunt went on to say :
“It was when I came out to this country
that I had a very bitter experience with bad
health, and I hope I shall never have to go
through anything like it again, as once in a
life-time is quite enough. I had previously
suffering from a complaint called locomotor
ataxia, and I had never felt really well since.
The change in climate evidently did not
suit me, for my head started to ache most
unmercifully, making me feel quite unfit to
take part in anything- I was so drowsy
and low-spirited, too, no pleasant thoughts
ever coming to give me a moment’s happi-
ness, and / did not seem to care what
happened ”
“ Did you receive any medical attention?”
asked the writer.
“Yes. I had been to several hospitals,
where the doctors prescribed physic for me,
but it could not have been suitable for my
complaints, as it took no effect upon me.
Their medicines were so useless that I might
as well have thrown them down the drain.
The doctors said it was next to impossible
to properly recover from the complaint
which had made a wreck of me, and this was
and awful reflection for one who had always
been so hale and hearty before, and naturally
making me more sad and hopeless than ever ;
but I thought I would try some other
medicine before giving up all hope, and
when I had done so my condition was just
as bad as ever. I could not get my breath
freely owing to the heavy sensation in my
chest, and 1 could not sleep at all well. If
I did doze off I was made restless by
dreams that were most repulsive, and, once
more finding myself awake, I dreaded the
thought of falling asleep again because the
dreams were so unplea3ant. That was
through being sc nervous, I suppose, for I
trembled at the slighest noise and was
excited at every turn. My mouth had a
nauseating taste which I imagined came
from the white coating on my tongue, and
there was such a strange feeling about my
eyes—a heavy sensation as if they had
swollen during the night. When in London
I was secretary to one of the most eminent
Congregational ministers in the city, and con-
sequently had a great amount of brain work
to do, so that when I came here and felt so
brain-w eary and fagged out I felt my position
all the more keen y. There was no life in
me, and I gave myself up as helpless to
throw off the utter deadness of vitality
under which I was existing. Simply through
excessive weakness my limbs were racked
with lt was just the same in the
morning aft«?r lying down all night, for my
legs were as tired as if I had been climbing
steep hills instead of trying to rest mysalf,
and the mere thought of going to work made
me shudder in despair. There was something
radically wrong with my loins, too, as the
painful aches across them caused me no end
of inconvenience, and more so when I had
to walk to any place. But so far as that
goes there was nothing that I could find any
pleasure in doing, as my loss of energy was
so great that it was almost a trouble to dress
myself. For a man whose temperament is
naturally active and energetic it was a
terrible hardship to be in sucti a weak and
powerless condition, but the most melancholy
phase of the situation was that I could get
uo medicine to help me out of my difficulties.
It seemed a forlorn hope to think of recover-
ing my health again, but was there anything
I had not given a trial to? I asked myself. A
little reflection told me that Clements Tonifl
had escaped my notice up till now, and a<
my deplorable state of feebleness required
immediate attention I said I would give il
a trial.”
“ Were you pleased that you did so.”
“My word I was, for Clements Tonic
acted on my system as no other medicine
had done. Do you know that I had no real
appetite from the time I was taken ill until
I took Clements Tonic, which made me so
hungry that I was always wanting food. 1
was overjoyed at this success, especially as
my pains were diminishing with each bottle
of Clements Tonic,which made my digestive
apparatus able and willing to assimilate my
food and fill my veins with pure, rich t lood,
and with my heart strong and vigorous to
pump that blood to every part of my body.
As time went on it became apparent that I
was on the road to recovery, as my head-
aches and giddiness were gone and my sight
was good. I breathed freely owing to chest
pains being relieved, while the flatulence
which had affected my stomach did not
trouble me after using a few bottles ol
Clements Tonic. Would it be possible for
me to speak too well of a medicine which
did so much for me when all others failed ?
My opinion is that I will never be able to
liquidate my debt to Clements Tonic for its
miraculous influence over me, for it actually
raised me from misery and helplessness to a
life of cheerfulness and activity. This was
done by degrees, of course, for I got
stronger because I was getting plenty of
rest, my sleep being sound anil dreamless,
and the morning life found me equipped for
the duties of life as I had not been for many
a day. I was no longer sickened by a bitter
taste and a dry tongue when I woke up,
neither was I troubled with that weariness
of limb which had made all my movements
so irksome. I had reason to look at life in
an entirely different aspect then, thank (oil,
as the paiu-i illing properties of Clements
Tonic gave such prompt relief thut I was
soon free from all my torments, and as a
remedy for invigorating the nervous system
I am sure that medicine is the best in the
world. My nerves were so ready and keen
that my daily work became a pleasure, anc
a capacity for physical and mental excrtioi
proportionally increased. I did not re-
linquish the use of Clements Tonic until my
health was as sound as it had ever been,
being an entirely new man, and as I have
since enjoyed immunity from the ailments
waich nothing but Clements Tonic could
cure it is only fair to my fellow colonists
that I should tell them by what means I
was released from wretchedness.”
“It will be necessary to print your
statements, then.”
“ Of course it will; and you may publish
them in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Psrct Bordon Hunt, of 8 The Terrace, Bourke-
gtreet, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish
in any way my statements—which I give volun-
tarily without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing
the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions
of The Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty-
second day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
two. before me, PATRICK STANLEY, J.P.
TARPAULINS
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
COVERS.
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
/:
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOR LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure -Tor ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to 1
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Qubbn Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Rlcord’s Marvellous Medicine
5/- Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourne.
qua » fßeddome & Co., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Sub-Agents | Fauldill g & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
A Policy fop the Commonwealth.
S*rioe t 6d. ; Foatedi Bd.
M
V Bra in
ru/etheWorld
> KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory. The memory
must be trained if the brain is to do good
work. The memory can be successfully
developed by proper training, just as an.
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
is a practical and successful system whloh
benefits all brain workers. It will make
a poor memory good, and a good
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on application to the
Secretary, PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
Box 402. 0.P.0*
HI El, It Oil It X K.
And 4 Bloomsbury St. #
LONDON, W.O.
TO MffifcßOUßlMffi VISITORS.
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St}.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders. 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone ivo. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in tire
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOOR 3
of various sizes supplied.
EPPS’S EPPS’S^
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
XJRISCXJIT,
The dainty, eleetric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
I. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, Helbourne.
£?qt»lu,L&L LligkiLs
cMeo.LLtiy Jnfa,nts
TRY
RIDGE’S
&-/Ui
J&ejL
FOOD
ftcfuse a////n/faf/ons
SafVsJyuii, Strengthening Soothing for Infants
-Agreeable-Digestible, Nourishing
AGfWS POP SYPAPY
sayms Aupoxr * porrm
RIDGE'S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Eng.
DEBILITATED
YS7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
VV trjal course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Mklbouene.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that juatly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OP ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
BTTIDIfrZE-X-.
M
Enginemans Master Key
Second. Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE'S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers^
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
j water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Root. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
\
Tits Result.
CRA
IG & AITKEIM, N.S .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYO.I2Y.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.VV. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
•■he Machine does the rest.
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withou
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Ctrbide for any generator either direct, o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. ISO.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk <fc Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body. *
J ' sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


■HUSSY'S
min.
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
I!
iilli ?! i f 11
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary■
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
cm i
£3l**
W. JAMES, Proprie
Tha VOLCANIC) AERATED WATER MACHINE is being
used on Messrs. Spiers & Pond’s Railway Refreshment
Bars throughout the United Kingdom.
A Great
Saving
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS m.
AERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the Best and Simplest
Machine in the Market. Prick
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 671bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS 10 GALS. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machine* on same principle, £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine for years.
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depot: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
You will find nothing better —
If you search the world through—than
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
Cool, Fragrant, Delicious and Perfectly Pure
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
per
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T. a .n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- 4, 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
M
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oijly pay for wljat they acttially have.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System or paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SVPNCy.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE
for REVISED PRICE LIST.
and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
DRINK
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
For Summer weather and thorough
enjoyment ashore or afloat you can’t
do better than smoke Keystone
Tobacco.
It is manufactured in two strengths,
Dark and Light, sold in plug, or,
if you prefer it, cut and packed
in tins.
WILLS’S
KEYSTONE
TOBACCO.
It -is fragrant and cool-smoking,
and doesn’t burn the tongue. Heavy
smokers will find Keystone particularly
grateful to the palate on account of
its purity, and that they can smoke it
continuously for hours without feeling
any after effects, either in the throat
or on the nerves.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1252.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1004.
Pbiok to.
A NICE PLACE TO EIGHT A DUEL!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the AustraliansJ’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in lllaole and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
sr other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 88 Ilout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 88 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1904.
Australia's Empty Cradle.
The New South Wales Birth-rate Commission has
now concluded the taking of evidence, and is con-
sidering and drafting a report for presentation to
Parliament. Probably this report will not be
published in full, though its recommendations, in
a summarised and Bowdlerised form, will be given
to the public. Certainly the evidence will be sup-
pressed ; otherwise, the ultimate effect of the
inquiry would be distinctly in the opposite direc-
tion to that intended by its originators. For, if
there is one thing that has been made clear by the
investigations of the Commission, it is that a very
large section of the population keeps down the
birth-rate so far as it can, and that the limit of
birth-suppression is defined by the limit of know-
ledge on the subject. That will have to be, prac-
tically, the main conclusion in the Commissioners’
report if it honestly reflects the evidence sub-
mitted.
* » » *
It probably did not need a Commission of
Inquiry to tell the social observer in Australia so
much. That the decreasing birth-rate in the
Commonwealth was not primarily due to any
physical degeneracy of the people has long been
the conviction of all who have had the opportunity
and the desire to make the most cursory inquiry
into the subject. Not lack of capacity, but lack of
willingness to undertake parental responsibility is
the cause of Australian sterility. “Sure, we had
little to do but register births,” said a police ser-
geant in a N.S.W. Western district town some
three years ago, when questioned as to the social
and crime conditions of the place. “And lately
we have not even had that much. A while ago a
French woman, dressed as a nurse, came hawking
through the district, and since then there have
been few children, at all, at all.” That was an
illuminating criticism of social conditions which
almost any intelligent observer might have come
to in almost any part of Australia. The
ideas of the Neo-Malthusians have been
within the last few years freely advocated,
freely advertised, spread far and wide by
travelling agents, and in most quarters gladly
welcomed. Coming to a conclusion as to “ why ”
is thus an easy task in investigating thedwindlihg 7
birth-rate. Allowing full weight to various medi-
r il theories, admitting that in many cases the
dc 'ire to have children is now frustrated by the
M ians adopted in the past to prevent conception,
if. is still quite clear that the Australian cradle
i! >es not fill mainly because the Australian parent
prefers to be childless or to have a very small
f .mily. That is the fact. The remedy is another
u.atter.
* * * •
It is, of course, possible for the present ten-
dency to be in some slight measure checked by
i ’strictive legislation. If it were made penal to
advertise, announce, recommend or sell certain
articles, and if the customs authorities kept careful
guard to block them at the ports, some good
might be effected, for a while at least. But.
Presuming the temper of the people to te
unchanged, the check would be slight. What
could tiot be imported would be made locally ;
and the means to sterility, which in so
many cases have other and innocent uses,
are so numerous that a boycott on the
sale of all of them would be quite
impracticable. Nevertheless, the Birth-rate
Commission will probably suggest some attempt
to grapple with the problem in that way.
That such suggestions will receive legislative
approval is extremely doubtful.
• • • •
The evil—it is an evil, for there could be no
better, no more welcome immigrants to Australia
than those coming on the wings of the stork —
must, in the first place, be acknowledged to be a
very firmly-rooted one, if there is to be any hope
of a remedy. It has successfully defied one of the
strongest of natural sentiments. Every sane adult
is by instinct desirous of being a parent. A
German Transcendentalist has, in seeking to
explain the strength of this desire, taken refuge
in the fantastic theory that the unborn lives have
an individuality and purpose of their own, and
urge men and women to marriage so that they may
be born. That is the idea of a poetical philosopher
that need not be accepted, and is only mentioned
to illustrate the recognition of the strength of
this parental instinct. Yet, strong as it is, parental
instinct has failed to keep Australia from the path
which leads to national extinction. Religion
has also failed. Every Christian sect, more or
less sincerely, professes to believe in the extreme
sinfulness of Neo-Malthusianism. One church,
the Roman Catholic, makes a strenuous campaign
against it, uses all the weapons of the pulpit and
the confessional in combating it, and —fails. The
Roman Catholic woman coming to Australia
from Ireland brings her Irish conviotions, and is a
“good mother” in the full sense of the word.
Her daughter, born here, and the Roman Catholic
Australian generally, does not follow that example,
but falls into line with the rest of the community,
and is not, above the average, prolific. So religion,
in spite of very strenuous effort, fails where
natural instinct has failed, and the banner of the
Empty Cradle flaunts itself in the face of every
effort so far made. The birth-rate for 1903 in
N.S.W. was the lowest on record, save one, for ten
years.
• * • •
Instinct naturally weakens with civilisation
and its accompanying artificiality of life. If, on
an essentially vital point, it is to become so weak
as to be ineffective, and is to be replaced by no
ethical or other motive working towards the same
end, then civilisation will involve extinction.
That is the melancholy conclusion which some
pessimists even now come to, pointing to the fact
that the white races of the earth, as a whole,
despite the still prolific Slav and German, are
dwindling. Alarm at such a conclusion may
yet prove in itself a remedy. Already there
is a general agreement that for the com-
munity good it is well that there should
be a high birth-rate, but, so far, the general
agreement lacks particular application. With a
further recognition of the fate to which arti-
ficially secured sterility points there may be an
acuter alarm, which will convert the individual
not only to good belief, but to good • practice.
There wilrtrever be again, in any highly civilised
community, that blind fury of begetting which
marks now the lower stages of life and was an
attribute of more primitive man. It is not desir-
able that there should. What is wanted is a
generally accepted conviction that childlessness,
is either unfortunate or disgraceful, and that any-
thing but a moderately large family is a condition
calling for apology. In Australia that is parti-
cularly wanted. Can an ethical, or a national,
sentiment succeed in establishing such a dogma,
where instinct has failed and religion has failed ?
• * * *
An ethical sentiment? It is to be feared not.
An appeal to pure ethics, when made to the mass
and not to the individual, can never be expected
to succeed when religion has failed, for religion is
ethics with trimmings—ethics bedizened with
music and eloquence and literature, and supported
by promises of reward and fears of punishment.
Besides, the mandate to multiply is a difficult one
to enforce by an ethical argument. It is clear
enough that it is an offence against Nature for a
race to allow itself to dwindle. It is not nearly
so clear that it is, ethically speaking, an offence
that Mr. and Mrs. should have no children,
or only one child instead of half a dozen. They
have, probably, excellent reasons to advance why
it should be so, why the problem of peopling the
land should be left to other couples, and to their
minds those reasons are ethical.
* * * *
A national sentiment? Therein seems more
hope. If the Australian were more vividly Aus-
tralian, more proud of his race, more emulous to
make its position in the world secure, more
ambitious for its greatness, he—and she—would,
with a knowledge that children must form the
battalions of victory, produce the children. “ The
woman who has most sons for France’s army,”
was Napoleon’s definition of the greatest woman
in France, when challenged with a question on the
point by Madame De Stael, who expected a quite
different answer. That was the sentiment he
sought to inspire, and which, to an extent, he suc-
ceeded in inspiring. It should be possible to
entwine something of the same feeling with the
ideals of Australian nationalism ; to glorify the
full cradle because it gives a more secure founda-
tion to the national edifice; to treat with contempt
the wilfully childless as poor-spirited runagates
from the duty of garrisoning this citadel of the
white race in the South. Australia might then
march to ever-recurring christenings to the music
of her national song.
Under the Shadow of Cohen.
An illuminating sentence is used in Melbourne
on the subject of the Treasurers’ conference; “If
the Commonwealth takes over the debts, the State
Ministers see that it will mean exalting the
Commonwealth.” In one sense it is true enough.
If the Commonwealth has to carry out the con-
versions, then the Commonwealth will have to
wear the frills; and the States, which will of
course be still deeply interested in the price paid
for the loans, will be thus forced to, as it is put,
“exalt the Commonwealth.” What spare glory
there is lying around, the States will have to pass
on to the Commonwealth, so that it may look
fine and impressive as it knocks at Bull Cohen’s
door. Not a Treasurer of them has any serious
doubt that a saving would be made by the debts
being all under one control —a small saving straight
away in the cost of management, and a large
saving later on, when the time comes to renew or
consolidate and convert —but there is this haunt-
ing fear of loss of frill ; hence difficulties that
ought to be swept aside are dwelt upon and mag-
nified, so that, so far, very little progress has
been made.
* * * *
Federal Treasurer Turner’s proposals are, in
effect:—
(1) That the Commonwealth should take over all the
debts up to the date of the Federal Constitution.
(2) That the Constitution should be ntracted
allow the Commonwealth to take over debts contract
81 (3) e That, as the Federal revenue will
case, sufficient to cover the interest, fetalon
provision for a sinking fund, the 8 /ailway revenu
should be paid into a trust account the balance not
quired to pay interest to be paid out to the States eieiy
" (4) k That the Commonwealth shouid raise all loans after
January Ist, 1905, the Commonwealth having rig c
to say when a loan for any particular State s use snouiu
be raised within a financial year, so that such new loa
mav not clash with conversion loans.
(5) That the Commonwealth should have powertov
State’s loan only on the ground that it was not 8 «f «e“dy
indemnified, and that the veto sh ° u } d atthe
upon more of that State’s revenues being placed at the
Commonwealth’s disposal. , v hv,
(6) A sinking fund to be established V?J 50 !" q 0 " nom
each loan raised by the Commonwealth the Common
wealth to also take over existing sinking funds.
The States’ chief objection is understood to be
to the proposal that the gross railway revenues
should be paid to a trust fund. At present the
Federal revenues in N.S.W., Victoria, and Wes-
tralia are sufficient to cover interest; the others
are not. The three named object, therefore, to
pay the railway revenues into a trust fund, at any
rate so long as none of that money is required by
the Commonwealth.
* » * *
Taxation is what they all want to dodge.
Treasurer Turner wants to command the railway
revenues so that the Commonwealth Parliament
will not have to put on a land tax. Taxation is
not popular, and he wants to avoid unpopularity.
In Australia, also, taxation is not certain, this
country having fallen into the habit of cheerfully
piling up deficits rather than paying the bill ;
and h® wants to make sure. He can’t be abso-
lutely .certain of any tax ; he can be reasonably
certain that the railways will earn something in
the gross. And just as Treasurer Turner wants
to dodge further Federal taxation, so the State
authorities want to dodge fresh State taxation ; if
the present Federal revenue is not sufficient to
pay the interest, then it wants the Commonwealth
Parliament to have the unpleasant job of col-
lecting more from the people. Both are tax-
dodgers.
• • * *
If the State Treasurers give way on this point,
they will be pretty certain to require authority, to
borrow in the local market without the sanction
of the Commonwealth. Anything of the sort must
be resisted. Australia has seen enough of how,
when the European money-market is closed, the
State Governments scrape round the local market
for any odd pounds they can find, simply in
order to continue the loan drunk on a small
scale. If they are free to pick up a few pounds
locally, then the same old deficit will come along.
It is merely another plan of dodging taxation.
• * * *
The other weak feature of Treasurer Turner’s
scheme is the absence of any provision for a sink-
ing fund as applied to the existing debt. If it is
a good thing to pay off future loans, why isn’t it a
good thing to pay off past loans? And the past
loans ought to be able to provide a sinking
fund more easily than future ones, because
presumably past loans are represented by the
most profitable works offering—city tramways
and suburban railways, for instance. Still,
Treasurer Turner probably knows his men, and
knows that he cannot get anything absolutely
satisfactory from them. The thing is to make a
start. It can at least be said that, if the scheme
doesn’t provide for a sinking fund covering past
loans, it, in that respect, leaves matters no worse
than they are now ; whilst it would be something
gained to have the loans under one roof, even
supposing no other change whatever were made
at once.
N.S.W. State Labor Party.
State Labor member D. R. Hall writes:
Does The Bulletin, as it showers its criticisms upon
the Labor party’s scheme of financial reform, really think
that it has ever itself proposed any definite method to
meet the financial problems that face this State ? If The
Bulletin has any practical scheme by which it can do
what it professes, then a close study of its articles on
finance for the past two years fails to reveal what tha
scheme is. There is a repetition of vague phrases,
there is a superabundance of exaggeration, but
no workable proposals have yet appeared. In
the latest criticism of the Labor party for not
accepting what The Bulletin chooses to call its
“ Whole Hog ” policy (which is really no policy
at all) we are told concerning this State : “ It has
borrowed so much and its credit is consequently so low
that when the other day' it asked in London for half-a-
million in order to pay bills that were due it could only-
get the money at a cost of £4 13s. per cent.” The
Bulletin is hereby 7 informed that only one parcel of half-
a-million Treasury bills has been placed on the London
market by the N.S.W. Govt, during the last twelve
months, that this was not to pay bills that were due, and
that neither in this or in any other case has the Govt,
paid within half a sovereign of the sum which The
Bulletin says they paid. However, it seems now that in
criticisms by journalists of proposals by Labor members
accuracy has ceased to be regarded as a merit.
• * * *
By way of contrast with this depraved country a
pretty 7 little picture of distant Canada is drawn. There,
because the country provided a sinking fund, Cohen has
gone one better, and “as the sinking fund grew he
accepted a lower and still lower rate of interest, and thus
a saving was made which constituted a sinking fund in
itself.” What Labor members would like to know
is—how this works out in the present state of
the London - money market ? Is it asserted that
during the last year, when heavier interest has had
to be paid for every 7 class of English and foreign loan
placed on the London market, Canadian borrowings have
fared one whit better than those of New South Wales?
If so, instances in support will be interesting.
* * * *
According to The Bulletin, this financial problem is a
very simple one. The country can be developed just
as well under a “Whole Hog” policy as under qny
other, as note this slab of wisdom: “‘No borrow-
ing ’ does not involve stoppage of work for the
development of the country. Even without further
taxation it should be quite possible to pay £2,000,000
into a public works fund and £250,000 into a sinking
fund; for the State’s net revenue is now pretty
near that total sum more than it was three years ago.”
Very simple, isn’t it? Let the State just live within the
income it had three years ago, and the whole trouble is
disposed of! But will The Bulletin publish another
article and show how this is likely to workout? It is
true that by transferred Federal services there has been
saved to N.S.W. a sum of £1,028,000, and notwithstand-
ing this the State expenditure has increased by
£1,381,000. Where is this £2,400,000 going to, and
how is it to be saved ? £533,000 is paid in
Old Age Pensions. In the absence of an Irvine, can
we hope to save this? £845,000 is spent in working new
railway lines. Will Tiie Bulletin just show the Commis-
sioners how they can work an extra 327 miles' of railway
and 53 miles of tramways at the same expense as they
conducted the smaller services three years ago ? Interest
charges, largely incurred by this extra construction,
amount to over £400,000. It’s no use now discussing
whether this money should or should not have been
spent. The bill is here. Apparently we should suggest
to Bull-Cohen that he foree-o his int erest-charges so that
we may adopt The Bulletin’s proposal to live on the
income of three years ago. At that time public in-
struction cost £130,000 less than now. Shall we save this?
The Harbor Trust calls for £88,500 more to be spent. Can
we collect the profits on the Harbor Trust scheme with-
out paying this? If The Bulletin can’t tell what of this
£2,000,000 is to be saved, it had better knock off chatter-
ing about running this country for the same as it cost
three years ago.
The Labor party is not dismayed merely by the fact
thatN.S.W. owes to-day about .£2.3,000,000 more than it
did 11 years ago. So far as that increase is represented
by live, revenue-producing assets which pay interest on
construction and full cost of up-keep, it may be viewed
with complete unconcern. It doesn’t represent a single
penny of increased burden to the tax-payer of this State,
and the financial policy of the Labor party is not aimed
at works in that category. But we do view with alarm
the fact that in eleven years our non-interesting-paying
public debt has increased by over 50 per cent., and to
that the Labor Conference cries “ Halt.” For this pur-
pose, and not in order to please “ the corner grocery
man,” its Parliamentary party is asked to support the
following scheme of financial reform :
1. Financial reform to include :
(a) Cessation of borrowing, except for
(1) Redemptions ;
(2) Completing works to which the country is al-
ready committed ;
(3) Undertakings which will pay interest from the
beginning- and provide 1 per cent, sinking fund.
(b) Graduated land value tax on all estates over £5OOO
in value, increasing one-eighth of a penny for each
additional £5000; maximum 3d., with right of re-
sumption at owner’s valuation plus 10 per cent.
(c) Abolition of the Legislative Council, the State
Governor and all unnecessary officials.
This, with its other fighting plank for local government,
embodies any practical suggestions that have appeared
in Tub Bulletin. If this be made law it is anticipated
that N.S.W. will pay its way through varying seasons,
meet its statutory obligations to provide a sinking fund,
and provide a 1 per cent, sinking fund for new public
works. We do not suppose for a moment that it will also
provide a t'2,000,000 public works fund Our scheme has
some merits. It means something—and so there is no
danger of its being stolen by any “ reformers.” It
is workable, hence is easily distinguishable from Tint
Bulletin’s kite-flying. Support is claimed for it not for
the sake of the grocer man, but because it seems the
best that can be done for the country just now. If the
grocer man or Thb Bulletin likes to support the party’s
efforts in this direction, it will be glad. If not, then the
Party will remember that it came into existence in Ihe
teeth of the bitterest opposition of The Bulletin and the
grocer man, and is, consequently, under no obligation to
adopt any political platform that will placate the one ot
the other.
Mr. Haul’s letter mainly serves to make one
unhappy fact plain, that he, and those who
think with him in the Labor party, regard bor-
rowing as absolutely necessary. There are
countries which get on without borrowing,
countries which survive even the policy of paying
off back loans, but the Australian is of a poorer
national type. He can’t live except on the loans
of the foreigner. It is a curious position for an
Australian democrat to take up.
* * » *
When to the hopeless “ we can’t ” of Mr. Hall
is answered “we can and we must,” really all that
needs to be said is said. An extravagant actor,
whose affairs had drifted into a hopeless position,
had to “assign.” The auditor in charge of his
affairs proposed that he should draw for himself
£3O a week. “ Oh, I can’t live on £3O a week ! ”
he moaned. Probably, too, it did seem to him
impossible, just as it seems impossible to Mr.
Hall that this young, vigorous country, with its
great mineral and other resources, should pay its
way. How can one argue against such an atti-
tude ? Still, one or two points may be noted
If Mr. Hall’s close study of The Bulletin’s financial
articles lias not revealed to him what its scheme of
economy is, that, obviously, isn’t The Bulletin’s
fault. We can give the arguments : we can’t give the
understanding to appreciate them. The scheme preached
consistently for half a score of years is economy in
works administration by local government, and the
Stoppage of jobs such as sand-shifting and Lyne Park,
and of maladministration : civil service reform to sweep
away unnecessary rents, unnecessary frills and unneces-
sary men: abolition of useless officials such as State
Governors and Black Rods: amalgamation of services
(such as the telegraphic and the railway in the country
districts) where economy can be thus secured : abolition
of such useless (and often corrupt) expenditure as that
on schools of arts, agricultural shows and the like :
taxation to make up the balance needed tor a sound and
economical administration of the country and for a sound
public works policy.
The facts re the half-million of Treasury Bills as
given by The Bulletin were taken from the London
cables—'so far not denied. ..
Concerning the effects of honest finance on public credit,
latest prices of some securities in London are:—
Wales 3j per cents., 98 ; Victoria 3j p.c., 97 ; Queensland
4 p.c., 105; N.S. Wales 3 p.c., 87i ; Canada Bp.c., 101.
Canada’s 3 per cents, are thus 13J per cent, higher than
N.S. Wales’. Paying only- 3 per cent., Canada could
borrow on better terms than any Australian State com* l
borrow at 3£ per cent. In tact, when N.S. wales
borrowed the other day it had to pay 4 per cent, on mils
issued at a discount of lj per cent. ; that is, its 4 per
cent, bills were worth only 98J. At the same time,
Canada’s 3 per cents, were at IOOj, or two points higher
than N.S. Wales’ U per cents. And the whole difference
is that, whereas the Australian States are steadily
increasing their debt, Canada is steadily wiping hers out.
As her loans fall due she doesn’t find herself at tie
money-lenders’ mercy. She is in a position to maKe
terms, and so, instead of having to pay a higher price
renew, she gets the renewal of the little she wants at
lower price. In that way, instead of her own people
providing the sinking fund, Bull-Cohen practically' does
it, for the reduction in interest has the same effect as
wiping-off a portion of the principal.
It is comforting to note that the Labor party does now
view with alarm the fact that, during the term o l s
holding the balance of power, the non-interest-pay ing
public debt has increased by over 50 per cent, l.d'squie -
ing to note that not even remorse for that fact will indue
the Party to vote for no borrowing so as to work down
the average. . ~ .
The final paragraph of Mr. Hall’s letter is particular y
silly. The “bitterest opposition ” of The Bulletin
to the Labor movement could only' he imagined by a ra
recruit to the democratic ranks. Let him ask the veterans
of the party, or consult the records of the Trades an
Labor Council. .
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chinese Mine Labor.
Apropos the S’African mining Jews’ craving for
yellow labor, consider an Australian experience.
Only in one part of this continent has the Asiatic
had practically a free fling: that is the Northern
Territory. For nearly a quarter-century past he
has been there in thousands. Twenty years ago
more than 4000 Chinese were there, and even now
the yellows outnumber the whites by over 3 to 1.
There has been, and still is, no obstacle in the wa)
of their employment on the mines. Indeed,
by far the greatest part of the mining has
been done by Chinese. Of at least a score
of English co.’s which have been formed
to work there, probably not a single one ha>
attempted to do without Chinese labor. Gt
561 men employed on English companies! mines
when the last official report was issued, only 4.
were Europeans. And yet, in spite of high hopes
with which all or nearly all began, and in spite of
high assay returns from the ore, there has not
been a single success; moreover, in every case
that can be recalled, the failure has been ascribed
to high costs of working and disappointing yields.
Generally, when the co.’s have no longer been
able to keep going on their own account, the
mines have been let on tribute to the Chinese,
who, as the official reports show, have gouged out
the rich veins to water level and then thrown up
the ground. As mine workmen they have proved
themselves utterly unsuited for deep ground, and
almost uniformly dishonest not necessarily in
the matter of gold-stealing, but certainly in the
matter of not giving a fair return for their pay.
On this and kindred points Judge Dash wood,


Government Resident in the N.T., remarked in
his annual report written on May Ist, 1902 :
Though there is no doubt that the yield of gold for the
year has been much more satisfactory than was generally
anticipated, still the present condition of this industry
cannot be regarded as a source of congratulation. The
mines which some years ago were the principal gold pro-
ducers have for the last five or six years, while they
have been under the management of English co.’s, con-
tributed little. . . . Hitherto experience seems to show
that it is only when mines are let on trifaite to the
Chinese, who simply work them to the water level, that
any profits result to the leaseholders. As one instance
out of many I will mention the Woolngie gold mine. . . .
While it was worked by Chinese on the tribute system
the returns were, I believe, satisfactory to the proprie-
tors, who, on the expiration of the agreement, took it
into their own hands and carried on operations with day
labor, the result of which, I am informed, was that the
profits disappeared, and the owners have determined to
again adopt the tribute system.
It is something more than a coincidence that
the only reputedly rich mining country of Aus-
tralia which has been so far nothing but a bitter
disappointment has been the one quarter that
has relied upon Chinese workmen for its develop-
ment, and that the only class of Anglo-Australian
mining co.’s which have failed unanimously have
been those that have looked to Chinese to earn
their dividends.
♦ ■ ■■■
Propsting’s Pecnliar Position.
Propsting has been in a peculiar position ever
since he succeeded Lewis as Premier of Tasmania,
and just at present his position is distinctly more
peculiar than ever. The country flung out Lewis
with some ferocity because, atop of a very un-
popular administration, Lewis dared to impose a
very unpopular tax, with an incidence which the
body of electors hotly condemned as inhuman and
unnecessary. Tasmania did not really object to
paying an income tax: it objected to an income
tax with about the lowest exemption in the world.
Propsting pledged himself not to repeal this
income-tax, but to exempt from its operations all
incomes derived from personal exertion. That
was the foolisli pledge which has caused Propsting
so much trouble and made his position so peculiar.
The popular demand was a reasonable demand
that the exemption should be raised to £150; but
Propsting, in his hustings fever, promised an
exemption which could not, if effected, fail to be
productive of monstrous injustice. Under Prop-
sting’s proposal—which is Propsting’s proposal
still—the poorest company will pay the tax ; and
the wealthiest person drawing an income from
his profession or trade will pay none. However,
Propsting, last session, failed to make good his
pledge; because the necessary Bill was flung
out by the House of Dodert, just as every
other Bill embodying Propsting’s generally
democratic policy was thrown out by the
House of Dodert. As an indiscriminate
legislative chucker-out, the House of Dodery
has probably made a world’s record. For a
while Propsting was not meek. He said he was
going to fight the Council. He promised very
well. He is too pre-eminently silky and respect-
able to bluster much, but so much as he possibly
could he blustered. But the House of Dodert
did not relent or apologise. Instead it threw out
the whole sackful of Propsting’s other democratic
measures, and left him without a shred of his
policy. Then Propsting proved himself no
fighter. He didn’t even bluster any more. He
compromised. The Premier who compromises
with tiie House of Dodery is lost. At the end of
the session Propsting found himself with his
policy at every point inoperative, and pledged to
collect for 1904 the very tax for which Lewis
had been so summarily executed in 1903. If
Propsting has any pride, one can begin to feel
real sorry for him about here. And now the
noxious tax is being collected, and the various
people to whom Propsting pledged himself
a year ago are holding meetings (which
Propsting or some colleague generally attends)
to devise means for “passive objection” to the tax.
These passive objectors Propsting is tacitly en-
couraging, while at the same time officially
declaring that the tax must be collected, and
ministerially instructing the collector not to use
extreme measures in enforcing payment. Also,
Propsting announces that Parliament will meet
early in March, once again to exempt personal
exertion. In the meantime the country wants
revenue, and must have revenue, and the House
of Dodert has left no fount of revenue open
with the exception of this one of the all-round
Income Tax. If any person does not find the
position of Propsting peculiar enough for his
taste, that person has a diseased craving for
peculiarity.
+
“Tonga” Baker.
Those persons in Australia foolish enough to follow
in the footsteps of parsons and priests towards
clerical domination in politics, might get a whole-
some warning from the record of “the Hon. and
Rev. .Shirley Waldemar Baker” — “Tonga”
Baker as Australia knew him —who has just died
in obscurity at San Francisco. Baker, a person of
very moderate intelligence and education, but of
much force of character, came to Sydney as a
hoy, joined the Wesleyan Church, rose to be
a minister, was sent as a missionary to Tonga,
and became there a sort of hieratic ruler, securing
the complete confidence of the king, and art-
fully bamboozling the people. At first he was
content to be a Wesleyan minister, with large
trading interests, and to secure immunity from
interference whilst feathering his own nest by
large remittances to the Sydney church. But his
trading operations brought him into sympathy
with the Germans, and the British authorities of
Oceana began to look upon him as dangerous to
their interests, and secured from his church his
recall to Sydney. Then, to quote an able bio-
graphy of this remarkable man, in the Times :
Mr. Baker, with the versatility that never failed him,
showed the King the iniquity of sending to Sydney large
sums which ought to be spent in Tonga, and un-
folded a scheme which assailed the Tongan vanity
at every point. The Tongans were as good as white
men. Why should they not have a national Church
of their own? Having secured the promise of the
Premiership in perpetuity, with a salary of £6OO a
year, Mr. Baker launched at the Wesleyan Conference
an ultimatum which he knew to be impossible of accep-
tance, but without waiting for a reply he set up the Free
Church of Tonga, and himself took office as Premier.
Unfortunately a minority of the people refused to follow
their King, and Mr. Baker then descended to persecu-
tion. There followed some stormy years for Tonga.
Wesleyans were beaten, imprisoned, and banished!
several hundreds of them subsisting for many months on
the charity of the Fijian Government. Meanwhile, since
the Tongans liked outward show, Mr. Baker gave them
all they wanted. The sea face of Nukualofa was resplen-
dent with public buildings. A miniature railway was
planned and partly built. A Government college was
supplied with the latest apparatus. There was a Privy
Council, a House of Lords, and an elected Commons, and
all the officials wore gorgeous uniforms. Callers upon
Mr. Baker were asked to wait until “ His Excellency ”
could see them. The standing army of 30 men were
supplied with field guns; the King purchased H.M S
Sandfly as his royal yacht. But in 1887 a band of escaped
prisoners, with the sympathy of some of the persecuted
Wesleyans, laid in wait for Baker as he was driving from
his office and fired at him, wounding his son and
daughter. Baker seems on this occasion to have entirely
lost hit nerve. The punishment was vindictive. Four
men were shot, and more would have been executed, had
not the Europeans threatened Baker with personal
violence. He now removed with his family to the palace
of the King-, who lived in two rooms in extreme simpli-
city, while Mr. Baker’s family had the run of the house.
So Mr. Baker continued as a persecuting ruler of
Tonga, until the long arm of the British power
stretched out towards him and he was kidnapped
(to put it more politely, deported), with orders
not to return to Tonga for two years. At the
end of that time he returned to the island, but
neither Wesleyans nor the Free Church would
have aught of him. Not despairing, he tried the
Anglican Church as a weapon, securing from
the Bishop of Dunedin ordination as a lay reader.
But the Tongan Government, backed up by
the British power, opposed consistently his
new church project, and Baker, a broken
man, left the island over which he had
ruled, to die in poverty. “Tonga” Baker
had perhaps worse luck than he deserved ; for he
was a man of imagination, courage and ability.
The best monument he left behind was a demon-
stration that the cleric of the 19th or 20th century
is still of the same spirit as the dour persecutors of
Spain, Scotland and England ; he only lacks the
■opportunity, not the will, to revive the rack and
the auto-da-ji.
In the Matter of a Syndicate.
A business circular from the “ American Com-
missions Syndicate” brings under The Bulletin’s
notice a scheme which might quite easily be mis-
taken for a swindle. This syndicate, which carries
on operations in Sydney, desires to tell the “ dear
sir or madam” whom it addresses of “a most
advantageous and safe investment ”; and Aus-
tralians, who find some difficulty in getting into
safe things that yield even 4 per cent, per annum,
will be astounded to know that the syndicate
offers them nothing less than 5 per cent, per
month. Lest there should be any mistake about
it, the syndicate explains that this is 60 per cent,
perannurn; or as it puts it again, “ money invested
in this way doubles itself in 1 year and
8 months.” There, then, is a way out of
all our troubles. The man who can raise £3OO
need no longer toil and spin. All he has to do is
to lend it to the American Commission Syndicate,
and, if nothing happens, £ls will come in regu-
larly every month. When it doesn’t come in, it
will oe safe to conclude that something has hap-
pened. And it strikes The Bulletin that it is
just the sort of office that something is likely to
happen in. The syndicate can’t pay 60 per cent,
without earning that much or more; and the
business that makes profits of that size is also
liable to make losses of the same size. And there
isn’t anything to indicate that the American
Commission Syndicate has one penny of capital to
stand those losses. If it hasn’t, then the de-
positors will not get their money back when
things do go wrong. The syndicate that
has a business which earns 60 per cent,
and doesn’t use its own capital, can’t have much
capital to use or lose. If it has capital, then,
when it offers to let the public in on these terms,
it is either a fool or a fraud; and it doesn’t look
like a fool. Nobody, of course, with even the
smallest knowledge of business, would, in such
circumstances, trust it for an hour with anything
that he was not prepared to lose ; a concern which
offers a “ safe investment ” yielding 60 per cent,
on deposits at call is too obviously a wild-cat to
attract such persons. But it is pretty clear that
this syndicate aims at reaching, not the people
who can tell wild-cats when they see them, but
the inexperienced person of very small means who
can’t—the servant-girl who has saved up a few
pounds, and the widow who has drawn a trifle
from a lodge, and such like. Only amounts
‘ ‘ from £5 to £IOO ” are received, accord-
ing to the circular. That shows what sort
of business the syndicate angles for. And
it uses for bait a few well-known names and a
number of others not well-known. At the head
of its list of “References” is the Merchants’ and
Traders’ Association —a society formed to protect
business people from rogues. To put such a name
at the head of the list was, to say the least of it,
smart. It was also, as it turns out, daring; for
the Association had given no authority for the use
of its name. A well-known firm of auditors,
whose name is also used, stands in exactly the
same position. The Merchants’ and Traders’
Association, so far from guaranteeing the syndicate
in any way, has made only one report upon it;
and that report isn’t the sort that any respectable
firm would feel flattered by. On the face of it, the
circular is a brassy attempt to get the servant
girl’s and the widow’s few sovereigns by represent-
ing that they are to be put in a “ safe invest-
ment, ” whereas it is humanly impossible for the
“investment” to be anything but utterly rotten.
No sane person will, then, trust the syndicate
with a penny that he is not prepared to lose.
Even if the offer which is made was not of such
a preposterous nature as to warn people off it, the
fact that the names of “references” have been
used in the way indicated ought to be sufficient to
prove that the business is one to be left alone by
the public. Whether the legal authorities ought
to leave it alone is another matter. The syndi-
cate may have done nothing to bring it within
the law so far, but its office is obviously a good
place for an official eye to be kept upon.
The N.S.W. Land Tax.
When a “Perform” party is seriously thinking of
doing without Cohen and making Australia pay
its own way, like a plain European country, it
will find a rich mine of revenue in the Land Tax
—not so much by increasing its rate, as by alter-
ing its assessment methods. Reporting on a certain
closer settlement proposal the other day a Land
Board calmly stated that the land was taxed at so
much an acre, and was worth nearly twice as
much. And in the discussion of Federal capital
resumption proposals, N.S.W. property-owners
are careful to point out that they expect
to get a fair price, and not the land tax
assessment price, for their holdings from the
Federal Government. The fair price and the
assessment price should coincide the State
taxing the holder on what his property is worth,
no more and no less. If, with fair assessments,
the land tax is claimed to be too high, there
is an honest point to argue. But with
faked assessments, the tax which appears to be
one penny in the JB may really only be one half-
penny, and the tax which is raised to ljd. may by
a process of further faking, ultimately yield-
ing no increase of revenue. What is
wanted is a system authorising compulsory
State resumption of land at the value
assessed for taxation purposes. With that, and
a firm Treasurer with a keen eye always open for
a bargain, and a sound Treasury, land value taxa-
tion would have somewhat different financial
results.
The High-Wage and Low-Tariff Man.
One of the ways out of the present Federal poli-
tical situation may be another early appeal to the
country. It is not a probable development, but
it is a just possible one. And—whether in
view of that possibility, or of the certainty that
within less than three years there will be a Federal
general election —the present is not too early a
time for the Protectionist party, especially in
N.S.W., to begin to reconsider its position, its
platform, and its methods of propaganda. Espe-
cially in N.S.W., because in the other States
the Protectionist party has generally more or less
fully identified itself with the Radical party, and
it is only in this State that the Protectionist
cause has been mainly left in the hands of Tories,
of high-tariff and low-wage men. It is more than
a coincidence that in N.S.W. alone, also, has the
foreign-trade cause been able to stand up against
the common-sense of Protection. When, as is too
often the case in Sydney, the man who pushes
forward as “a representative Protectionist” is a
sweating, anti-union manufacturer, fond of
blethering in public about the horrors of socialistic
legislation, there is created in some minds,
a natural, though quite unreasoning, prejudice
against Protection itself. As a matter of fact.
Protection is essentially “socialistic legislation ”
and its purpose is to encourage and make possible
unionism, and to raise wages. Any man who doesn’t
believe in socialistic legislation or in unionism or
in high wages has no business in the Protection
camp ; he is not with the right party ; his place is
with the Tory foreign-traders. The Protection
League ought to recognise this, and to take steps
accordingly, making its platform of such a nature
that no sweater could subscribe to it. Possibly
thereby one or two cheques might be lost, but
the masses would cease to be frightened away by
the unnatural spectacle of the high-tariff and low-
wage advocate.
♦
A White, and a Wise, Australia.
Brisbane Courier prints illustrations of a pneu-
matic sugar-cane cutter, evidently suggested 1!
the machine shearing machine. “In a field trial
at Mackay ... it was demonstrated that cane
could be cut without human exertion, the operator
having only to place the cutter against each stick
of cane. . . . One of the onlookers, with no pre-
vious knowledge of the tool, not only cut cane
quickly himself, but was so well satisfied that he
was prepared to compete against a man using
the ordinary cane knife.” Of course, something
like this was bound to come. So long
as Queensland could get the Kanaka or the Hindu
the white man’s inventive genius was not aroused ;
but turn the color out, and white brain comes to
the help of white brawn. They say that white
Australians cannot do the work at a payable
price. They used to say the same thing about the
tailings on the goldfields; and so, throughout
Australia, a few poor Chinese earned a precarious
living turning the stuff over in their primitive
way. But then the engineer and thechemistlooked
in, and, where a few clay-faced Asiacics starved
before, at least a million sterling is being won
in a year now by well-paid Australian workmen.
The white workman is better off, so is the coun-
try, so are the people who own the dumps. Every-
body, in fact, is better off except the few Chinese —
and perhaps they are better off, too. The same
could be said of a hundred other industries. The
countries that progress least are the countries in
which, cheap labor being available, labor-saving
inventions are not troubled about; the countries
that progress most are those in which the spur is
constantly felt. The cheaper the labor, the poorer
and less progressive the country ; and vice versa.
“White men can’t do the work.” Our black
brother Bill probably said that the first time he
saw a white man try to kill a kangaroo with a
boomerang. Brother Bill did not know that,
when the white man takes up the black man’s
work, he improves on the black man’s tools, and
doesn’t use boomerangs when he goes kangarooing.
And that is just how this sugar business stands.
In a manner of speaking, the white workman will
not need to go on using boomerangs.
+
Finance and a Fenny Fare.
A deputation waited upon the N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners a few days ago and wanted more
workmen’s trains and trams—special services run
at specially low fare-rates. The Commissioners
sympathised, of course, but said that the trams
were not paying as well as they did, that the railway
finances generally were in a bad way, and that,
as an unpleasant matter of fact, instead of making
any further concessions, they were seriously
thinking of abolishing such concessions as already
existed. So the deputation left with no
promise in its pocket, but with the fear in
its mind that it may presently have to
pay twopence or threepence for its ride
instead of a penny. The present seems, there-
fore, a better time than most for dropping a hint
to that deputation as to why it has no hope of
getting the concession which it seeks, and why it
may have to pay twice as much for its ride as it
has been doing lately. The amount spent upon
railways in N.S.W. down to June 30th last was
£41,654,977. This was borrowed money ; and for
the use of that money an average of a fraction
over per cent, per annum has to be paid. Bull-
Cohen’s bite thus represents £1,474,473 a year.
But part of this <£41,654,977 is not now earn-
ing anything; that part is represented by
worn out equipment, discarded rails, and
works which have had to be renewed. When
a workman rides in a railway-car now
he has consequently to pay Bull-Cohen
for the use not of one car but of two cars—the
one he is in and the worn-out one that has long
since been side-tracked. If there had been a
sinking-fund attached to former loans, the loan
with which the first car was bought would have
been paid off, and in that case the
workman would have had to pay for
the use of only the car he was in. But,
as there wasn’t, he has to pay Is. where, if we
had been honest and straight and sensible in the
past, he would only have had to pay lOd.—the extra
2d. representing interest which we still have to
pay on the cost of the worn-out car, and the
superannuated engine, and the superseded
bridge. Further, if, instead of borrowing twice,
we hadn’t borrowed at all, and had built our
works out of revenue, then we should not have
any Bull-Cohen looking in at all. Last year the
earnings of the N.S.W. railways were £3,314,893 ;
the interest was, as said just now, £1,474,473.
In other words, Bull-Cohen was waiting to
lay his hands_ on over 5d., and very
nearly 5Jd., of every Is. the workman
paid in fares. If there had been no Bull-Cohen
waiting at the Treasury, then obviously the work-
man could have had for 6id. or 7d. what he
actually has to pay Is. for. Finance is thus not a
question only of millions, in which the workman
has merely a theoretical interest: it is a practical
auestion of penny fares or twopenny fares as well.
•we’Sullivanism means twopenny fares or there-
abouts ; the penny fare is simply another name
for honest finance. And honest finance is only
another name for living within our means, paying
for works out of revenue, and getting rid of the
money-lending parasite by sinking funds drawn
from revenue.
A New Guinea Referendum.
“Chip” tells of an informal sort of referendum
that the Commonwealth is taking about' Ne\v
Guinea matters:—
A circular has been sent to the white residents of
British Papua in which they are invited by the Govern-
ment of the Commonwealth to express an opinion on
liquor and land matters. The first inquiry on the land
question is :
“ What would be the effect of the substitution of a sys-
tem of leasing land only, with periodical reappraisements,
for the existing system of sales of land ?”
It may be truthfully stated that any system would be
better than the present haphazard methods, which
apparently depend on the whim of the Administrator, and
that a system of long leases, with reappraisements not
exceeding 5 per cent, on the preceding appraisement,
might have the effect of inducing settlement in places.
The next question :
“If a system of leasing were substituted for existing
systems, what should be the principal conditions of
leases, e.g., period, rental, conditions of improvement,
re-appraisements ? ”
I would reply that the period should not be less than
three years, the rental nominal, conditions of improve-
ment to take such form as might be suited to the nature
of the proposed crop. No hard and fast absurdities such
as “ring fences,” “clearing,” or “buildings.” Re-
appraisements to be on the unimproved value of the land,
and in no case to exceed an increase of 5 per cent, on the
preceding one. No survey fees. Question No. 11 asks :
“ What are the best means of inducing occupation of
land by white settlers?”
The white settler naturally expects aid from native
labor. Without it he is helpless. To induce him to
settle at all in New Guinea the terms on which he will be
offered land must be more favorable than those of any
part of Australia. The practice in the past has been to
demand an exorbitant survey fee and to ask more for the
year’s rental than the actual value of the land. There
must be no such ridiculous condition as “ the lessee to
plant 1000 cocoanuts,” which he probably will not live to
profit by. All existing rentals should be reduced to an
equitable amount. Suitable areas should be surveyed
and offered to settlers, and every possible assistance
given by officials to them. The Australian who is
accustomed to obtaining advice and help in selecting
land would leave in disgust after once encountering some
of the officials in British Papua. The residents to whom
the lists of questions have been sent are requested to
forward them to Port Moresby. As there is no regular
mail to that port, and the replies may roost there for
three months before starting for the Commonwealth, I
send mine to The Bulletin.
Tasmania, which has just had a year of unusual
prosperity, finds, nevertheless, that it has lost
close upon a thousand of its handful of people by
excess of emigration. And for the life of them,
the Speck’s perplexed papers can’t think why it
should be so. Well, one reason is the awfulness
of its past financial policy. Both Queensland and
Westralia have a larger debt per head ; but neither
of them, in spite of that, can show quite so bad a
record of drift and muddle and general incapacity.
Of .£lOO of debt, Victoria has spent over £B6 and
N.S. Wales £BO on works yielding revenue ; Tas-
mania, on the other hand, has spent in that way
only £45. Further than that, while in even a bad
year N.S. Wales and Victoria can show on their
railways (the principal revenue-earning work) a
return in the neighborhood of 3 per cent., Tas-
mania, in a tolerably good year, can show only
1’56 per cent. Fifty-fi s per cent, of its debt
isn’t earning anything, and a good part of
the other 45 per cent., which ought to be
earning 3'76 per cent, per annum, is only
earning 156 per cent. The rest has to
come out of taxation. _ And by maintaining
a House of Dodery, which has blocked every
attempt to reasonably tax the largely-absentee
land-holders, and by putting up with the worst
system of fake-valuations in the Commonwealth
in connection with the poor little land tax that
the Dodery House has permitted, the people
haven’t been able to get on the land to make a
decent living. They are taxed, and they are at
the same time carefully shut out from the means
of earning money enough to comfortably pay the
tax. So they escape—escape to Maori land or
some other country which hasn’t a House of
Dodery with its disastrous, cut-throat fool-
politics.
The vileness of much “whisky” sold in Britain,
and of nearly all the whisky exported to Australia
and elsewhere, is discussed by the Lancet in a
recent article. From time to time ordinary con-
sumers of spirituous liquor—the vast majority
who can’t afford the best stuff, and couldn’t
possibly get the best if they all ordered it—are
given to understand that poison lurks in their
nobblers. Whereupon they suffer a passing pang
and think no more about the matter. The same
old ( i.e ., new) spirit continues to scorch their
vitals, and the same old Government draws an
iniquitous revenue from their internal injuries.
Clearly the original sin of our bad whisky rests
upon the head of the Government, which charges
the local original vendor (in Australia) 13s. per
gal. customs duty, or 12s. per gal. excise duty for
putting it upon the public market. The Govern-
ment should be held responsible for the genuine-
ness of every dutiable food or drink, and especially
does the Government owe a duty to the consumers
of whisky, seeing that they pay more for the
privilege of getting their intoxication by the
grace of the Government than they pay for the
poison itself. Bad liquor is a public absurdity as
well as an official crime. The evil could be
remedied more easily than most other evils, and
it is an evil that touches the very life blood
of 00 per cent, of the country’s legislators.
Yet it is never mentioned but to be presently for-
gotten.
♦
Attorney-General Wise, giving evidence before
a Commission on the Shearing labor troubles, a
few days ago, said he could not see how the exist-
ence of the M.S.U. had prejudiced the A.W.U.
in relation to the Arbitration Court. Well, Mr.
Wise has hitherto seen through a lot of less trans-
parent things than that. The M.S.U. was regis-
tered as an industrial union. In the eyes of the
Arbitration Court it was as much a union
and as good a union as the A.W.U. Without
foing before the court it fixed up with the
’astoralists’ Union a shearing agreement; and
that agreement, being filed with the court, became
an award of the court. It may have been the
worst sort of a fake-agreement; still it was an
award of the court, affecting the shearing busi-
ness. Suppose, then, that the A.W.U. had
come before the court, how could it be
other than prejudiced by the existence of a
prior award of the court affecting the
same business’ When the A.W.U. asked for
255., the P.U. would instantly point to the other
agreement and say, “Why, the Court has already
made an award that 20s. is a fair price.” There
always will be that trouble so long as two unions
are registered for the one calling. One or the
other should be cancelled. The simple question is,
Which ?
»
Some light is thrown on that Johannesburg meet-
ing which was alleged to have declared in favor of
Chinese labor, by the South African Guardian,
which publishes affidavits from several men that
they were paid 15s. each by the mine-owners to
attend the meeting and yell, down any anti-
Chinese speakers. There were-some scores ot
these mean whites paid for that purpose, and they
contrived to make of the meeting a wild-beast


The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
SETTLEMENT BASED ON PRESENT EXPERIENCE.
The following policy has recently matured, and the result will be found worthy of the
consideration of persons seeking a safe investment combined with Insurance :
Policy No. 568,531. 10 Year Endowment; 10 Year Distribution.
Age at Issue, 40. Single Premium, £443 11s. 6d. Amount, £5OO.
Issued in the Year 1893. Matured in the Year 1903.
SETTLEMENT.
Policy £5OO O O
Bonus 103 12 6
Total Amount Paid
£60312 6
Cash gain to Policy-holder £l6O Is., being a return equal to over 3 per cent, compound
interest on Premium paid, and insurance for £5OO during 10 years, free of cost.
Accumulated Funds exceed £80,000,000
Surplus above Liabilities exceed £15,000,000
articularsof Policies to meet every requirement may be obtained at the Head Office for
Aus alia, or at any of its Branches.
COMPANY'B BUILDING - Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
howl. Cohen is not particular in his methods.
He wants Chinese labor for the Rand, and, having
the British Government at his back, he means to
have it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “ Belle of New York."
Her Majesty’s “ The Eternal City."
Lyceum “ The 10.30 Down Express."
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Brown’s in Town.”
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
HEr Majesty’s *' A Country Girl."
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
Her Majesty’s drama, “The Eternal
City,” shows no sign of having reached the
passde stage. There are no new features to
chronicle, and the people who almost roost in
theatres are beginning to take heed of details
such as the nightly destruction of Rossi’s bust by
its sculptor. They wonder if some Italian image-
maker round the corner makes a fresh one
every day, or if Nelson Illingsworth is the
potter, or does Julius Knight provide his
own bust nightly, or did the management
bring out, say, 500 plaster Julius K.’s
with the company. Another item that goes from
lip to lip is that Mascagni got AllOOO for the in-
cidental music. Next to the desire to know with
whom a famous man is in love, is the hankering
for information as to how much he “gets.”
Curious how Her Majesty’s management—or Hall
Caine —insists upon the fact that the action of the
drama is in the future. The Pope is Pius XIII.
By the time there is a Pope so dated perhaps
there will be a change in portraits on the walls of
the Italian Prime Minister’s ante-room. At
present, amongst the democratic oils that look
down on Baron Bonnelli is the long, lean, goat-
bearded presentment of Abraham Lincoln.
* * *
“ The 10.30 Down Express ” is not a new
play to Sydney; it has been committed before
under very much the same circumstances as ruled
at the Lyceum on Saturday, when it was revived
—acting as capable as situations demanded, good
mechanical effects, and an appreciative audience.
There is a good deal of thrill in this play with the
title taken from a railway book, not very artistic
thrill, but the rough-and-ready variety of sensa-
tionalism dear to the heart which finds relief
from its troubles in the “dope” of melodrama.
In the crowning act the hero is sandbagged and
tied down to the railway line, so that the express
shall run over him before it plunges to wreck
over the tampered-with points. And, of course,
the heroine comes and saves the train by putting
the signals right and rescues the hero ; but the
gallery is not provided with the spectacle of the
villain being run over in his place. That is a
notion which the stage carpenter, in construct-
ing the next melodrama, should think over.
Various characters are well acted by Misses Ada
Guildford, Ivy Gorrick, Ethel Buckley, and
Georgie Leighford, also by Robert Inman, Bert
Bailey, and Lawrence Dunbar.
#* # *
Brown, who really isn’t Brown, continues
to marry into a sea of troubles at the Palace ; and
on to every fresh trouble somebody hangs a song
or a dance ; or if it doesn’t seem quite a large
enough trouble for a 15-stone comedian like Mr.
Stine to dance on top of, then it has to carry a
joke, anyhow. Occasionally, if a trouble doesn’t
turn up in time, a song or a dance is dropped in
without any visible excuse. But the audience
doesn’t mind; for the American musical
comedy co. doesn’t, on the whole, shine with
any great brilliance in the acting line. It is
happiest when it sings and dances, and so is its
audience. Altogether, it is the airiest of airy
trifles, taking nothing seriously for more than 30
seconds at a time. “Where am I?” dreamily
says the heroine of the burlesque melodrama as
she recovers from her swoon upon sighting the
villain. “At the Palace, taking money under
false pretences,” the villain answers. So the co.
doesn’t take even itself seriously ; and the
mummer organisation which doesn’t do that is of
a very unusual order indeed.
** # *
The bloom is still upon Yulcana’s back at
the Tivoli, where her 3001 b. dumb-bell also
descends upon the stage-floor with the no-decep-
tion-about-me bang of its former efforts. The
three Drumonds’ musical turn introduces a feature
in which the Rickards show had been weak
latterly ; it is the item just now that mustn’t be
missed. Dewar’s dogs do nothing fresh in the
same way as before; and in other respects the
strong bill, regarding which some approving
adjectives were used a week ago, continues to give
Tivoli patrons a better time than they have had for
several months past.
** * *
“ Belle of New York ” revival at Sydney
Royal has been more than ordinarily successful,
crowded and glad houses being the rule. The
“Belle ” improves, to the average theatre-goer, at
the second or third time of striking, for the
American humor is then better understood.
American humor has large feet, and it calls for its
drinks with no uncertain sound ; it is not
of the daisy and unobtrusive order of
growth. Still public comprehension is a little dull,
even to such strenuous claims, until familiarity
has taught a quick appreciation. Miss May
Beattie’s work, as the “Belle,” strikes a more
strenuous note than that of Miss Musgrove,
who last took the part in Sydney : consequently
it is more successful in the second act than in the
first: in the final scene her acting is especially
effective. It is a rather sad circumstance, all
things considered, that the “Belle” flits away
this week to make room for “Floradora.” The
Sydney public will, however, be interested to see
how this co. fares in that piece. But what is the
matter with a revival of “The Milk-white
Flag”?
THE DOWIE FAMILY.
(Elijah and Mrs. Elijah and Little Elijah—who is 34 but has never 'ssed a girl yet, having
been well brought up in the fear of Bear.)
One of these years “ A Country Girl ” will
be positively withdrawn from Her Majesty’s after
the manner of its kind. A musical comedy is only
mortal. It cometh up like a flower, and is cut
down and cast into the oven, where neither moth
nor rust doth corrupt. All the same the adver-
tisement of Williamson’s show seems to suggest
that the Rajah and his orange-brown princess will
be singing “Bhong” until the sun grows cold.
In the words of the latest announcements “ The
Boom is only just commencing,” and “ A Country
Girl is only in its infancy.” Moreover, the cen-
tury is young—
In this you see the method of Bhoom,
Which weaves its spell on a showman’s loom—
The popular, top-ular, right-on-the-hop-ular,
Shop-ular method of timely Bhoom.
Give them a comedy free from gloom,
They’ll pay their sugar for Standing Room ;
Hey ! for the popular “cop”-on-the-hop-ular,
Shop-ular method of timely Bhoom.
* * *
The drama of the good millionaire, the
bad blind man, and the comic sailor whose
mother got mislaid in the work’us, will cease to
be at Melbourne Royal after Friday next (12th).
“In London Town” has charms for all true
lovers of melodrama. It presents Miss Ross in an
auburn wig, of much the same shade as Mis*
Ireland’s beautiful hair, by which means a
thoughtful observer is led to the conclusion that
the millionaire’s deceased wife was likewise
auburn, therefore the credulous widower
had been searching for a daughter with
autumnal - tinted tresses _ when the wrong
girl was palmed off upon him. Such suggestions
are rare in melodrama plot, and when found they
deserve to be made a note of. Another interest-
ing peculiarity about the departing play is its
profound silence re the fates of various evil-doers.
Norman falls off a roof, Styan tumbles down
stairs and Brown retires from the scene without
the aid of the police. Miss Ireland, as the bogus
daughter, presumably, gets away with a large
stock of jewels and pocket money. This is better
than bringing all the sinners to misery and shame,
as usually happens at the Royal. Even if
Norman’s mishap spells death he is bound to
achieve a high-class funeral under the circum-
stances. In the eyes of the law he was a reputable
citizen, moving in the best bell-toppered circles.
Eor obvious reasons none of the virtuous survivors
will cast a slur on the gentleman’s mangled
remains. He’s the first stage villain who has
ever arrived at an oak coffin with plated handles.
R.I.P.
#* * *
Bland Holt’s forthcoming revival was re-
ferred to in last issue as a horsey drama, because
its title—“ Riding to Win ” —is suggestive of gee-
gee. On second thoughts this scribe remembers
that “Riding to Win” is a Melbournised story,
leading up to the victory of Walter Baker in a
Great Wheel Race at the Exhibition Oval. A
relentless persecutor punctures his tyre before the
event, but Baker borrows another bike and beats
Major Taylor by a long Amen.
** * *
, At the Opera House there is a change in
the “turns” of the Empire Girls and the Two
Bells. The Girls, in particular, are scoring with
a quaint, huqiorous “Burglars’ Chorus.” The
young man in the red satin hat continues
to pipe his falsetto lay, likewise the Ameri-
can lady with the incongruous warble is
smiling at a moderately sympathetic world
as before. Also the tinted Biograph repeats
itself, and Will Wljitburn has returned to the
scene of his long and faithful popularity. Clarke
and Hamilton are understood to be leaving the
Opera House this week or next. In the language
of classic journalism, they can ill be spared.
Other “tramp ” comedians have been somewhat
like Clarke (or Hamilton) but none was half so
funny.
* *- » #
The Bijou panto, has shifted its location
to Adelaide, and the place where Harry Shine
used to wash the baby is in a state of darkness
once again. The Princess’s is waiting patiently
for Willoughby and Geach to come along. Miss
Kellermann performs in a tank at the Aquarium ;
the Chamber of Horrors and other matters are
appearing at the venerable Waxworks, and the
Jerusalem Cyclorama stands where it did. But
Jerusalem announces the end of its long Mel-
bourne engagement.
*
The Adelaide Tivoli has put in a merry
Rickards season, limited to a week, with Cirnoc
and others. The handcuff-man was so hard put
to it by a local expert one evening that he had to
wrestle in private for nearly half-an-hour, the
usual song-and-dance turns going on meanwhile
in front of his cabinet. There is much that is
fresh in the screen-pictures of the cheese-mite at
lunch. Also a dramatic sketch of baby and
burglar starts well, but tails off into the conven-
tional and the limelight. Winton and M’Ginty
are reliable as usual, and there is much glee when
the intelligent stuffed dog falls dead on hearing
the top note of the stuffed lady. Pantomime is
now imminent at the Royal.
When you are running a likely show,
What is the method to make it go ?
Bhoom—Wonderful Bhoom.
Vary the tone of your daily shout,
But never grow weary of calling out
Bhoom ! Wonderful Bhoom !
Readable paragraphs, simple rhymes,
Bidding the multitude bite betimes.
Bhoom ! Wonderful Bhoom !
Tell ’em the truth and a trifle more,
Same as is done at a draper’s store—
Bhoom—wonderful Bhoom !
An Explanation.
in a recent issue we stated that “ one old West
Queensland firm of station owners, which had its
sheep runs swept by drought, hedged, as a final
plunge, on Burleigh and Charlotte Plains stations,
and had now begun to smile again.” We now find
that our information was incorrect, and that the
firm referred to, when they purchased the latter
station, owned large numbers of sheep and cattle
and had a large sum lying to their credit with
their bankers, and that, far from going into a
gamble in cattle, they bought the station as relief
country for their sheep and sent away the cattle.
Burleigh was a later purchase, and was bought as
a bargain. We have much pleasure in making
this explanation, and trust that the firm referred
to have in no way suffered by the paragraph in
question.
The Wild Cat Column.
It’s the shadow of Cohen’s coming Noes that is
troubling the Australian Treasurers.
• • * *
The following shows the States’ revenue for
January, except in the case of Westralia, whose figures
are for December. S. Australia is out of the list, as it
makes up returns only once a quarter
Month’s Revenue Returns.
Jan., 1903. Jan., 1904.
N.S. Wales .. £882,010 £896,679 Inc. £14,609
Victoria .. 630,342 638,275 Inc. 7,933
Queensland .. 240,651 248,960 Inc. 8,309
Westralia .. 333,090 319,748 Dec. 13,342
Tasmania .. 71,506 61,304 Dec. 10,202
The list is not very cheering. In two cases the decreases
are very heavy. The position of the eastern States has
improved a little ; but all last year and the year before
we were promised that, with the break-up of the drought
and the return of “ normal seasons,” it would improve
out of all recognition ; yet, with a phenomenal season,
the movement is so far hardly perceptible. It is becom-
ing more obvious every month that the position will not
right itself. It must be righted.
A statement of th® financial year, as far as it
has gone, gives, no doubt, a more accurate view of the
situation. Except in the case of Tasmania, the financial
year starts on July Ist; Tasmania’s starts on Jan. Ist:
Revenue for Financial Year So Far.
1902-3. 1903-4.
N.S. Wales (7 months) £6,246,612 £6,207,092 Dec. £39,520
Victoria (7 months) 3,927,112 3,877,103 Dec. 50,009
Queensland (7 months) 2,047,431 2,067,141 Inc. 19,710
S. Australia(6 months) 1,062,624 1,081,984 Inc. 19,360
Westralia (6 months) 1,926,330 1,712,085 Dec. 214,245
Tasmania (1 month ) 71,506 61,304 Dec. 10,202
The Westralian figures are subject to revision ; mainly on
account of the collection of the local customs, the posi-
tion is never very clear. What, however, is absolutely
certain is the existence of a large deficit, which is to a
great extent the result of the recent removal of another
instalment of the local duties. Except as to Queensland,
this list shows hardly one pleasant feature. South Aus-
tralia certainly presents improved figures; but in that
case the adverse expenditure returns, as shown here-
under, more than counterbalance the apparent improve-
ment.
Expenditure returns are, as usual, incomplete
Year’s Expenditure So Far.
1902-3. 1903-4. Decreases
N.S. Wales (7 months).. £7,174,200 £7,057,122 £117,078
Queensland (7 months).. 2,045,376 2,011,096 34,280
Westralia (6 months).. 1,751,854 1,747,126 4,728
Increase.
S. Australia (6 months).. 1,216,109 1,253,359 37,250
The South Australian figures may be re-adjusted. Vic-
toria and Tasmania publish only annual returns of ex-
penditure.
• • • •
Only two States supply loan figures. These
are for seven months in each case :
1902-3 1903-4
N.S. Wales, Works, etc £1,899,349 £1,201,374
N.S. Wales, Resumptions .. .. 1,164,903 362,096
Queensland 549,741 394,594
N.S. Wales, which is said to have given up its old
borrowing policy, is still living on loans at the rate
of nearly £2,700,000 a year. Heaven and the Treasury
alone know how the money is being scraped together.
Summarised, then, these are the main features
of the position so far as it is disclosed
N.S. Wales to the end of January had a deficit of
£850,070 on seven months’ operations. This is only
£77,518 better than the position at the same date last
year. The State is still borrowing at the rate of over 21
millions a year.
Victoria has collected over £50,000 less than in the
same part of the previous year. Expenditure unknown.
South Australia had a deficit on Dec. 31st of £171,375 ;
the position is about £lB,OOO worse than at the same date
the previous year.
Queensland is making a struggle to be honest, but as
Bull-Cohen takes most of its revenue, and as he won’t put
up with reductions of interest, the struggle is a hard one.
The position is, however, £54,000 better than it was 12
months ago and about £Bl,OOO better than it was two
years ago.
Westralia spent £35,041 more than it received in the
six months.
Tasmania, with a slump of about one-seventh of its
revenue as compared with Jan., 1903, is “passively
resisting” payment of income tax.
• * * *
It looks pretty much as if State borrowing will
have to stop now, anyway. Westralia, at present the
most prolific State of the group, and in proportion to its
adult male population, the least burdened with debt, de-
cided to test the Australian market with a half-million
loan at 4 per cent. No issue was ever so well advertised
before. Every member of every Stock Exchange was an
agent for collecting tenders. And, in spite of all that,
only £325,000 was offered. When the news soaks into
London that the man with money in Australia will not
lend to a State so comparatively well situated as
Westralia at 4 per cent., there is not much hope of any
other State getting money, except at a rate which makes
its use for public enterprises quite out of the question.
* * * *
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co. :
Outgoings.
, * -,
Paid on
Full Interest account of
Gross on Ist & 2nd Interest Deficit.
Profits. Debentures, on 3rd De-
bentures.
1894.. £41,456
15 months to
Sept., 1895.. £138,572 £166,965 69,849
9 months to
June, 1896 .. 98,177 107,427 79,099
(Deficit and other heavy losses written off capital
and fixed interest charges reduced.)
New
Deficit.
1897.. 130,777 132,993 2,216
1898 . 96,063 100,580 6,733
1899.. 108,705 100,595 £1,377
1900.. 167,582 100,580 15,016 51,986
1901.. 100,859 100,594 265 51,986
1902.. 101,195 100,659 536 51.956
1903.. 101,050 100,658 392 51,986
Earnings fall about £14,700 short of being sufficient to
pay interest on all debentures. No plan has yet been
finally adopted of straightening out the affairs of this
much re constructed but still (in its present form) ap-
parently hopeless co. Under a former scheme, £1,042,142
was written off capital, which now stands at £135,022, in-
cluding 10,000 trustees’ £1 shares, which are entitled to
extraordinary privileges and preferences. The deben-
ture-capital was also written down by £1,448,325 ; it now
stands in three divisions (prior lien, second lien, and
third lien) at £3,309,533, of which the co. holds £471,461.
The debenture-trustees’ preference shares are the bug-


The attention of mine managers,engineers, etc.,
is drawn to the fact that the Dunlop Tyre Co. are now
manufacturing rubber conveying belts for all purposes—
made endless and in any length up to 45 inches. Guaran-
teed the highest quality, and free from stretch. Sample
and price upon application.*
* » * *
Insurance Would, London, Ist August, 1903,
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society :—“ All
the essentials which go to build up absolute prosperity,
this leading mutual office enjoyed in its business during
1902. The Colonial Mutual during last year achieved a
notable success and compiled results which must largely
enhance its future well being.*
* * * *
Messrs. Fritsch, Holzer and Co. of the Upper
Hawthorn Brick Company (Victoria) have placed an order
with the Austral Otis Engineering Company, South
Melbourne, for a new double brick machine with feed and
pug mills complete, having a capacity of 2000 bricks per
hour. Also for a new coupled compound steam engine
of 250 1.H.P., fitted with automatic valve gear and all
latest improvements. This will make the third brick
press Messrs. Fritsch, Holzer and Co. have erected at
their works, and is a sign of improvement in the trade.*
* * * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * ¥
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * ♦
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * ♦ *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company,, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten iMn an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
,-Ej. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.* b
* *
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.), the Commonwealth’s great-
est tin mine, made a profit last half-year of £31,383 in
addition to £329 interest. From this, £28,350 was paid
in dividends and dividend tax, and £3506 was written
£2B 000 C T°f' w Tn- a res erve fund, on fixed deposit, of
a a v cosfcs H llB , ?°- 6s - °i' l - per ton to mine, crush
and dress its ore ; of this amount 3s. sd. goes in mining
lljd. m crushing and..dressing, and the balance in
managing - , handling slimes, stores, &c.
s 1 1
m
T KAMW/vy s for mines.
up-to-date TrX,,!w-T* H°rse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
is still more economioil n l,le rollmy stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
stocks of ssteel Rails *V 0U n fia J'S e Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
INDENTS — Doy’sniifoi'i J '!| , ' t, ' ue * {8 > Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
> -lo-sp'kes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
CENToa i CATA -IjOGUE in yours for the asking. 'lyi
p«« N lI i ’?„ L h u “' n s " g * tramway appliances
4 R“m-estnH ■ ’a SYDNEY - A E> LEPLA8TRIER, Manager,
piesentino- Orbnstein and Koppbl, Ltd., London, Berlin and PaH s .
Branches Melbourne, Brisbane
’ Gairns a “d Zeehan (Tasmania)
CYAN IDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-St., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eaele-st,,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.
bear thej’ and the certificates issued against them ; but,
as usual when debentures are issued, enormous dif-
ficulties have been encountered in carrying through any
scheme which will give the co. a fair chance of getting
out of its troubles Negotiations are, however, still in
progress.
* * * *
M'Cracken’s City Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.):—
Pep-. Profits. Dividends. Written off. Deficit.
1892 .. £30,345 5J p. c. = £27,500 £19,862
Losses.
1893 .. 4,636 Nil 24 498
1894 .. 8,322 Nil 32*820
1895 .. 21,263 Nil _ 64 083
, Nil . £169,768 250|000
(£250,000 one-half the paid capital—written off)
p rofit- Reserves.
1897 .. 1,002 Nil 1,002
Losses. Deficit
1898 .. 9,158 Nil - g 156
1899 .. 23,904 Nil ... 32*060
1900 .. 9,679 Nil 4?739
19 °rpirK 99«’ i -^ NiI 115,453 161,152
(£175,226 capital written off, which covered deficit
n an( \Jl ffc £1 4 »074 for further writing down)
1902 .. 6,/16 Nil 1
£3957 forfeited capital put to reserves f 2,769
1903 .. 11,010 Nil _ a
£260 forfeited capital put to reserves / 13,509
The foregoing is the lamentable history of the co. since
the promoters guarantee ran out. The half-million of
ii per cent, debentures constitute the visible trouble.
Dast years profit, before charging debenture interest
£?2°sm ed TH 0 £1 . 4 : 490 h and the interest required "was
£22,500. The paid capital is £287,446 ; and on that and
debenture-capita, l combined the gross return was about
k * co',K er P! nfc- 0n debenture capital alone it was
about £2 18s. 6d. per cent. On these figures it seems
j®, l * "be passing of the concern into the hands of the
debenture-holders is inevitable, the more particularly as
ai^Li” 0 -"’ / e P la .'P S ° nl - v ■ £2193 of capital uncalled.
Already, in fact, the trustees for the debenture-holders
nave assumed office. But the experience of 1899-1900-1901
seemed to indicate that the business was not hopeless, as
in those years the loss was rapidly reduced, and had
prices of brewers’ supplies not risen abnormally, a profit
would probably have been by this time shown. It may
therefore he worth shareholders' while to make a struggle
to retain their holdings. be>
* * * «
J*?. e Shamrock Brewing and Malting Co
(Melbourne): —
Net Added to
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
.. —— —•- __ fic qq-i
1901 I PerCent ‘ = £3612 £5 ’ 597 11.528
190? " B ” ” 3612 3 ,639 15,167
19nl '’aw l ” ” 3612 3 - 032 18.199
1903 . 4377 8 „ „ 3612 765 18,964
vl e 4ra d*"K profit for last year was rather better than is
shown here; but in order to show net profits, £474 is
deducted, that amount having been written off a lease-
reS6rve fund ' For the first time a,so
. 4) appears among the outgoings. The net
eoual 6 'to Bt 'io n^ ertheleBS > excellent, profits being
equal to £9 14s. per cent.—a figure which
a 'l°K acfc n all - v (he highest for last year among
Australian breweries, is very close to it. The only
feature that isn’t satisfactory (apart from the
all in profits, which has been a common calamity among
breweries) is the increase in the net liabilities on morl>
gage and overdraft, etc.:—l9oo £ll 958 • 1901 £ia can.
1902, £12,775; 1903, £17,869. ’ fhe* year’s defease ii
represented mostly by advances to customers, so, though
there s risk in it, the money is probably earning very
* * * •
p„ Tl ) e i Fel T ei ™' (Rand) property of Eckstein and
Co. (who declare that the mining industry will be
strangled if Chinese labor is not imported) paid 1874 per
cent, dividends last year. J 1 per
* * • ,
Port Jackson Co-operative Steamship Co.
t, . Written Re-
June 1908 Profit ’ « Dividend. Off. serves.
Dec 1903 " BPerCen t fl 5 ° £5625 £lOB7
c-’ 1903 ;• £3696 8 ~ ~ 1000 2500 1283
0t ' £so ° is nofc re ckoned in the above as
a " asset - The reserves consist of insurance fund (£1000)
and undivided profit. Recent vvritings-off have been
very heavy, to make up for the period when they were
ture® f £8745 i'nf 6 * ■ Th , e ., C ?-’- wh L c j l . can 'ies £36,745 deben-
of £-75 ( n00 1 t u rl^ U,lab l e) ln addltion to its paid capital
th-m k in B aS w t ? h equered career, with more lean
nan fat m it. Lately in its struggles, it put up the fares
a trifle and introduced the turnstile system ; and both
f«. X . P iv lm !j n f S a lu sald to f >e turning out satisfactorily. It
is claimed for the turnstiles that they control the traffic
to some extent and reduce the liability to accident. *
* * *
(Sydney)^ W Yobk AND Brooklyn Tobacco Co.
Deficit
(Goodwill
Ppofn-c r>- -j j Applied and Prelim-
Profits. Dividends. to Re- inary Ex-
serves, penses not
noo reckoned as
1897.*. -
Isqq" 10 P-c.*=£l62s £978 1141
1899.. 1520 10 „ „ 1500 20 mi
1900.. 2111 10 „ „ 1500 611 510
1901.. 2318 10 „ „ 1500 818
1902.. 1432 10 ;; 1500 - 240
1903.. 445 5 „ „ 796 -
An interim dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum
wh« l pa " asfc Ju - ne ’ but 'disaster struck the co., and the
Uf • e h V ? S earn ' fail short of what was then unwisely
most- of'f hi' T 0 )a ?° people Beem t 0 have been too busy
most of the year cutting one another’s throats to think
about Prefits. Within the last week or so there has been
a consolidation of interests; hut, as the New York and
d r no 0 f asMn 0 h' S o tiriit ’ itprObab, - V lneans a continued,
it not a still harder, squeeze for that unhappy concern
n view of this struggle the co. is probably sor?y now
fiifiVf made lts dlv,d ? nds 10 Per cent, and put aside so
little to reserves. If it isn’t sorry it ought to be.
• * # #
There is plenty of room yet for the Australian
laisin and currant industries to grow. The Common
wealth eats, roughly, about 5000 tons of currants ™one
J f, ar A and i S ‘ Australia and Victoria, which are
pi acticaily the only producers, supply under 1000 tons
The S. Australian currant yield is, however, getting
steam on . m 1898 it amounted to only 43 tons while
in the past season it reached 241 tons. Between the
ame years the raisin yield went from 208 to 578 tons.
F,K T A h N CBct S (lydney^- LISATION AND GeNEKAL
... T Recovered
t Written Loss on from Debt Total
Loss on off Pro- Property Previously Net Visible
Business, perties. Sales. Written Off. Loss. Deficit
!m- T ».«"> - 6,1* .3*301
!“■' 1318 S 12 ’ 046 - s
1898" sol - “ 2,162 67 470
1899. 1089 111 , q 7q ~ 1.814 69,284
1900 808 490 6,949 “ 8 > 332 77,616
1901.. 242 442 3 6 70 ~ ’ 298 78 - 914
1902.. 631 539/ 3,670 ~ 4 > 354 83 .268
1903" 532 904 Z 84,438
™ffaaws “hi^
cunties ” amounted during the year to £1632 - andT Ti
per cent, basis this indicates a capita vflue 0 f U
that is a fair value, then the assess must be written dm v“
by £33,378, which would leave the co. with £10,340 of its
capital. But the past year’s experience has been un-
usually satisfactory in some respects ; on the previous
year’s record, if the whole of the assets were taken over
at a price to yield the buyer 4£ per cent., all but about
£2OOO of the co.’s paid capital would have to be written
off. Either way, it isn’t a prospect calculated to make a
shareholder cheerful.
* * * *
Claimed that an Indian gold mine, the
Champion Beef, Bull-owned, holds the world’s dividend-
paying record. In 10 years divs. have reached 1022.5 per
cent, on its capital; that is to say, it has averaged some-
thing more than its capital (£260,000) every year.
* * » *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power
Co. (Sydney)
Carried
Profits Dividends. Written to Re- Deficit.
Dec., Off. serves.
1894.. £13,535
1895.. £6,537 6f p.c. =£5,063 £1474 12,061
1896.. 7,209 8§ „,, 6,562 647 11,414
1897.. 10,016 10 „ „ 7,500 £1250 1266 10,148
1898.. 11,531 10 „ „ 7,500 1250 2781 7,367
1899.. 11,614 10 „ „ 8,438 1250 1926 5,441
1900.. 16,498 10 ~ ~11,250 1000 4248 1,193
1901.. 10,058 10 „ ~11,250 2,385
1902.. 13,140 10 „ ~11,250 1890 495
Nominal
Reserves
1903.. 13,499 10 „ ~ 11,250 2249 1,754
Of the year’s profit £6585 was made in the first and £6914
in the second half-year. This is the best result since the
engineering business was turned over to a separate co.
between two and three years ago. Still the progress has
not been what it formerly was ; the keen competition of
electric power is probably making itself felt. In
the foregoing table the paper asset, “ Parliamentary
Rights and Concessions, £15,000,” is disregarded. As the
affairs are presented bv the co., there is a plant renewal
reserve of £10,500, a Waterloo lease reserve £3250, and
undivided profit £l7l4—total £16,754. From that, how-
ever, the £15,000 paper asset has to be deducted in order
to get at the co.’s real position, leaving the more or less
solid reserves £1754 as above—“ more or less solid ’’
because plant, mains, stock, building, etc., are down for
£103,344, which was cost price. The co. has been in
business now for 16 years, and if there hasn’t been any
depreciation in that time, then the co. has solved the
great secret of how to maintain perpetual youth. If,
however, the co.’s iron rusts just like other iron does,
then the balance-sheet doesn’t give a statement of the
co.’s real position.
* * * •
It is printed in a London financial paper that
the expenses of the 1.0. F. for 1902, as declared to the
Government of Canada, amounted to £143,020, which
was equal to 24J per cent, of the premium income. In
the revenue account which accompanies the balance-
sheet issued in Australia the expenses for the same year
are set down at £26,868, or 5 per cent, of the premium
income. Here is a small discrepancy of £116,152
which calls for explanation. It is not at all
likely that the curious Red Indian order any-
where overstated its expenditure; it is not likely,
therefore, that the expenses amounted to a penny less
than £143,020. Australia is, however, a long way off ;
so the simple plan seems to have been adopted of putting
the expenses down at 5 per cent, and trusting to luck
that nobody would dig up the truth. Where the
£116,152 is gone is, however, a mystery. Some insurance
co.’s that haven’t enough genuine funds to make a
decent show have the bad habit of counting some of
their expenses as an asset. It is a poor little
trick—as poor and unconvincing as the claim
of a man who has just spent sixpence on a
drink that he really hasn’t spent sixpence, because
he still has in his mouth the taste of the liquor,
which is worth threepence. But when even this
poor dodge is worked, and the sixpence isn’t shown
as spent, the part that is claimed as still an asset has to
appear somewhere ; generally the struggling insurance
co. shows it as “ Business Extension Account.” The
1.0. F. does not, however, do even that; it claims to have
solid assets for the whole of its funds. Whether it has or
hasn’t cannot be checked this far away ; it can be checked
in Canada—which probably accounts for the difference
between the Canadian and the Australian figures.
There is, in the balance-sheet, for instance, “ Union
Trust Co. stock, £214,167.” This may be worth
214,167 pounds or pence for all the Australian Red Indian
insurer knows. There is no independent auditors’ report;
there is no auditors’ report, in fact, of any kind. Yet, so’
worthless is the law of this State and Victoria as to life
insurance co. s that anyone may roam, pocketing pre-
miums, for which the prospect of any respectable return
is practically nil. The only protection is the annual
balance-sheet and statement of accounts ; but if these
are faked, then the victim is helpless.
* * ♦ *
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
property salesmen, valuators, &c.:— '
Deficit
In Re- (Goodwill
duction not
„ _. _. . of Reckoned
r „„™ Proflfcs - Dividends. Deficit, an Asset).
June, 1899.. _ £52 057
Dec., 1899..£2071 5 per cent. =£lsoo £571 51’486
June, 1900.. 2448 5 „ „ 1500 948 50 538
Dec., 1900.. 2538 5 „ „ 1500 1038 49,500
June, 1901.. 2517 5 „ „ 1500 1017 48,483
Dec., 1901.. 3313 5 „ „ 1500 1813 46,670
June, 1902.. 3263 5 „ „ 1500 1763 44,907
Dec., 1902.. 2993 5 „ „ 1500 1493 43,414
June, 1903.. 1746 5 „ „ 1500 246 43,168
Dec., 1903.. 2055 5 „ „ 1500 555 42,613
The goodwill item in the balance-sheet, which originally
stood at £57,500, has now been reduced to £43,500 ; and
on the other side there is a profit and loss balance of £BB7
The assets consist chiefly of Treasury bills £9OOO, advances
£2866, and cash at bank £l3,679—presumably at fixed
deposit, though it isn’t specified. Business shows a slight
recovery ; profits were equal to £6 17s. per cent, per
annum on capital (£60,000), as against £5 9s. Bd. in the
preceding half. They have still, however, a good way to
go to catch up to the rate of £9 19s. 6d. shown in the
latter half of 1902.
* * * *
The Farmers’ and Dairymen’s Milk Co.
(Sydney) :
Unexplained Total
Trading Addi- Addi- Re-
Profits. Dividends. tions tions serves.
to Re- to Re-
Dec., serves. serves.
1899.. £390 _ _ £ o 0 r 4
1900.. 667 £516 £llB3. 4237
1901.. 874 _ 656 1530 5767
1902.. 396 800 1196 6963
1903.. 1038 lOp.c. =£l63 403 1278 8241
The reserves are all used in the business.
* * * *
A present visitor to Australia is Mr. E. D.
Tupper, who is representing a company being formed in
London under the title of the Commonwealth Wine Co
to organise and develop the Australian wine industry’
It is proposed to acquire such vineyards in the States as
may be possible, and carry on operations here and abroad
to develop the export trade.
* * * *
The Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (New-
castle) : v
„ .. .. Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec.. 1899 £7128 15 p.c. = £7,500 - £51,394
June, 1900 7577 15 ~ , 7,500 £77 51 471
Dec., 1900 10,183 20 ~ „ 10,000 183 51,654
June, 1901 15,534 30 ~ ~ 15,000 534 52 188
Dec., 1901 17,968 35 „ „ 17,500 468 52,656
June, 1902 .17,645 35 „ „ 17,500 145 52 801
Dec., 1902 17,673 35 ~ ~ 17,500 173 52,974
June, 1903 15,202 30 ~ „ 15,000 202 53,176
Dec., 1903 9,566 20 ~ ~ 10,000 52,742
The profit fell short of the dividend by £434. A con-
traction of business is held responsible; and, as this
contraction was especially marked towards the end of the
half-year, presumably the outlook for the current term
is not very striking.
•** * *
' Chief Secretary Murray, of Vic., spoke brave
words to a deputation that lately asked him to relieve
the municipalities of part of the third which they, like
the Government and the insurance co.’s, pay for the
upkeep of Melbourne’s fire brigade. Said Murray : “ The
insurance companies ought to pay the whole cost. The
co.’s deserved no consideration. They had the com-
munity by the scruff of the neck, and the unfortunate
ratepayers would get no relief till there was legislation.”
But the mostly-foreign co.’s that thus hold Melbourne’s
citizens “ by the scruff of the neck,” being offensivelj'
and defensively combined, will merely, if ordered to
wholly maintain the brigade themselves, get over the
difficulty by raising rates all round, and cutting down
wages to the lowest scale consistent with passable effici-
ency If Minister Murray has ideas and energy to corre-
spond with his brave talk, he will set going a State
insurance department.
* * * *
The Manly Gaslight and Cork Co. (Manly
N.S.W.)
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Dec., Profits Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £238
1902 .. £1497 7 p.c. = £lO5O £4OO £47 255
1903 .. 1445 7£ „ „ 1125 400 205
In order to pay the dividend, put up to 8 per cent, for
the past half-year, the poor little reserves will have to be
encroached upon. In fact, after writing off the fairly
substantial amount of £4OO, the reserves would have to
be tapped to pay even the old 7 per cent., which makes
the increase of the dividend all the more incomprehen-
sible.
* * * *
The Australasian Insurance Co.
(Melbourne): —
Added to Re-
Profit Dividend Reserves serves
1901 £2936
1902 £1059 20 p.c. =£looo £59 2995
1903 936 13£„ „ 800 136 3131
Paid capital has been increased from £5OOO to £6OOO
during the year. A very profitable little business;
interest and rents alone bring in nearly enough to pay
6 per cent, even on the increased capital.
» * * »
“Q.”: The calculation of the percentages of
bank profits on shareholders’ funds (8., 17/12/’O3) gives a
decided advantage to banks whose deposits are large in
proportion to capital and reserve. Percentage of profits
on total funds appears to me to give a better idea of the
nature of the business, and on last published results this
works out as follows, per cent, per annum :
Australasia .. £llO 9 Com. of Sydney.. £0 17 6
Royal of Q’land.. 17 4 N.S. Wales .. 016 7
Union .. .. 15 6 National of Aus.. 012 9
City .. .. 112 Q.N 011 8
N. Queensland .. 110 London .. ..047
E.S. & A 0 17 6 A.J.S 0 0 8
* * * *
The principal Australian mine dividends for
1903 were :
Perseverance (W.A.) £350,000
Horseshoe (W.A.) 270,000
Great Boulder (W.A.) 262,500
Queen Cross (Charters Towers, Q.) .. 215,000
Oroya (W.A.) • 191,250
Ivanhoe (W.A.) 180,000
Mt. Morgan (Q.) 150,000
Mount Lyell (Tas.) 113,437
No. 2S. Gt. Eastern (Gympie, Q.) .. 111,000
Broken Hill Proprietary (N.S.W.) .. 96,000
Associated Northern (W.A.) .. .. 87,500
S. New Moon (Bendigo, Vic.) .. .. 83,200
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) 70,500
S. Glanmire (Gympie, Q.) .. .. 70,500
Ulster (Bendigo, Vic.) 64,000
Cosmopolitan (W.A.) .. ... .. 60,000
Kalgurli (W.A.) 60’,000
Brilliant Central (Charters Towers, Q.) 65,000
Mount Bisehoff (Tas.) .. ; . .. 54,000
Scottish (Gympie, Q.) 52^200
Brilliant St, George (C. Towers, Q.) .. 52,200
Great Northern (Bendigo, Vic.) .. 51,750
Associated (W.A.) .. .. .. .. 49,500
Mt. Morgans (W.A.) ... .. .. 45*000
Brown Hill Extended (W.A.) .. .. 45*000
Victoria and Queen (O. Towers, Q.) .. 44*750
New Moon (Bendigo, Vic.) .. .. 43,000
No. 4 North Phoenix (Gympie, Q.) .. 33,000
Princess Royal (W.A.) 32,000
Mount Boppy (N.S.W.) 28^775
Hustlers No. 1 (Bendigo, Vic.) .. .. 26,312
Band of Hope (Charters Towers, Q.) .. 24*000
More than half of the total is accounted for by W.A.
mines, the Boulder and Kalgoorlie groups aggregating
just on £1,500,000. It will be noted that copper, silver,
and tin are each represented by one mine, but to the’
former must be added the privately-owned Great Cobar
mine, profits from which must have run well into six
figures.
B.H. Block 14 is striking against the usual dif-
ference between doing something on a toy scale in a
laboratory and doing it on a practical scale outside. The
Potter chemical process accomplishes splendid recoveries,
but the expense is making the co. stare. The corrosion
of working parts is one big factor in the case. Where
copper was used wood is now being put in, so far as that
can be done, and other changes are being made of a
similar sort.
* * * *
Hillgrove Proprietary (N.S.W.) shares have
been in demand of late in anticipation of the early start-
ing of the crushing plant. It is stated that the prospects
are really splendid ; some extra sanguine people talk
aoout crushings of 250 z to the ton ; but to shareholders
and public.alike everything is left to rumor. Official re-
ports are studiously silent as to quantity and quality of
ore at different levels, and it is As easy for a camel
to get. through the spout of a sewing machine
as it is. for any person other than an employee
to. get into the mine. This strict secrecy is ‘main-
tained on direct instructions from London. The
future of the mine, however, is only of general interest in
the State, most, if not all, of the local shareholders having
been starved or bought out. It is certain that the rich
Baker s Greek chutes have pitched into the Proprietary
ground ; the last B.C. report states that at No. 14 level
fair-grade ore was met with adjacent to the southern
boundary.” How the B.C. people must curse their own
intended cleverness which lost them this block 1 They
coveted it, knowing what a valuable adjunct it would be
to their property, and thought they would get it by other
means than paying a reasonable price for it, but Deep-
Levels Bouchier stepped in with his option and they lost
their chance.
* * * *
Baker’s Greek (N.S.W.) fell from its high estate
last half-year, having to make a call, the first, of 6d. per
nor™ c< ?* s^ r^ with an actual cash capital of
£2500 and paid divs. from the jump, returning over
£250,000 in 16 years. Last half-year 3925 tons of ore
were treated for 39500z5. gold, the return being just
sufficient to pay working exes, exclusive of development
to cover which the call was made. This is the most
creditable piece of Adelaide management that has come
under writer’s notice. It would have been simple
enough to have financed the deficit by loans, but directors
preferred the straight course of asking shareholders to
return one of the hundred sixpences which they had
taken out.of.the mine. Managers’ and directors’ reports
are optimistic as to prospects in the deep ground.
* * * *
Mount David declared its first div., 3d., in
Sept, last ; this week a call of Id. is payable. What a
satire on N.S.W. mining methods ! Shares down to lid.
A good spec, for those who like a penny rise—to be
absorbed in brokerage.
* * * *
Conrad Consolidated, Bora Creek (N.S.W.), is
already in serious difficulties, and looks like a howling
failure. Co. floated in early part of 1903 on magnificent
promises; it was such a moral certainty that vendors
were allowed two-thirds of the shares fully paid and
£lO,OOO in cash, a like amount being put to co.’s credit,
and prominent Sydney men were profusely thankful for
being accorded the privilege of putting up the money.
The prospectus stated —“ It is proposed to erect a com-
plete metallurgical plant as quickly as possible, and it
should be in full working order in about four months after
the registration of the co. It is confidently expected that
with the ore in sight the co. will be in a position to
declare a dividend within about four months after the
erection and completion of the smelting works, and from
thence should become a regular dividend-paying concern
without the necessity of further capital.” That is, in
eight months a div. was to be declared. Twelve months
have elapsed, and the co.’s position is that it is £12,481
to the bad; the products (less tin-leaid slags not valued,
as plant is not available to deal with them) were valued
at £7039, and the costs amounted to £19,521. Instead of
drawing divs., shareholders are now asked to take up
£25,000 worth of debentures. Why they are not asked to
take up the 25,000 reserved shares is a mystery. Deben-
ture issues are the fashion in mining finance, and a most
pernicious fashion it is. Why, also, the vendors are not
forcibly spoken to on the subject of the magnificent pro-
mises and “confident expectations” is still more
of a mystery. Not one promise that was made has
been fulfilled. The directors’ report states—“ Mr. John
Howell having retired from the active management of
the mine in August, on account of ill-health, and proceeded
to America, Mr. J. W. Ashcroft was appointed general
manager, and has earned the confidence of the directors
in his management of the property”—which, reading
between the lines, seems rough on* the former. Not a
word of regret at the retirement and departure of the
veteran, hut a mouthful of compliments for his successor.
Directors’ report is a string of excuses and is without a
suggestion of hope—despair is there in every line of it.
Mr. Ashcroft’s general report is almost as bad ; a dry-as-
dust statement of work done, without an expression of
opinion, good, bad or indifferent; but a supplemen-
tary report contains a glimmer of hope, as it
refers to developments which are “very important,
indicating that we will have a repetition of the runs of
rich ore obtained in the earlier workings, and that the
rich ore extends into the untouched ground ahead of our
southern workings.” Conrad Oonsolidateds will be bitter
pills for Macquarie-street medicoes to swallow. Sydney
medicoes seem to take to mining speculations just as
naturally as ducks do to water, and it is a business in
which they are not scalpers.
(Continued on page 30.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY’S
Great Midsummer Sale
Gentlemens
Fitted
Travelling
Bags,
r 16 inch Black Morocco, lined dark green leather, lift-out
fittings, Ivory Brushware, Silver Fittings.
Usual Price, 28 guineas ... Sale Price, 19 guineas
18 inch Brown Hide, lined leather, lift-out fittings, Ebony
Brushware, Silver Fittings.
Usual Price, 16 guineas ... Sale Price, 12 guineas
16 inch Brown Hide, lined dark green leather, Satinwood
Brushware, Nickel Fittings.
Usual Price, 10 guineas ... Sale Price, 8 guineas
18 inch Dark Green Russia, combination Dressing Case and
Despatch Box, Satinwood Brushware and E.P Fittings.
Usual Price, 12 guineas ... Sale Price, 90/-
REDUCTIONS in All Departments.
CARRIAGE FREE (except Carpets and Furniture) to any P.O, in the States.
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
THE METEOR, 15/-
THE VICTOR, 33/'
HARRINGTON’S
PopularPrice — CAMERAS.
THE METEOR
is a thoroughly reliable Magazine Hand
Camera, for taking Portraits, Groups,
Views and Moving Objects, makingpictures 4Jin. x3Jin., and is extremely
simple to operate. Fitted with good Lens, Adjustable Diaphragms, 2
View Finders, Time and Rapid Shutter, and Magazine for carrying 12
Plates, with reliable lever changing system. With Book of Instructions,
Price 15/-.
OUTFIT, comprising Appliances and Materials for making finished
Photos, Price 7/6.
THE VICTOR
Quarter-Plate (4J x 3J) Magazine Hand
Camera—unquestionably the most popular
Camera in Australasia Suitable for Lady or Gentleman. Very simple to
operate, and gives most excellent results. Fitted with latest improved
working parts, with Magazine for 12 Plates. Price £o,'-, with book of
simple instructions.
OUTFIT, comprising Appliances and Materials for making finished
Photos, Price 7/6.
POSTAGE in N.S.W. on Meteor or Victor Camera, 1/3 ; other States, 2/3
~ ~ either Camera and Outfit, 2/2; „ ~ 4/
Latest Style Cameras, from 5/- up to £5O.
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
HARRINGTON & CO. L 4
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS ..
66 King St, SYDNEY, and 93 Queen St., BRISBANE.
Society
[?]
[?]
[?]
AND IN LEAP YEAR, TOO.
HE : “ This month I've got invitations to no less than three
weddings .”
SHE: “How nice , but don’t you think it rather strange to
accept so many without giving one in return?"
N.S.W. Government intends to take
proceedings against the Teralba strikers on its
o.vn initiative, and is collecting evidence with
that end in view.
• * * *
Under poet Caldwell’s Act in South Aus-
tralia, parents who wished their children to
escape vaccination were required to forward a
statutory declaration stating their belief that the
operation would be prejudicial to their offspring’s
health. Some parents went beyond the necessary
formula, as in this sample :
I conscientiously believe the vaccination will be preju*
dicial to the health of Doris Ermyntrude, and, further-
more, I believe that if God can’t finish us, doctors can t.
The sorrowful complaint of a correspondent
to one of the Sydney dailies that prisoners are
chained to a log in an out-of-the-way town in the
interior recalls a Queensland case. For years,
Adavale (Q.) was without the necessary prison-
pen, and the casual drunk found himself chained
to a log till the morning of judgment. One night
there were two on the chain, and in the morning
both were gone. After search, they were found
in the pub., taking several hairs of the dog that
kad bitten them. They had humped the log into
the pub., and were sitting on it. John Donaldson,
who was then member for Bulloo, told the yarn
in the Assembly, to illustrate the urgent require-
ments of a section of his constituents; and the
Government at once issued orders to the sergeant
to—provide a heavier log.
• * * *
At Christchurch (M.L.), t’other day, a
man appeared in court charged on various grounds.
It was alleged that he had pulled his wife on to
the floor, seized her by the back hair, lifted her
on to a sofa, and was about to strike her when
her brother interfered. The story of the defen-
dant was that he intended taking his little wifey
on his knee, when she slipped and fell. His
brother-in-law startled him, and he fired his gun
to give him a scare. The police sergeant, who
seemed to think he knew a thing or two, pointed
out the improbability of a married man, of 15
years’ standing, playing larks or dandling his wife
on his knee. The Bench rather took that view,
and fined the defendant “ for discharging firearms
in a public place.”
* ♦ * *
Lithgow (N.S.W.) has seen the first suc-
cessful prosecution under Dr. Ross’s Juvenile
Smoking Suppression Act—a boy of 15 fined for
smoking a cigarette.
Sydney suburban councils,
taking their cue from the dirty
Glebe, are talking of uniting to
oppose the Board of Health
ukase to clean up. Their union
will perhaps help on the State
to a conviction that it is neces-
sary to clear them all out with
the bludgeon of a Greater
Sydney.
* *
Victorian policemen don’t
acquire all their half-dozen or so
watches in an—er —irregular
manner. The police authorities
periodically hold sales of pro-
perty taken from prisoners, rea-
sonably supposed to have been
stolen, but never claimed. There
is no licensed auctioneer, the
sales are never advertised (save
in the Police Gazette), and,
being attended solely by con-
stables and their friends, choice
articles of value are frequently
acquired for next to nothing.
>K *
The Imperial Government
has now accepted a tender for
putting down the foundations
of a naval prison to be built
on Garden Island, Sydney
Harbor. So far no official voice
has been raised against this
further spoiling of Sydney
Harbor. Garden Island with
its stores and crane-legs is a bad
enough feature to stand at the
front door of Sydney ; a frown-
ing prison will spoil the outlook
completely.
* •
European files show that
the trouble leading up to the
German Crown Prince’s arrest
was a love affair, the young
man having a severe attack of
calf affection for Miss Geraldine
Farrar, an American actress
showing at the Royal Opera
House, Berlin. The Prince
wished to marry the girl, and
nothing so honorable being
allowed among royal personages,
he was put under arrest,
• *
Another luscious oyster
lies before Melbourne’s legal
men : the estate of the late W.
H. Osmond —Bill the Smelter.
He left some £150,000 to the
next-of-kin. There are between
20 and 30 claimants, and the
smelting-down of the pile by
the Devil’s Brigade has started
promisingly.
• * * *
Judge Heydon appears to have taken up
the anti-perjury crusade of Justice Stephen.
Lectures on the enormity of false swearing and
threats of wholesale committals are everyday
occurrences. The one thing remarkable with both
judges is that the perjury against which the Bench
rises, appears always to be committed on behalf
of an accused person or defendant. It would
balance things if occasionally a Judge smelt
perjury in the evidence of a prosecutor or witness
on a prosecutor’s side.
Maoriland is at present
much concerned over a
curious poisoning case.
Deceased (one Parkin-
son), well-known as
Master of the
Christchurch
Hounds, died
suddenly, the
otherday, symp-
toms showing
poison. Medical
evidenceshowed
that poison had
probably been
taken weeks
before death.
One doctor
stated that,
some months
before, deceased
rang him up on
the telephone
and told him he
was sending
round some
sherry which he
wanted ana-
lysed. Analysis
showed the stuff
to'be poisoned.
On the result
being made
known to de-
ceased, he re-
marked that he
became ill after
taking the wine,
and suspected
somebody was
trying to poison
him, but de-
clined to com-
municate with
the police. A
few days before the
man’s death the .same
doctor was called to attend
him, and found hini suffering
from irritant poisoning, but the
patient denied taking anything. His
conduct at times was most strange—he
becaine violently ill after drinking some
whisky whilst driving with a friend, but abso-
lutely refused to see several doctors whose places
they passed on their road home. No one is known
to have a motive for poisoning Parkinson, yet
evidence seems to point to the case as one of
murder.
• * * »
With the retirement of N.S.W. police-
inspector Fosbery and the appointment of a
younger man, there was promptly smudged
off a city house a sign—in Greek —which indi-
cated that the place was one of venal joys. The
old inspector, presumably, hadn’t had time to
take any notice of hints in foreign languages.
• * * *
We are a rapid people in Australia some-
times, in spite of that tired feeling. A lady
advertised the other day for a position as house-
keeper ; she received several replies, and, choosing
one out of the number, made an appointment for
Wednesday, 11 a.m. She had lunch with the
prospective employer ; over the lunch he proposed
to her, and at 7 p.m. they were married.
RE PREVALENCE OF SYDNEY TRAM
ACCIDENTS.
ENTERPRISING CALLER (to Sydney tramway
official): “ I’m the representsh of a little
shindykit. We proposh to tender to remove
and bury all your corpshsh at dirt cheap
ratesh. Now cant we do bishnish? ”
Myall Creek station, at present under offer
to N.S.W. Government for closer settlement, is
notorious for a great massacre of blacks in 1839
a massacre for its cold-blooded atrociousness per-
haps unparalleled in the history of civilisation.
The station then was in the hands of the Dangar
family. A tribe encamped within the boundaries,
including toddling youngsters and babes on
their mothers’ backs, was marched away to
a lonely spot, where all were put to death under
circumstances too horrible to detail. Seven men,
acquitted at first, were, on the second trial, found
guilty of the murder, and executed.
A TRAGEDY.
FELLOW TRAVELLER (sympathetically): “ Wot's
the matter, mute—anythin’ wrong? ”
GLOOMY ONE (despairingly): "Yes; I’ve lorst
all me luggage.”
F.: “ Wot —lost or stolen? Or did yer forget
it? ”
G.: “ The — the cork come out! ”
Suggested from a Tory source that G.-G.
Northcote was chosen for Australia because his
Indian experiences would fit him tocombat White-
Australian ideas. If that is so (and it is not im-
possible ; the State Governois nowadays are
merely the bagmen of the War Office and the
Admiralty, and there i 3 nothing unreasonable m
supposing that Lord Northcote is the bagman of
the Lascar), the little roan has some troublous
times ahead of him.
» * * *
A theatrical manager who set his face
sternly against the acceptance of slight applause
as a warrant for an encore, would earn the bless-
ings of the public; and, incidentally, ne
would make his theatre a brighter place
for the audience and the actors.
“Where is the hearty applause of
long ago?” is a question often
asked, and it might be answered :
“ It has been driven away by the
practice of taking encores.” Audi-
ences are frightened to applaud
nowadays, lest applause should
lead to the repetition of a number
which was pleasing heard once,
but would be wearisome heard
twice. So they leave it to the
hired ushers to clap; and even
then, sometimes, a second hearing
has to be suffered because the ser-
vants of the management, and
perhaps half-a-dozen others, beat
applauding hands. It should be a
savagely-enforced rule that no item
be given again unless such is the
unmistakeable wish of the majority of the audi-
ence. With that rule theatre auditoriums wouldn't
appear quite such frosty places.
* * » *
The clairvoyance “ tfsychomefcry ” humbug
business appears to be having a rare boom in
Melbourne. A recent Age issue contains 15 ads.
of “sittings,” and “circles,” and “test meet-
ings,” and all the rest of it. David’s recent yarn
about the Soul seems to have led these people to
especially favor his rag; or perhaps Age readers
are, on the average, supposed to be more foolish
than Argus patrons.
» * ♦ *
The licensing court which sat to consider
which 37 of North Melbourne’s 57 hotels should
be closed sat heavily on the “ tied ” houses.
There were 27 of them in the district and 24
were closed.
THE BIT OF RED EARTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There came a seller to a market place
With wares that seemed of little worth,
But such desire was crying from his face
That wealth was his surely if gazing could win it,
And in his hands there lay some earth—
A bit of red earth with a violet in it.
They laughed, and their laughter
Ne’er ceased for a minute,
At the bit of red earth
With the violet in it.
Then slow of foot and sad at heart he went,
And death was kind to him that night;
For weary of the world he grew, and spent
In the chase after glory, the effort to win it,
And closed he his eyes to his delight—
The bit of red earth with the violet in it.
The earth and the flower were
(bet all the world know it)
The heart of a man
And the song of a poet.
RODERIC QUINN.


WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY
ADAMS’ HOTEL
PITT STREET.
HEET fIE AT THE HARBLE BAR.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
: ' ■ - -" r . ; ; :
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying*
i /
Quality.
A Forty-Mile Bush (M.L.) settler informs
his local paper that the Government sent a
gratuitous vet. to feel the pulse of his tuber-
culous cow. Then he got consumption him-
self, and had to pay £lO for his dootor. He
wishes to know whether
he isn’t worth as
much to the State
as a cow.
TRUE TO THE SIGN.
RUBE: “I thay, Abe, that was a slovely ball
Cohen gave the other night.”
ABE: “My word, yeth, it was beautiful; that
makes three grand balls he’s given now.”
The experience of Maoriland in regard to
the last smallpox outbreak is disquieting. The
outbreak has been traced to Tasmanian infection,
and there must, consequently, have been smallpox
cases in M.L. undetected for some weeks. Pre-
caution was evidently not sufficient, though the
Tasmanian epidemic should have put everyone on
the alert. Supposing the same degree of carelessness
at Sydney or Melbourne, smallpox might not be
detected until the seed had been sown for a thou-
sand cases. ;
* * * *
Recent events stress again the necessity
of introducing a Federal system of quarantine.
When small-pox recently broke out in Maoriland,
every Australian state took its own course. By
arangement the Health Department of Victoria
and Tasmania decided to admit no passengers
from Maoriland unless they had been vaccinated
at least 15 days before and within the previous
two years. When the first steamer from the
Bluff reached Hobart, Dr. Elkington stood to his
agreement and no unvaccinated person was
allowed to land. Among the passengers were
Johnnie Sheridan and his co., billed to show
in Hobart during carnival week ; but Johnnie and
co. had to go on with the others. At Melbourne,
however, the authorities went back on their
agreement, and allowed everybody ashore. Re-
sult, of course, great disgust in Tasmania, and
great dissatisfaction of Johnnie Sheridan and
others. Under a Federal system this sort of thing
could not occur.
* * % *
Very few Australians can be more
“ casual ” than a man named Bill (or Jim), who
told the story of a hasty marriage in court the
other day. Bill recently met a young lady
whom he had known as a girl, and, as he felt
inclined for matrimony just then, trotted her off
without much ado and made her Mrs. Bill.
The next development was when he found her
making off “on her own’’one evening to meet
another man. When he remonstrated she
scratched his face, and the subsequent proceedings
landed them both in court, where the bridegroom
discovered that, in the interim between his first
acquaintance with his darling and their marriage,
the young lady had put up arecord of 50convictions.
Young Australia on the eve of matrimony should
at least call round to the police station to see how
many times the lady has been convicted, and if she
has been in the cells more than, say, 20 times,
should give himself 24 hours to think the matter
over before buying the ring.
* * * *
There are still some mysteries unexplained
by science, as, for instance, why an excellent pen-
man, after writing the greater part of a document
in a hand like copper-plate, signs his name as if
the place were the scene of the death of an ink-
drowned fly. The Bulletin would give a good
deal to the doctor who located the microbe
responsible for this bad habit and designed a
serum for its cure.
Mrs. May brick, just released from an
English prison, was originally sen-
tenced by a puritanical judge and
jury for the murder of her husband,
not because there was any legal
proof that she had
poisoned him, but
because there
was pretty
good proof
that she
had been
unfaithful
to him.
He was,
anyhow,
an unmi-
tigated
beast, and
that was
a reason
against
apply-
ing so
savagely
to her a
punish-
ment
which,
enforced
against every
erring wife,
would create
an impossible
gaoling problem.
Con sequently
there was a persist-
ent agitation in favor
of her release; but it
was for a long while un-
availing.
Society women are divided by a cynic
into two classes—the young-and-frisky and
the old-and-risky.
* * • •
Melbourne as yet is only dimly
aware of the improvements that are being
effected by the City Council on the Yarra
banks between Prince’s Bridge and Rich-
mond. No other part of the city could have
been so greatly beautified at so moderate
a cost. Now that a lethargic corporation
can see the beginning of the good results
obtainable from the employment of a little
labor in road-making arid commonplace
trimmings, the improvements will possibly
be extended and elaborated beyond the
original scheme. The time is coming when
a Sydney visitor to Melbourne will be
afraid to mention Our Beautiful Harbor
lest he be rushed towards the Botanical
Gardens and compelled to admire “ Our Beautiful
Yarra.”
• • • *
“Vic.”: Let Taifc, Hudson, and Fitz-
patrick, at the Victorian Railways, have due
credit. It was foretold that they would be over-
whelmed with the wheat shipping traffic of this
exuberant season, but they have conquered it.
The biggest wheat season on record has been
handled, in a railway aspect, with a minimum of
complaint. Then there is the holiday traffic, of
unusual dimensions, from the prosperity of the
country. Excellent generalship has been evinced
there, too. Yet the Commissioners have had to
struggle against a shortage in locomotives, car-
riages, and trucks.
* ♦ * *
R.C. Bishop Gibney (Perth, W.A.), Whose
name has a suggestion of wild Tipperary intoler-
ance, announces that he will “ refuse Christian
burial to those R.C.’s who send their children
to schools other than Roman.”
And the announcement doesn’t
seem to have had much effect.
Better an unknelled death
than an unlettered life.
SARAH’S PATRIOTISM.
“It’s all fiddle-de-dee, this ere tork abart the
decrease in the buth-rate. Why, speakin' from
me own expirience, I’ve brought more'n 376
children into the world within the last two year.”
“ Indeed, mum; and pray may I arks how lorng
you’ve bin marrid, an’ ’ow many ’usbins”-
“ Sir! I hev never bin marrid — I’m a lydy's nuss."
The rage for cutting down expenses on
Northern pastoral properties leads to peculiar
results. A certain station which ran things with
two men instead of four gives a good example.
One of the two men employed was sent to put 500
bullocks in a paddock. This done, he was called
away to a distant part of the run. Returned a
week later, recollected the paddock was waterless,
went to it promptly, and found 500 dead bullocks ;
500 bullocks at £6 a head will pay a lot of wages.
From Lecky’s “ History of Morals ” on
the venal Venus: —
Herself the sup-
reme type of
vice, she is
ultimately
the most
efficient
guardian
of virtue.
But for
her, the
unchal-
lenged
purity of
countless
happy
homes
would be
polluted,
and not a
few who,
in the
pride of }
their un-
tempted
chastity,
think of
her with
an indig-
nant
shudder,
would have
known the
agony of re-
morse and of
despair. On that one
degraded and ignoble
form are concentrated
the passions that
might have filled
the world with shame.
She remains, while
creeds and eivilisa-
tions rise and fall,
the eternal priestess
of humanity,
blasted for the sins
of the people.
Plague-stricken
rats are again being
found in the Brisbane
(Q.) main sewers and
byways, and batches of
dirty inhabitants are again being
summoned and fined 40s. The chief
sanitary reform needed in Brisbane is to gaol a few
of the incurably dirty property-holders.
Wife of a “ distinguished Australian poli-
tician,’’ recently staying at a Tasmanian watering
place, gave the natives somewhat of a shock one
morning. According to her habit, she went along
the beach to bathe, wearing a very scanty sea-
costume under a dressing-wrapper. Duly arrived
at a more or less remote spot she dropped her
wrapper as usual and waded out. Having suf-
ficiently disported herself she waded back, to find
the wrapper gone. The morning was somewhat
chilly, and the lady could npt linger in the more
or less remote spot indefinitely. So she started
back in the scanty sea-costume. Owing to her
structural originality, so to speak, she is not
especially beautiful seen so, and when she called
“ Hi ! ” to a small native, whom she desired to
send along to the hotel for a frock or something,
the small native fled in terror. Wherefore the
folk at the hotel presently beheld such an appa-
rition of distinguished personage in deshabille as
gave matter for verandah conversation for a week.
“ The voluntary subscriptions to the
Japanese War Fund exceed 2,000,000 yen
(£200,000),” a cable said just when the guns were
unlimbered. After all these weeks of excitement,
after all these announcements of the fervid
patriotism of the Japs, the voluntary war fund
amounts to the cost of about a day’s war 1 Or
probably a good deal less, for there was a
time in the S’African campaign when the
farm-burning and the looting cost half-a-million
a day; and on that basis the Jap volun-
tary war fund would run out shortly after
breakfast the first morning. The fact is that
the money comes to Japan on an Asiatic basis,
while the shooting will have to be on a European
basis. The miserably poor race can't afford to
monkey with guns which eat a thousand pounds or
so at a meal. To give them a chance of keeping a
war up, their weapons must be on the same scale
as their living. The nation that can’t afford to
eat anything more expensive than bad rice can’t
afford to fight with anything more expensive than
a spear ; and when it earns on a bad-rice scale
and tries to fight on a roast-beef scale, something
serious will in all likelihood happen to it. Italy,
which isn’t by any means so dog-poor a country as
Japan is intrinsically, but yet is a poor country,
tried something of the same sort not so long ago;
it wanted to live on an equality with the Great
Powers, and have as big ships and guns and as
much gold lace; and, even without a war, it got
such a gruelling that it is sick still. A country
can’t feed its people on a ha’penny a day and its
guns on £lOOO a day and be happy.
* * * *
Japanese Government contemplates abol-
ishing the national letters and adopting the Latin
(which we call the English) alphabet.
* * * *
Major-General Hutton is not finding mili-
tary matters in Australia, just now, to his liking.
With Mr. Forrest as Minister for Defence,
Hutton had at least a Jingo Imperialist
as his immediate boss; with Mr. Austin
Chapman in that post, an Australian feel-
ing rules the department, and so Mr.
Hutton of late has been an example of
the poetry of commotion. It is stated that long-
deferred justice is now to be done to Major
Lenehan, of the Bush veldt Carbineers, in spite of
the hostility of General Hutton, and in an-
other matter wherein the Commandant acted,
seemingly, on the guidance of Senator Jaw-
bone Neild, Hutton’s action is to be directly
traversed. On top of all has come a military
strike in Tasmania which, according to reports,
caused General Hutton to use “severe language.”
Altogether, the Commandant’s life just now is
hardly a happy one.
¥ * * *
During last month about 250 temporary
hands were retired from N.S.W. Works Depart-
ment. Now there are rumors floating about
of allegations to be made by some of
them as to practices of corruption
and bribery obtaining in
the department.
IT MUST BE THE YEAST.
“ Cud yah givush the prishe of a loaf o’ bread
mum?”
“My poor man, you shouldn’t eat so many loaves
of bread if they fly to your head so! ”
“Reggie” Talbot, the new Governor of
Victoria, is a big man—6ft. 3or 4in. Thin as a,
lathe, but, in spite of his 63 years, aotive; and, in
spite of his birth, intelligent. Commanded tho
First Life Guards, and is the younger son of an
earldom which is 460 years old.
At the requeat of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on WeL
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays, T.
Wild, hairdresser, SO Sydney Arcade, Sydney—tho
Arcade that runs from Qoarge-streot to King-'st, v
THE BREACH OF PROMISE LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It the Path of the Young Maiden
Is with snares set, now and then,
There are snares more subtle laid in
The straight path of Single Men.
Whatsoever twist or turn he
Takes, the Bachelor so slim,
Somewhere, surely, on his journey
Waits a Lamia for him.
He may meet her on the highway,
Or upon the crowded street,
In a lane, or in a by-way—
But the Lady he will meet.
She will not his hopes make hay of,
Or his finer feelings shock—
For her way it is the way of
A wise serpent on a rock.
She seems made of dew and fire,
She has tender, witching ways,
And the flame of young desire
She can fan into a blaze.
He should leave her in a panic,
But she lures the hapless man
Into making love volcanic,
In a style Vesuvian.
The young Widow may be wily
In her sable gown and cape :
And may set at him so slily
Her coquettish cap of crape ;
But if she were fair as Haidee
In Lord Byron’s gay romance,
With the Breach of Promise Lady
She would never have a chance.
Other women place reliance
In their charms—a foolish plan—
But this Lady makes a science
Of the weaknesses of Man.
They may call her record shady,
They may say that she was fast,
But the Breach of Promise Lady
Snaps her fingers at her Past.
She is cunning as a spider,
And can weave a web as sly;
She is patient, and can bide her
Time to hypnotise her fly :
And the man who meets this Circe,
And comes under her control,
May the Lord, I say, have mercy
On his pocket, and his soul.
OREEVE ROE.


CHAMPAGNE.
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
ORIGINAL BRAND,
Est. 1778.
By Royal Warrant Purveyor to
King- Edward VII.
FACILE PRINCE PS.
SEMPER IDEM.
MM
M
Miss Nellie Stewart writes : “ ‘ Valaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
The drawing-room of the Hotel Australia,
the largest and most attractive hotel drawing-
room on the continent, has lately been renovated
and re-upholstered throughout. Speaking of the
wall-furnishing, Messrs. Whitelaw and Co. say :
“Nothing richer has ever been supplied in this
class in Australia. The wall is covered with a
rich silk flock hanging, hung in connection with
severe modern treatment in flatted white. It is
one of Whitelaw’s exclusive designs. The effect
at night is fairy-like.”*
■ V>\^
trademark
THE VARNISHED BOARD
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
asp
-
THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS
M
M
M
M
Ijefic&ee'
RD.I
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 9, 1904.
My Dear Arini,—
With dullness is all the land (of Sydney) made
desolate—and the only good that comes of the evil
** that there is now time to consider in the heart.
(“Considereth” is much more sonorous, but it won’t
fit.) The Rawsons aren’t having such a consider-
ing time as they expected, I fancy. Her Ex. has
been opening bazaars at Berrima and inspecting
Children’s Cottage Homes, and presiding at The
Blackberry Gatherers Annual Pie-making, and
Sir Harry isn’t allowed to lie all of every day in a
thicket of Sutton Forest looking up between sleep
at the turquoise sky. He comes to town pretty
often to sign things, and whilst at Sutton Forrest
attends Thanksgiving Services with his suite.
Our pool is stirred chiefly by the theatres and
concerts. Nor ah Long and Maud Dalrymple
sing their farewell notes this week, and Clare
Scarr her first—since her return. What an ebb
and flow of singers and pianistes we have ! The
Lonsdales—Earl and Countess—are said to be look-
ing after Miss Dalrymple. We, here, are waiting
for a sight of the Northcotes. By the way, a
correspondent from Melbourne uses a rather good
phrase re Lord N.—“ The new Governor-
General blows along like a twig caught in his
Ladyship’s train.”
However if there’s not much “considering”
done there is time these languid, or windy and
dusty days for much reading. “Pigs in Clover”
“The Lightning Conductor” and “The Call of
the Wild ” are said to be the favorite reading of
the moment amongst women. Also “ Creevey’s
Memoirs.” A scandalous old party must have
been Creevey, delightful company, no doubt; his
very name has a gossipy, tea-and-muffin sugges-
tion. Said in London that the sale of his book is
stopped, by order of the King, and that an edition
minus the account of how the Duke of Kent
(Queen Victoria’s father) got married for the sake
of the succession, will be published.
New liner Moldavia took away a number of our
well-known people last Saturday. The heavy-
weight beauty, Blanche Wallace, left by her.
Also went Mrs. B. R. Wise, Mrs. Sam Hordern
and two Misses, the Ernest Watts, and Alfred
Tooths. Moldavia is an unwieldy-looking levia-
than with a terrible lot of deck gear, but she
lights up beautifully, and at night reminds one of
that twin-screw, 10-thousand ton, illuminated
liner that rushed past “ like a grand hotel ’’ while
the poor tub Bolivar was “swamping in the bay.”
Those seeing the Moldavia off had more
amusement than usually falls to the lot of man
on such occasions. Two of J. C. Williamson’s
show girls seized the time and place to become
reconciled after what they assevt was a violent
quarrel. The one remaining in Sydney arrived
late and wept, and pleaded to be allowed up the
gangway. She was not allowed, so the embarked
one came down, and there was a melodramatic
and loving parting. As the vessel wore away
from the wharf the departing lady wildly en-
treated divers persons to “ Take this carnation to
Theo.”
The comments of women on the release of Mrs.
Maybrick from prison are curiously alike, and
summed up would amount to the very futile, “I
wonder what she looks like now.” In other
words, probably, “What effect will she exercise
over men?” Well, if it be a fact that 40 to 50 is
the fashionable age for women in London, Mrs.
Maybrick, provided she has not prematurely aged,
and is not overblown, will make her re-entree into
society at just the right time for her to be effec-
tive. Of course, she’ll go into society—at Lady
Jeune’s and old editor Steadfast’s. He is a pro-
found believer in her innocence—on the murder
charge. But no doubt the lady will only stop
long enough in London to remember how to wear
a -trained gown and high-heeled shoes.
There is a lady in Sydney who was present for
an hour on one of the days of Mrs. Maybrick’s
trial and who says that she looked and spoke like
innocence itself, “When she went into prison,”
says the narrator, “we were all wearing red-
ingotes and little bonnets, the ‘ bustle ’ had not
quite gone out, and our hair was on the top of our
heads as it is now—but with a difference. There
was a bald look at the sides of the head and .”
“Never mind about our heads,’’ interrupted a
listening relative, “what did Mrs. Maybrick
wear the day you saw her?” “A black plush
redingote over a beautiful soft shade of green
dress. I don’t remember as much as I might if I
hadn’t been thinking all the time what a pity she
didn’t meet Mr. Brierly before that dreadful old
Maybrick. She was very pretty, and didn’t look
more than 20; and the court was full of Americans,
her countrywomen.” This is much more amiable
drivel than the average matron indulges in when
opin-ionating on the unhappy Florence. The
killing of the old man to the average matron was
not as great a sin as loving the younger man.
After Mrs. Maybrick has had a London season
she will probably go to America where her rela-
tions live. It is to be hoped that the “special
license” forbidding her to write iifcook or appear
at Harry Rickards’ theatres, or lecture, ’canibe
ignored by tier as regards the book. Not mattyof
us have had Mrs. Maybriek’s opportunity, and
we’d very much like to know how a woman of
her stamp feels during 15 years in an English gaol.
Any sort of gaol, in fact.
Mayoress Lees, who was in the chair at last
Monday’s meeting, was assisted by one of her
younger daughters, a very tall, slender girl,
dressed in white, and swaying like the poet’s
reed. Mrs. Lees has two unmarried daughters—
one of whom is engaged to Mr. Reynolds, a
gentleman who is by way of being a Bishop. At
least, he is in holy orders.
Mrs. Essie Jenyns Wood has returned from
Japan to her home at Newcastle, and the Kinder-
garten Society of that coaly city has given her a
great welcome. She is its president.
In order to allow Edward Farley’s (the well-
known operatic basso) immediate departure for
America, where an engagement awaits him, the
fund in his aid will close on Saturday next. So
there is still time to augment the £5O now in
hand. Fifty pounds is better than the same
number of pence, but it isn’t much for one who
has the usual white man’s burden (wife and chil-
dren) waiting for him at home. Subscriptions
may be sent to Mr. W. Macleod (Bulletin), Mr.
H. N. Southwell (Paling’s), or Mr. G. L. Goodman
(Theatre Royal). (b
Death of Miss Ada Crossley’s mother in Gipps-
land (Vic.) will be bad hearing for the contralto,
who is now in S’Africa. For all the nine years or
so of her absence from Australia Miss Crossley
rarely missed a mail to her mother, who had been
of late an invalid. Her father died a short time
ago. The Crossley family consisted of four boys
and four girls.
It has of late been the fashion in Paris and
elsewhere for newspapers to conceal cheques,
enclosed in tubes, in different parts of the city,
and incite their readers to search for them. I
have the honor to suggest this form of dottiness
to the hon. sec. of the Q.V. Consumptive Home
charity as an additional means of raising money
at the horticultural fete to be held in April.
The idea is not all out of the way—
provided the cheque is not. Of course it
would not do to have the searchers
undermining the foundations of Mr. James
Fairfax’s house, or prizing up the city tramlines.
At a committee meeting of the tubercle charity,
held last Friday at Sydney Town Hall, Mr. H.
A. James and the ladies who were “just dying to
help,” almost beat their brains to a syllabub
trying to think of something new mad money-
making to add to the already long list of attrac-
tions of the fete-to-be. Jesting aside, there
would be a lot of money in the concealed treasure
idea. Every intending searcher to pay a shilling,
the finder to yield half his loot to the charity.
This form of lunacy is bound to come here, so the
Q. V. Home committee may as well be first luna-
tic. There would be money in the madness.
Other day I came across a verbatim report of
Minister for Public Health Ward’s address to the
Science Congress (just closed) at Dunedin, M.L.,
on “The attitude of Maoriland as regards con-
sumption,” and learned that that country has
(besides hot lakes and geysers) a system of meat
and butter inspection that is inferior to none in
the world. Considering that one of the chief
dangers of infection is from infected expectora-
tion disseminated by means of the dust of the city
roads, it is a perilous thing to see our Sydney
dust blowing all day long over the meat exposed
in our butchers’ shops. And not one householder
in ten thousand washes the joint that has been
well dusted by a southerly-buster and pawed by
many hands that, to say the least, are never mani-
cured or rose-watered. Wonder if Minister
J.G. W. keeps a collective lid over his island’s meat
as well as a microscopic eye on its soundness !
Speaking of the lately-opened sanatorium in
the Waikato district, the Minister said: “No
fairer picture could have been asked for than what
met the eye from that lone peak on the Maunga-
kawa Range” (where the institution is built).
There’s a pure, dry, antiseptic ring about that.
And he named ten other places—cities and town-
ships, from Auckland to Dunedin, where the
Government proposes to establish anti-tubercle
farms. Quoting the figures of a well-known
American authority, the speaker said, “Calculat-
ing the value of each individual at £3OO, the cost
to New York city alone, in one year, through this
disease, amounted to £4,600,000, while the total
for the whole United States reached the appalling
sum of £66,000,000.”
Probably it is because Sydney has so much sea
that it is so badly provided with sea-baths—
at least, for women and children. Mr. Frank
Coffey, of Chatsvvood, is, I notice, trying to rouse
someone, through the medium of the D.T., to the
necessity of having baths built at Middle Harbor.
He says that at present there is not a suitable
bathing-ground on the whole of the North Shore
line where ladies and children might learn to
swim. They have to go as far as Bondi, which
takes the whole day. He suggests a tramway
service from Chatswood station to Sailor Bay,
which is an arm of Middle Harbor and where
there is a Government reserve. Passengers up
and down the line from Hornsby could embark at
Chatswood for their Sailor Bay splashes.
Talking of baths : Saw a bathroom in a private
house lately in Sydney that looked very Pom-
peiian. It was a marble room, and the marble
faith—beautiful veined grey stone —was sunk deep
into the earth with steps leading down into it.
In almost every issue of a little weekly there are
photographs of girls—mostly short-frocked and
pigtailed tails—wearing caps and gowns. Not the
yachting caps and linen gowns of the harbor pic-
nic, but those of the student. The girls are
mostly front - named Norah, or Catherine, or
' Josephine, or Mary, and the letters
A.S.C., or A.T.C.L. stand behind their surnames.
The capitals signify that the girl above (leaning
agai ast a piece of furniture and
roll) has certain musical qualifications. pEt is a
good form of advertisement, no doubt, for the
schools from which the girls A.L.M.C. or
A.S.C.M., but it looks shoddy. I often wonder
which the girls secure first—the degree or the
uniform. And do the schools keep a stock of
ready-made gowns and mortar-boards on hand ?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The midget Governor of the Commonwealth
has started the social grind so industriously that,
to be consistent, he must now make his. spell here
a term of real hard labor. When his right elbow
developed the rheumatics, the other reception
day, the good little man submitted his left paw
for the municipal shake. And again, when polo
club, V.A.T.C.,, and M.C.C. committees battled
for the G.G.’s presence on Saturday, the Private
Sec. was at once deputed to accept the invitation
to see the ‘flannelled fools,’and to express regret
for inability to oblige the other anxious gentlemen
that day and willingness to turn up to the second
Caulfield and polo events.
“Another polo tournament began last Saturday
with a splash—the kind of splash always associ-
ated with this most—haw ! —select of sports. The
Akgus Mackinnons drove to the fray in great
style with Lady Knowles in their charge, and
three of the Northcote aides were also aboard.
The re-engaged widow (meaning Lady K.), lent a
violet millinery effect to her white toilette, and
Mrs. Mackinnon was purple witli satisfaction.
Next came the English cricketers party. Mrs.
Foster prevailed over all in shrimp pink, a babyish
blouse, bebe ribbon loops, and a demure nutmeg
hat shading the face. She was bound, metaphori-
cally, north, south, east and west, by the ‘flan-
nelled fools.’ And the local girl was disregarded.
“Mrs. W. Leonard Toorak’s irresistible
Irish dame refreshed the polo followers on
Thursday with tea, ices, &c. The dame’s Dublin-
accented invitation to the Tent of Plenty hadn’t
to be repeated. Sports are proverbiai buffet-
rushers. The hostess’s dress for the occasion was
of biscuit voile with margin-notes of cream
appliqud and lines of black piping in the French
manner. There were many smart women. Miss
Muriel Cumming—who affects the style of her
sister, Baronet's Clarke’s lady—was straight-
fronted and altogether the latest of English
figures in grey and green. Large pearl buttons
made a mighty fine column up the back of the
costume.
“The Melbourne horsewoman can’t make up
her mind to an appropriate garb. Several were
tried on the Kooyong crowd the other day.
Justice Hodges’daughter, on a cream and choco-
late bob-tailed nag, wore the black boxer and
tailed jacket, smoothed over the figure, a habit
best suited to the cold season. An inky gos-
samer gave the extinguisher to her roses, and she
wasn’t an attractive equestrienne. The summer
idea of a loose, cool, heel-covering, crash rig-out
was tried by another Toorakite. A third rider
broke on the view in a half-and-half habit —
summer in the North and winter in the South.
Then there were pith helmets, panamas, boxers,
and one tall beaver. Youngsters on ponies, and
showing tan legs, added to the general unfitness
of things. Countess Hopetoun’s turn-out for hot
weather was a rational one—a light black, habit-
cut skirt, a loose linen coat, panama, and white
gauntlets. It looked the thing.
“Captain Balmain scores with Melbourne
society. He’s no Adonis, yet the better-looking
men of the Northcote staff are not in it with
this plum-colored aide. Aide Stephens turns out
to be aloofish. He shies like a horse at the flutter
of a skirt in his vicinity. The large, shrimp-
complexioned private secretary is quite different
to that. He makes overtures, has amiable
motives, and likes the society of the breezy.
But what skittish she can philander with six feet
three of deep pink Englishman with a double chin ?
“Social opinion is against an Excellency who
is four years beyond the civil service age of retire-
ment. Probably Sir Talbot has frozen on to the
fact that a State Governor toils not, neither does
he spin, and is therefore going to take up his new
duties, as a result of army fag. He can depend
on having no work and as much play as his weight
of years permits.
“That eminent epicure, Judge Casey, goes off
to recreate some more. This time, he gives Uncle
Sam’s land a turn. It makes one value the devilled
egg and all such works of culinary art when a
venerable bon-vivant of the Casey stamp gads
about like a virile, energetic boy, and revels
in earnest joy of his good health. The gay battler
owns up to 70 odd, but swears he has a better
Ehysique than any brother in the 50’s. After
aving a leisurely look-in at the St. Louis show,
he intends to meander through the States, testing
their cooks.
“Dr. Felix Meyer has gone over from a long
and obdurate bachelorhood to the fettered state.
Dr. Felix was one of the Melbourne Invineibles,
and when he took, some years ago, to collecting
old china and rare bric-a-brac, and worshipping
consistently at the Altar of Art, the sex gave him
up for lost. Yet a week or two ago he quietly
married a daughter of Professor Nanson. After
this one may hear of Reggie Bright capitulating.
“ The treat of the day is a peep into the scarlet
apartments where Mr. Felton’s earthly treasures
are stored. The glow of the red brocaded
papering is delicious to the eye. From it the
paintings stand out gloriously, and the bronzes
tower, exalted above the marble and Sat-
suma wonders. Rubens’ ‘ Fete Champetre ’
(stamped circa 1620) roots the attention. The
late owner spent years and much hard cash
in its verification. And a Romney portrait
(‘Lady Hamilton’) has a deep glow, a vel-
vet richness that the most dexterous modern
applier of the pigments finds hard to put into a
portrait. Peter Graham's scurrying clouds and
mountain mists show in two glorious land-
scapes. A Pellegrini, ‘The Hunchback,’ gives
a glory to a quaint Venetian scene. No
wonder the -old bachelor was content. At
night-rto give proof of the love with which he
regarded his treasures—he used to sit alone and
enjoy them. He husbanded his solitude. A
wonderful arrangement of electric lights was put
up, at incalculable cost, for the purpose. And
glass covers all the canvasses—the winter fires
necessitated this care. The library of books shows
broad tastes. No favorite author predominated.
Of late, the waning life becoming more precious,
books on diet and hygiene were most thumbed,
and the classics were put aside. Once he read
that a man could subsist on nothing but Yan
Yean for a week, and he tried it fora day or two;
then the gentle old man passed along to his hot
dinner, and read that cold water advocate no
more.
“ The ructions that enlivened the rehearsals
during the end of the Shakspearean season were
alluded to frankly by comedian Denny ere he
planted his foot on the Adelaide express the other
day. Such bickerings he had never heard in any
theatre of his experience. Minus a controlling
force the whole co. ran amuck. Having been
ordered not to take a call before the curtain bv
Manager Musgrove, he never again acknowledged
applause, no matter how thunderous, either before
or behind the curtain pulleys. After much more
revelation of a like character the annoyed
and greatly-ruffled mummer went on to say
sweet things of Australian audiences, while he
wound up with the intimation that he would be
returning in a short time to try his talents on
them again.
“Mildura is pleasantly excitecf about the
approaching arrival of retiring Gov. Ranfurly
(M.L.), plus his aide, an unmarried captain. The
Ranfurly visited his fruit-block up there not so
very long ago, in company with his wife and
daughter—the latter (Lady Constance Knox) a
young thing, fresh from school. This emancipated
schoolgirl revelled in freedom and fruit, and ‘got
on rippingly ’ with the younger and more sus-
ceptible portion of the fruit-farmers. Her mother,
however, loathed the climate, and this time will
go straight to England with her daughter, leaving
papa to sit ’neath the shade of his own vine and
fig-tree, en garqon.
_ “Mildura got a good advertisement from a story,
circulated by the late Christie Murray. When
Christie visited the fruit-settlement, kangaroos
were still occasionally to be seen thereabouts.
Travelling on the box seat of the coach, the tourist
noticed a large ’roo hop tamely towards the
vehicle, halt till the coachdriver said something
which the listener did not catch, and then lope
disappointedly away. The Innocent Abroad at
once asked what the driver had remarked to the
animal. ‘Oh, I just told him there was nothing
for him to-day ; you know he carries the mails to
Z station ? 1 explained the deceiver unblush-
ingly. This story was told everywhere by Murray
and recorded in all good faith in his published
account of the Mildura visit. Now, a German
paper comes out with a solemn, circumstantial
account of ‘mail-carrying by marsupials in the
Riverine of Australia.’ Writes Mein Herr :
“At a certain spot in the bush, a line of mighty
kangaroos awaits the passing of a coach. Each holds a
plate, inscribed with the name of the station-owner,
who employs the-trusty beast to carry his mails. The
coachdriver sorts the letters, piling the epistles on each
plate, packing the journals and parcel-post into the
messenger’s Nature-given pouch. Then away each hops
to his home, never dropping the slightest billet-doux,
poised lightly on top of the piled-up plate, grasped
between the front paws, so perfectly steady' is the rhythm
of that giant bound.
“There is a third little Castles sister getting
her tootle into training. She has some good notes
in the upper register, and a good sound deter-
mination to make progress. By the way, the one
brother Castles has fallen on his feet in a commer-
cial way. He went to London with his two tootling
sisters on spec., and obtained an agency in con-
nection with a Yank book firm tlnit brings a
living.
“ Gossips talk of the likely engagement of an
invetei’ate Melbourne sport to a Toorak girl of
fortune, whose debut is still a green remembrance.
“Miss Geva Riddell-Stanley is the next to
board a liner for England. She is the rose-tinted
beauty of whom a life-size portrait was shown at
the last Vic. artists’ exhibition.
“Evelyn Scott’s favorite reading, she confesses
naively (0 these comic opera charmers!), isShaks-
peare and the Bible. Same as Disraeli’s and
Gladstone’s ! Great minds once more in unison.
“ There is likely to be a good deal of argument
before the trustees of the National Gallery and
the trustees of the Felton estate settle some
important points. For instance, the Gallery
people want to stretch ‘ works of art’ to cover
the splendid collection of books that stand to-day
as evidence of the wide tastes of the old bachelor
just passed away. Also they would like the pic-
tures from which they are to make a selection
passed along to the Gallery or some chosen place
of view. Now they hang at great advantage and
afford every opportunity of judgment on the crim-
son papered walls of the Esplanade where the
deceased passed his peaceful, art-loving days.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


YOUR LIVER.
There is just one way to avoid all the dull, wretched terrors of a bad liver—and that is to take a
good course of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. They actually make new blood—and this new
blood wakens and stimulates your liver, sharpens your appetite, steadies your nerves, stiffens your spine
and fills you with fresh strength, energy and life. That is what they did for Mr. A. A. Mclnnes, proprietor
Commercial Hotel, Sloane and Market Streets, Goulburn, KS.W.
««years ago Indigestion, with all its horrible
sickness, attacked me,” said Mr. Mclnnes. “ I went to
the doctor, and he said I had a sluggish liver—due, no
doubt, to want of exercise and late hours. I felt as weak
and downhearted as could be. I lost all energy. Some-
times I was in a burning fever, so that my blood seemed on
fire In the mornings I got up with a headache and too
sick to take my breakfast. I was always heavy and
drowsy but at night could seldom sleep. I suffered greatly
with constipation, and though I took a number of medicines
and purgatives, I got no better. That horrible coppery
taste in the mouth and sickly morning’ feeling seemed to
be getting worse. But, fortunately, Mr. Bergmark, the
Auburn-street Chemist, of Goulburn, told me that
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills were the finest cure in the world
for liver troubles, because they actually made new blood.
I got some from t im, and soon I could feel the new blood
tingling in my veins and making a (tew man of me. In
that way they set my liver right, and braced up my nerves
as well. Before long I was as strong, active, happy and
healthy-looking as ever. And Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills alone
did me all this good, so I know they are the grandest
Summer tonic in the world.”
2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Accept No Substitutes.
:
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Poet Swinburne is said to lie sick unto
death at his house in Putney.
“ Chicago ” Dibbs, who is very shaky in
health, is said to contemplate a trip to England
shortly.
A man, who claimed to be first cousin to
Stafford Northcote, used to act as model for artists
Tom Roberts and Julian Ashton.
Frapk Clarke, ex-Federal member, is now
spoken of as a possible successor to Jacob Garrard
on the Water and Sewerage Board.
Reginald Talbot, the forthcoming Gover-
nor of Victoria, has a number of distant relatives
quartered in Melbourne —highly respectable ial-
botty Talbots, too. *
Dead Maori chi'ef Tamahau Malmpiika’s
property goes by succession to his next in kin, a
14-years-old girl at school in Wellington, who is a
daughter of his late nephew.
George Reid will this month be 59—born
February 25, 1845. He has lately taken to learn-
ing “bridge”— at which he loses money—and
gives other signs of losing his early vigor and
caution.
Victorian Governor Clarke has resigned,
and is to be succeeded by another military person-
age. England adheres tenaciously to her scheme
of drawing Australia into the vortex of European
militarism.
The rise of J. Blair, Queensland Attorney-
General, has been meteoric. Six years ago
“Jimmy” was a. struggling junior. Now it is
thought good business to have him on your side in
a legal conflict.
When a M,sbriland squatter was dying,
recently, of an inourable disease, his friends
(mostly back-blocks Scotchmen) presented him,
as “a mark of sympathy,” with a travelling-rug
and a Gladstone bag ! ! !
Robert George Wyndham Herbert, whom
Chamberlain has secured as chairman of his
Tariff Reform Commission, was first Colonial
Secretary of Queensland, sat in the first Legis-
lative Assembly for Leichhardt.
THE LATE MR. EDWARD BRADDON.
Randolph Bedford is back in Australia, a
somewhat subdued edition of the old Randolph the
Reckless. A man can’t experience the same
malady as the King of England and get the Pope’s
blessing without sobering-down somewhat.
The Phil May Fund raised in England
amounts now, with The Bulletin contribution,
to .£1,800; the English Government will add
something to that, and sufficient will be available
to enable Mrs. Phil May to live comfortably but
quietly.
Dr. Jauneson, who went from Westralia
to S’Africa, is a prominent pro-Chow there and
assists the bad cause with misrepresentations as to
the low-grade mines in Australia which cannot be
worked because the wicked Labor party bans
Chinese labor.
Mr. F. W. Webb, who now definitely
retires from the ranks of Parliamentary servants,
never thoroughly recovered from the shock of the
Redfern (N.S.W.) railway accident. He is in his
67th year, and has been over half-a-century in
N.S,W. State service.
Known to not many, it seems, that C. E.
Moreing, of Bewick, Moreing and Co., the London
firm of mining engineers which controls the largest
of Westralian mines, is aN. S. Wales native. He
has been chosen as the Conservative candidate for
Gainsborough division at the next Commons elec-
tion.
Langton ! Dim memories are connected
witli that name, as Graham Berry’s most bitter
antagonist, and the teazer, or badger, who used
to draw Higinbotbam, in Parliament. You meet
nowadays Langton in Collins-street. Don’t ask
him what has become of “ all-conquering Free-
trade.” Langton was its Quixote, Reid its
Sane! o.
POLITENESS MISUNDERSTOOD.
THE BENCH : “Is she an unfortunate, Sergeant? ”
THE PERFECT LADY : “ Yes, yer honor, I am. I
haven’t had a drink since Saturday.”
Most of the men who train at journalism
for the Bar are doing well in N.S.W. Blackett,
Ferguson and others are examples.
For the benefit of tiny Northcote, society
should recall an anecdote of Edmund Kean. He
was acting Alexander the Great, when a fellow in
a stage box exclaimed “Alexander the Little ! ”
Kean fixed him with his eagle eye, and added —
“With a great soul.”
During Bishop Goe’s administration in
Melbourne ten young Anglican curates —one of
them a disappointed lover —took solemn vows of
celibacy. In these later days there are nine
broken-vowed men and one only still unmarried —
he of the damaged heart.
Maoriland’s departing Governor, Ranfurly,
wants to see his orange garden in Mildura (Vic.)
before he goes back to England. Recalls his old
Mildura remark about the sinfulness of giving
mere laborers 7s. a day. Said he “could import
enough Irish laborers at 2s. fid. a day to build a
dog-leg fence round the estate.”
Ex-trooper Abbott, son of late Speaker
Abbott and author of “Tommy Cornstalk” —the
best of the Australian war-books—takes up a
London correspondence for Australian dailies.
Young Abbott has a good deal of the dash and
go that characterised his father when he first
entered N.S.W. Parliament, and will do well in
journalism.
One of Victoria’s mining pioneers, Isaac
Wheeldon, died at Melbourne the other day,
aged 70. He was associated with Duncan Gillies
almost at the birth of Ballarat diggings in ’52.
He was chairman of the mining board there for
years. His faith in the Smeaton (Creswick) field
was unbounded, and he was a big holder of West
Berry stock to the end.
Concluding slab of John Snorton’s letter
of welcome to the new G.G.:
John Norton.
Feast of St. Francis of Sales.
“You will catch more flies,” St. Francis used to say,
“ with a spoonful of honey than With a hundred barrels
of vinegar.”
At last we discover John’s patron saint, on whose
advice he patterns his methods.
G. W. Rusden’s will was proved at
£18,486. To the Church of England Grammar
School, Melb., he left the copyright of his “ His-
tory of Australia,” to Trinity College he gave the
copyright of all his other works. After paying
legacies to the amount of £l4OO, the residue is to
be held in trust for the benefit of relatives. By
Mr Rusden’s death a pension of £5OO a year
ceases.
When Prime Minister
Deakin joined Maori-
lander Seddon, the
other day, in a pro-
test against the in-
troduction of yel-
low labor to
S’Africa, “28
Australians, ”
resident in the
Transvaal, made
an answering pro-
test that Deakin
and Seddon didn’t
kno'w anything
about the
m at ter.
T h e
names of
the 28
have not
been for-
warded,
but re-
turned
Austra-
lians say
they can
guess the
leader of
them the
first try.
Fifteen years ago R.
A. Tarlton, who had
been in the then all-
Tory Leg. Council in
S. *Aus., and had
grown to be some-
thing considerable in
the sheep - owning
business in the State,
moved on to
S’Africa, after hav-
ing had the bad luck
to go down heavily
with the disastrous
Commercial Bank of
S. Aus., of which
he had been a director. In the Transvaal the
little man with the unfortunate initials has piled
up wealth, and has got a pretty large family con-
nection around him ; among them Harry Turner,
formerly one of Adelaide’s best-known account-
ants. Tarlton was at the head of the Australian
“ citizens’ committee ” before the war, and since
it was over he has been on the side of Milner and
Moses. But for a temporary health-failure, Mr.
Tarlton would probably have droned out his life
as a Congregational parson in Tasmania.
“Steele Rudd’s” “Dad,” who died the
other day, up North, left nine children alive and
four dead ; “Steele Rudd” was the sixth son.
The grandchildren number 60, and a beginning
has been made with still another generation. The
old settler —his name was Thomas Davis —was
buried in the Drayton and Toowoomba cemetery,
which, as one of the survey party that laid out
those townships, he had helped to plan, something
over 50 years ago.
Two fine old S. Australian educationists
have just died, both, by a coincidence, aged 85.
One, Edward Dewhurst, used to be known to every
public-school boy in the State; for years he in-
spected practically the whole of the schools.
Before going into that service he was at
press-work ; back of that again he had been a
clergyman. The other was Archdeacon Farr,
whose name is hound up with the early history of
St. Peter’s College; he was one of the promoters,
also, of Adelaide University.
An English paper tells some stories about
Seddon. (Seddon, by the way, has one really good
English friend in caricaturist Gould : King Dick,
on his last trip to England, made Gould apologise
for a statement that he was going to accept a
purse from his subjects, then returned to M.L.
and promptly took the purse.) It seems that Mr.
Seddon has a fine British sense of humor. In his
early days—
One night he caught a goose and put it inside a gas*
lamp, where its noisy demonstrations kept the people in
the adjacent houses without sleep till daybreak. Another
of his tricks was to drop an iron nut in a bucket of water
standing at shop doors, and watch for the tradesman’s
surprise when the contents of the bucket were flung
against the windows to clean them.
Premier Irvine was accompanied around
Tasmania on his icicle—no, bicycle—by Gerald
Piggott, known among Victorian barristers as
“ the man who never smiled again.” What a lot
of fun those twO- smileless creatures must have
blotted out of Tasmania ! A pressman who
struck the cold, cheerless couple during the tour,
relates that he heard this conversation between
them at an hotel table. Piggott: “ Landlord is a
very fine specimen of the human race.” Irvine
(after a pause, during which he satisfied himself
that the proposition did not contain any delicate
constitutional point): “Yes; very fine.” Piggott:
“ He tells me he was reared wholly upon porridge.”
Irvine (after a very long pause): “ Well, Piggott,
colloquially speaking, I don’t think it’s good
enough to eat porridge 21 times a week.”
Money M’Eacharn does not relish the
fight that Maloney is putting up against his return
to the Federal Parliament for Melbourne. Speak-
ing at the reception of some amateur athletes he
expressed regret that his opponent “was not
talcing his licking like a sportsman.’’ His narrow
(and doubtful) majority over Maloney has made
him very disgusted with Australian politics, and
he has privately declared his intention of going to
England and entering the House of Commons.
At present he is holding on in the hope of getting
the High Commissioners!]ip.
“J.A.C.”: Me recently-deceased Maori
chief, Tamahau Mahapuka (8., 28/l/’O4). I knew
“ Sam”(that’js wlmt everybody called him) well.
First met him in Wellington (M.L.), some 20
years ago. Above middle height, powerfully
built, with regular features, and an intelligent
face, he was a fine specimen of a fine race. Hi 3
wife, Alice, was possibly the handsomest half-caste
woman I ever saw. J. B. Howe, a well-known
London actor, who was “star” in our theatrical
co., often observed, “Oh, if she could act, what a
Cleopatra she would make!” “Sam,” when he
married her, had her tattooed on the lower-lip—
an antique custom among Maori wives. I asked
him why he should so disfigure her, and he re-
plied, “ Because she is too good-looking. White
men will be . less likely to run away with her
now! ”
Edward Braddon, just dead after a long
and strenuous life, at the age of 74, was one of
many retired Indian civil servants who settled
down in Tasmania. Hobart boasts a quaint Eng-
lish atmosphere and a climate with all the virtues
and none of the vices of the Cold Country’s,
and you can live there cheaply, and yet in a digni-
fied way; consequently it used to attract ex-
civil servants from India, who brought their livers
to rest there, and haunted its streets with curry-
colored faces and great white umbrellas. Braddon,
an exception to the rule, plunged from one sort of
work- into another, and became something of a
power in polities. Naturally, he was not a
Radical; his training forbade ; and if it had not,
his appearance—so like the Lady Gwendoline's
father, the Duke of Ratsandcats, in the Family
Herami —would have prevented. But within his
limitations, Braddon was an honest and decent
politician, and his work for Federation was note-
worthy. He had been merchant, soldier, civil
servant (in India), Minister (in Tasmania), and
Agent-General (in London).
People now
put the'ir feet
through the
floor in side
rooms of the
Melb. Police
Court, for-
merly the
Supr e m e
Court. The
grand old
shop is
mouldy. It
has had a
great da y.
Through the
golden haze of
memory some
will conjure
up such bar-
risters as
Michie, Ire-
landy Aspin-
all, Higin-
botham, Fel-
lows, Dawson
and a number
of other stars
of high cal-
ibre, blazing
there at one
time. The
Bar of to-day
seems alto-
gether drab
in compari-
son. Where
are the flashes
that set the
table in a
roar ? Then
there was a
class of attor-
neys who
seem to have
left no repre-
sentatives of
their peculiar
s o r t —y our
D u e r d i n,
Ma 11 eson,
R e a d,
Bronckhorst,
Stephen, and
the like. Law
RUPERT,
Australian Bart, and Sport.
didbest while the community was weltering, with
everything to create, everything in a state of flux
and uncertainty. There is nothing nowadays like
the yore-time big litigation in squatting, banking
and mining.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Highfield Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
hotel
C t
XT T-
Cuisine* Perfect*
HOBART.
BY APPOINTMENT.
M
GEM MERCHANTS, JEWELLERS & SILVERSMITHS.
HARDY BROS, have special facilities for dealing with orders for
TROPHIES AND PRESENTATION PLATE
having their own Designers on the premises and workshops
that are equipped with the most modern machinery.
Public
Presen-
tations,
Gun Clubs,
Race Clubs
Sporting
Clubs
are
allowed
Special
Terms.
M
Write for
their 1904
Catalogue,
showing
over 1000
Illustra-
tions ir.
various
branch.s
of their
business.
15 HIINTFRSTREET.SYDHEY.fr AT BRISBANE & LONDON
Aboriginalities.
Quaint application for land received by
Survey and Lands Dept., S.A. from a gentleman
whose sole literature must have been Government
Gazettes : , .
Bv the ..race of God, I have the honor to apply for
section 36/lld Elia.-Yours truly, J. Morphy.
G( d save the Queen.
* . * *
“C.A.W.”: Watched, at Mudgee, what
to me was an original game in an R.C. schoolyard.
Seemed a combination of “ Chevy Chase and
“Round and round the mulberry bush. the
kids san<r (to the same tune as the latter)
“Heaven, hell and purgatory,” and then skurned
to their different places as if the Devil were after
them. Never saw this game before, and would
like to know the true inwardness of it.
« Jno.” : “ W.W.” (B. 21/l/’O4) says that
“ axe-marks in a tree (because the wood is dead)
remain always at the same height, although
the green wood moves upward. 1 quite
believe him, because when 1 was a boy 1 had
a tooth killed without being extracted, and, as 1
have grown about eight inches since, the dead
tooth is now nearly in the middle of my chest.
Q. grasshoppers are now attacking the
cane-fields and doing great havoc, stripping the
leaves, and even worrying the cane-stem itself.
Entomologist Tryon professes to have discovered
a parasite that devours grasshopper eggs whole-
sale. Two years ago a parasite was discovered
that was going to exterminate pnckly-pear, but
the parasite has departed, and the pear is rapidly
selecting, on permanent residence conditions, halt
of Western Q.
* * * *
“ Pyalla ” : One of the possessions of swag-
men that I have never seen mentioned is what they
call the “hipper ” Itis worn round the lnps at night,
generally consists of a marsupial fur or a stuffed
s'-tip of bagping,
and is a great
saver of the
hip bone.
A VICE HE’D OUTGROWN.
THE ANCIENT : “ Cigarettes is all very well, but
it’s astonishin’ how yer tastes alter as yer yet
on in years.”
“ Yucka ” : Another point in bush bread-
making. Half till a billy with wood ashes—
preferably gidyea —pour water on, letting it stand
all night. Johnny cakes or big loaves mixed with
this- wood-ashed water will rise like a loan liability
at Jew rates of interest.
* * * *
“ Tom C.” :Re damper-making. One im-
portant detail has been over looked. After
placing your damper on site of removed fire, you
must border it with cold ashes or dust before
covering with hot stuff ; otherwise the periphery
will be charred before the centre is baked. lest
development occasionally, by exposing portion of
upper surface and rapping with axe-handle. JSo
sign of brownness should appear on crust. A true
damper is composed of flour, salt, water, and
nothing else. Better weevils than baking-powder.
The dough should be worked up as dry as possible,
so that at last you have to whack it down bodily
on the sheet of bark, instead of kneading. Artis-
tically constructed, damper is a dish for the gods
(so are pea-nuts!), besides being unrivalled in
staying qualities. Graced with some elegant
French name, damper should take a rightful place
in the menu of every hotel in Australia.
* * * *
O Kanakas are wrathful at seeing white
men' at work on the cane-tields. Recently on
Fairymead plantation (Bundaberg Strict) the
Polynesians seized their hoes and charged down
on a cans- of white laborers. A not was with
difficulty averted then, to break out m the s t
of Bundaberg a few days later. A Kanaka of
writer’s acquaintance told him ‘ white man too
slow donga head for make lin cane grow..
He regards the Caucasian as mere white trash.
“ Bunny ”; The cruellest beast in the
Commonwealth is the Afghan eamel-eondueton
I liave studied him for months all through the
Back-o’-Beyond, and I know. If the camel be a
vicious brute —well, he lias a vicious me
driver. The flash Afghan loves to buy a goo .
fast horse; then he drives lum off lus legs, and
belts him until he is a physical wreck.
* * * *
“ 4 PR ” • The currajong tree (valued
by pastoralists at £1 each for fodder purposes) is
fast decreasing, despite careful lopping,
only native fodder upon which stock will
and the young plants are always eaten down
before they get a fair start in life.
Some more Victorian place names : Badda-
ginnie, Warrowittnl, Waaia (pronounced wire, )
Naringaningalook, Kobyboyn, Dellicknora, Gnt-
iurk, Carraragarnungee, Duchembeggarra, Wy-
chitella, Kooroocheang, Murgheboluc, Upoti-
potpon. 4 #
“ San ” : Re “ Abo.” par (8., 28/l/’O4) on
snakes eating charcoal. Have often seen pigs,
when let out of tl.eir sties for a run, hunt about
for charcoal, and grunt joyfully when a big bit
turned up. They will even eat coal if there is no
burnt stuff about. The snake displays lus tradi-
tional wisdom in the choice of a natural aid to
digestion.
4c * * *
“EF.W.”: In North Auckland the rata
does for trees what the wild-fig does in Australia,
though the process extends over centuries. J ie
destroyer begins life as a slender vine, that seeks
support on anything stable; the puketea most
useless of all trees—appears to have some
special attraction for the vines, which surround
the tree and slowly but surely kill it. l have
seen cases in which the ratas had grown together
and the puketea had disappeared through decay,
leaving only a “pipe” in the hard red wood.
• * * *
“A.G.A.”: “ W.J.A.” (B. 28/l/’O4) errs
in stating that the fig-parasite ‘ takes root along-
side a giant of the forest and grows upward,
entwining itself," etc. me ng men-
tioned is common to all the coast ot
N.S.W. and Queensland, and it
roots on the tree. The seed,
carried by some bird, ger-
/ ruinates in a crevice of
the bark, or in the
fork, and the root-
lets spread down-
wards, growing
closely over the stem
of the “host.” I
have seen a goodly
head of fig foliage
and branches rising
from a turpentine on the
Illiiwarra Ranges, and yet
not a descending portion
of the fig within of
the ground. U-ra-
dually the fig con-
sumes its host. It
roots in the earth,
its various parts
grow together, and
one straight, smooth
stem rears itself
through the forest.
The growing toge-
ther of the down-
ward parts occupies
many years. On the
Bulli Pass (N.S.W.)
is a magnificent tree,
300 ft. high, girth
60ft., composed of
many not yet-united
parts, latticed as it
were, yet, 40ft. up.
tne stem rises solid and
unbroken. Not the faint-
est trace of host is seen.
In an Adelaide Govt, office was discovered
a letter sent 40 years ago to the Treasurer by one
R. P. Raymond, of Sydney, notifying him of the
discovery of gold between the Roper and Jjinimen-
bight Rivers (N.T.). According to this state-
ment, the party had struck immense blocks of
quartz, thickly studded with gold, but had been
driven away by hostile natives.
*' * * *
A Henniker Heaton yarn. Writes
“Prooshan”:
When I was atorekeeping at Hoskins Town, something
less than 30 years ago, Henniker Heaton turned up one
Sunday afternoon with his little trouble, the Town and
Country Journal. This was after he had been promoted
from rouseabout at Bardweil’s Station to the proud
position of canvasser for the Bennetts. lie stayed the
ni«-ht, and ere retiring asked fora nightcap. About
six weeks prior to this I had bought a hogshead brandy-
cask for meat; and, finding some “stingo left in it, I
had added a gallon of boiling water, swirled it round a
bit and then bunged it up. Well, I thought I would see
how it would affect the Town and Country. Try a glass
of this wine; Mr. Heaton.” He had three, and retired.
About 15 minutes later I heard the most awful babel in
his bedroom, and, on peeping in, found him standing on
the bed—hoots and all on—waving the hair-brush franti-
cally, and declaring with much emphasis that the
Town and Country was the only mining authority in New
South Wales.” Wonder if he ever thinks of my white
wine now ?
* * * *
“ Thurla ” : Saw a couple of brown hawks
once on the Liverpool Plains (N.S.W.) doing an
excellent piece of “ hawking.” I noticed a plain
turkev rise slowly, well out of range, and thinking
he m'Hit settle again I sat down under a small
box tree. The hawks spotted their quarry also,
and both tackled him, one by flying underneath
and forcing the turkey to rise rapidly, whilst its
mate kept well behind like a good cattle dog.
When well up, both appeared to fasten on to its
breast and throat, judging by the feathers that
kept drifting down. The bewildered bird turned
and battled back towards the timber where I was
waiting, but fell to the ground before reaching
the shelter. It was quite dead and had all the
breast flesh stripped off.
“DICKEN!”
" It is found that the prospecting and fossicking classes
amongst Victorian miners are wretchedly represented on
the rolls.” — Newt item.
“ The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.”
“ Thurla ” : “ T. 8.” (B. 28/l/’O4) queries,
“Are sheep color-blind?” They probably don’t
bother about the color for identifying lambs,
merely trusting to smell. Have known selectors,
when a ewe will not attend' to her lamb, look out
a good mother whose lamb has died, and foist the
deserted one on to her by either rubbing its head
and body with the dead one’s skin or else by sew-
ing the skin on to its wool for a day or so. isy
that time, the adoption would be complete.
* * * *
“ Percol ” : The “weet-weet” (“H.5.,”
B. 14/l/’O4) is still occasionally used by the blacks
on the Coranderrk (Vic.) mission station. But
they don’t make it all in one piece as their fathers
did the handle or tail being inserted into a hole
at one end of the head. When well-thrown, this
missile travels an astonishing distance. According
to Brough Smyth (“ Aborigines of Victoria ”) the
use of this implement had almost ceased, till one
day (about 30 years ago) he visited Coranderrk,
and induced the blacks to take to it again.
“Prooshan”: “Only Me” (8., 14/i/’O4)
says that the “ant that covers 400 yards has to
rise early and step out.” Well, this morning,
I timed the red (meat), sugar, black, and
jumper ants over the yard, with (roughly)
these results: —Red ant, for 400 yards, 1
hour 6 min. ; sugar ant, 1 hour 22 min.;
black ant, 2 hours 4 min. ; jumper ant, 1
hour 19 min. I couldn’t get the bull ant to
travel worth a cent; as soon as he spotted
me he came for me straight away. So I
disqualified him for life.
* * * *
“Mimosa”: Has any Bulletin
reader ever met the burglar ant? I made
his acquaintance near Tallarook, on the
Yic. N.E. line. He is a big, strong fellow,
and toils laboriously by day excavating
elaborate tunnels in Antopolis, but at night
he is a marauder. When darkness closes
in he makes straight for any place where
sweets are kept. It is vain to try to keep
him out. The silent legions storm the legs
of the safe and scale the sugar-basin and
jam-pot. Yet, though the house may be
swarming with them at midnight, by day-
light not one is to be seen. I have poured
boiling water on their nests ; but still I see
them leaning casually at their 579 doorways
in the cool of the evening, maturing their
felonious little plans.
* * * *
Angaston (S. A.), the township founded
millionaire Angas near (but not too near)
his country home, claims to have the largest currant
vine in the Commonwealth—trellised over 1500
square feet. It is 25 years old, and yielded last
season 3861b5. of dried currants.
* * * *
“Rufus”: “ Q.uandong ” (8., 7/l/’O4)
doubts the ability of some fancy drill-punchers to
do 70 or 80 hand-drills in an hour; but there are
plenty of men who can do that number. £)f
course, they only do it for bets or booze, and must
have an air-blast, a man to heat, and one to take
away the sharp ones. And I, for one, do not
believe that “ Q.” can do 45 drills per I our, week
in, week out —an average of per drill.
“ M.G.” : Why dues raw
salt beef, mutton or brine kdl
dogs, pigs and fowls.' 11 ad a,
fine sheep-dog tied up at the
house. T’other irght wife gne
him a lump of raw corned beet.
In the morning lie was walking
round and round as t.hougii
mad. A fe.v hours later be
was dead. Last year emptied
out a blood and brine cask.
Puppy comes along, licks it
up, and is dead in the morning.
Puppv dying made us remem-
ber that a valuable dog, that
had died suddenly a few years
before, had been given mutton
out of the salt cask the night
before he died. Threw out
a dish of salt fish to the fowls
one day to make ’em lay. Aex t
day picked up dead hens all
round the shanty. A neighbor
threw out some brine m a drain,
pig came along after the blood
in it. Next day heels up in a
corner. What is the cause of
death ; thirst caused by salt,
or inflammation? and how do
ilttle bab.es feel when first they
get salted food ?
B rer Rabbit has selected
some thousands of acres of pos-
sible pastoral country beyond
Esperance (W. A.), making
nor’-east. Already the advance
guard of bunny selectors has
got 15 miles on the wrong side
of the costly rabbit-proof fence
at Burraeoppin. Rabbit shoot-
ing is now quite the regulation
Sunday sport between Kal-
goorlie and Kanowna. Among
a litter of eight ferreted out
of a burrow five miles north
of Kanowna last month were an
albino, a jet black, and half-a-dozen of assorted
colors. Peregrinating prospectors and ab ° r, S ll ** l '’
out back are welcoming the invasion of bum Y
from a change of diet point of view. loMde o
three months the rabbit should be reported well
established in the suu’-western agricultural dis-
tricts of Westralia.
* * * * .
“Jimmy the R.” : -Ke snakebite (B-,
23/1 04). If the bite is on a limb, put the ligatuie
above the bite, so as to have it between the heart
and the place bitten. I have used the strychnine
cure successfully thrice, but aiways w.th.n an
hour of the biting. (But I am inclined to think
that, unless the interval has been longer than an
hour, the strychnine injection is superfluous.) Ihe
first case was that of a black gm who bad been
bitten on the foot by a good-sized black snake. I
was about 50min. later that I got started oil her
with Dr. Mueller’s apparatus. After placing a
ligature above the ankle, a small note l ' was made
in the flesh between the punctures of the fangs
and then the pump was set to work Jbe blood
extracted at first was jet black, and very like tar
in cold weather, but, after half-a-dozen pemm'ig-
the blood regained its natural color and fluidity.
We then injected the strychnine. above, the liga-
ture which was then removed. I lie patient soon
trot all right The two other cases (fates by a red
Sake a"I . brown snake respectively) were snr,,-
i„„i„ treated Now my opinion is that, directly
lhehS“gins W flow red, the injection
necessary.
GOOD FOB TRADE.
SIN FAT: “ You Missetah Hamlet, eh, what!
Some time you come up here play him diorama
oncee more?”
BUSKIN: “ Ah, you will be glad to see me, John ?”
SIN FAT: “My word! Sell era plenty wegetable
then.”


TABLE SALT
While common Salt is only a Seasoning,
CEREBOS SALT is a Splendid Food. Used
in the kitchen and at table, it gives
greater strength to the diet and builds up
the Constitution.
From Grccers and Stons. •
Wholesa'e Agents Harrison & Atwood, Sydney.
WHAT
MORE
CAN
we do to reduce the
price of Rings to those
who buy?
Diamond Half-
hoop Kinir. £5 ss.
in by orSapphire&
'inmonds, £3 3s.
“Fx. & R.” 5-stone
Diamond Half-hoop
£lO 10s.
Exceptional value.
Diamond Cluster
Rinpf, £l2 12s.
Choice Diamonds,
Marquise Kinsr, £l6
We buy the stones in the rough for Cash. We cut the gems to any shape.
We make the Rings in our Hunter-stieet Workshops.
We set the jewels on the premises. We finish them in an exquisite manner. We sell them for Cash.
Our buyers don’t pay for the long credits and bad accounts of others.
Our Prices do not exceed London Prices.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Spinifex ” : Re dum-
dum bullets (“C.D.J.,” 8.,
14/l/’O4). There are several
varieties of the dum-dum
used by Q. ’roo-shooters.
Some make bullets hollow
half way up from the base,
using a mould with a mov-
able plug. Others split their
bullets from the nose almost
to the base, instead of the
reverse, as described by
“C.D.J.” Have tried them
all, and prefer “C.D.J.’s”
method, though my experi-
ence was that a bullet split
nearly to the nose does not
separate on striking, but
opens out from the base
(immediately after entering
object) till the two halves
form an almost straight line,
and usually churns its wav,
A la Catherine “ wheel,” till
brought up by the skin on
t’other side. Will back this
bullet to stop any Dervish
that ever danced.
* * *
“ W.A.8.” : Re par in
a recent Bulletin about
birds nesting after rain in
N.S.W. This is the rule
in W. A. (out East), where
the hatching is regulated by
the rainfall, no matter 1 ow
erratic. The birds’instinct
teaches them to suit them-
selves to circumstances. I f
rain does not fall they will
hunt for water in concealed
gohanna-holes in granite or
ironstone, and there breed,
Nests are a good indication
of water somewhere in the
vicinity. Near Yilgangie,
some years back, when hard-
pushed for water, we saw
some nests, and, searching,
found a bottle-shaped
gohanna - hole containing
hundreds . of gallons, the
orifice being too small for
much evaporation. The
Ernest Giles party’s lives were saved by seeing
an emu track, which led to Victoria Springs—a
sand-soak. Native game manages to survive
drought-periods,-and, when rain falls, breeds for
all it is worth, irrespective of seasons.
* * * •
Four young jaguars were born recently at
Adelaide Zoo, and three of them are still living.
This is the third litter produced by Mrs. Jaguar,
who herself ate the former two. The latest
arrivals have, therefore, been taken from her, and
are being wet-nursed by a retriever. At first
there was trouble between the nurse and her
charges, due to the sharp claws of the youngsters.
These, however, have now been pared, and the
nurse has been muzzled, and all goes well.
AT THE ZOO.
“Never introduce your donah to a pal." — NEW
VERSION.
The plateau on top of Mount Lindsay
is famous in aboriginal lore. The blacks tell that
ages ago a big flood covered the whole country,
the plateau alone being unsubmerged. On this a
solitary blaekfellow, probably King Billy Noah,
and his gin took refuge, and those who subse-
quently peopled the country were the descendants
of this couple. The legend was printed in
pamphlet form in Sydney some 50 years ago.
A PEEP INTO THE FUTURE —if Melbourne and Sydney provincialism succeeds in 'blocking the matter.
“The Defence Department has received from the Colonial Office a notification that an 85-millimetre Kvupp, captured in the
S’African campaign, lias been awarded to Australia as a trophy of war The gun is to be mounted probably in Melbourne Parliament
House grounds, or some similar position, and kept there till the Federal capital is established.” (The Italics arc Hop’s.) —News item
Here you have an antiquarian poking about among the ruins of Melbourne in the year 3742, and trying to
decipher the inscription on this very same gun. (This is our artist's crafty way of insinuating that the Federal
Capital will be eh?)
“ Myrtle ” : Near Maryborough (Q..),
many years ago, I saw the sequel to an aborigi-
nal fight, as described by “ Harry S.” (B. 21/l/’O4).
One man only was killed ; then his tribe gave the
corpse to the enemy and themselves dispersed.
The victors skinned, washed, and ate the body.
The skin of the slain was wrapped upon a sapling,
of which two young chiefs took each an end on his
shoulder, gripped it firmly and began a race of
rivalry, dodging in and out among the timber,
over gullies and ridges, suddenly stopping short,
then leaping on, each trying to make the other
lose his hold. After an hour’s contest one
triumphed, and was therefore credited with being
the possessor of the dead man’s strength in
addition to his own. This fight was witnessed by
about 50 Maryborough residents, who were po-
litely offered portions of roast nigger. The
cooked flesh was whitish-looking ; something like
fish.
* * * *
“O.”: Have just made the interesting
discovery that a man with spectacles on can
stand a lot more liquor than he could with the
“naked eye,” so to speak. Not long ago I
bought a pair of specs so that I could read the
villainously small print of The Bulletin, and a
few days later I got fearfully tight. Late at
night I reached my room, and, putting on my specs
became suddenly as sober as a judge. ’Nother
time I got so badly tarigled that I found myself
being assisted stationwards by a couple of police-
men. My specs happened to fall from my pocke
and when I picked them up I mechanically put
them on. A few minutes afterwards my escorts
said they had made a mistake and departed.
Some time afterwards I was down at
Watson’s Bay where you can get comfortably
drunk on 6d ; and, as I was zig-zagging home
I saw the law approaching. Took out my specs,
but let them fall and knocked one of the glasses
out. Got them on, and never felt so queer in
my life. One side of me was painfully sober,
while the other was ridiculously drunk. The
trap got on the wrong side, and my depraved
hand was in the very act of landing him on the
nose when the sober hand caught it in the nick of
time. I never saw a more surprised copper. He
first looked at one side of me, then at the other ;
then he revolved round me. When he looked at
my disgraceful side he would fiddle with the
bracelets, but when he looked at my respectable
side he appeared paralysed. He left me, and
then I had a row with myself. Luckily, before
much damage was done I threw my spectacles
away to spite myself. It didn’t spite me at all.
I was perfectly happy afterwards.
* * * *
“ F.W.C.” : Near Clifton (Q.), I once
saw a butcher-bird catch a mouse and fly
into a tree. After some consideration,. the bird
selected a branch with a broken and jagged end,
amongst the splinters of which he wedged the
mouse and then disseeted it. Is this instinct?—
[lt is from this practice that the butcher-bird gets
its popular name. The common British - butcher-
bird will sometimes have a thorn-bush stuck all
over with fragments of frog, mouse, and small
bird.]
» • « *
“G.G.”: We have had the shearing-
record, and Heaven knows how many other
records, but the cutting and marking records have
been missed. Well, here goes. Barney Cohen,
of Winscombe, says he will back hie record of
1000 lambs an hour, or his daily record of 6005
(8 catchers and 10 hours work).
“Nym”: To the man along the rivers
there is no better barometer than the common
fresh water lobster, near relation of the
yabbie pest of the inland water-tanks. When
he bothers the angler persistently, look for a
change in climatic conditions before a week is out,
for the pest is always on the move before rain.
By-the-bye, there is a good commercial specula-
tion at our very doors in this self-same prolific
lobster. The microbe of industry that turned the
rabbit pest to account as a coin earner will soon
put this tasty shell-fish on the market as a tinned
luxury of commerce, equal, if not superior, to the
article sold from the “Land of the Wooden
Nutmeg” at an exorbitant figure. Our inland
watercourses, dams, swamps, &c., &c., are literally
teeming with this hitherto little-thought-of crus-
tacean. Then what about the large Murray cray-
fish of the fantastic spiked armor and huge
claws, which is just as numerous at floodtimes as
its smooth-shelled relations, though a trifle more
wary? Potted fresh-water shrimps, too, are a
luxury some person of enterprise might pioneer
on the local market with profit. We have heard
the hoarse old cry of the decayed politician,
“Put the people on the land ! ” Let me vary the
monotony and say, “Put the unemployed on our
rivers ! ” Some day we’ll realise the wealth of
our inland streams, as embodied in its whiskered
pests, notwithstanding that our native finny
tribes are pretty well wiped out.
“Ed.”: Re risky boilers (B. 26/11/ 03). Was
sent up to Horsham (Vic.) to deliver a “portable”
to a syndicate of German farmers. Filled up the
boiler through the manhole and got up steam, ex-
plained her vitals, then handed her over and
strolled off to catch my train. Forgetting a
hammer and wrench, I hurried back and found
Von Kaiser on top of the boiler with a spanner,
trying to take off the manhole-cover to fill her up
again. I was just in time to save a solid Teuton
from going up in little bits. Since then I take
care to explain to buyers that it isn’t well to
monkey with manhole-covers when there is a
good head of steam underneath.
* * * *
“A.K.C.”: When “Elmore” (B. 21/l/’O4)
stated that he saw a goanna swallow a full-grown
hare, he taradiddled. I have a tame .goanna to
which I often throw a rabbit, which he cannot
swallow whole, though he measures sft. 6in. from
nose to tail-tip. Some time ago he tried to swallow
a whole neck of mutton, but couldn’t get it more
than half down. Then he repeatedly charged the
butt of a tree in order to mm his dinner down,
but, failing in this, he clawed the meat up again.
When a goanna devours a rabbit, he always places
his fore-feet on the prey, and, tearing strips of
skin and meat off with his teetli exactly- as a dog
does, he swallows them without chewing, and
when the flesh is gone, he tops-off with the bones.
» * * *
“ War E.” : It’s not “ fatalism” that’s the
matter with one type of cocky. It’s sheer don’t-
care-a-cussedness. He leaves the plough where he
finishes, and strips around it; he lets the stripper
lie where he “cuts out,’’and ploughs aboiit Lt- —
too careless to shift either. When his starving
milker (he has burnt tons of straw) falls into the
muddy hole and is smothered, he leaves her there
to pollute the water; ap'd when his fences and
gates fall down, they stay down. His crop gets
burnt-out because he was too lazy to plough and
“ break ” around it ; and then the Government is
asked to assist the unfortunate farmer ! The
only time this sort of cocky shows any trace of
fatalism is when the storekeeper ihasa lien over the
crop. He knows he can’t dodge Fate then—but he
does his best by “ planting ” away as many bags
as he can.
Dear B.—Your paragraph (2/4/’O4) re the
discovery of a Centralian stock-route by Frank
H. Hann, leads me to say something about tire
man and the country. Hitherto no stock-route was
known—at least, no stock-route with grass and
saltbii-h all the way—hence the discovery is of
remarkable importance. It cannot be expected
that it is permanently watered, butthat is a
detail that can be overcome by artificial means.
Feed was always the desideratum on a Cen-
tralian stock-route—that is to say, an inter-State
route. Of course, all the explorers could pick
up enough feed for their camels, as, like most dry
tracts, certain growths exist which camels will eat,
but not other beasts. Forrest and Giles, the earliest
of the men to cross, met with stretches of spinifex,
which utterly precluded their routes being used
as stock routes. A good average day’s travel for
cattle is 10 miles. Sheep average five, and that
is fast for a long journey, so it will thus be seen
how necessary feed is. In finding this well-
grassed route, then, Hann has at last established
an available stock-wav of east and west com-
munication through Western Centralia. Now
about the man. Frank Hann is well-known to
Queensland bushmen, and to most ou'sde men
( eal outside men, not Lawson’s swaggies nor
Ogilvies Barwonites) his name is familiar; but
to tic. general public it is-not so. Hann was
never a “writing” man, but he has perpetually
lived on the outskirts of so-called civil sation and
made dashes into the unknown—generally, with
no other companions than a co pie of black boys.
To show the man, I will quote a few passages
from a letter that I received from him just before
leaving Laverton (W.A.) on his late adventurous
trip :
I am going out a long trip to the border, and may go
across to Oodnadatta. I will only have my blacks with
me. 1 have just returned from a most interesting trip.
I only had one black boy with me, no one else, but it is
getting too risky for me with only one boy. . . . There
have been a great many parties through to the overland
line, lint they all followed Forrest’s track. I want to
keep more to the south. I saw blacks out about 350"
miles from lCucla at a range I christened after you.
From their weapons and the absence of ail old whites’
belongings, I am sure no one had been there before.
From what he says I could pretty well pick out
his present track on the map. I have known him
since 1864, and a better bushman there is not in
Australia. His services to this country in the
way of exploration have been great, though
unknown to the public, as he never started with a
fanfare of press trumpets. I hope this time he
will reap some substantial reward. —E. Favenc.
* * * *
“A.P.R.” : By far the best known
hostelry on the Castlereagh is the “Bridge Hotel.’
Beneath its shelter the swagmen congregate, and
“hum” the townspeople in a scientific fashion.
Every evening the spoils are divided on socialistic
principles, but to “live on the town” for more
than three days is bad form, and dangerous too,
for vagrancy reasons. Mutual “ratting” is for-
bidden, but “borrowing” from a tramp not
camped under the bridge is overlooked. S<>
highly do the police regard these swagmen that
whenever a burglary occurs, the local bobby
hurries to the bridge to consult theguests about it.
A SYMPATHETIC WARNING.
MURPHY (anxiously, to the would-be suicide):
"Be careful wid the knot, ’r, maybe, ye'll
have a bad fall, Finnerty.”
“Quidam”: Curious that the Chinaman,
though very sound on ceremonies in connection
with a funeral, will usually have nothing' to do wi t h
a suicide. On an old N.S.W. goldfield, recently,
when a suicided Chow was buried by the police,
the only Chinkie present was a “Christianised”
old chap who wears his hair short.
* .* * *
“ H.D.L.” : Any Bulletin readers noticed
the evolution ,in buck-jumper riding ? Twenty
years ago -the man on the ground used to yell, “Sit
back, Jim !” To-day Jim puts his weight in the
stirrups, grips lirjhtly with both calves and thighs,
and leans forward over the pommel, thereby mini-
mising the “ jar ” when the horse lands.


f| Cupid rovis-ed for leap-
year purpose*.
10. “Hallo V\ ft?
Bill, recovered ’ ■
already ! "
“ Recovered 1 No, . ..'s
I cleared from the hospital because the ;
nurse kept a-proposing to me between
doses." ' .
: 1, ¥he Coming Man am! the Arrived Woman,
lor aboriginal method-. of courtship rovers.-. 1,
'lfi QUESTION INt: mi-. CAM>I HATE
Pkmaiu Hu.rn.it ■ Arc )ou a sing nun'’
O.wmuatk . “ 1 ..a ’
5 P.E. : “ Will you marry me I"
Oaniuhatr : “ No .-r—that i< f have a
.prior ,J
iU— — F K “Then I'm d
you . . -■ vote! "
4 Our artist, who still retains traces of that fatal
beauty which once was bis, has ret.red u, an me
ce .1.1. >'•••> Mi.ldh 11 ml • w»j ' ’
petty pietm ( 'id >' » "I"’' 1 b ' l “"’ U “
r. bniary has the normal iiumbc> of day
* | . i ■
'• \i. lin tion up ••'
(i Prudknt Papa : “ Now, Gussie, <
how often have I; told you .that you
mustn’t go - out without a, chaperone 1
must let your sister go with you!
It really k >uit safe. '
7. Al j>m: «T cannot marry you, really:- but—but I’ll I* =‘
brother to you ! ”
ft. MftMnr.it fob (.Joo-Goo : wafcv’ t
«t XT, itocukr Cl i VO. US til IS llfcW tO ’ _ _ .
make ilq.-Yoar perpetual and well ><>
uo out of Parliament. Women don tou. « ‘.
I makes the laws ms long as they make the maleic
!>. A Man in the case, of course.
VICE-VERSA.—LEAP-YEAR IN THESE DAYS JOE FEMALE FRANCHISE.


Ihe Sfa(tarnenT 'fiftf' section io> (r« (To vtoKers)
m*de Uw *T direction oftfc j^boor
i S *bsord ~ My. " A S fc “
h<sb el f r~}
y4fe onh looted on L^L
/ Concerning; itfc
g fyorbingP'lontro'/ersj
" WAS Burtjs A
deist?'
Cer'Tdvinly . W (jen 'tfje
plough KicKed
B^! s
lllifes^
V'*
V o r undresS'ntf Hiyejf k
iKe streeT
Vo Sell his S»?irlr.
-for beer-
More Police \
iVfer fere nee
ft. le w r
Qo ods
wsir V' R;» u y
wi II w 6 ' l ' 1 >
ChildiK** Wf)o /
4
1
Tfje (joVetnnietjt" WontoiVeus
EJed>'C ihelp rok
let' *f*i one e, 5 € do 56
" A doping rn^nper
a.ttitMrfc . A^e
|(je
X/ / fourth I
not /
W«3 1,,J
' -CoMier
-a
/ ‘frAt CoVf rn toeniT
f would be irnbojyble
utit'll •" -% 3^u^t
parties now In tV)t H oo **
( were tncrpcd inTo 2 • .I^^^
A tr/onifentous Qaesnon Alfred* « «.
'who\ 'to be Swallowed J
tUl o *' Citoer*} Homl>lc Sir Ree.-Wd.MA
/
/ /C\'Jerf Sudden njo'/e -in 'Ae" °f fr#*»»'S«d. \
/ }saf af-t'ion vYe
\J t ' c ;. * 0 • 1 giVe jn | - 'jouJe 'Xife* rrjc So
Suddenly . *
MOSTLY ABOUT VARIOUS ROWS.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS, WATCHES.
JEWELLERY, SILVERPLATE. LEATHER, AND OPTICAL
CLOCKS,
goods.
A. SAUNi'ERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE.
Puie Silver-plated on hard Nickel Silver,
Beautifully Chased and
Ornamented; 355. £2, £2 10s.
Similar line, ‘2ss and 30s.
A. SAUNDFRS.
Pure Silver plated FLOWER STAND,
8s 6d a Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Specially Made by James Dixson and Sons. Famous Enulis'i
Silver-plated 4 o’clock TEA SETS, £2 15s, £3. £3 10s, £4, £1 10s.
mmm-
FLORAL STAND, Ituby Ltnss, 12s 6d P*ir.
N
i
A. SAUNDERS,
Timid omeCr.lt Bedroom CLOCK,
8s Cd ; simile 1 Oyles. 1 s (id. lUs bd, los,
17s (id, ‘2os, 22- Cd, 2os.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Pure Silver-plated BE XT EH DISH.
Gilt inside. Glass Dr iner, 255.
Other similar styles, 20s, 30s, 355.
Iss&i
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut-glass Solid Silver-mounted
KNIFE RESTS. l'2.s (id.
Size larger. 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDEES.
Special Value CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silvei-plated, 21s ; other styles, 255, 30s, £2.
Please Send
for OUR
Illustrated
Book of
Novelties.
Miss
Gent.’s Companion TOBACCO BOX. Ash Tray, and
Mutclibo v to hold 3 Pipes, Nickel-mount,' d, Beautifully
Finished, “27s tid.
POST
FKEE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure PKBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d. 10s 6(1; American
Gold. 12s bd, 15s ; Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2 ;
Scientifically Adjusted to suit you.
A. SAUNDTCKS.
J’ure Electroplated on Hard White
Ketul Lunch or Dinner C.UUET, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak-uiom.Ud Silver-
pluted on Hold -Motal
DINNER UUND, £2 os.
A. SAdAUEIiS.
White China Silver-mounted
SHAVING- CUP, 10s;
other styles, 15a 6d, 17s 6(1, 20s, 255.
■
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Six Pui e Silver plated Nickel Silver SERVIEITE
KINGS, in Silk-lmed Case, 17s 6d.
8
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Metal 4 o'clock
TEASPOONS, t> ill Silk-lined Case with Tongs, l‘2s 6d.
Embossed Handles, 15s, 20s.
Four O'clock TAKE FORKS,
Pure Silver-] lited on Hard White Metal. 20s,
25s and 30s ; similar styles, 12s (id.
l
w 1
&
«r-? 3
A. SA.UNDERS.
Baby's Pure Silver RATTI E,
very useful. 4s 6d ; extra heavy, 5s 6<l,
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Handsome Silver- plated Rainbow
Glass j A AI DISH, 20s ; other styles, 12s Oil, 15s.
A MAUNDERS.
CAN DRESTIOK, Silver-plated,
nicely fluted, 12s 6d ; leaf design, 8s 6d.
Solid Silver CHRISTENING CUP, 30s
Extra Heavy, 355, £2 2s.
Silver-plated, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
INKSTAND, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value Silver-plated on Nickel Silver
ENTREE DISH, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s BRUSH, with Silver Name,
Very Soft, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water KETTLE,
Beautifully Chased and Engraved,
Pure Silver Electro-plated,
England’s Best Make, £2.
Embossed, £2 10s, £3 15s.
liillllll II
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP DISH,
in Silk-lined Case, £2 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Gent’s SH AVING- BRUSH, 5s 63
Extra Mounts, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
a®
rminnnmnij)
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silvt
BUTTEK DISH, 12s 6 .
Second Quality, 10s (id.
■ - ■'
A. SAUNDERS.
Pwe Silv.T-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTKII DISH, 20» ; size larger, 255.
FIELD and OPERA OLA SSES, First-class
Lenses, good effect, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255. 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3, and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Shell-shaped
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, 12s 6d.
Larger, Al duality, 21s.
S&lfa//mde?LA
UQNOQK&BTONtI
' T "
* A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER
KNIFE in Silk-lined Case, 8s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivorvette
SERVIETTE BINGS,
Pure Silver Initials,
Is Each.
5s 6d Half-dozen.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Crown Derby China BISCUIT
BARREL, Silver-Plated Mounts, 255.
A. SAUNDERS. „ , „
Pure Silver-mounted CARVING KNIFE, F JR'C, anl STEED ; they a;e mxde of tlia Very
Best Steel, securely riveted, hand-forged and finished, in a9ilk-l:ned Case, 15s.
Four-Cup EGG FRAME, with well for
4 Extra Es?£S an't Sn > ins. Pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, 355.
Gent.’s Leather ROLL, containing 2 Hollow-ground
Razors, Com Knife, Nail Scissors, Tweezers, 20s, 255;
similar with 1 Razor only, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SYDNEY S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
GO
r— a
CO
s»
GO
GO
CO
GO
CT»
►a CD
bJO
tc GTO
c ■
?S3
CO -
hGO
i>
H**
is


QUEENSLAND,
the nearest portion of which is situated 20 miles from Esk,
On the UNFAILING FRESH WATERS of the Upper Brisbane River, within 56 miles in a direct
line from Brisbane, 90 miles by rail, or five and a-half hours’ train journey.
40,000
SUBDIVIDED INTO DAIRY FARMS
of 100 to 3648 ACRES.
40,000
•w
•*v . -
wr .
_ _ - ." •" ■ •■*. *. • :-
S
" ■'
im
Chinaman’s Fiat Showing Washaway, with 30ft. of Rich Alluvial Soil.
Mg
tm.
' i ifesv> "# •- y 2251
m
% %
m Iv,\ 1 1
'
PI
-*;
fl ■■ '■
Lucerne Flats at the Junction of Wallaby Creek and the Brisbane River
THE COLINTON ESTATE, the property of W. J. H. MOORE, Esq., M.L.A., has for many years been known as the
Best Eattening, the Best Watered, and the Warmest Winter Country within a radius of several hundred miles from
Brisbane. The BRISBANE RIVER flows right through the centre of the property, which has a frontage of over 18
miles to each bank, or upwards of 36 miles in all. The Balance of the Estate is watered by Seventeen Creeks with
frontages to same of over 111 miles.
The Terms are up to 20 years at 4 \ per cent, interest
10 per cent. Deposit and no other payment for 2 years,
with Non-Forfeiture Clause.
Large Areas and Liberal Options. No Residential Restrictions.
NO FEES will be charged for Surveys.
**«
Lucerne Flats at Jimmy’s Gully.
Looking Down the Main Reach of the Brisbane Rive r.
The Sale by Auction will take place at the
Colinton Head Station on EASTER MONDAY, April 4,
and following days, till Friday, Bth April, 1904, at Eleven o’clock each day.
ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers,
Post Office Auction Mart, Queen Street, Brisbane.


D.C
H
S
K
W
V
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 line
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 890 Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
SPECTACLES
>
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-acourate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT,
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George*St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
M
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
260 Collinsst, Melbourne.
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
M
GO TO HELL-
!<!<>[,A Nl» for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists grant.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
England—The Mistress of the Seize.
The proposed Federal Parliament picnic
to New Guinea should be promptly scouted. Of
course Bill Lyne’s name crops up as supporting
the proposal
Laborites and Liberals should make a pro-
gressive land values tax a test question at the
coming Victorian elections. Closer settlement
without that is of little permanent value.
London Daily Mail calmly claims for
itself all the credit of “the movement in Aus-
tralia in favor of financial reform.” And probably
not 500 persons in Australia ever saw a Daily
Mail.
Mass meetings are to be held throughout
Maoriland to protest against the importation of
Chinks to S’Africa. Object is to strengthen
Seddon’s fist, which is now being shaken under
the Empire’s hooked nose.
Briefly, the fiscal struggle in Britain is
between the people who live on the interest on
foreign investments and the people who live by
manufactui-ing goods. The former are for Free-
trade, the latter for Protection.
Stated that Chamberlain has sent auto-
graph photos, to those Australians who have
supported his preferential scheme. He is evi-
dently preparing for an Australian tour, and may
be expected some time in 1905.
TAKING NO RISK.
1ST BOOKIE (who has been down to “get the
office”): “There's eight in it, and not a soul
knows what's jigging.”
2ND DO. : “ Veil, in that case ve can’t afford to
lay more than even money anything.”
An amount to represent free annual rail-
way passes for the members of the newly-formed
Fisheries Board will, it is said, figure on next
N.S. W. Estimates. The rush for membership of
nominally honorary boards is accounted for by
such perks.
Commonwealth Govt, should promptly
settle the claim of cabman Hannah. He has
evidently a legitimate grievance, and it is not
suitable to the dignity of a nation to skulk
behind a legal hedge in the effort to avoid paying
a just claim.
N.S.W., so far, has got the best of the
Commonwealth appointments. N.S.W. has had
16 appointments valued at £14,780 per year;
Victoria, 12 at £6885 ; Queensland, six at £7730
(the Chief Justice getting one-half of the whole);
South Australia, four at £1420; Tasmania, three
at £l7lO.
Worth noting, in connection with the
N.S.W. day labor versus contract work con-
troversy, that Mr. Sam Hordern is adopting
the former system for his huge new shop. Day
labor is, of course, theoretically the better, and
it seems to be practically so, too, where there
is adequate and honest supervision.
Lord Northcote told the A.N.A. people
the other day :
It is bv the practice of thrift that you will most speedily
attain what the poet Burns described as “The glorious
privilege of being independent."
Which is as true of nations as of individuals.
Australia can never be independent until freed
from the thraldom of Cohen.
Maoriland’s new Act designed to put down
the cigarette habit amongst boys is in one respect
farcical. The offender must not be fined more
than five shillings ; his parents aren’t called upon
to pay, and it is distinctly provided that he must
not be gaoled. So if the young hopeful doesn’t
care to part with so much money, he needn’t. A
shopkeeper may, of course, be” fined for selling
smokes to youngsters, and that is the only effec-
tual clause of the Act.
Postal Department recently called for
tenders for the supply of £12,000 worth of
telegraph wire, and, American and British
tenders responding, the Yankees undercut the
Britishers by three-quarters per cent. Post-office
Fysh, however, says that, difference in price
notwithstanding, he'll probably give the order to
England as a bit of practical preference.
Sydney Evening News, which is a Foreign-
trade paper but has occasional lapses into accu-
racy, divides the Federal House of Reps, into
three sections: Protectionists, 42; Freetraders,
22 ; Freetraders, but against reopening the fiscal
issue, 10. That is 52 in favor of the present tariff
and 22 against. To such proportion has the
“ great Freetrade victory ” of the elections
dwindled.
Graham Berry could act the tyrant at
times. He stopped a stage-play, in 1880, on the
ground that it might lead to a breach of the public
peace. It was a localised version of a burlesque,
entitled “Happy Land,” and was known to con-
tain many political allusions adverse to the Berry
Ministry. Only when all the obnoxious political
passages had been carefully expunged would Berry
consent to its production.
A belated story of the days when the
tariff was going through the House of Reps. :
Without any pre-arrangement the Labor men,
it happened, were all on the side of “free” powder
and shot. Nobody seemed to see any special
significance about that until a rich and Tory
Victorian member, who had had an experience of
strikes, and always associates Labor politics with
revolutions, went to his friends, and in awesome
whispers asked if that wasn’t proof that something
desperate was brewing.
One of the subjects to be considered at
the approaching postal conference at Rome, for
which Maoriland Postmaster-General Ward has
set out, is that of a uniform postage stamp for all
countries within the postal union. The adoption
of such a stamp would bring many important
advantages ; but there are also many solid objec-
tions, the most important being the different
money values in different countries. The Aus-
tralian Govt., so far, seems not to have any inten-
tion of being represented at the conference.
The Burnside Estate, near Strathalbyn,
S. Aus., purchased by the Govt, for closer settle-
ment, was originally composed of small holdings,
whose occupants sold out to the late Wm.
Merchant and emigrated to the far north. Now
the Govt, has to repurchase the land at a greatly
enhanced valuation to give the starved-out
Northerners another chance. History will prob-
ably some day repeat itself, as under the Act
provision is again made for right of purchase, and
perpetual leasing is not insisted upon.
Brisbane Courier has so far reformed
from the bad old days of syndicate slavering as to
chide the brazen proposal of the Etheridge Gold-
fields Railway Co,, that asks Q. State Government
to guarantee the co. per cent, on its alleged
capital. Not so long back the Courier lauded
the Chillagoe scheme as heaven-born finance, and
so it was—for those who dodged the aftermath.
The Etheridge G.R. Co. will, however, have a
tough job to persuade Q. Treasurer Kidston and
Labor-leader Browne, Minister for Mines, to
loosen the purse-strings.
It is never referred to in the Age, but
Da\ id Syme was annoyed by a little trick played
on him in the re-distribution of seats for the
Assembly. David practically owns the country
side between Lilydale and Warburton. He holds
three big estates there, and has always been able
to work up a strong vote in that part of the elec-
torate against Cameron, Minister for Mines—one
of his pet aversions. Syme has always lived in
hope of one day putting Cameron out. In the
new scheme the Government quietly cut out
from Cameron’s district the places where Svme’s
influence was strongest.
Ex-Opposition leader Nanson’s inclusion
in the Westralian Ministry, so far without port-
folio, is causing a row in Perth. “Apolitical
scandal,” the Opposition says ; and asks if there
isn’t any sincerity left in the House. Ministers’
reply is that,, all along, they have been in favor of
elective Ministries, drawn from all sides, and this
is really a start to put the plan into practice.
The fact seems to be that, with Hackett of the
West Australian dead against it on the big
Constitutional question, the Government roped in
Nanson with pretty big promises, in the expecta-
tion that he would bring Perth's other morning
paper, the Herald, of which lie is managing
editor, with him.
The paper whose grief is bitterest and
loudest over the results of the Federal elec-
tions is Hobart Mercury, the journal without
wit or conscience, which regards all ideas less than
50 years old as necessarily immoral and seditious.
This is the sort of thing the Mercury serves out
with dreadful regularity :
We may agree that the Labor party has no large ideas.
Its whole policy is to take care of the little knot of
workers which it represents, and in the effort to do this
it will play the part of the base Indian, who threw away
a pearl richer than all his tribe.
This (apart from its essential stupidity) coming
from a paper which never had an original idea—
never either knew anything, or did anything, or
said anything—is at least quaint.
An attack (led principally by the illiterate
Brisbane Telegraph, which regards popular
education as its mortal foe) is preparing in
Queensland for the free State Education system.
It is alleged that, on account of the disastrous
state of Q. finance, a return to the old system of
school-fees is a necessity. The Tories, who are
leading this movement, never say a word in attack
on Queensland’s grammar school system, which
has absorbed £373,000 of public money, which
taps the Treasury for £lO,OOO per annum, and
which is completely closed in the face of the great
mass of the people who contribute to its support.
Q. Democrats should insist on making the
grammar schools entirely self-supporting before
they allow a finger to be laid on the free
elementary schools, which are the real sheet-
anchor of Progress.
JAPANESE ACTIVITY.—DISGUISED TROOPS IN
KOREA.— Cable.
SOME OF THE DISGUISES!
The British Government has put alien
immigration restriction in the forefront of its
programme for the current session; and thus
makes a brutal attack on another cherished plank
of the Australian Foreign-trade party. With the
Cold Country going back on Freetrade and imi-
tating the Commonwealth in restricting aliens,
the Australian party whose political opinions
were originally made in London must feel in a
bad way.
Victorian Ministers are threatening that
if the Federal Parliament brings the railway men
under an Arbitration Act they will vote for
leasing the railways to private firms. The threat
is scarcely worth considering. At the back of the
big landowner’s mind is the knowledge that a
private company would not be likely to carry his
grain at a loss, or accept his worthless promissory
notes for the carriage of his starving stock, or keep
up stations and sidings for his convenience which
do not pay their way.
“F.S.S. ” : The woolly-headed manner in
which the Victorian Political Labor Council
deals with election matters is made very evi-
dent by the announcement that Labor candidates
may be selected for Prahran and for Hampden.
Prahran is represented now by Mackinnon, who
is likely to be of service to democracy in general.
Hampden is a nest of squatters, and it is only by
reason of the fine support of the towns of
Camperdown, Gerang, Beaufort and Mortlake
that Oman was able to bear the squatter candi-
date last time. Oman is a good Liberal, and a
supporter of compulsory land purchase; and,
if given the Labor support again, he will once
more defeat the squattocracy though the struggle
will be keen. If a direct Labor candidate stands,
the seat will be a clear gift to the landlords, and
the Argus will point out how the leading farming
constituency of the State has declared against
socialism.
A LESSON.
What a young Treasurer ought to know, or
straight talks by George Turner.
Workers in Wes-
tralia sank all minor
considerations when
voting for Federal
candidates. The
A.M.A. and A.W.U.
(the two most power-
ful labor organisations
on the fields) are, and
have been for a con-
siderable time, at.
loggerheads. So bit-
ter is the feeling that
to mention A.W.U. '
to some A.M.A. men,
or vice versa, will rouse-
a cyclone of temper.
Toryism herechuckled
while watching the
feud, and anticipated
a coup at election
time. But results
show that the quarrel
was deposited for the
time just outside the
door of the polling
booth, and though picked up again when the
voter passed out, the main object had been-
obtained. The sect-racked unionists in the
eastern states might profit by the example
THE STATESMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The statesman chanced a friend to meet,
And said, “ When I walk down the street
It is a street, do you perpend ? ”
“ It is a street,” observed the Friend.
“ When I get up in Parliament
And make a speech—it’s an Event ;
It is a speech deep, long, and wide.”
“It is—it is,” the other sighed.
“ When I go in for statesmanship
I keep them all beneath the whip,
And never miss my aim and end.”
“ A splendid bridge,” observed the Friend.
“ When I go out to take a drink
I do it handsomely, I think.”
The Friend said gravely, “ You succeed—
It is—it is—a drink indeed ! ”
O.R.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insu ilciently stamped. Name and
address must an near on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by cost or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany
“Yen”: (1) In N.S.W. the Federal and State
Labor parties are practically the creation of the one body
—the N.S.W. Political Labor League—which wholly de-
cides as to the platform of the N.S.W. State Labor party,
and, in conjunction with delegates from the other States,
draws up the programme for the Federal party. That
the Federal party is superior in its aims to the State
party is merely a sign that Australia as a whole has more
wisdom than N.S. W. as a State. (2) The two parties have
the same end in view—the advancement of Democracy,
but go by different ways to achieve it. (3) Yes, some-
times.. ..D.0.T.: It was not put forward as an original,
but as an Australian variant of an American yarn....
P.T.F. ; You spoil a good case by bad argument. There
have been cases in which Judges have condemned verdicts
of “guilty” entered, on palpably wrong grounds, by
juries. In such cases, sometimes the Judge refers the
matter back to the jury, sometimes sentences the prisoner
“to the rising,” sometimes (as in the Friedman case):
sentences him and then recommends his prompt release...
Laborite : Well, if the party is ready to sanction borrow-
ing “for works in hand” and for works “which will
pay interest on the cost plus 1 per cent, to a sinking
fund,” it might as well say that it is in favor of
stopping borrowing some day in the misty future. The
mere statement that borrowing is necessary “to com-
plete works in hand ” shows a hopeless frame of mind,
for it is tantamount to a declaration that when borrowing
ceases works are to cease. If it doesn’t mean that, why
borrow to ‘ ‘ complete works in han d? ” The alternative to
borrowing is, in your opinion, a relapse into savagery....
A. E. Hammel: Appeal to the A.J.O Kodak : Can’t
understand your snapshot.. ..Harry Tower : (1) “Carpe
Diem” is a theme at which every poetaster has had a.
fling. (2) “ A Mistake ”is very neatly done, but again,
you have gone on a well-worn track.. ..Long Jack : A
tame yarn.... E.Y.K. : Travellers’ descriptions need to be
very bright indeed to score Pyalla : Yourswagman is
unconvincing... .G.P.B. : Just misses the tram... .H.T. r
No more “ mean men.”... .John W. : Won’t re-open the
’roo birth question. Definitely ascertained that the
young one is born in the ordinary way, but in a very un-
developed state, and is placed by the mother in the
pouch Edward C. : Not up to B. level. Difficult
to advise in the matter you mention. Consult local pub-
lishers.. Effie I. : Some promise... .Zoma : Too crude.
.... J.F.D. (W.A.): Ada Crossley is a stale subject now
Hattie F.H. : It has some good points, though tinged:
with amateurishness; considering... Alice J. : Seldom
any use re-submitting ; but you’ll be able to do some-
thing worth print with practice S.C.H. : Some good
lines; the whole too old-fashioned... .E.H.H. : A crude-
re-statement of an old theme.. .H.B. : You moralise not
badly, but at too great length, without sufficient dis-
tinction. .. .F. (Tas.): Don’t care for “ Letter ”as phrased.
..R. Lockey : Your signature was all we could decipher.
..Periwinkle: By being so abominably long-winded you
spoil your chances....Nym. : Ada Crossley cannot be
called a prima donna because the term has operatic
reference only.. .N.L. : Very long and 1005 e... .E.H.B. :
Almost good enough... .R.G.O. : Well, the row seems to
be on one side jealousy ; on our side there is no row
worth mentioning For your good opinions much
thanks ; couldn’t print them without blushing
all over the paper..... .A. Borigan : We don’t re-
member screed in question. Verse not up—Quidam :
Too far-fetched W.A.K. : True enough, but
not new enough.. . ,D. de E. : Destroyed accordingly....
Bert S. : Been done too often before... .Nota B. :No dis-
tinction of subject or treatment... .Wanderer : Subject
too “ strong ” and handling too weak.... Mattie : Smooth
verse ; but very conventional subjects.... J.R.S. : Humor-
ous, but otherwise out of our line... .Eiddal: Be terser
and more legible.. . .Only M. : Hardly interest enough—
G. R. : You Victorians all seem to insufficiently stamp-
your letters ; probably it’s the infection of Irvine economy
—saving at the expense of other people.... H.A.E. :Of
course the Chinese on the Rand will have the franchise.
Wasn’t it to enfranchise Uitlanders that Britain went to
war with the Boers?... .Oliphant: You write (sending a
bank reference as guarantee of genuineness) to ask where,
the joke is in this gag to a supper-party picture :
“ Didn't I order two portions of chicken, waiter?”
“ Yessir.”
“ Then why is there only one cockroach ?”
You are certainly the champion humorless person in-
Australia Unsuitable: E.H.H., Sydney M., Kiddy,
Chimp, Charlie A., R. St. Kilda, Frank H., Maggie K.,
J.G.D., M. Moore, M.R.E., Sox, J.A.8., G.H.F., S. Dil-
worth, J.A.8., M’Pherson, Peter Quince, Hellas. J. Ash,,
Cooladdie, Neville M., L.T., W. Gough, A.P.8., Memory,
Luke Sharp, Sea-Foam, Barney, Side-Chain, W.J.K., Phil
O’T., G.M.S., Dame du Sud, Rita S., Quandong, E. 5.8.,
True Bill, Rea, Mizpah, H.E., Henry W., G.P.8., Lo Ben,
H. Hohen, Will L.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS,
Harold S. : No distinction in your drawing.. ..D.O’B. :-
One may serve.... Daisy S. : Use one A.W. : Picture
of an “Australian politician vomiting.over the side” is
not exactly in our line... .E.J. : Promising, but not quite
up H.T.: All too wooden W.G. : Drawings crude
jokes puerile A.G. : Dull F.C. : Ikey’s birthday
gag was a chestnut in the days of Isaac the First. Urn
drawing crude and unsuitable for reproduction....W.M,
(Wn.) : Quite impossible.... J.H. : Unsuitable.


Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING’S.
M
We stock
only the
Best
Makes.
Italian and American. The
prices of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
Paling's,
338 George St.
SYDNEY.
I Royal I
Accordeons
at Paling’s.
SM
We have the finest
selection in Australia of
these very popular instru-
ments. Prices are cut to
the lowest possible figure
at which a really first-
class article can be
supplied.
Catalogues and prices
are yours for the asking.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Talking
Machines
at Paling's.
We stock both kinds—
Disc and Cylinder Re-
cords
*
Band Selections.
Songs by the world's
leading artists.
MM
Recitations by present
day orators.
Instrumental Selections
by the greatest soloists.
*
Our Disc records are
indestructible.
Reliable instruments at
Lowest Prices at
Paling'*®,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A VICTORY FROM JUNEE
30 Years a Sufferer.
VITADATIO
v CURED HIM.
Dear Sir,—lt is now close on 30 years since I had the
first attack of a cold, which has troubled me continuously.
At first the cough was only slight, and, as most people
thoughtlessly do, I did not take any particular care of
myself, thinking the cough would soon leave me. I was
then about 14st, in weight; but I began to get much
worse, and, in spite of medical attendance, I soon found
that the cold had such a severe hold on me that nothing
apparently did me any good. For years I tried many of
the advertised remedies, but they all failed to cure me.
The cough increased, and before I could lay down in bed
at night I would be seized with a fit of coughing, which
frequently lasted for an hour, during which time I would
expectorate a great quantity of phlegm. I lost flesh
rapidly, and my clothes were simply hanging on me like
bags. However, a short time ago, I commenced taking
Webber’s VITADATIO, and after taking the second
bottle, I began to improve, and now, after taking six
large bottles of VITADATIO, I feel splendid, and have
regained my loss in weight. lam list, again. 1 cannot
express my gratitude for the recovery of my long-lost
health. I intend taking a few more bottles, so as to
make the cure thorough and complete, and 1 am sending
you this testimonial in the hope that other sufferers may
be induced to give your wonderful medicine a trial.
Yours gratefully,
(Signed) IV. R. LYONS.
Junee, late of Albury.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office; Clarendon Street N.,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and ,3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
MM
Elastic
Truss-
Si n?lp, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something' better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
Ann jit Got*. Swanston and Lonsdale Sis., Melbourne
Concerning one of Yic.’s “ permanent and
reproductive ” works:
Years ago, the drainage from Caulfield, Elsternvviek,
and the adjacent country (Vic.) lost itself in the Elwood
swamp, near St. Hilda’s Red Bluff. The Gillies-Deakin
Government, instead of making the dirty municipalities
provide proper outlets, constructed (with borrowed
money) a mile-long canal, 60ft. wide, deep, nicely
cemented, and with brick-and-iron bridges every furlong
or so. The engineer started his canal from the open bay,
without flood-gates, falls, or locks, and, of course, as fast
as he built, the sea followed him. All the time the drain-
age continued to flow, and now a good part of 15 years’
accumulation of filth lies on the bottom of that tortuous
mile of canal. The Government still owns the swamp,
and wants to sell it for “ desirable suburban residences,”
but, as the blessed thing is mostly covered with water,
nobody wants to dwell there. There is £BO,OOO of bor-
rowed money sunk in this weird joke, and unless Bent
hustles, what remains of it will shortly disappear, for the
cement is cracking, the iron girders are rusting, and the
pillars of the bridges are falling to pieces. Probably, in
the last resort, Bent will go and sit on the shore alongside
the drain entrance and bellow at the bay that persists in
entering his drain ; but if he bellowed at the dirty coun-
cils that run their drainage into a swamp, he would do
more good.
IK
IS AN I
Unequalled]
Purifying Agent {
A
in Hot Countries.
“Sanitas” Disinfecting Fluid
is non-poisonous and non-staining, and for
feneral or personal use is thoroughly effective.
t completely disinfects the house in which
it is used, and, administered internally prevents
Cholera, Typhoid Fever, Dysentery, etc.
" Sanitas ’’Disinfecting Powder
is the best air purifier known, and a stronger
antiseptic and deodorant than carbolic acid,
besides being pleasant and refreshing.
“Sanitas ” Eucalyptus Soap
is specially recommended by the medical
faculty for use in hot climates, because of its
fine disinfecting qualities and its fragrance. M
Kingzett’s Fumigating Candles'
supply the safest and most convenient mean*
of sulphur fumigation. For the disinfection
of infected places, bedding, clothing, etc.,
they are both efficacious and economical.
Destroy all insects.
THE “BANITAB” CO. LTD.
BETHNAL GREEN,
X-ONDON, E.
POST AND DUTY FREE
To any address In these States, except W.A.
: :
:
■
1
Hi
THE
CALLAGHAN
BUTTON
BOOT,
IN FINE SOFT-FEELING
FRENCH CALF, SENT BY
RETURN MAIL TO YOU,
24/6
A PAIR.
For
THERE IS
STYL€
FIT
COH FORT
AND
W€AR
IN THIS BOOT.
We tit you exactly, or we refund the money you senu
to us.
CALL AGHAN & SON, 395 george st., Sydney.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
MM
t Calling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 108.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO..
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies, jfcc.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
CBESSP^"
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
jVI
c#>
&
BILLS
discounted.
3NT.S.-W,
(||ontdepieteO.si|.Co.,[td.
(Oppo»ite Tivoli Theatre)
•74 CASTEEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 o
- - 1,330,000 0 0
« « 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,330,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L O.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Tne Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. !Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M’Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
-THE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... . ... £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Epq.’;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using f
RI CORO’S
feS stt* cE o?u f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, I lit/,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; JT.S.W.-~ Fauiding & Co., 16 O’Connell
8t„ Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Shipping.
uxr. id. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
M
•Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.B. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 2nd MARCH.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maxi mum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SOPHOCLES
AUSTRALASIAN..
NINEVEH
H. A. Sehleman
A. Walker ..
A. Robb
Noon, Feb. 27
Noon, Mar. 8
Noon, Mar. 18
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsflold Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
QCEA.3NTIO STB A. M S H X 0F»
A. AND AT LINE.
C O 3VE 3EF* A. 3XT "ST.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including: St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
'-Til R->
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robbhts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.br.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 - assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, G-eorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amouo tof Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The Banh of Horth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Cannv. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 260 TOO ... £350.000
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, LKOWUHiTIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28 1896, says:
“If I were asked whioh single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments furma
its best recommendation."
CANADIAIM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED" ROUTE.
MOANA, FEBRUARY 29.
The Most Popular Steamer on the
Pacific.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
MARCH 21, APRIL 18.
The Route to St. Louis or to England
via St. Louis.
Full Particulars Furnished & Itineraries Prepared.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Roval Bank of Queensland
J LIMJTKD. «
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,463
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
To Shipowners, Railway Companies,
and all Users of Steam.
33
eg- J
P
Why run risks of boiler
explosions? Loss of time
in long passages, etc., etc. ?
(Vide extract of paragraph
Ample testimony is given by expert
engineers that by the use’ of the
Spiral Steam Tube Cleaner Co ’s
apparatus best results are obtained
in cleaning in a few minutes as
against hours by the old method
without wear or tear on the tubes. No
up-to-date FIRM or CORPORATION
using steam should be without this
appliance ; as an economiser of fuel
it pays for itself in a few months, and
the marvellous rapidity and effective-
re the sad disaster of H.M.S. Wallaroo in Herald
of 8/l/’O4): —“ Constant patching, he said, was
necessary in order to keep the boilers in working
condition, and it was only with the greatest diffi-
culty that steam could be raised for anything like
assumed
indicated
horse
power.”
rjess with which it does its work not only prolongs the life but leaves no excuse for dirty tubes.
NOTE.—SAVES TIME, SAVES FUEL, SAVES WEAR and TEAR on the tubes
minimises risk of accident. uoes,
All particulars and numerous testimonials may be seen at the office of
THE SPIRAL STEAM TUBE CLEANER COMPANY, Ltd., 17 Bridge-st., Sydney.
J• H. DECENT, Manager,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports a
FOK MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
POET PI HIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Gabo, Friday, Feb. 12,
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne).
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Feb. 13, at 10 a.m. (With-
out Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oalrna
S.S. Warreg;o, Feb. 13, Noon.
S.S. Konoowarra, Feb. 20,
at Noon.
S.S. Allinga, Feb. 26, 5 p.m.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
M
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and gii e them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Olflcefc
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
M
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe vi% Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandboolts and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
0
1
IJ
t==!
to
U
m
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s. (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
m
GS
LU
■3
CQ
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches <fc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEB’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
osed it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSOEIL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness. Head ache,
Dyspepsia,Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Of all Stores,
MAVOURNEEN.
(song.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On a morning bright of chier,
Do you hear,
Do you hear, bird of dawning, do you hear?
I was walking by the river
Where the tall reeds shine and shiver,
When I met my colleen d.ar,
Singing clear
As a lark in the Spring of the year.
She was dressed in Irish green
Like a queen
Of the woods, she was dressed in Irish green ;
And she smiled, and I grew bolder,
Touched the harp upon her shoulder,
And I said to her : “ I ween,
By your mien
And your eyes, you are dark Rosaleen.”
O, she kissed me with a grand
Air and bland,
By the rowan-shadowed, haunted river-strand,
And to music sweet did quiver
All the reeds upon the river
As she took me by the hand,
By the hand,
And said : “ I am your own Ireland.”
VICTOR J. DALEY.


CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS cleanse and invigorote the stomach,
improve the digestion, and regulate the bowels.
Eat absolutely nothing between meals if you have
a weak digestion. Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets are “Just What You Need.”
Sold everywhere, Is. 6d.*
Extract from a Melb. Caledonian Society
rant to Robbie Burns :
It was well you died early. Living longer, you, even
you, might have become encrusted with the mocking
humbug of the world, and died old and respectable. In
that case, there would be no statues to your memory,
Rab.
The moral of which is addressed to young men
only. Let them all die young and disreputable,
and perhaps posterity will award them statues on
the St. Kilda-road.
Ballarat Hospital authorities the other
day refused admission to a cab proprietor who
died a few hours afterwards, leaving £2000—
nearly all he had—to the institution. Deceased’s
wife came in for ten shillings a week. There had
been a separation, but after he had been scurvily
treated at the Hjspital gates, the man sent for
his wife, and died in her arms before he could
alter his will, which he badly wanted to do.
“ Bengalla ” reminisces about recently
deceased Admiral Keppel:
Over half a century ago Keppel was in Australian
waters in the frigate Meander. At Hobart he took
aboard a well-known boxer, to while away the tedium of
the vovage to Sydney by “setting to ’ at times with
the best of the Meander’s. In Sydney a lot of the
Meander’s “liberty men” got drunk, first time ashore,
and were lodged in the old log watch-house which, I
think, then stood on Church Hill, near St. Philip s.
When their mates returned on board and reported what
had occurred, the other watch at once got permission to
go ashore, and made straight for the watch-house, which
they stormed, and released their shipmates. When the
civil authorities asked Keppel what he was going to do
about it, he curtly replied that, when he sent his men
on shore on liberty, he expected them to have liberty.
If they broke the law he would punish them,
but he’d be d—d if he would allow their liberty
whilst on shore to be curtailed by any one.
About that time Capt. Stanley, commanding the 28-gun
ship, the Rattlesnake, died, and his 1st lieutenant was
preparing* to take the vessel to England, expecting to get
his step as commander, when Erskine, Of the Havanna,
ordained that his first lieut. should take the Rattlesnake
home, and secure the consequent promotion. From the
fiat of the senior officer at the time in port there was no
appeal: but at this juncture the Meander appeared, and
Kepnel, being then senior officer, reversed Erskine s
decision, and sent the Rattlesnake off under command of
her own 1st lieutenant. Then Erskine took the huff, and
was proceeding to get under way for a cruise, when he
was informed that if he started tack or sheet without
orders the Meander would blow him out of the water.
Decidedly Keppel had a very convincing way with him.
Suggestive Applause.
A well-known English builder, who had just
completed the erection of a church in a London
suburb, was entertained at a public dinner, at the
conclusion of which his health was proposed. The
builder was not only a great stutterer, but his
ideas came to him very slowly, and were not
remarkable for their brilliance when they did
arrive. Of these facts, however, he seemed quite
unaware, and spoke at such length that every-
body’s patience became exhausted. At last the
prevailing uneasiness forced itself upon his atten-
tion, when he remarked : “I don t doubt, gentle-
men, but I am more fitted for the scaffold than for
public speaking ; ” whereupon his audience broke
into such deafening and prolonged applause that
he was obliged to conclude his speech.
This builder was like a great many of us—he
did not perceive his defects until other people
directed his attention to them. But there are
certain defects afflicting thousands of us which do
not need to be pointed out by others, defects of
which we cannot for a moment be oblivious ; and
prominent among them is indigestion. No victim
of indigestion can forget it for a day unless he
has taken Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup that
morning. And if he perseveres in that wise
course for a few weeks his indigestion will change
from a painful madady to a memory only.
“Three years ago I began to suffer terrible
pains in the back and across the loins,” said Mr.
W. Coghlin, of 17 Macquarie-street South,
Sydney, N.S.W., on 30th July, 1903. The
agony was so great that frequently I was unable
to obtain a moment of ease for three or four days
together. I had no appetite and my digestion was
badly impaired. Adoctor whom I consulted told me
I was suffering from lumbago and dyspepsia. He
prescribed a mixture to be taken internally and a
lotion to rub into the back ; but his treatment
gave me little or no relief. X then tried numerous
other remedies without avail, until, after two
years of torment, a friend persuaded me to give
Mother Seigel’s remedies a trial. A beigel 1 faster
at once relieved me of the pain in the back, and a
dose of Seigel’s Syrup three times a day speedily
cured me of the stomach trouble. In a few weeks
my health was vastly improved. Shortly after-
wards my original good health and 1
have remained well from that day to this.
For self-conceit—the belief that one is capable
of things beyond their powers (such as the London
builder entertained) —the only cure is withering
ridicule. It is a bitter medicine, but very
effective.*
I
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Ganz Induction Motor,
SOLE AGENTS!
The fjustral Qtis Engineering So., [td., S° u^
THIRTY-FIRST HALF-YEARLY REPORT
OF
BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND Limited.
To the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 22nd January, 1904.
1. The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the shareholders the Thirty-first Half-yearly Report and
Balance Sheet as on the 31st December, 1903. . . _ ..
2 The net profits for the half-year, after deducting rebate on Bills current, interest on Deposits,
paying all charges, and providing for Bad and Doubtful Debts, amount to iu a
To which is to be added Balance from last half-year 0 lu
£2,429 19 6
which the Directors recommend to be appropriated as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 2J per cent per annum £l ’rS .” "
„ Dividend Tax , n n
~ Reserve Fund (making £17,000).. ®
~ Balance carried forward to next half-year
£2,429 19 6
i a gg assa
3 In accordance with clause 103 of the Articles of Association, the Hon. A. S. Cowley, M.L.A., retires 0«
Direct or in rotation. He is eligible for re-election and offers h mself accordingly. ....
4 n w iu be necessary to elect an Auditor in the place of G. O. Beardmore, Esq., the term for which he was
appointed having expired. behalf fche Boardj A. S. COWLEY, Chairman.
Brisbane, 11th January, 1904.
BALANCE
1)R.
SHEET OF THE BARK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND,
For the Half-year ended 31st December, 1903.
LIMITED.
Or.
Deposits
Treasury Note Account ..
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
Capital £350,000 0 0
Less Reserve Liability 250,000 0 0
£269,268 15 6
33,333 0 0
37,045 7 10
£339,647 3 i
Reserve Fund ..
Profit and Loss
£lOO,OOO 0 0
16,000 0 0
2,429 19 6
118,429 19 '6
£458,077 2 10
Coin, Bullion, and Cash Balances
Treasury Notes on Hand
Remittances in Transit to Branches and
Agents
Government Stock
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due
to the B oik
Bank Premises, etc
£60,796 9 6
11,762 0 0
22,501 17 3
25,760 0 0
£121,110 6 9
311,712 18 6
25,253 17 7
£458,077 2 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rent, and other charges at
Head Office, eleven Branches and one
Interest paid and accrued on Deposits
” and Treasury Note Account ..
„ Balance
£6,027 8 2
2,831 10 10
2,429 19 6
£11,288 18 6
By Balance from last half-year .. .. 22 810
~ Gross Amount of Profit for half-year 11,266 9 8
£11,288 18 6
RESERVE FUND.
£16,000 0 0
By Balance
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
£15,000 0 0
1,000 0 0
Audited and found correct,
G. T. 0. LANG, F.F.LA. I
HENRY J. OXLEY, F.I.A.Q. J
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEE.S, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
, • 0 j 4. Up fnrpe-oine Balance Sheet, made up to 31st December, 1903, and report that we find the
We hare examine . , . CO nform to the Balances at Head Olfice, and to the Balance Sheets furnished by the
several items therein statea W con certified [o by [he respeetive Managers and Accountants.
various b ™" c £ou’ n ted the c a3 h and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane on the 31st
ult., and hereby u!?Hn'ouropinion the Balance Sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and exhibits a true
and correct view oV t he^afiairs of the P Bank as shewn by the Books on the 31st December, 1903.
Brisbane, Biu January, 1901
G. T. O. LANG, F.F.I.A.
HENRY J. OXLEY, F.I.A.Q.
Auditors.
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice
made in the Matter of the Estate of Clara Sparrow
deceased Williams against Swallow 1001 S. 2551
the following enquiries were directed namely (1)
An enquiry who was the heir at law of the Intes-
tate the said Clara Sparrow at the time of her
death (the 22nd day of November 1899) and
whether such heir at law is living or dead and i(
dead who by devise descent or otherwise is
entitled to such real Estate if any of the said
Intestate as descended to such heir at law. And
(2) An enquiry who were the persons entitled by
virtue of or according to the Statute of distribution
of Intestate Estates to the personal estate of the
said Clara Sparrow living at the time of her death
and whether any of them are since dead and if so
who are their respective legal personal representa-
tives. _ T
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming
under the said Enquiries or the legal i ersonal
representatives of such of them as may be dead
are by their Solicitors on or before the 21st day of
April 1904 to come in and prove their claims at
the Chambers of Mr. Justice Harwell and Mr.
Justice Swinfen Eady at the Royal Courts of
Justice Strand London England or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order Thursday the 28th
day of April 1904 at 11.30 of the clock in the
forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 23rd day of December 1903
Note —The said Clara Sparrow sometimes called
Hannah Spirrow was at the time of her death the
widow of William Chambers Sparrow of Grafton
Street North Melbourne in the Colony of Victoria
Custom House Officer deceased and for some time
previously she was living at Hawthorn Villa
Underdale Road Shrewsbury in the County of
Salop in England and it is alleged that she had a
child who was known by the name of Philip
Henry Seymour who is believed to be resident at
Sydney, New South Wales.
J. C. FOX
Master
CHESTER & Co
36 Bedford Row
London, England.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Be ANTHONY PEAT deceased.
WHEREAS by an Order of the Chancery Divi-
sion of the High Court of Justice made in
the matter of the Estate of Anthony Peat de-
ceased Graham against Peat (1903 P. No. 1731)
AN INQUIRY was directed whether there were
any and what children of John Henry Peat
deceased in the will of the said Anthony Peat
deceased mentioned who survived the said John
Henry Peat or who predeceased the said John
Henry Peat leaving any and what issue living at
his death and when any and which of such chil-
dren who survived the Baid John Henry Peat or
such issue as aforesaid were respectively born and
whether any and which of them have died since
the death of the said John Henry Peat and if so
when and who are their legal personal represen-
tatives. Any person or persons claiming to be a
child or children of the said John Henry Peat or
to be issue of any child of the said John Henry
Peat who predeceased him living at his death
or to be the legal personal representative of any
such child or issue (living at the death of the said
John Henry Peat) are by their Solicitors on or
before the 10th day of March 1904 to come in and
prove their claims at the chambers of Mr. Justice
Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce at the Royal
Courts of Justice Strand London England or in
default thereof he or they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of any further Order to
be made in the said Action. Wednesday the 16th
day of March 1904 at 12 o’clock noon at the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the said claims.
The said John Henry Peat died at Footscray in
the State of Victoria Australia on 21st January
1903. He is believed to have left England for
Australia about the year 1853.
DATED 18th December 1903.
E. LIONEL CLARKE,
Master.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
READ IT.
JOHN DICKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
Progressive Office Methods
Simplifying and minimising the work.
Giving better results, and quicker reference
to any matter.
Most approved system of keeping Letters (in
and out), Invoices, Receipts, Quota,
tions, Records of Stock, Indent, &c.
THE CARD LEDGER—New way of keeping
accounts.
wabasFT office
SYSTEHS
3AVE TIME, MONEY AND LABOR.
Catalogues, Prices and all particulars
sent free on request.
JOHN SANDS,
374 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australia.
Queensland A (rent :
H. J. Diddams & Co.
Brisbane.
Victorian Agency :
(Opening this month),
Mf.i.hotr vf.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the Liquor Habit and Inahriacv (in any form) Pos t vely
and Rapidly Cured by the twenty years world-renowned
GOLDEN SPECIFIC
prepared according to the formula of Dr. Hain?s.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food, either with
or without the knowledge of the patient. It speedily causes
a decided distaste for strong drink. It. is abs<> ut.ely harm-
less, a d will effect a permanent cure, whether the rati-nt ; sa
moderate drinker or an alcoholic wreck. It never fails
Thousands prove tt. It operates so qu ckly an • with such
certa nty that the patient underg >es no ineonv 11 eime. and
ere he is aware, his complete reform is effe«* ed The Gold n
Specific supplies the place of the accua omed liquor and
prevents the absolute physical and moral p*o»t ation which so
frequently follows a sudden breaking off from the use of
stimulating drinks. Write for Book, sent with full particulars
and testimonials free by return.
The Union IHfg. & Agency Co.,
359 A 361 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
John Farrell and W. B. Dailey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was well-nigh 20 years ago, when he was at
Queanbeyan, and had not taken up journalism as a
life-calling, that I first met John Farrell. He was
then fond to excess of poetic foraging, and among
his favorites were some not specially well-known
to Australians. Bret Harte he was always
quoting, and Walt. Whitman, and John Boyle
O’Reilly. Amelie Rives and Ella Wheeler
Wilcox were later favorites. Especially fond he
was of Joaquin Miller’s “ Arizonian ” and “ With
Walker at Nicaragua.” Farrell was specially well
posted in American verse. Buchanan Reed,
Eugene Field, William Winter, Bryant, F, L.
Stanton, James Whitcomb Riley, Father Ryan,
Julia Ward Howe, Elizabeth Phelps, and
a whole host of newspaper “poets’ corner’
fugitives were better known and more sympa-
thetically quoted by John Farrell than bards
more widely known and better advertised.
Browning and Edward Fitzgerald were among
his favorite English writers. He used to quote
with a large gusto an image of Robert Browning’s
in which the Lord stabs into the heart of a mid-
night forest with his lightning to slay a guilty
pair of lovers. Farrell himself could be strong
with the strongest: “As a dagger in blood left
rusting, in his heart he had hidden the past.”
It was about the end of ’BG or the beginning of
’B7 that Farrell brought out “How He Died ” and
other poems; and William Bede Dailey wrote a
highly enthusiastic criticism thereof in the Sydney
Morning Herald. Dailey hailed the new poet as
an Australian Bret Harte and lauded the poetic
gifts of Queanbeyan’s popular brewer so warmly
that Farrell was both prompted and enabled to
embark on a literary life.
“ How He Died ” marked an epoch in Aus-
tralian letters. In those distant days Daley was
known as only an occasional contributor to The
Bulletin. Harpur, whom it takes a.stretch of
quaint imagination to regard as a poet in any but
a constricted and crabbed sense as a remote
copyist of Wordsworth, was dead. Kendall and
Gordon were dead. Brunton Stephens was work-
ing hard as a Government servant up at Brisbane.
The younger generation was practically unknown.
Ogilvie, Roderic Quinn, Arthur Adams, and
Hebblethwaite were all waiting for annunciation.
Farrell came as a flamboyant and unexpected
bloom, and took all by surprise. That was a
period wherein an assertive manhood had to doff
no beaver to mercantile magnificence.
Thereby I approach the account of a poem
entitled “Australia.” Farrell had the Lithgow
Enterprise in full blast for a month or so, but
funds were not as bountiful as might be. Farrell
being a very good friend, I was anxious to devise
something which might possibly help a poet out
of a difficulty and provide ways and immediate
means. As associate editor of the Picturesque
Atlas, it occurred to me that a grand intro-
ductory poem would be just the thing from
Farreli’s pen. There was, however, very little
hope of carrying the matter into effect. The
directors were all purely business men—which
means that they were more syndicatory than
human. Dr. Garran was however human, but
he had the vaguest ideas anent poetry. Moreover,
he did not know Farrell. When I suggested to
him the desirability of a poem from him, he said,
simply, “I leave it to you. Ido not know anything
about Mr. Farrell. You must talk to the managing
director.” This was a hopeless business. The
managing director, particularly devoted to sewing-
machines, knew less about John Farrell than did
Dr. Garran. Fortunately, I bethought that the
word of William Bede Dailey would work
wonders. I called on him, therefore, at his
home at Manly—a castle in miniature, with arms
and armor, suits of mail, and resplendent battle-
axes. A quiet suggestion evoked from him. the
heartj’ response of this letter (so characteristic of
W.8.D.) the next day :
“ Marinella,” Manly, Thursday (July 28, 1887).
My Dear Sir : I am deeply impressed with the value of
your idea of procuring a contribution to your great and
beautiful book, such as you indicate, from the pen of Mr.
Farrell ; and if I can be made, for your convenience and
his opportunity-of greater distinction, the instrument of
enabling you to procure something worthy of his genius
and your book, I shall be amply repaid for the very slight
labor which you have imposed upon me. I shall write to
him by to-night’s post to Lithgow, and sound him on the
subject. If he is thoroughly possessed of the sense of the
grandeur and elevation of his theme (and if he undertakes
this work, I should humbly endeavor to assist him in this
regard bv my advice), I know of no man in these colonies
who is the master of higher powers and faculties for its
treatment, than this gifted man.
It is six years ago—and he was then unknown —when
from a distant country town he sent me a few lines con-
taining some of his earliest compositions, and sought my
judgment upon them. They were marked by occasional
strokes of power, but were rude and unlettered, and
showed such defective culture that I thought the kindest
thing I could do was to tell him frankly that though I
was convinced he had “ the vision and the faculty
divine,” he would require the “ inspiring aid of books,”
study, patience, and a severe discipline of refinement
before he could produce anything worthy of his genius.
He thanked me in very touching words, told me he would
do what I advised ; and when, one day, I read his poem
of “ How He Died,” I wrote to him on the spot, declaring
that I recognised his hand at once. This is the origin of
my knowledge of him, and a brief history of my appre-
ciation of his powers, concealed, as they are partially, by
a rich veil of modesty.
I shall write to you on hearing from him, and mean-
while am satisfied that if he consents to write he will
produce something worthy of himself, his subject, and
your enterprise—Very truly yours, my dear sir, William
B. Dalley.
Later I received a second letter from Dailey,
enclosing one from John Farrell. Dailey’s ran :
“ Marinella,” Manly, Saturday, July 31st, 1887.
My Dear Sir,—l have just received from Mr. Farrell
(to whom I wrote, as I informed you, on receipt of your
letter) the enclosed communication. I think your best
plan will be to unfold your project to him with as much
fullness and clearness as possible, and let him hear from
you as soon as possible. If I can be of any further
service either to him or you in a matter^ which I feel
Bure will result in mutual satisfaction and in an increase
of the reputation of your book and of his fame, I shall be
) very glad.
I have not ventured to suggest anything about the
remuneration which his work deserves, for I feel sure
that can be arranged without the least difficulty on
either side. Very sincerely yours,
William B. Dalley.
Farrell’s letter to Dalley accepted the proposal
made by the Atlas through him, expressed
gratitude to Dalley, and promised an effort to
make the poem worthy of the occasion. Which,
too, perhaps, it was. It all depends on one’s
judgment of the occasion.
F. J. BROOMFIELU.


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
lilt/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot Fills
stand alone as the best remedy for the cure of all
disorders arising from imperfect digestion. They
get at the cause where other so-called remedies
give only temporary relief, leaving the system in
worse condition than before. They touch the
liver, and make the stomach clean and pure,
assisting the nutritive and digestive organs in
properly assimilating the food. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and
a permanent and positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.
Packed in amber bottles, and sold throughout
Australasia. *
RESCH’S
STOCK ALE
AND
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: BOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Cricket experts in Adelaide say that the
“coming" wicketkeeper is young Jarvis, who got
into electorate cricket while hardly more than a boy.
His father, A. H. Jarvis, was the first S. Australian (in
1880) to get into an Australian Eleven, and would have
had a great career but for being contemporary with
Blackham. As it was, he played understudy for a dozen
years, keeping wicket in tests whenever Blackham was
unable to appear.
* * * *
The S.A. Cricketing Association made about
£5OO nett out of the last test match, and so the debt has
been reduced to about £2OO. Three years ago the
Association owed £3OOO, and in the meanwhile they have
made many improvements on the ground and its acces-
sories.
Maelaren declares that “ he does not suppose he
will play any more in English representative cricket.”
Which, on the whole, is a pity. England loses a formid-
able cricketer and an able, if not an affable, captain.
C. B. Fry describes Noble as the “best all-round
cricketer in the world, and the soundest of all the present
Australian batsmen.” Trumper, Duff and HUI are prob-
ably greater batsmen, and Trumble may be a better
bowler, but, for all-roundness, Mary Ann Noble stands
out best.
* * » *
The English team is to play a match against a
Bathurst 15 in February. Said 15 include C. Turner,
Ohas. Gregory, Bowden, Diamond, Hickson, and other
well-known metropolitan players, amongst them abori-
ginal Jack Marsh. East visiting team flatly refused to
play against Marsh at Bathurst, Maclaren’s alleged
reason being that he was frightened that the erratic
darky might knock chips off his star batsmen.
* * * *
Although Warner and Co. thusfar have suffered
only one licking, their play in several of the drawn
matches has not been at all satisfactory. Against weak
opponents they have batted recklessly and bowled as
though they didn’t mean business. Also, the team on
two or three occasions has included one outsider or more,
which was an unpardonable liberty to take with the local
men. At the outset of the tour it seemed certain that
Warner was bent on playing every game on the principle
that what is worth doing at all is worth doing well. But
the enthusiasm of the bald-headed captain has apparently
slumped, and his thirteen disciples are treating the “off”
matches in a very olf-handed English manner.
♦ * * *
A quaint and cheerful cricket “ fixture ” is the
annual match between a Melbourne Age twelve and a
dozen representatives (including the firm) of Gilloit,
Moir and Bates, solicitors for David Syme. It came off
last week on the South Melbourne ground, the Age
scoring 167 to the 142 of the De’il’s Brigade. In the inci-
dental luncheon contest honors were divided. The
lawyers took their sporting picnic quite earnestly,
Gillott figuring as the crafty stonewaller who carried out
bis bat for nothing in particular, whilst partner Moir got
the respectable bowling average of 3 for 21. Unfortun-
ately, David Syme doesn’t lead the Age team into the
field on these humorous occasions. It would do the old
man good to kick up his heels and laugh at himself once
a year, but he never tries to see a joke in Syme,
* • * •
The consistent performances of Duff, Trumper,
Hill, Gregory, and Noble as batsmen of the first water
are the means of freezing out of the Australian team
other aspirants to batting fame. The Australian team
without a first class bowler cannot afford to add to the
list of batsmen only, like Duff, Hill, and Gregory. The
other members must be able to toe the bowling crease.
Which is bad fortune for M’Alister (the Victorian bats-
man), Jennings, Gehrs, and others. M’Alister in 1901-2
performed excellently, and just missed getting into the
test team. This season his performances are worthy of
a place in the team, but as he cannot bowl he cannot get
in. Gregory nearly made room for him, but the little
Welshman has again struck form. M’Alister and others
should be, however, in the next Australian team to go to
England.
* * * »
Claims of S.A. bat, Claxton, for inclusion in
next Australian XI. got a big lift on Saturday last when,
continuing his innings in an electorate match commenced
a week previously, he brought his figures from 127 to 248
before stumps draw, and was still not out. Throughout
the 3£ hours of the innings he never gave a chance.
* * * *
Second match between English team and Vic-
toria commenced at Melb. on Friday on a perfect wicket
with first-class weather. Vic. won the toss and went to
the wickets immediately. M’Alister and M’Leod com-
menced to bat warily and were apparently only anxious
to score at least one run off each over' After
feeding time, M’Alister came out of his shell and
banged and bashed, while Armstrong, Trott and Rainsford
all faded away into the shadow of the pavilion. At
stumps draw four Victorian wickets were down for 269, of
Which M’Alister had made 133. Laver carried his willow
out for 28. By midnight rain was pouring down, and on
Saturday play was postponed till Monday. Monday
brought cold, showery weather, and a frightful wicket.
The innings closed for 299. Warner and Tyldesle.v led for
England, and the hairless captain banged up 49 before
M’Leod bowled him. Tyldesley’s bails fell with a rattle, and
he was ruled out with a pair, and there were hoDes that a
rot had set in. But Hayward stemmed it with 77, and the
Englishmen had put together 248 before the last wicket
fell. The Victorians’ second innings was a huge joke.
There were seven duck eggs—a whole setting—and the
only scorers were Trott 9, Laver 1, Baker 3, Scott (not
out) 1, and sundries 1. Total 15 for the innings.
Warner and Hayward commenced the second English
innings after a sharp shower, and slogged up 42 of the
necessary 67 to win. Tyldesley followed with 23. Eng-
land was victorious by 8 wickets.
* * * *
Victoria’s first day’s compilation of 269 runs for
four wickets against the Englishmen was a dreary
spectacle—ranking but little better than England’s 221
for two wickets on the same ground in the second test.
The wicket was first-class, and conditions favorable to
the batsmen ; yet the willow-wielders seemed more con-
tent to let the ball hit the bat and then drop wearily
than to act aggressively. Such exhibitions spoil the
sport from a spectacular point, especially when compared
with an hour’s partnership of Trumper with Duff or Hill.
* * * *
In Australian first-class cricket this season,
George Giffen has a bowling average of 263 for the only
wicket he has taken, and a batting average of 11.5.
* * * *
At a race meeting at Inglewood (Vic.), the
other day, two jockeys fought a whip-duel coming up the
straight. When their mounts were running a-neek and
neck race the jockeys began to lash each other with their
whips. They paid more attention to this business than
to their horses, with the result that both animals left the
track, one of them running in among the crowd.
* • * *
“Running-rein”: A few days ago ran up
against old-time crack jockey, Johnnie Higgerson, who
rode Rowe’s Veno, Oct. 3,1857, when he beat Chirnside’s
Alice Hawthorn, three miles, 10.1 each, for £2OOO aside.
He also rode Veno when he defeated Van Tromp, the
same day, three miles, for £BOO. The veteran jock is
lively, yet he claims to be 90. He lives at the National
Park and is the father of 26 children. The average life
Hic Jr K «n>« « ay J 0? ey 18 about 30 years-one-third of
iiiggerson s present score.
* * * *
Scottish King; the nominal favorite for Aus-
tralian Gup, is said to have done a great gallop with
week?" C ° mPamon Elderslie * on the Caulfield track last
* * * «
« r v% on all other winning sires during
first half of present season—his get appropriated 50
races, worth £8257. Sire (Positano) of Melbourne Cup
( Cord Cardigan) follows with 13 successes, worth
„7°o“ . then came Haut Brion, 18 wins (£6108); Bill of
Portland, 31 wins (£5275) ; and Wallace, 15 firsts (£3919).
* * * *
Only N.S.W. nag to score on first day
(Saturday) of Caulfield meet was Mr. H. C. White’s
(Havilah) imported colt Green Mountain, by Green
Lawn—Vestalin, who ran prominently at Rosehill a
month before, and marred the chances of several others
by boring out.
* * * •
Winner (Silenus) of Oakleigh Plate (Saturday)
l S f x 4 '- v T e T ar ; old Relding by Yalala, from Aria, and belongs
to Mr. H. Leek. He has a capital record as a sprinter,
and began operations by annexing V.A.T.C. Alma Stakes
two years ago. Silenus’ dam was by King Arthur and
her dam (Melody), by Troubadour (son of Sir Hercules).
Silenus has earned a 101 b. penalty for Newmarket Handi-
cap, which will make his load 10.5.
• • » *
Running of Elderslie in the Ormond Handicap
at Caulfield was almost as unsatisfactory as the affected
air of indifference with which the stewards listened to
the hooting of the crowd. Elderslie is the good-looking
horse that started first favorite for the last Caulfield Cup.
He was known to have done a first-class gallop with
Scottish King one morning last week, consequently
punters thought they were picking up money when
they took 4 to 1 about him for the Ormond Handicap
aforesaid. Presently the books were offering 10 to 1
Elderslie, Perhaps the stable didn't back the horse.
VVhen Elderslie came with a rush from the rear poor
riding lost him the race—by a head. Yet there was no
inquiry into the question why the nag went so suspici-
ously in the betting.
* * * *
Things reached white heat over result of third
race at recent Ballarat Miners’ Turf Club meet. Hatwood
lined up a 2 to 1 on favorite, while 10 to 1 could have been
had about anything else. Hatwood looked to absolutely
own the race till Light Artillery—Sleeve Link 3-year-old
filly, Light Sleeve, came at him near the post and ap-
parently won by a length ; his number went up, but was
taken down immediately and Hatwood’s substituted.
Some of the bookies howled as only such seasoned howlers
can and acted like maniacs. Judge insisted that Hatwood
won by a head, and determinedly refused to alter his
verdict, and matters waxed warm as it became evident to
the booky that he must disgorge instead of raking in a huge
pile, as expected. Finally the Chosen took off their
bags and refused absolutely to bet for the rest of the
day, whereupon secretary, R. S. Foley, jumped into the
breach, and, donning the satchel, was kept going at top
speed till the programme closed. Ballarat hospital was
to have benefited to the full extent of the amateur
layer’s “ profits, but, ’tis said, the venture finished up
something out.
* • * *
T. Lipscombe, the Cassilis champion, and C.
Miley, an Ovens native, had a wood-chopping match at
Harrietville (Vie.), for £25 a-side and the “hillside”
championship, t’other day, amid excitement, over £l5O
being staked on the champions! Miley was seven cuts to
the good at the turn of the log, winning, all-out, by four
outs in 2min. Bsec. Lipscombe declared himself un-
satisfied that he is not a better man than the winner on
the Cassilis timber, which is reckoned to be much harder
than the easy-cutting Harrietville logs.
* * * #
Died, at Coburg (Vic.), of Bright’s disease, Tom
Combes, who, in the palmy days of cycling in Vic., was
clerk of the course. He it was who requested ex-Gov.
Brassey, who was on the arena at an A.N.A. sports meet-
ing, to sitonthe grass, as “ he obstructed the view of those
who paid.” Brassey sat.
* * * *
Single-handed bowling supremacy of Victoria,
contested by 64 on eight greens, was won by J. H.
Sheedy, Richmond Union man. He beat previous holder,
C. Livesy, in the final, by 21 to 9. Among Victoria’s
very best, he won M.C.O. supremacy once, and has twice
been in the last eight for State premiership and once
in last four ; also, he is an excellent driver, and draws
well on either hand.
* * * *
Death rate in once famous M.L. football family,
Warbrick, has been extraordinary. Five of them were
with the Maori team that toured Australia and Britain
in 1888-9. Arthur (a strong forward) was the first to go
—drowned : then followed Billy (a remarkable full back),
from lung trouble; Joe died next, through the recent
Waimangu geyser eruption ; and Fred died at Brisbane
the other day.
* * * *
Old-time M.L. crack bikist “Bert” Pither, who
beat champion Zimmermann during his Australian trip,
is at the game again, after several years spell. T’other
day, with 130yds. start, and among a good lot, he closed
on a lj-mile handicap ; but it isn’t humanly possible, at
his age, he should get back to champion form.
* * * *
Twenty-four thousand people watched the
three-event match between Major Taylor and Ivor Law-
son at Melbourne Exhibition Ground, Monday night.
First distance (Jm.) was a farce, and the crowd jeered the
pair, who crawled round the track, and would have
moved even slower but their machines had to be kept
erect. Half a lap from home Taylor streaked like a flash
and held 2yds. advantage immediately, and, sprinting
brilliantly, won three lengths to the good in 1.50. There
were pacers (Walker and Burton) for the second heat. A
lap and a half from the finish the pacers withdrew. With
f of a lap to go the two cracks were together ; then
Taylor made his jump, but Lawson hung on tenaciously,
and only went under by J of a length, in 2.30 2-5. Taylor
thus won the money.
, * * * *
One Sydney swimming race, t’other day,
attracted 159 starters!
* • • *
Fastest schoolboy swimmer seen in Australia
since Claude Corbett (then holder of the continent’s
championship, who broke 1.4 for the “ 100 ” at Redfern
baths) is young Len Murray. From 9secs., Murray won
the final of Randwick and Coogee Club’s Spring Stakes
(100yds.), on Saturday, in 1.4 2-5. Sobraon lad Keran
(Bsee.) was second, 3yds. off, and Dick Oavill, scratch,
third, another yard further back. Another budding
champion !
* * * *
In narrow and short Ooogee Aquarium basin,
Saturday, Dick Oavill, attempting the lowering of
his world’s best, 58sec., for 100yds., put up 58 2-5, 1-5
faster than his swim at Hornsey (England) in 1902, and
which made the swimming world stare, for previous to
then the minute had never been broken. This latest
effort ranks as Cavill’s very best, as, though it is 2-ssec.
slower than the figures assailed, Coogee basin is very
narrow, and with two or three swimmers racing at the
one time, the displaced water, coming back.from the
sides and ends, causes a considerable jobble.
* * * *
Wrestlers M'Dermott and Maximillian gave a
poor display at Newcastle last Saturday, when former
undertook to throw latter twice in an hour. The match
only attracted a small knot of onlookers. Maximillian
was always defending; had he attacked occasionally
when opportunities offered the other might have been
thrown. Thirty-eight minutes of scramble saw Maxi-
millian quit just when a fall against him seemed possible.
It was announced beforehand that if M'Dermott won he
would challenge any fist, man in Australia, but he
should prove soft for any good one who could get to the
weight; just now, however, there is a great dearth of
good wrestlers.
After 20 oppressive rounds between Jack Wilhs
and Bob Fraser at Melbourne Queen’s Hall, Monday
night, the verdict went to Willis on points. Fight was
billed and written as for welter supremacy of Australia,
to which neither contestant possesses the remotest claim.
Jack Blackmore, of Sydney, in the third class at the
weight, recently settled Willis off-hand without giving
him a hope once—and Fraser’s credentials are short of
even Willis’s.
» * • *
Fight at Sydney Golden Gate A.C., Saturday
night, between C. Frost and W. M’Kell, was exciting
throughout, but Frost never looked a loser at any time,
and won every round. M'Kell, in concluding three of
seven rounds fought, was floundering on the floor mostly
—either of his own volition (for which he should have
been disqualified) or from Frost’s blows. Frost won, and
will probably fight Jessop next.
* * * *
Return fight between Ted Nelson and Robert
Whitelaw, the muscular lightweight from Newcastle,
was, contrary to expectations, highly exciting. The
amusing feature of the struggle was the betting. At the
empty ring-side Nelson backers scornfully laid six to
four; after the first round they frantically begged any-
body to accept two to one ; and it was accepted so freely,
and the man from Newcastle biffed away so stubbornly,
that the layers of odds went back to six to four and then
to even money. At the end of the eighth round White-
law’s backers were laying the odds, and the anxiety to
lay two to one on him was pitiful. Then Whitelaw
tired, and his odds shortened to six to four and
continued so till Nelson, recovering himself suddenly,
with a few well-placed blows slugged Whitelaw right out.
A fine knowledge of ring tricks and how to hang on to
his opponent had pulled him through.
* * * *
Poor old Jack McGowan, Melbourne’s sterling
lightweight, had bad luck in his fight with Hiscutt at
Broken Hill. A few years ago McGowan would have
simply devoured Hiscutt, but the battering of 16 years
has begun to tell on the Melbourne pocket giant,
for the little man has invariably had to fight much
bigger fellows than himself. So Hiscutt had none the
worse of the fight, but he got the verdict through
McGowan striking him in the sixth round after the gong
had sounded. McGowan declared he didn’t hear it—
which is probably true. The round had been warm and
the din was deafening, and McGowan’s record is so clean
that his explanation will be believed by everyone who
knows the man’s career. The thing has occurred often,
and in some cases boxers, dazed with the rain of blows,
have rushed in and smitten the referee in mistake for the
other fellow while that individual was being fanned in
his corner, but no referee who knew his business would
dream of disqualifying a man for so palpable a mistake,
McGowan was unfortunate.
At Poverty Point.
Miss Beatrice Miranda will leave Melbourne shortly
with a view to operatising in Europe under the auspices
of her distinguished sister Lalla. By the way, Lalla
Miranda lately played the heroine in “Lakm6”—one of
her favorite parts—under very unusual circumstances.
The opera was to be produced at La Monica Opera House,
in Brussels, with a new French prima-donna. The hus-
band of this other lady, objecting to her appearance in
public, shot her in the hand as she was coming away from
rehearsal. Then the management got Miranda to replace
the damaged artist.
Recalled, now that Nance O’Neil has gone in for
vaudeville business, that a little before she left Australia
she wrote in the auto, book of a Westralian goldfields
collector—“ Variety is the spice of life.”
The Nance O’Neil co. was recently engaged to give the
opening performances at a new theatre in Chicago.
E. J. Radcliffe played Bill Sikes to Nance’s Nancy. There
was a row about salaries, and Radcliffe refused to play
unless his demands were granted. But manager Cleve-
land (according to San Francisco Dramatic Review)
armed a number of stage hands with clubs, and
threatened violence unless he went on. The armed men
watched the performance from the wings, Cleveland
giving encouraging whispers of “ Play the part, Rad-
cliffe, or I’ll break your neck ! ” Neither Radcliffe nor
Nance O’Neil appeared at subsequent performances.
“T.D.”: The clockwork precision of movement
achieved by “the Empire Girls” at Rickards’ Opera
House would probably be found impossible by any six
Australiennes. Whenever any number of Australian
girls get together for a ballet or a chorus, there are
bound to be some who are individually noticeable,
simply because they cannot sink their personalities.
The Empire girls from England have been drilled into
such perfection that every gesture is identical with that
of the damsel alongside. A forcible reminder of the
conditions during the Boer raid, when the Australian
Tommy displayed an initiative that was unpleasant,
whilst the English ditto moved en bloc or not at all.
Ada Crossley drew big money houses at her two
concerts in Her Majesty’s, Kalgoorlie, on 16th and 18th
ult. Minimum value of each, £250. And on vacant
allotments either side of the galvanised iron theatre build-
ing fully 500 people assembled on the occasion of each
concert and heard Ada as dead-heads. ’Twould pay the
much-bediamonded Bywater, proprietor of Her Majesty’s,
to fence in the blocks referred to and charge a silver coin
admission on certain occasions ; free listeners muster
strongly whenever musical shows are on in the theatre.
Playwright J. M. Barrie had a small boy collaborator
in writing “ Little Mary ’’—the play about the stomach.
Barrie had brought some sweets for a little friend of his,
Tommy Davis, grandson of the late Du Maurier. “If I
give you these sweets and told you that if you ate them
you would be sick in the morning, what would you say ? ”
Tommy : “ I would say that I should be sick to-night! ”
Barrie liked the gag and worked it into his “ Sentimental
Tummy” play, paying the small boy a still smaller
royalty of a half-penny per performance.
“S.T.S.” : Re Cinquevalli’s knock-out with the cannon-
ball. I argued the matter with him before he left
Australia, urging that the thing wasn’t good enough,
being no more impressive than other feats he did, and
frightfully dangerous. He laughed at the idea of danger.
“ But you must make a slip some day?” “If I make a
slip I shall not be there.” That was it, precisely. But
he went on to explain that by “ not there ” he meant that,
on feeling a slip, he could always jerk himself to the side
somewhere, and let the ball crash down on the boards.
But it was not convincing to a well-wisher. Besides the
actual “ slip,” there is always the chance of that trifling
miscalculation which is made without being aware of it,
Che thing which makes the most experienced cricketer
drop a catch now and then. And it seems to have come
to Cinquevalli rather sooner than might have been
expected.
A Sydney girl writes from Paris : “It is most rare to
hear a really star singer here. • They are too poorly paid,
and much prefer London. Sara Bernhardt still draws
crowds, in spite of a certain harshness in the once
‘ golden ’ voice and a very apparent ageing of face and
figure. I sometimes meet the divine one’s two grand-
daughters, Simonne and Lysianne, aged 14 and six.
Simonne is rather like grandma, but more English-
looking. They wear such extraordinary clothes that
I have an idea they are stage' dresses doing duty
again, and I find myself studying Sara’s costumes, even
in her most telling scenes, and wondering how they will
‘ cut up ’ for Simonne and Lysianne.”
Nina Boucicault, speaking as the.guest of honor at the
London Playgoers’ Club, said that “ the proudest moment
of her life was when she Came into the world and found
she was born to be an Irishwoman.” Nina might have
mentioned that it was a considerable thing to be the
original Dion Boucicault’s daughter, Irish or otherwise.
But her mother was also among the guests. The author of
“ Colleen Bawri” and the founder of the modern “ sensa-
tion ” drama was such a sad old reprobate in his domestic
relations that Nina presumably' left him out of her
remarks deliberately.
Hugh Ward got all imaginable jam from the London
press for his performance-of The Scarecrow in Drury-lane
pantc. One notice is more explanatory, but not more
complimentary, than the others : “ A wonderful scare-
crow of old clothes and bursting straw-stuffing, imper-
sonated with rare skill by Mr. Ward. His movements, so
invertebrate and Fifth-of-Novemberish, are like nothing
we have ever seen; there is a pathetic grotesqueness
about them quite fascinating.” Poor Johnny Colemans
scarecrow is evidently a creation quite unknown to the
Big Smoke ; also, the fact that Ward lately came from
Australia is overlooked. He figures in the notices as a
new comedian, direct from America, and one or two of
the critics speak of his “ capital singing” or “ excellent
voice.” Which is, perhaps, accounted for by the English
managerial custom of reserving seats in the stalls for
newspaper men. The critics must have heard Ward at
very close quarters. It can hardly be that London’s fogs
have given him a new chest and lungs.
Apropos the “ Eternal City," one thing that must
count as righteousness to Julius is his realism. When he
comes in from haranguing the mob he is red in the face,
dishevelled and sticky to look upon ; and sitting there,
with the howling of the Roman supernumeraries from
Woolloomooloo growing faint in the distant wings, one
recalls how Kingston, as Angel Clare, after hiding in the
wilderness for five days with the police-hunted Tess,
came on, fresh from sleeping under a boulder at Stone-
henge, with his hair nicely crimped and hrilliantined over
his marble brow.
A note from Singapore: "I went to ‘Hamlet’ last
night, played by and adapted for Malays. Of course, it
was all sung instead of spoken, and mostly to English
tunes. Hamlet addressed the Ghost to the time of ‘ Her
Golden Hair,’ and killed Polonius to ‘ Listen to the Band.’
Polonius addressed his son to ‘That’s English, You
Know,’ and, with the King and Queen, sang ‘ Mary was a
Housemaid ’to other words. The ghost scene included
three ghosts, two clowns, and a bottle of whisky. When
Ophelia started to sing something to ‘ After the Ball,’ I
left. It was 12 o’clock, and about half way through the
performance.”
Enterprising Nellie Mortyne (an Australian actress
when she is in England and an English actress when she
revisits Australia) writes to a Melbourne weekly : “I like
England even more than before, but I see a great differ-
ence in salaries since I was here seven years ago. . . .
Your readers know that so many theatrical artists visit
Australia and swagger about the position and salary
they’ve held here. Take it from me straight, it’s ‘ spoof’
(a vulgarism of my own) ; they don’t know when they’re
well off, and I advise them to remain in the no class Aus-
tralia as long as they can renew their engagements. I
fancy Julius Knight will echo my sentiments. They
ought to raise their hats to Captain Cook —there is a
statue of him in Hyde Park, Sydney.” Which reminds
one of the prayer that Slapoffski used to offer up (so he
said) before he quarrelled with the boss. “God bless
Captain Cock and George Musgrove.”
Bulletin (28/l/’O4) quotes Dr. Finskl-
BAOH on German-Australian trade. Approxi-
mately three-fifths of our exports to Germany
are wool. Of the remainder nearly half is in lend
ores (1901, .£850,000), zinc concentrates, silver ore,
and a comparatively small quantity of lead (1901,
£60,000). The Germans tax lead, but give every
inducement to ship ore that can be smelted and
refined in Germany. They have much the best of
the deal, and the half threat to tax our mineral
products is absurd. A tax on merino wool,
tallow, lead ore, &c., would injure German trade,
and in some respects it would improve Australian
conditions. A tax on metalliferous ores would
stimulate smelting and refining, increase local
consumption of coal and circulate cash in the
country. The fact that we have a balance of
trade in our favor is made much of. Well, a
country that exports such a raw product as lead
ore, and imports such a highly-manufactured pro-
duct as paint, requires a large trade balance.
The export of zinc ore is likely to be an important
feature in our German and Belgian trade. We
shall,_ no doubt, be told of the benefit of sending
our zinc concentrates to Europe when we have a
superabundance of labor and coal here. We send
40 percent, zinc ore away, a ton of which takes
four or five tons of coal to smelt. It would pay
this State to give a bonus to a firm of zinc-smelters
to start work here, even if it had to import skilled
labor. The one essential condition to our success
is to secure a market; for that, practically our
best hope is a preferential trade agreement with
Britain. Metal manufactures present the most
reasonable hope for our advancement. They also
present the most striking instance of how Aus-
tralian trade can be crushed by unfair conditions.
♦
“Pucha For years past M.L. has been letting
its lands to settlers on “perpetual lease,” at a
rental equal to 4 per cent, on the value of the
estate at the time of letting. No provision is
made for revaluation. Under this system the
State does not get fair value, while the farmer has
come to dread lest any failure to punctually pay
his rent may involve the loss of his lease. For
years, also, the Farmers’ Union has been carry-
ing on an agitation in favor of a freehold system.
Last winter Premier Seddon declared that he had
his back to the door in defence of the leasehold,
but a recent speech on the West Coast shows that
he is wobbling. In the House of Reps, the Free-
hold party, including the Tory hangers on of a
Radical Government, claims a majority. On the
other hand, the advanced Liberals who favor land
nationalisation in one shape or other are deter-
mined to oppose, even at the risk of putting the
Government out of office, any further tampering
with the principle of State ownership of land ;
and to strengthen their case they have arranged
to stump the country. The campaign opens at
Christchurch at once. An open challenge is
issued to members of the Farmers’ Union to
defend their demand for the freehold. As the
land nationalists include some of the best speakers
in the House of Reps, it will be interesting to see
if the Premier will venture to traffic with the Tory
Kyabrammers, who owe so much to the Govern-
ment land policy.
♦
“ W.0.L.” : Doesn’t Whitaker Wright’s
sensational ending indicate some laxity in court
regulations? If Wright, before cyaniding him-
self, had revolvered the Judge and a barrister or
two, he would have attained a quite unique dis-
tinction. And, from all accounts, he had the
means to do it if the will had been there.


Franz Josef Lager
. . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
rv
XJ
H
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
vO
f<o
*fi3uDO
H
MAKERS OF,
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1903)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
274 Flinders St. 9 Melbourne,
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
Football bladders
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & GO.
34 Queen St.,
1000 Agents in
Australasia.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Win Prizes on the Track.
Win Praises in the Bush.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 357 George St., Sydney
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
The thorny path of the prohibitionist is
shown by a Belgium experience. A crusade
against alcohol was so successful that the revenue
was seriously affected and promised increases to
public-school teachers were cancelled. Then the
teachers met and agreed to cease all temperance
efforts.
Munro - Ferguson (Liberal member—
House of Commons), addressing his constituents
lately, confessed—“l supported the Boer war
because I thought it would create a British colony,
not a country governed by Jews and peopled by
Chinamen! ”
■pOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
*“ ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is "Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” “»(B
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
office - Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
SHARPSNOOTIHfi
St Vx"* For Sport and War.
M
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK /
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett.
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ever Published,
Pyou wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
"and. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
O. W. BUCKLAND,
*l7 Collins Street, Melbourne.
w.N SBW’s Representative).
|F YOU WANT IT
CET IT WITH A
KODAK
M
M
0'
KODAK!
rO 284 COLUNS ST
MELBOURNE,
ME NT.H.)/» , THIS PAPER 4
W E advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting- us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every casg
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF 114 lbs.
M
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens vve cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.
JJUSHMAN and
BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
CHAS GILBERT'S
hCP zmncQ
CLOTHING > CURIOSITY
You’ve perhaps heard of the boy who tickled
the foot of a mule to see how high he could kick.
You may also have heard he found out. If you
desire to satisfy your curiosity by putting up good
money for an unknown make of clothing, when you
can buy my ** ECONOMIC” ready-to-wear
guaranteed clothing, don’t grumble when you
find out you could have done better by seeing my
goods and prices first, and satisfying your curiosity
in a more satisfactory manner.
Suits 25 - to 45 -
Carriage free; and your money back if you are no'
satisfied. Write to-day for patterns.
M
B
R
I
N
E
BBEHEmai^l
CATARRH AND DEARNESS.
The increasing prevalence of all forms of catarrh
is bringing to public attention the necessity for
recognising the symptoms of this disease in its
early stages. Nearly everyone knows, in these
enlightened days, that a chronic cold may cause
obstinate forms of catarrhal deafness, and ear,
nose and throat diseases, but there are few who
know that catarrh also affects the stomach, liver,
kidneys, and reflexly the nervous system. Any-
one who wishes to thoroughly understand catarrh
in all its forms should send for the last issue of
the “Review of Ear, Nose and Throat Diseases”
published in London, England. A copy will be
sent post free by writing to “Review ” c/o Box
241G.P.O. Sydney. With the “Review” there
is also a report form by means of which anyone
can obtain free advice by post.*
“ E.” : Surprising to find so extensive an
ignorance as to the market value of black and
white art books in choice editions. Many people
who ordinarily pay 2s. 6d. or more for a cloth-
bound novel or book of poems are not easily per-
suaded that “Phil May in Australia” is a desir-
able property at a guinea. Their knowledge of
the book market as regards first-class publications
appears to be absolutely nil. They might perhaps
enlighten themselves by looking through the cata-
logue appended to the half-crown book they have
in hand, but they don’t read advertisements of
that sort. Picking up a novel by anaemic Anthony
Trollope, published by Bradbury Evans and Co.
in 1870, I found some advts. of “Choice Illus-
trated Books,” which touched the question of
“Phil May in Australia.” As, for instance,
“Cartoons from Punch, by John Tenniel. A
selection of some of his finest drawings, beauti-
fully printed on thick toned paper, with a hand-
some margin; with explanatory notes by Mark
Lemon ; quarto, handsomely bound ; price 21s.”
The uninteresting Tenniel still lives and draws
pictures. Leech was six years dead in 1870, when
Bradbury and Co. offered “Pencillings from
Punch : a selection of the late John Leech’s
Cartoons from Punch ; in one handsome quarto
volume, half-morocco; price 31s. 6d. ”
Wine-grapes (the cutting season is just
commencing) have had a slump in price at S.
Australian wineries this year. Muscatels are the
poorest in value ; they are worth only 25s. a ton.
From that minimum, prices move up leisurely to
£4 15s. for Carbenet Sauvignon. The best works
out at per lb., the muscatel at 7£lb. for a
penny.
Mrs. W. A. GROVE, Sterling Centre, Maine,
writes :
“ I was taken with a HARSH, DRY COUGH, and grew
steadily worse. My neighbors thought I was going into
Consumption. JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED ME
IN LESS THAN TEN DAYS.”*
“Anon ” : Said that members of N.S. W.
Public Service Board are trying their utmost to
shuffle out of appointing the Deputy City Coroner
to the vacant office, although it was practically
promised to him four years ago, when he was
persuaded to accept the position of deputy.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
Premier Deakin (or the reporter) hasn’t
an accurate ear for metre. His A.N.A. quotation
from Gilbert’s Bab Ballad was reported in both
Melb. papers:—
For I loved the cook as a brother, I did,
And the cook he worshipped me ;
But we’d both be blowed if we’d be stowed
In the other chap’s hold, you see.
“ If we’d either be stowed,” it ought to have been.
Recently a woman dreamed that she had
swallowed her false teeth. When she awoke she
found them missing, and imagined that her dream
had not been a dream. In less than a fortnight,
she worried herself into her grave. She was
operated upon, but no teeth were brought to light.
Two days after her decease, the missing set was
found in a vase, where she had, apparently, placed
them for safety.
Just Try \
y a pair of DUNLOP \
\rubber cushion
\ HEELS, and you
THE DUNLOP
CUSHION HEEL
makes a wonderful
difference in walking,
affording great comfort
by preserving the
cushion tread. It ab-
sorbs all jarring, and
will outlast two or-
dinary leather heels-
Made in all sizes, for
Ladies and Gents. In
ordering specify Size
No. of boots worn, or
send drawing of boot
heel. Instructions and
Nails for fitting packed
in box. Price, 2/- pair.
Posted, 2/4.
From all Storekeepers,
or direct from us.
0
CUSHION HEEL
w
CU^HIOK
Cushion
Heels
Ensure easy &
comfortable
Walking.
The Dunlop Pneumatic lyre Co of Am Ltd Mdb.
Sydney Adelaide Perth Brisbane-1 Christchurch. N.Z
will be surprised at the
comfort they afford.
Obtainable from any
respectable boot shop.
BE SURE AND SPECIFY
Dunlop Heels
Sydney House:
150 Clarence Street.


ONE WORD ONLY,
If you stop and think a minute, you will realise how impossible
It is to depend upon certain words in the English language. There
are some words which have been used so promiscuously that they
have lost all significance. .....
Take our English word “GlRL”—it means a female child
anywhere between 3 and 21 years of age; but, nowadays, we call
them all “girls” up to 100. When the baby’s sex is asked, we say “IT
is a girl,” and, when you engage a 65 year old cook, she is still “a
girl.”
Go into a Restaurant and ask for lamb, and you will probably
get a two-year-old sheep—ask for chicken, and you are sure of
getting hen. ...••••
If you are a smoker, you will have found out by now, that
according to the Tobacconist, everything is “THE BEST,”
“COOLEST SMOKING,” “SWEETEST,” and a few other super-
latives in common use. The fact is, that you cannot, in the
least, depend on adjectives when tobacco is up for discussion ;
but use one word only • . • •
“HAVELOCK”
and you have solved the problem. You will be handed a Tobacco
that needs no adjectives, no bolstering up, and no other evidence than
your own taste and observation.
EVERYBODY SMOKES “HAVELOCK”
because it just SUITS everybody, and that’s all there is to it.
Plug and Cut.
Aromatic and Dark.
“ The first requisite to success in life is to
he a good animal; and to be a nation of good
animals is the first condition to national pros-
perity.”— Herbert Spencer.
There was a skirl of bagpipes and much
enthusiasm at the unveiling of the Burns statuo
in St. Kilda-road —a fine bronze replica of that in
Kilmarnock. Ayrshire. There were many florid
speeches, much quoting, and answering tears
(why do the Scotch weep so?). But the most
lively sign of poet's popularity was given
when Lieut.-Gov; Madden was stuck on a verse —
a hundred voices prompted him from the out-and-
beyond crowd.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Locltyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ H.B.” on the Kanaka :
I have just returned from Queensland, where seeing
the Kanaka and the conditions under which he toils has
strengthened my White Australia doctrine. The “ poor,
simple” Kanaka struck me as possessing all the subtle
’cuteness of the Chow, but he hides it under a childish
countenance. He is rapidly adopting white notions, and
takes up cane areas and employs white labor to cut his
cane for him. In many cases the white cane-cutters pre-
fer to cut Boss Tommy Tanna’s cane. Some white
growers plant their cane without weeding the field. Boss
Tommy Tanna, on the other hand, weeds his ground,
and keeps a keen eye upon his cane. The result is, that
when the cane-cutter comes along he has a clear field,
and the difference between clear cane and cane that has
to have the weeds cleared before the knife can reach it,
represents about two shillings per day. Tommy Tanna
is a religious cuss. His theology generally runs to the
Salv’army, but his ’cuteness makes him scatter his favors
around, and he is a welcome guest at Sunday-school tea
scrambles.
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, there is nothing which cheers
your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But had he
known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly have
preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
“L.W.”: As I came down on the tram
the other morning a fat person in a white waist-
coat was rejoicing over the introduction of coal-
cutting machinery into the Teralba mines. He
wanted to know “ how the miner would look
when he found his occupation gone.” I ran a
pencil mark round the report in the daily paper
of the ex plosion in the Hardwick colliery (U.S. A.),
of how the remains of 180 men were found in a
confused and ghastly pile of arms, legs, trunks
and fragments of human flesh. “How much
would you consider a fair price for cutting a ton
of coal with the risk of that sort of thing thrown
in, if you had to do it?” I asked. The fat person
growled something unintelligible, and commenced
to talk about Gwendoline’s trip to Jenolan in a
much lower key to the gentleman beside him.
Very often the fat man is not cruel—only selfish
and unimaginative.
CHILDREN WHEN TEETHING
have more or less diarrhoea, which cannot be
checked effectually, as the cause cannot be re-
moved ; but the diarrhoea can and should be con-
trolled by giving Chamberlain’s Colic and Diar-
rhoea Remedy, and an occasional dose of castor
oil to cleanse the system. Chamberlain’s Colic
and Diarrhoea Remedy is sold everywhere at Is.
6d. Get a bottle to-day; it may save a life.
Visitors to the Old Country
BAILEYS
T
MM
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH HENS/A/G TON,
DO NOON. S.W.
THE NEW LOUNGE: ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
self-coivt&iived suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
p-rc,
©
em
Zhi
ra
Concerning Elgin Watches
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels,
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
PURE UME-FRUIT JUICB
DO YOU DRINK LIME JUICE ?
M
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agents— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell &. Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
M
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCGANEER
Harry Moran
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
I Price 1/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RBNAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
A. WINNER on Every Round.
M
M
MM
MM
M
M
M
GREAT
DEAL/
of sat- V
iflfaction \
is derived
by using
a perfect
working
fountain
pen. t
/:
w«
gnu.
untM
■at Isf ca-
tion to
ererj
sserof
Jw
Mabie, Todd & Bard,
London & Man~
L chetter, Enf.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and importers.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.
M
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separats'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
J3T* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “WI
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
M
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
.EYE.
oihtment
CURES
%
M
M


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Woundi that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you haye tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joint* being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputatiou ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hand*, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared bv
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on*
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright}.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
M
? Vi
DAY
NIGHT
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
m
0
v»
°J
'NATURES
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE*
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GkMUINE,
Everything about California
Syrup of Figs is pleasant—
taste, appearance, action, and
results. It does not gripe, irri'
tate, or incommode in any way,
but just simply and effectually
assists the organs to perform
their functions with healthful
and natural regularity, and its
use may be discontinued as
soon as the system is properly
relieved and cleansed*
Sold in Australia in two sizes, 1/3 & 1/11.
Of all Chemists.
California Fi* Syrup Co., Zi Snow Hill, London. Australia-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
EXPLAINING
THE ACTION OF
Warner’s Safe Cure
and why it cures disorders so seemingly different in character as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
flPhis is a fairly long list of disorders, but every one of them is caused by defective aotion of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from
*ny of the disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following descrip-
6bn of the work performed by those vital organs is given.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver.— ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their
life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion,
Biliousness, Anaemia, Sick Headache and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a cura-
tive agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so imme-
diately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and, after many disappoint-
ments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their
activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary
and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the causes of Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
ralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures
all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and accounts of many remarkable cures effected, even
when hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne. [l9
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
M
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
M
“Made inhalf-
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-"
IXi PINT
PACKETS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers—JOHN MOIR ft SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office: 9 ft 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id,
Post Free.
The Inky Way.
Perth (W.A.) trades unionists intend running a
weekly newspaper on a capital of £2OOO.
* * » »
Gresley Lukin, editor of the Wellington (M.L.) Post, is
keen in his protests against Chinese labor for the Rand.
Practically, he has called upon white labor to go out
with'a pickaxe handle or a rabbit gun and deal with
Cohen, which, on the whole, is about the best advice
that could be given under the circumstances.
* * * *
More changes in the Wellington (M.L.) Times 1 A new
manager is being imported from Australia, and, in addi-
tion to commercial management, it is understood that he
is to be literary supervisor. What the Times badly wants
is an editor with a backbone and a good collection of
oaths.
•.•* * .
An Australian girl gives her impression of W. T. Stead,
who has been described as “ one of the supreme journal-
ists of the world”:—“ An elderly man with keen blue
eyes and a gray beard, who talks with great animation-
He meets his friends, especially his lady friends, with
outstretched hands—hands literally, for he holds out
two—and his smile is bright and his voice quick and full
of life ; notwithstanding his gray hairs he seems quite a
young man. At his *At Homes ’ the rooms are always
crowded, and everyone appears to be laughing. That
surprised me, because the people in London do not laugh
as much as we do in Australia. But perhaps there was a
reason for it. Mr. Stead passed rapidly from one to
another ; everyone seemed anxious to get a word with
him, and some of the men tried to detain him. But only
for a moment was he still, then he would dart across
to someone else. Tea and talk from four till five,
and after that the leading topic of the day was
discussed. There were always the two sides to every
question put forward—of that Mr. Stead took care.
He would dart round and beckon to different men
to mount the chair that did duty as a platform. One
day the Congo was discussed ; another day Earl Grey,
who had just arrived from Rhodesia, told us about the
difficulties that had to be surmounted there. Then John
Gorst came one afternoon and stood in front of the fire
and explained his ideas of educating the masses. Mr.
Stead hates bores, and would instantly beckon to a man
to come down from the chair if he became prosy.
No one ever seemed to be offended if their flow of
eloquence was suddenly checked. All seemed to be fond
of the man himself. I heard one man say : ‘ Stead may
be a bit of a crank, but he is thorougly sincere in his
beliefs, and is the best-hearted man I know.’ One rather
peculiar thing about Mr. Stead is the fact that he has
never been to a theatre in his life. He is a regular church-
goer—attends the Congregational church at Wimbledon
every Sunday. Sometimes he conducts the services. His
daughter, who acts as his secretary at home, says that
her father never seems to get tired, and is always fresh
and ready for work. Finally, Mr. Stead generally wears
a black velvet dinner-coat instead of an evening suit, and
is very fond of having his photograph taken. Perhaps it
is because he takes a particularly good one.”
* * * *
Sometimes through the breakdown of a team, or failure
to pay up, or from some other cause, the printing-paper
supply fails the man in charge of the Archimedean lever
out-back and up-north; and then wonderful things
happen. Generally, the stock of colored paper in the
jobbing department is good enough for an issue or two ;
but that’s a risky business—Terence Murphy is apt to
stop his paper short when something in yellow comes his
way, and the local Dill Macky calls round to take out his
grocery-store advt. because something in green has been
left on his counter, and no quantity of explanations will
convince either Terry or Dill that the thing wasn’t a
studied insult. Eight or ten years ago one North
Queensland paper used up all its sober blues and greens
and yellows, and was at last reduced to sending out part
of an issue on “ rainbow ” poster-sheets, though no rain-
bow that was ever built had half the gorgeousness of that
issue. Another (writer is trying to remember if it wasn’t
the Oloneurry lever) had to go further even than that, and
at last used up all the brown wrapping paper it could lay
its hands on. Of late years the most interesting speci-
men came from White Cliffs (far-west N.S. W.). The Cliffs
water supply was at the time all at the bottom of a very
muddy tank, and as the boss had to “ damp down ” his
printing-paper with mud, the Western Life for a few
issues was much the color of the tablecloth that Jimbill
has spilt his tea over.
Melbourne newspapers did a lot of whipping-up for the
first levee of, G.-G. Northcote, but it was not a con-
spicuous success. The day of the successful levee was
gone when the newspapers left off giving 10 columns to
the names of those who put in an appearance^.
It is pathetic to notice how the Australian newspapers
with radical constituencies put on sackcloth and ashes
now over the Boer war. Thus Bendisro Evening Mail,
which fairlv shrieked itself toothless for the Empire dur-
ing the war, wrote the other day, without a blush : “ The
last few months have served to dispel one of the fondest
illusions Australia has ever taken to her susceptible
bosom. We have learned how shamefully we were
deceived in respect of the Boer war. It is humiliating to
reflect that, while we imagined the bravest of our sons
were shedding their blood in a cause of common justice,
they were really fighting on behalf of a race ag linst
whose admission into our own land special legislation has
been enacted. ... It is a fearful reflection for those who
were made w'idows and orphans, as the result of the war,
to know that their dear ones were sacrificed on the altar
of cheap labor.” And so on.
■•• • •
The Bendigo Evening Mail, which has been running in
the Victorian Quartzopolis for the past 43 years, has been
taken over from the first of the year by the Bolton
Brothers, Bendigo’s biggest printing firm. Walker had
held the reins for eight years past, before which the
founder, Harcourt, enlightened the Bendigomans. It is
a snug little property, but has been sadly neglected of
late „ .
• * * *
•« Melb.”: Hansarding does not seem to be unhealthy,
with Willoughby, Robinson, Hadley, Loughran, and
Wheeler extant. The recess saves the Hansardia-n. [lt
depends on the man ; a man with nerves and imagination
finds Hansard deadly: the stream of nonsense, balder-
dash, and inanity gets on his ganglions and murders
his mental peace.]
* • • •
Late John MTntyre was a terror to paper men. His
speeches were simply incoherent masses of verbiage. Ho
used to mumble away into his beard, jumping from one
subject to another and back again.
* * • •
Dana, of the N.Y. Sun, told Swinton, his managing
editor, that he wanted a tip-top leader-writer, and would
give 125d01. a week. "Not enough," said Swinton.
“ But,” says Dana, “ it is what I give you, and don’t you
consider yourself a first-class journalist?” “No If I
was I would be giving you 125d01. a week."
* * * •
The two Bendigo (Vic.) dailies have inaugurated a
“fine-weather service” between the goldfields city and
several northern hamlets, wherein a few scattered sub-
scribers wait under the news-agents’ verandahs the
arrival of their copies per motor-car express! This
service is run without any profitable return, seeing that
the circulation of the two enterprises served by
it is under 150 copies. The riders do the journey four
hours in advance of the train, but if ten points of rain
fall en route the parcels have to be sent by the Taitway*.
• • • •
Died recently Aon column, " Wise and Otherwise ”
generally otherwise. The column was started years ago
by Syme as a counter attraction to Argus “ Passing Show ”
column. David sub-edited it himself, and was liable at
the last moment to biff out of the revise (he sees every-
thing in type) anything lighter than a Scotch joke. The
column went on* degenerating, and became a mere re-
ceptacle for woeful political pars or speculations on the
number of flies per cow in Eastern Gippsland. Nomi-
nally the column was “ open ” to the members of the staff
at ss. per accepted par, and the new man on the paper
would think to himself that he might make an extra 10s.
a week--with luck and humor But it was an unrealised
ambition, mainly because every paragraph had to pass
through about six hands, and every hand was that of an
Ishmael towards humor. Sometimes, to do the King
justice, he tore up a whole “ last revise,” and the column
never appeared. Also, to do the public justice, too, they
never missed it on such occasions, and there isn’t any
sign that they miss it now that it has gone for good.
* • * *
“ G.H.”: We had a Press Club at Kalgoorlie once.
The opening of John Forrest’s damp scheme killed us.
Wallace Nelson, or somebody, proposed that the Press
Club should entertain the Eastern political and journal-
istic visitors on its own; and everybody said “Amen”
with a cheerful disregard of the money part of the busi-
ness. When the smoke-night was over—and more giddy,
maroon anecdotes were told that evening than ever were
discharged before —the whisky-supplier submitted a bill
that made Nelson exclaim, “ Ma gracious 1 ” in his saltest
Aberdeen accent; and caused the other members to fall
down in a co-operative faint. When they came to, each
scooted for his ink-lair as if impelled by dynamite, and
didn’t show in the main street for a month. Malignant
people aver that the moral tone of Hannan-street im-
proved at once; and that the spectacle of the lowering
Bung, looking for editors and reporters who never came,
was good to see.
* * * •
Consider the Saturday supplements of Melb. Age and
Argus, say of 16/l/’O4, as to how “ local talent ” is
encouraged by Australia’s papers. The Argus had
14}cols. of matter: —
Serial, by English author 2£cols.
Reviews of novels, books, etc. (mostly English) 3J cols.
Clippings from English and foreign mags, and papers—
4cols.
Letter describing voyage to England—ljcols.
Written by local people — 3\cols.
Age had llcols.
Serial, by English author—3cols.
Clippings from English mags, and reviews of (mostly
English) novels—4cols.
Letter from London—lcol.
Written by local people—Scots.
Out of a total of 25|cols. Australia only authored 6Jcols.
• • * •
A Riverina newspaper proprietor in search of an editor
guaranteed not to write libellous matter received, among
forty-eight letters, this application :—“ To begin with, I
am not a professional journalist, but I aspire to be one.
I have travelled round the world, have ‘ roughed it ’
though England and the United States and Canada, and
all on a very slender purse. Am now earning my living
at enamelling mantelpieces, spare time being occupied in
writing poetry. Being a novice, am willing to give my
services for a small consideration, at first enough to keep
body and soul together. I have a good idea of what would
be required of me, for I am a greedy reader and I possess
literary tastes, besides being of an artistic turn of mind.
I have determined to give up my roaming habits and
settle down into the journalistic profession. All I want
is to be told, and I’ll get there bald-headed. If you want
a professional journalist don’t waste time on me, but if
you care to put up with a painstaking young man with a
varied experience, send for yours to command.” There
are two things every man thinks he can do without
previous training—teach school and run a newspaper.
Lateß.C. Archbishop Vaughan, of Sydney, used to tell
of a rich draper of his flock who had been always generous
to his church, but was finally overtaken by misfortune,
and asked the prelate to use his influence to get him
“ some light, genteel job, such as editing a newspaper or
keeping a school.”
• • • •
Thus London Times “ Australia has two great jour-
nalistic wants : a daily paper that Bhall be Federal, while
yet being loyal, Protectionist without provincialism,
progressive without extravagance ; and an Australian
magazine which shall afford an outlet for the political
thought of all parties, and a fair field to the cultivation
of national literature. English readers will be wise to
remember that while three-fourths of the Australians are
Protectionists, three-fourths of the Australian journals are
fanatically Freetrade. The balance will no doubt right
itself in time. At present Australia is content to read
Freetrade and vote Protection.”
During the year ended 30th June last 8769
immigrants were refused admission to United
States ports, including idiots 1, insane persons
23, paupers 5812, diseased persons 1773, convicts
51, polygamists 1, immoral women 13, assisted
aliens 9, and contract laborers 1086.
According to the Weekly Notes (Eng.)
of 7th November last the following passed the
examinations in law : Amur Singh, Quamar Shan
Khan, Mohamed Yunus, and 70 others with similar
names. One, Jehangir Hormasjee Vakeel, ob-
tained a £5O prize. Some of the dusky gentlemen
have heavenly names —Ranchhodbhai Bhaibabhai
Patel, and Mallem Chengalvarayulu Naida, for
examples.


The remaining copies of Phil May in
Australia can be had on application to The
Bulletin office or leading booksellers; price 21s.
The “ Victorian Post-office Directory ” for
1904 is so far ahead of any previous issueas to
justify the publishers in. their introductory burst
of self-approbation. Everything contained in the
old V.P.O.D. is to be found in the present volume,
whilst the extra details represent an increase of
about 20 per cent, in the bulk of this old estab-
lished book of reference. To say there are 800
pages of improvements is to state the case mildly.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
THE COLINTON ESTATE.
In connection with the sale of the Colinton Estate,
which is situated on the Upper Brisbane River, the
Queensland Government has very liberally offered to
carry persons, attending the sale and going up to inspect
the land, at excursion rates or single fares for the double
journey. This concession is a very valuable one, as all
of the prospective buyers from the Southern Colonies will
be able to take advantage of the Easter Excursions as
well. The illustrated pamphlet which has been published
by the Auctioneers, Messrs. Isles, Love and Co., has now
reached the enormous circulation of 170,000 copies, of
which about 80,000 have been circulated in Queensland
and the balance through New South Wales, Victoria and
South Australia. To give some idea of the magnitude of
the advertising contracts entered into by the auctioneers,
upwards of 20,000 inches of newspaper space have been
secured. Nearly 8 tons of Printing paper and over 2 cwt.
of Printer’s ink have been used. Of course such lavish
expenditure on advertising is quite unusual and we
question whether any undertaking in these States has
ever received such treatment, but at the same time,
when it is considered that the property is of such
exceptional value, that the main object is to induce
people to look at it, there is some excuse for this
expenditure, and we feel sure from reports received from
all parties known to us, who are familiar with the
Estate, that it is one of the best of its kind and quite of
the made-to-order sort for dairying purposes. We
particularly recommend the property because there is no
“ Swindlecate ” connected with it, and because we have
heard so much in favor of the fat and rich lands of the
Upper Brisbane River.*
STEYNE COURT, MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES «> TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY dAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
New Attractions—
BIJOU THEATRE, “BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO, LIVING AUNT SALLY, “ JOE IN THE GLOBE.
Public Notices.
The Bank of Australasia*
Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1886.
-vrOTICE is hereby given that the business of the Chief
J-T Office of the Bank of Australasia, in Sydney, at 259
George Street, will be conducted in the Bank’s New
Premises, at the corner of George Street and Martin
Place, on and after 16th February, 1904.
The business of the Pitt Street Branch of the Bank of
Australasia, at the corner of Pitt Street and Martin
Place, will also be removed to the New Premises upon the
same date, and the Pitt Street Branch will then be closed.
A Branch Business at 259 George Street will still be
carried on.
A. HELLIOAR, Manager.
Missing Friends.
THOMAS WARMAN BATHE, of Wiltshire,
England, who about 55 years ago went to Australia,
or his descendants, are requested to write to the under-
signed, when they will hear of something to their
advantage. JOHN T. S. COLE, SHAW FARM,
SWINDON, WILTSHIRE, ENGLAND.
Amusements.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY
OF N.S.W.
grand Commonwealth Shout.
30th MARCH to 7th APRIL, 1904.
PRIZE SCHEDULES
MAY BE HAD ON APPLICATION
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 1 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
Every Evening at 8. Every Wednesday at 2.30.
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S'
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY.
Singers, Dancers and Comedians in the
HUGE HEAP OF HILARITY,
BROWN’S IN TOWN.
Just One Unending Laugh.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
FOURTH WEEK of Mr. TREE’S COMPANY, including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNICH ,
in Hall Caine’s Great Work, with Mascagni’s Music,
THE ETERNAL CITY.
A MAGNIFICENT PLAY—A NOBLE PERFORMANCE
A GORGEOUS SPECTACLE-A HUGH SUCCESS.
&T Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
■THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening at 8 p.m. Wednesday Matinee at 2 p.ni.
LAST TWO NICHTS of THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
SATURDAY NEXT, and for a Limited Number of Nighls
only, SPECIAL REVIVAL of the Most Entertaining
Musical Production ever seen in Australia —
FLORODORA.
Box Plan at Paling’s. B3T PRICES AS USUAL.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
Great Success of the Attractive Melodramatic Production,
The 10.30 Down Express.
SPARKLING WITH BRIGHTNESS AND VIGOR.
Gorgeous Scenic Effects and Appointments.
A Budget of Stirring Details.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
ana OCEAN BEACH, MANLY*
New Reels. Admission FREE.
•TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
B Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Great Success of THE THREE DUMONDS.
A Brilliant Reception Accorded Our New Artists,
MDLLE. VULCANA and MONS. ATLAS.
Magnificent Succpss of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Marvellously Trained Troupe of CATS and DOGS.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWERS and Miss MAUD FANING.
Mrs. SIMS REEVES, Miss JENNY GREY.
Latest Biograp'i Importation, Canadian Salmon Fishing.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS,
Specialty Artistes and Dancers.
THE TWO BELLS, Duettists and Dancers.
Last Nights of CLARK and HAMILTON. Coniedv
Sketch Artists, JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical Comedian.
MISS RAY JONES, THE COLLIERS, CLAIRE
CONFIELD, MALVENA MOORE, LES WARTON
FRANK YORKE, IRVING SAYLES.
tST COLORED 810 PICTURES.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock.
-THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager C. Simonsens.
Last Two Nights Of IN LONDON TOWN.
SATURDAY NEXT, 13th FEB.,
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in Reproduc-
tion of the Most Popular and Successful of Australian
“"■V Riding to Win.
Realistic Representation of a Great Bicycle Race in the
Exhibition Grounds.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Daylesford Athletic Club,
DAYLESFORD, VIC.
EASTER MONDAY, 1904.
£l7O CASH PRIZES:
SHEFFIELD, £75 ; QUARTER-MILE, £lO ; UNDER-
HAND WOOD-CHOP, £25 ; TUG O' WAR, £2O ; BAND
CONTEST, £2O ; HARRIERS EVENTS, £l4.
Entries, FEBRUARY 29, V.A.Z. and V.A.A. Rules.
Handicapper .. MARK WILLIAMS.
Programmes, &c., from P. F. MEERE, Secretary.
Mr. Warnford Lock, Lucknow strike-provoker,
and the clique of nonentities who mainly constitute the
N.S.W. Chamber of Mines, appear in print once more to
complain of the “ unreasonable restrictions on mining
enterprise ” and “ insecurity of tenure.” Their bete noir
is the labor conditions of mining leases, but they bump
their heads against a wall of adamant when they protest
against this policy. It is the cardinal principle of Aus-
tralian mining legislation, and it will ever remain so. It
has all reason and all expediency to sustain it. The
basic idea of it is that mining areas shall be legitimately
exploited for the treasure which they are supposed to
contain, not that they shall be held year in and year out
by people whose only purpose is to exploit other people’s
pockets. Like every other sound principle, this one may be
harshly applied at times, but in all the history of de-
partmental administration in Australia there is no re-
corded case of a bonCL-fi.de mining lessee having been
dispossessed of his holding. The N.S.W. Chamber of
alines, in its latest manifesto, made the unfortunate mis-
take—for itself —of citing a case of alleged injustice. The
Mines Minister’s explanation showed that it would have
been a gross injustice to the public if his decision had
been other than it was. The propar complaint to make
against all the Mines Departments is that they show too
much leniency to Mr. Sitdovvn and his brethren.
Despite the assertions of Mr. Lock, the Chamber of
Mines, and the Pitt-streetites, who talk pompously
about “our principals in England,” it is not in-
security of tenure which makes English speculators
fight shy of N.S.W. Were this so, they would be equally
averse to speculating in W.A., Queensland, Victoria, and
Tasmania, because the laws in all the States are identical
in this respect. The true reason is the non-existence of
mines in N.S.W. Bull has spent millions of money in
the State, and what has he to show by way of return?
The div.-list for last year supplies the answer—a solitary
div.-paying gold mine ! Every field in the State presents
striking evidences of Bull’s enterprise in the past, in
mounds of mullock and machinery rusting in mockery;
there are cases of ill-luck, but for every one of these
there are at least a dozen examples of bad judg-
ment and worse extravagance. Besides, N.S.W. mining
—such as it is—is not of the class that attracts the
attention of the modern Bull; it lacks the sensationalism
which leads to Whitaker-Wrightism. It is sheer hypocrisy
to assume that in London mining is anything other than
a medium for wholesale gambling, and for a big gamble
there must be a big prize as a stimulating force. One
mine paying a paltry £25,000 a year does not constitute
such a force. Let there be a discovery in N.S.W. of
another Golden Mile, and money will be poured in in
millions for the development of “our magnificent mineral
resources now lying dormant for the want of capital,”
and there will be a few more murdered lords and suicided
gamesters.
* * * »
North Boulder, Kalgoorlie, is going in for a lot
of prospecting. At the 900 ft. level, crosscuts are being
put in to test the ground to the boundaries, and the shaft
is being sunk below its present depth of 950 ft. This is all
very commendable ; but the proposition looks so hopeless
that only a gambler would risk his money on (he venture.
A. good deal of prospecting has been done on the north in
the Oroya East and Brown Hill Extended without payable
results ; and, so far as one ca" judge, the North Boulder
will give the same answer.
* • • •
North-Western Associated, Kalgoorlie, which
was reconstructed last October with a working capital of
£28,000, is at work on its Womera lease. From this pro-
perty tributors got a fair amount of loz. stone, and it is
quite possible that the mine may become a paying pro-
position. Immediately north is the Brown Hill Consols,
now held by a party of working men, who have had a lot
of payable crushings at a custom mill. They are so
satisfied that they have now bought the Lady Charlotte
mill at Coolgardie, and will shortly have it jigging on
their own leases. This part of the field has been very
indifferently prospected, and it is quite possible that
something good may yet be found there.
* * * *
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie, looks as if it would
get howled out through mismanagement off the fields.
There is an uncalled assessment of 25., which would
probably not be needed but for the fact that the co. owns
a lot of scrip in subsidiary co.’s whose finances are in a
worse than doubtful condition. One is the Chaffers Ex-
tended, a wild-cat about to be re--.onstruc.ted, with an
assessment which the Golden Link shareholders will have
to pay on their holdings. Instead of conserving the
capital of the co. for legitimate prospecting, the board
appears to have gone in for all sorts of wild-cat specula-
tion. The Eclipse mine has also been muddled, and is
now hardly safe, in parts, to work in. The rich chutes
have also been persistently rooted out. At a recent
general meeting, the directors threatened a div., but
that is moonshine : a call is more likely.
*•* * -
North Kalgurli (W.A.) people are trying hard
to boom their show on the strength of the Kalgurli
having a 30ft. lode, worth SOdwt. per ton, coming
towards the North’s boundary at the 1000 ft. level. As it
happens, this chute of ore petered out about 300 ft. south
of North Kalgurli boundary, and, unless another chute is
found, the co. i 3 merely leaning on a broken reed.
There would be less big talk, perhaps, of the co.’s
prospects if the co. did not have a large par-
cel of reserve shares to place. At present the
10-head mill is treating ore from the dump and from
opened-up stopes, and no development is being done and
can be done until these reserve shares are placed. But
who is going to buy reserve shares at 10s. a piece when
the market price is ss. or so ? According to the accounts,
£28,781 stands as an asset for development, or more than
£1 a ton for every ton in sight; and.yet it js said that the
total costs are in the neighborhood of 255., and not a
penny charged for the mining, but merely for stoping.
This is what may be termed opera bouffe mining.
« • • •
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), is being sub-
jected to all sorts of adverse criticism in the London
press on account of there being low-grade ore at the
south end of Nos. 8 and 9 levels. Had those who con-
demned the show any sort of memories, they would
know that similar conditions obtained in all the upper
levels of this mine. In continuing the drive on No. 7
level it was found that, after a practically barren zone, a
second pay chute occurred of a lower grade, and this has
been proved to exist for several hundred feet to the
south. The mine is all right, and will soon be crushing
with 80 head of stamps, and it is proposed that the
battery be increased to 100 head in the near future.
No. 10 level is now being opened up, and the reserves of
ore, which are roughly estimated as 380,000 tons,
worth about 25dwt., are gradually increasing, as the
developments are easily beating the mill. The present
output is'at the rate of £570,000 a year, and will probably
reach nearly £750,000 when the new stamps get to work.
The mine is now worked so cheaply that very high div.
distributio-s may be looked for
• • • *
Long Reef, Lennonville (W.A.), which was
bought by J. V. Kearney last July for £10,550, and has
recently been under a cloud, announces a crushing of
723 tons for 704 oz.—which will probably cause some
people to reduce their faith in Bewick, Moreing, and Co.
Kearney recently got a license to build a theatre in
Kalgoorlie ; but, owing to the temporary petering out of
the chute on the Long Reef, the project was abandoned,
and Kalgoorlie has still to put up with a tin shed, where
Ada Crossley can’t be heard if it happens to rain. If the
newly-found chute on the mine proves permanent,
Kearney’s theatre may yet eventuate.
• * * *
The “window-dressing” of the assets of the
Standard Exploration Co. (W.A.) seems to have been
very effective. The assets were valued at £1,160,267 ;
they have realised £11,838 only. The only purchasers
who are likely to come out well are the Golden Horseshoe,
who bought the Golden Treasure 57 acres. In addition
to being a good dumping ground for the tailings, the
property may turn out a gold mine, through having the
continuation of the Ivanhoe and Ivanhoe Junction lodes,
as the isases adjoin both those properties on the south.
•* * * *
“Platelayer” (Kalg.) : There is talk of the
Golden Mile, now mostly known as Hannan’s Belt, being
re-named Hannan’s Vault. System of mine inspection
in W.A. seems to need a lot of altering, though small
“shows” are kept pretty well up to the mark. The
common practice of doubling a shift to prop up dangerous
ground a day or so prior to inspector’s visit would
not prevail if genuine surprise inspections were
made. Some managers place a very low estimate
on the value of a working miner’s life, and an
occasional adverse verdict for a few hundreds as
oomp°nsntion to relatives is more than balanced by
saviuo- made in neglecting underground precautions for
men's safety. In one W.A. mine notorious for fatalities,
a horse was killed by a fall of earth ; and there was more
genuine sympathy expressed for that nag by the
“ upstairs "gaffers than was ever evidenced about any
human victim. He was a lazy prad, but he died popular
by reason of having left no widow to kick up a fuss
about him.
* * * *
“ Investor ” (Brisbane): Ais a wasting security
and has most likely seen its best. CD H and I good and
sound. E and F likely to suffer severely from competition
in the future. B and G are risky.... Ajax :( a and b)
Don’t care for them ; (c) sorry cannot advise so generally.
....Subscriber 10 Years: Not promising as an invest-
ment. It’s gambling, and you want to be nearer the
spot for that... .Herzog : Paid no div. since’94, and no
more are in sight now. Don’t know what they may be as
a gamble, but they’re no investment
* ♦ * *
The J. Bull-owned Anaconda copper mine,
Murrin Murrin (W.A.), has come to grief in particularly
disgraceful circumstances. The show lad been doing
fairly well out of surface stuff, and then, a. usual, “ more
capital ” was wanted. A juggle followed. The owners
seem to have issued ,€23,000 debentures to themselves,
and to have given themselves a mortgage not only over
their own property, but over future output as well.
They also took 30,000 paid shares in the new co. of
100,000 shares. As fast as copper was produced it was
sent away. Then it was announced that the co. was in
difficulties, being somehow 240 tons of copper short of
expectations. Still work was kept on, and every week
the men were asked to wait a little for their wages—
that the money hadn’t arrived yet from London.
This lasted for six weeks ; and then the mine was
closed down, with €4OOO of wages owing, besides a large
amount to timber-getters, &c. And, while this debt
to workmen was being piled up, €12,000 worth of copper
was shipped away. No satisfaction can be got from any-
body ; and in the end the State has had to issue rations
to starving families and provide the workmen with
passes out of the district. Presumably the Westralian
Government will see that the Anaconda does not get any
labor exemption until the debenture-holders disgorge
enough to pay the workmen who were so disgracefully
jockeyed out of their money.
♦ » * *
Great Northern, third in Bendigo’s div. list
last year, began 1904 with two divs. inside the first
month, the second of them being 2s. 6d. Mine prospects
are sti Uremarkably good. Unfortunately, the divs. go
into a very few pockets, most of them well-lined already.
* * * *
The Bull Co. which took over Tasmania’s best-
known gold mine, the Tasmania, when the greedy local
co. had worked it to a standstill and wouldn’t put up the
cash necessary to re-equip it, is going to spend £45,000 on
pumping and other plant and works.
* * * *
Tartana, Limited (Q.), wants a new tartan to
protect it from the chilling blasts of Chillagoe, and is
asking the public to provide a garment to cost £20,000.
Anyone who will be obliging enough to do this will get
10 per cent, interest for five years, and will have as
security “ the whole of the co.’s leasehold properties,
plant, and the whole of the net proceeds of the products
of the mines.” Debentures will be issued when £7OOO
worth has been applied for. It is stipulated that the
first £7OOO subscribed is to be used exclusively for the
erection of an ore-treatment plant; but suppose only
£7OOO is subscribed, what becomes of the co.’s existing
liabilities of £5054, and where will be the funds for “ the
further development of the enrichment and sulphide
zones of Tartana hill ” ? Is this Tartana debenture pros-
pectus a subtle joke, simple innocence, or the eccen-
tricity of genius? Imagine any sane body of North
Queenslanders, in view of the Chillagoe and Garnet
debenture fiascoes, and the impending Stannary Hills*
fiasco, proposing to raise money by debentures to develop
and equip a mine ! The prospects of Tartana may be
quite as alluring as they are painted ; if so, all the worse
for this project. Men who own such a splendid show
ought not to risk it within the grasp of grabbing deben-
ture-holders, and these men have a ready means at com-
mand to avert such a possibility. Out of 504,000 shares
at ss. each, they have in reserve 266,760 shares. Why
not issue these at Is. 6d. and raise the needed capital,
and so save the £lO,OOO which would be paid on the
debentures in five years? The 237,234 shares which are
out must have been issued for practically nothing,
otherwise the co. would not have liabilities of over
£5OOO ; and it argues but little faith in the venture on
the part of the holders if they are not prepared to sub-
scribe somethin!*- towards the “development of the
enrichment,” and its transformation from copper ore in
Tartana hill to gold in their pockets. There is a pro-
vision that up to the Ist Jan., 1906, debenture-holders
shall have the option of converting their debentures into
fully-paid-up shares. The outsiders who put up £20,000
to prove the mi»; are to have the right to take up 80,000
shares, while the insiders have 237,234 for apparently
nothing. Such generosity as this is uncommon, and if
Tartana debentures do not float as airily and freely as
thistle-down, then there is no gratitude in the outsiders
* * * *
Croydon (N.Q.), first worked in 1885, has since
that year given £2,627,000 worth of gold. Last year’s
total was 70,9050 z., as against 60,5910 z. in 1902, an
increase of 10,3140 z. Of the year’s total 52,2790 z. was
from stone and 18,6270 z. from sands. Divs. totalled
£20,700, only five owners being on the list (G. Gate Con-
sols £9600, No. 3 and 4 South £3200, No. 9 S. Block
£3600, No. 5 South £l3OO, No. 8 South £3000). The stone
keeps up its value very well ; the average down to the
end of 1902 was loz. 12dwt. per ton ; last year, loz. 9dwo.
It is low-grade gold, though, which partly accounts for
the small amount of dividends paid per oz.
* * * *
J. J. Duncan, M.L.C., one of the originals of,
and still one of the largest holders in S. Australia’s great
copper mine, the Wallaroo, puts history right with
regard to the discovery of that property. History has
usually credited a wombat with turning up some copper-
bearing stuff for a boundary-rider to see ; and the exist-
tence of a Wombat shaft on the mine supported that
theory. Mr. Duncan, who was there at the time, says,
however, that the discoverer was a native rat. Since that
day the mines have sent out about £10,800,000 worth of
metal.
* * * *
The development of the Indian coalfields is not
calculated to make Australian coal-raisers feel any better.
In 1893 the Bengal province sent out 1,870,720 tons ; in
1902, 6,259,236 tons. Every year had bettered its pre-
decessor.
* * * *
The Melbourne co-operative brewery is said to be
a certainty; operations will be started at the big
Yorkshire brewery in Collingwood, which has been
closed for many years. Some of the richest of Melbourne
publicans are behind the venture.
The collection of Phil May’s Bulletin
drawings in Phil May in Australia is the most
interesting and important yet made. Some two
hundred drawings are reproduced admirably, to
full Bulletin size ; and the handsome volume is
likely to grow rarer and more valuable year by
year. Of 975 copies, 225 have been reserved for
Europe and America ; and the copies remaining
after Australian subscription are being disposed
of at 21s. each.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
“ Wussleean ” : There are some queer
engines running on Vic. railways since the
employment of Bent’s beloved blacklegs has
necessitated a search of the scrap-heaps. On the
Outer Circle line (built through inner circle
influence) it is common for several engines of
different types to run on the same day. One—a
square wooden box, with a chimney in the centre
—has been appropriately nick-named the “coffee-
stall.” This contrivance, driven by an upright
donkey-engine, snorts worse than a powerful
“ goods,” but is painfully weak withal. Recently
it took a large party of ladies to a W.C.T.U.
meeting at Deepdene, but gave-out on the return
journey up-hill, and the dames had, perforce, to
walk. Another engine appears full-grown and
well-developed, and breathes heavily enough for
Bent himself, but it has false sides, the real
engine, which is concealed inside the full-sized
shell, being quite a toy. I expect the Deepdene
train will shortly be pulled by a horse inside the
shell of an engine.
“ A.Gr.A.” (to “ San,” 28/l/’O4, and “H.,”
7/l/’<)4): Alf. Vincent seems to have erred in his
details in that “ Australian Washington ” sketch,
B. Xmas Number. The tree that has been cut
down by “Washington’s little hatchet” has
evidently been felled by a cross-cut saw. But
I beg pardon of Vincent. Perhaps he drew
the trunk that way to accentuate Washington’s
beautiful truth. This view is commended to
“San” and “ H.” re artists generally.
A Melbourne usurer lately struck quite a
novel reason for charging excessive interest. He
sued on the usual promissory note with interest—
at Id. per £ per day—for “forbearance,” but an
unsympathetic Judge reduced the 150 per cent, to
about 30. What the humorous person “forbore”
to do didn’t appear.
One Melb. brewery in one week recently
sent out 2800 hogsheads totalling 1,104,800 pints !
And there’s been no hot weather either.
“M.D.”: The “Fishing Notes” column
of the big Melbourne weeklies is ingeniously
worked by seaside hotelkeepers in their own
interests, by the forwarding—just before a bank
or a civil service holiday—of pars setting forth
how Mr. So-and-So caught so many bream and
trevalli; and how the schnapper are biting, and
all the rest of the bunkum so dear to the hearts of
city-bred anglers. Pishing round the Victorian
seaboard to the lakes entrance is a low-down,
confidence game anyhow, unless you have a net
and defy the law.
“Demos”: It is a grave error in judg-
ment to oppose the enlistment of returned
S’African cohentingenters in the Jap. army.
They are neither useful nor a credit to Australia.
And if they leave the same impression in Japan
(where the fighting is likely to drift) as in S’Africa,
we shan’t be bothered with little brown immi-
grants anxious to get amongst us. The Boer
emigrants are going to Mexico; they’ve had
experience enough of the Australians.
Some old-time Melb. breweries : Edward
Latham and Sons’ (Richmond) is now a jam-
factory. Montgomeries’ (West End) is half
cordial-factory and half kerosene store. The old
Burton, in West Melb., is a marine store. One
in Flinders-street is a malt store ; White’s (Rich :
mond) is a wax-match factory. The Yorkshire'
in Collingwood, which has been closed for many
years, is being dusted out before being re-opened
by the Melb. Co-operative publicans’ syndicate.
Apropos, Melb. ’s first brewery was run by its>first
Mayor, one Condell. Condell-street, Fitzroy, was
named after him. A one-time big brewery in
Flinders-lane East, originally carried on by a Mr.
Henderson, is now a glass and crockery store.
Liquidation was the fate of many, and it looks as
though others will have to go the same way.
“ 5.G.8.” writes as to the methods of the
“dramatic agent ”:
One man advertises for, say, “Girls to walk on, or
with a knowledge of dancing. No experience necessary.”
Stage-struck girls roll up in dozens and are told by the
agent that he has all the girls he requires, but he offers to
put applicants’ names on his books for a fee of 55., under-
taking to find a small part in chorus, to start with, or
perhaps to “ walk on.” The girls mostly part up, and
that is the end of it. Another dodge is to suggest that
“you will have a better chance of getting on, if you
learn elocution or dancing from a good teacher,” and of
course he can recommend one. So if you are thoroughly
“ struck” you beg, borrow or steal the, money to pay for
a quarter or two. Needless to say the “ agent ” gets
his little commission. I speak from experience, as I have
got my name “down,” and have also learnt a couple of
dances which I have no earthly use for.


■•s
r
V
Qua"'*
hipto*
WE
Wo'''
P
2/->
a
XtVV-KV
c.
Z?
IaA'WW
WWW'"""
MBS**
free® 3 '
•J>
0^
aP
r
»
CV\H^
g
«»**
v ,J u
3.P
UlM 1 *
m
hef n “>
CH/t
//>*'
fieo'
0
tie 1 -
a l lri:>
ui¥
bi*Z
'Mh
X.
'M
s:
iT
a
z
fr
//
SOME REVIEWS.
Here are some reviews from notable
journals. Space permits us to give
only a few from scores which we
possess. They speak for themselves.
“SUNDAY TIMES,” Perth, W.A.,
on 7th September, 1902, refers to
“CLINICAL EXERIENCES” : “Asa,
medical and anatomical handbook, it
would be hard to overrate the value of
‘ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES'; nor do
we ever remember to have seen a more
creditable production.’’
“TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL,”
Sydney : “ The Specialists find it neces-
sary to supplement new literary staffs.’
The “EVENING NEWS,” Sydney,
1902 : “We have received from the
Specialists of The Freeman and Wal-
lace Institute a copy of their book,
‘CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,’ which
is published in a revised and enlarged
edition.”
“ STAR," Sydney : “A book for the
people.”
“PUNCH,” Melbourne: “ Anyone
interested in incurable diseases should
write to the Specialists.”
The “HOBART MERCURY,” 28th
February, 1903, eulogises the Special-
ists’ skill thus: “ The Institute has
been established for a quarter of a
century, and its Specialists possess the
largest practice in the Southern world.”
The Kalgoorlie “ SUN,” in its critic-
ism on 24th September, 1902, declares :
“The book ‘CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES,’ contains much valuable infor-
mation, written in a popular manner.
Striking cures of many so-called ‘incur-
able ’ diseases are effected daily.”
“ WORKER,” Brisbane : “ Almost
every disease which flesh is heir to has
been treated within the pages of this
work.”
“NEW ZEALAND MAIL”: “In this
book the authors give us much that is
instructive from a physical health
view-point.”
“ 03SERVER,” Auckland : “ A highly
interesting volume. It deals with nerve
complaints and how to cure them.”
EVERYONE IS READING
CLINICAL EXPERIENCES”
570 PACES, 150 MEDICAL PLATES. 1/- only
POST
FREE
A Book for the People. A Genuine Medical Work. A Useful Guide. A Compre-
hensive Treatise embracing subjects intimately connected with the Health of one
Individual or the General Public. Its 31 CHAPTERS UPON GENERAL
DISEASES deal graphically with disorders to which flesh is heir. Each chapter
is illustrated, and each illustration is clear and to the point. There are also
articles upon other subjects of vital importance and interest to Men in
general. They explain the principles upon which
classes of disease are radically and effectively treated
Specialists associated with the Medical Staffs of
certain
hy the
The Freeman and Wallace
Medical Institute, Sydney
and the large Branch at Melbourne, cor. Bourke
and Elizabeth Streets, opp. Cr.P.O. Anyone re-
quiring a genuine Medical Work, a Sound Adviser,
a Whole Library of Medical Facts, condensed into
570 pages of instructive letter-press, should send for
this book. Over 200 leading Australasian journals
describe it as “a -welcome addition to Australian
literature.” It will be posted FREE to any address on
receipt of
ONE SHILLING
OIMLY IN
STAMPS
Some Subjects Treated in this Book
Exercise
Fevers
Wounds and Treatment
Rescuing Drowned
Kidney Diseases
Liver Diseases
Heart Diseases
Paralysis
Dyspepsia
Insomnia
Rheumatism
Neuralgia
Sciatica
Indigestion
Sunstroke
Epilepsy
Locomotor Ataxia
Burns and Scalds
Invalids and Care
Ear Ailments
Throat Gomplaints
Apoplexy
These are but a few of the subjects. There is a list of 50 valuable prescriptions for house-
hold use also a chapter upon Electric methods of curing Functional and Organic Nerve
Diseases akd by which so many remarkable cures are made daily by the Specialists.
Extension of Business.
In order to meet the great growth of
public patronage accorded The Freeman
and Wallace Institute, Sydney, by suffering men from all parts of the Commonwealth, a branch
of this great medical centre has been opened at corner of Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Mel-
bourne, opp G.P.0., under efficient professional and correspondence staffs, where patients in
the Southern and Western States of Australia may consult the most eminent Specialists and
save the long journey to Sydney. All correspondence to this Branch will be effectively replied
to The resident Physician-in-Chief of each Medical Staff attached to each Institute is a
Specialist of International ability and bears Registration and Certificates of Qualification from
the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America. A £lOOO bond governs the terms of
all medical contracts accepted between Physician and Patient, which is a proof of genuineness.
KT O T 33!!
Any man may, if he so desires, through
private reasons of his own, consult the
Specialists, by addressing privately “THE SECRETARY, THE FREEMA
WALLACE INSTITUTE, ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETu, SIDNEY, or •
BOURKE and ELIZABETH STREETS, MELBOURNE «PP- I lt [ 0 ®° ite
instances, a man may not be able to call personally and to
upon matters seriously concerning himself. AH . BUCh ,. l l t^? t p!? rf P hu the* Medical
to by the Physicians-in-Chief, who are Qualified and at Medica |
Boards of Australia, England and America. The Specialists g „ osted
Work, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” a book essentially J°. r . me "> " ll ‘ „ ad P dress
FREE on receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS, to pay postal transit to any address.
THE
—jnr
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch—Cor. Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Opp. G.P.o.
Bereft.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Above her bed
The willows weep,
From foot to head
Wild roses creep —
Blue Eyes is dead,
She is asleep.
All day the breeze
Croons “ Lullalo ,”
While through the trees
Replies Echo;
She heeds not these—
She does not know.
The sunshine lies
Beside her here;
The wild thrush flies
And warbles clear.
But—blind her eyes
And deaf her ear.
The wild bees hum
Thro’ April showers,
The insects thrum
To mark the hours—
Blue Eyes is dumb
Among the flowers!
VIC.
THE YOUNG 'UN.
The Downfall of "Spuds.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was outside the ’all on the night o’ Spuds
beano. 'E’d jist come out after doin’ a annual —
wot for I dunno. There wuz me an’ Brickie an’
Jerry the Fool ’n’ ’nother bloke from the Rocks—
I dunno ’is name. We wuz ’aving a smoke after
the Alberts (they’re strict up at the Liver ’Ouse —
no smokin’ inside there, y’ know—specially when
Ikey’s M.C.)
Brickie says t’me, “ Did ye ’ear the strength of
Spuds’ worry ? ”
Well, a’course I never. I was “pickin’” for
my food and rest a month afore ’« wuz pinched,
“Well, it wuz like this,” says Brickie. “Y’
know the time Spuds ’ad his turnout ? ‘ The
Little Wonder’ ’e called it—blue body ’n red
wheels. Well, ’e used t’ serve a pub up Dowlm -
street, ’n’ there was a piece in the kitchen there—
a shine piece she was, no gyver. You know— ad
one o’ them real toffy ways o’ torkin-like ; used t
say ‘ pumpkings ’ ’n’ ‘ happles ’ —real toff.
“Well, anyhow, Spuds used to have to go
round to the back with the things wot the
missus use-to buy, ’n’ this piece use-to try n get a
tale on with ‘im, but Spuds thort she was too
toffy, or somethink —although Spuds wasn t too
bad when ! e was ‘ mockered ’ up. Anyhow, e
wuz in the yard one day waitin’ for ’er to come
out with the money, ’n’ ’e wuz fillin’ in ’is time
cleanin’ the brasses on ’is ’arness an’ strokin’ the
'orse’s snout. She says to ’im, ‘My word, you
must be fond o’ that ’orse,’ just like that, see. ‘I
should think so,’ sez Spuds, ‘’ecost me 10 Jim.
‘Well, I always notice,’ she sez, ‘that when a
man’s kind to ’is ’orse ’ed be kind to ’is wife.
See ’er game. ‘lt’s a wonder,’ she sez, ‘you
never got married.’ Spuds sez, kiddin’-like, I
carn’t get no wife.’ ‘’Ow would I do,’ she sez,
straight out like that. Well, strike me ’orizont-
able (Spuds wus tellin’ me after), ’e didn’t know
whether ’e wuz in a tram or a boat. All that day
’e wuz sellin’ punkens fer mellens an’ carrets fer
parstnips, ’n’ next day when ’e calls ’e wuz got up
like a weddin’ cake. ’E never cracks a lay to
none o’ the gang, but switches ’er a week after
no beer, no darnst, no nothink.
“They takes a’ouse. Spuds wuz doin’pretty
right (’e always ’ad whips o* strong customers)
’n’ ’e use’ to ’and ’is week’s takin’s over to ’er,’n
she’d give ’im a tray-bit to buy ’is smokes. She
use’ to buy all ’is regalia—slops, you know.
(Spuds wuz p’tiokler in ’is time. I’ve seen ’im
give four quid for a clobber —horseshoe buttons,
16 down the wes’coat, 12 up each sleeve —but
now!) Any’ow, she brought a kid to live wid
’em, ’n’ this kid use’ to call ’er auntie, ’n’ Spuds
took a great likin’ to ther kid ; ’n’ when ’is missus
sees this she use’ to give ’im a bob two nights a-
week to take the kid down to Manly.
“Well, to make a long story short, when they
gets down to the boat one night the kid says, ‘ I
don’t want to go to-night. I’d rather go back ’n’
see uncle.’ ‘Who the ’ell’s uncle?’ sez Spuds.
‘ Oh, ’e comes every night w’en we go to Manly.
I always know, coz the mornin after there s
always a two shillin’ under me pillar. All right,
sez Spuds: ‘ if ye’d rather have the two bob, come
on. Back we’ll go, although you’ll get it just the
same.’ So back they goes. . , .
“ When they gets inside the ’ouse there s atotty
bloke there, ’n’ Spuds sez to his missus, Who s
the bloke ? ’ She says, ‘ That’s Maysms uncle. _
“ Spuds puzzles’is brain f’r a bit, n e sez, it
this bloke’s ’er uncle an’ you’re ’er aunt, then wo
kind o’ relation is this bloke to you ? With that
the bloke starts larfin’ like ’ell, ’n’ Spuds uussns
gives ’im the offis to act square, but the bloke
keeps on larfin’. „
“ Then things ’ummed. Spuds missus sez,
‘ Uncle has been away for a number of years, and
we thought him dead.’ ‘Well, ’e soon will be,
sez Spuds, ’n’ then ’e gets t’ work with a iron bar.
Next mornin’ ’e gets pinched, ’n’ sent up fra
annual. I reckon Spuds wuz a ero. E s missus
is still in the same ’ouse —takin’m boarders, n
uncle stops there, too, t’ ’elp ’em pay the rent, but
they don’t know Spuds from a bar of soap.
HOB. H.
Geraldton, N.Q. (where every shade of
colored alien may be found), is about the wettest
spot in Australia. They finished U P Ja,st y^ r
with a record of 33'90in. from the 19th to the
31st December, 21in. of which was recorded in
thirteen hours on the last Wednesday of the year.
Looks as if somebody were trying to wash em
white.


Daring the summer months children are subject
to disorders of the bowels, and should receive the
most careful attention. As soon as any looseness
of the bowels is noticed, Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy should be given. Get a bottle
to-day ; it may save a life.*
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
HARRY MORANT: His ’Ventures and Verses.
PRICE Is. Id. (Post Free),
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
M
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BHB&ACnf
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TEItHS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 60 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, East Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll"
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Beciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d!
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.'
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Plano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River’
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
ls.3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it’
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection. 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. B»“ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clou
Dancing Made East, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to'a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 16s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. Tiie
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
M
THIRTY-FOUR YEARS SELLING RELIABLE WATCHES.
M
This shows a really dainty little watch, popularly
known as the “Princess.” Although we sell many of
these every year, we seldom have a complaint reach
us, and this should be a good guarantee that it is a
reliable article. We make with silver or gold engraved
cases in open face and full hunting. The movement
is keyless and properly jewelled. 18ct. Gold Hunter,
£5 10/-. 18ct. Gold Open Face, £5 10/-. Silver
Hunter, £2 10/-. Silver Open Face, £2.
Cl
/
F==?
This is a modern Lever Watch, with finely finished
gilt movement, exposed polished steel winding wheels
strong keyless mechanism, jewelled in 14 actions, and
guaranteed to be a correct timekeeper. We supply
this watch in four styles—Crystal Front, Polished
Steel Case, 25/- ; Hunting Polished Steel Cases 30/--
Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case, 35/- ; Hunting Solid
Silver Cases, 40/-.
READ THIS
LITTLE BIT OF
OUR HISTORY.
IN the year eighteen-seventy-one we occu-
pied a small store in Park Road, Liver-
pool, England, where we sold a watch
now and again, but not nearly so often as
we would have liked nor as often as we con-
sidered such reliable watches should be sold.
V\ e were confident that our watches were as
good as could be got —the trouble was how
to get the public to know. We pondered
over this subject day and night and finally
concluded that we would try what the news-
papers could do for us. Such a thing as
selling watches through advertisements had
I never been done in England before, still we
I were convinced that once the general public
i knew that our watches were what we said
they were—Reliable—we must succeed.
You know how it is with a man who has a
dependable watch—he is proud of it and
loves to speak of its accuracy, and naturally
the firm who supplied the watch comes in for
a full share of the credit. Well—we put
our everything into the venture. How we
succeeded our eight splendid Australasian
stores give testimony. Orders flowed in
from all over the World, particularly from
Australia and New Zealand. In fact, so
numerous were the orders that w r e decided
to open in Sydney. i)ur success was
phenomenal, and in Melbourne, Auckland,
and Dunedin we had to open shops, followed
later by Perth, Wellington, Christchurch,
and Brisbane, each being a success. What
better proof of the satisfactory performance
of our watches do von want ?
M
This is a 14ot. Gold Keyless Hunting Cased W atch,
suitable tor young ladies. It has a reliable jewelltd
movement—exquisitively engraved solid 14ct. gold
cases—strong keyless work, and altogether is a sound
and serviceable watch. It is possible to sell a gold
watch at a lower price, but as the time-keeping and
construction is not such as would give lasting satis-
faction to our customers, we do not stock them.
Price, £4 103.
Cl
/
S'
&
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths, is
rightly named the “ Triumph,” inasmuch as, although
sold by us at such a low price, it is a gigantic
“Triumph” in quality over any other low-priced watch
already in the market. It has a very fine-finished,
full-jewelled keyless short-winding movement, and
the case is made of a very hard nickel, beautifully
polished, fitted with unbreakable crystal glass. Price
18/6. WiLh Silver Case, 30/-.
Our Watch Booklet,
48 Pages, entitled
“Honest Watches/'
will be sent Free
on request*
M
M
We sell all Kinds
of Watches in Gold
Silver and Metal
Cases—except the
Unreliable Kind,
If they had not been Reliable we could not have existed.
1888
889
1890,
y-si
(1891)
(1892
(1893
(1894 J
1895
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900]
(1901 ]
(1902 j
(1903)
1904
The Bishop’s Prayer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This Commonwealth, with all its restless, unsatisfied
iong-ings and its social discontent, needed the Gospel most
ot all, because the only cure possible for the ills whioh
now afflicted us was a religious and social awakening
He expressed a hope that God, in His infinite wisdom'
would give the Governor-General power to fully carry
du ties committed to his charge -Bishop of
Hark to the Bishop’s voice
“Dearly beloved friends,
Let one and all rejoice—
Our Heavenly Father sends
His choicest blessing to us, here, to-day,
A brand-new Governor-General. Let us’pray 1 ”
“O Lord,” the Bishop prayed,
"This is an awful time ;
Yet we are undismayed,
Though heresy, and crime,
And betting, and horseracing, and things worse
Surround us and confound us with a curse
“ They never give a thought
To their immortal souls,
But ask ’ Why Smith made nought? ’
Or ‘ If Jones got four goals ? ’
Look down on us, O Lord, and see us slaving
To save the souls of men who don’t want saving !
“ But, now that Thou hast sent
A new G.-G., we ask
That he may be content
To help us in our task.
O, let him seek to make Thy sheep atone
When he shall lay his first foundation-stone 1
“And let the people know
How wicked are their ways
When words of wisdom flow
From him, on certain days,
When he shall open parks ; or view prize mutton ;
Or ride along the lines with Curly Hutton 1
“ And when he signs his name
To documents of State,
Guide Thou his hand ! —’twere shame
Should he not sign quite straight !
And when he takes the chair at tea, or banquet,
Or haggis-feast, let all say, ‘ Laird, be thankit! ’
“ Grant him Thy Heavenly power
At l&vees, and at balls,
To stand erect an hour—
To dance a stately valse—
Grant him Thy Grace to make a graceful speech,
And regularly listen where w« preach ! ”
VIC.
O. O. CABOT.


“ Jusi-ata ” : Officers in charge of survey-
ing parties in the South Sea Islands often had
great difficulty when inquiring the names of the
different physical features from the inhabitants ;
being as a rule ignorant of the languages, they had
to make themselves understood as best they could.
Names meaning, “I don’t know” and “I don’t
understand ” are of frequent occurrence on maps,
and on the island of Rotumah a high peak is
charted “Va Pipiko,” meaning “I have a sore
leg.” The name most likely arose through an
officer pointing to the hill and inquiring its name
from a native with “that tired feeling,” who,
fearing that he was required to guide the party
to the summit, excused himself with the plea of a
sore leg. The natives made similar absurd mis-
takes when adopting English words. Bulumakau
(pronounced Booloomahkow), meaning a bull and
a cow, is the universal name for horned cattle and
tinned meat in the greater part of the Pacific,
while in Samoa a tin of meat of any description is
called “Pisupo” (pea-soup). The Rotumahan
name for dog is “Komia” (pronounce “Come
here”), no doubt through the natives hearing the
first dog thus addressed by its owner.
Dear Bulletin, —True enough that the
Vic. Public Service is not “shockingly over-
manned.’’ But for the most part it is sin fully
under-worked, and for every part it, like all other
Australian Public Services, is abominably mis
managed. It isn’t an extra rush of business that
causes a block and a temporary engagement of
extra clerks in a Government department. I he
block arises through the habitual slowness of the
ordinary staff, and the intricate system of red
tape. Australia is not different to other countries
in this respect. Civil servants everywhere are a
ruling class, and they laze accordingly.— J.J.
“ Eiddal ” : Surprising the number of
cockies who experiment in wheat growing. Know
one at Pannoomilloo named Turvey, who noticed
an abnormal ear of wheat growing in a crop. He
picked this, and for several seasons planted the
product carefully. Now Turvey wheat is a
favorite kind in the Echuca district—an improve-
ment on the Red Tuscan variety. Another cockie
at Carag Carag, when down country holiday-
making, was being shown a paddock of a new
wheat. Innocently he plucked three heads and
pocketed them. That was four years ago. I his
season he harvested 18 bags of this wheat f r0 J?
acres, all the produce of those three heads. Next
year, with average luck, there will be enough seed
wheat of this variety to supply the district.
M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SORUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID t
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
'lnvigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
M
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
M
NATURES OWN REMEDY.
A TASTELESS * FAISLESS APERIENj-
| MADE PROM ft
1 Fresh Fb u|T >
HERBS
COD CHILDREN AND APULTS.J
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes .thus : “The action of
Golden Frutex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
7 Good for INFANTS and AGED alike.
MM
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.— Capsule marked ENO’S ‘ F “ U, l. Wltbout lt yOU b * Y9 *
W WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, ENO..
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PLANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“ Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALVE
To Anthea ... ... ... ... ... C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) ... ... ... SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele
Why. Davydoff
Andante “ Favourita ”...
Lullaby from “ Harold ”
... COM. CARUSO
... MADAME VIALTZEYA
... M. RENAUD
... MADAM FIGNER
, ,1 • v,oii in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is n
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressaiio. . ,
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing m 7°” machines, with the name oi
at once-By means of the Gramophone. Write to «s and we .£££* . man can * his family is a
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency y
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type
£4.
M
Other Styles,
£1 is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia —
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & 00., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
&
The London Medical Record
says “It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each 08.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 100,000 at 10/2.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 100,000 at d/1.
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 50,000 at 5/L
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 4, 50,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERS ALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend oi
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through an'y PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE 3
SMELTING » REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA <w Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
*4? p "ly ■’»4r- , V , V *♦' V 'l#* 1 ■+!■■ o
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers* Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
ne’s Bronchitis Cure.
’TJKJZIEI FA.MOTJS REMEDY p>oß
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
influe , nce - Su , fferers f «>™ an y form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
forting in allaying irrLdon In ?he throatand“ vin T, W^ are *X h *** ko Co [ dB on the Chesfc ifc is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
never been known to exist where “ Couehs " have been and lfc . neithe . r . allovvB a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and a Curecertain. S pr ° perly treated Wlth thlS medlclne ‘ No be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE,
CONSUMPTION.
100 ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
i course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
eave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEAUNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
uritil-I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
r t once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
-t. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Steven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl oannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
harl a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven mouths old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 .years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid inedi-
cin for bronohitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
„„ „ “ Katunga, Vio.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is SO years old. also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ « Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
.. „ „ “ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
lam sure you will be glad to know that j T our Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
tune it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every ni*'ht for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distrfss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, anil I
am stronger than I have been for vears. I thank my sun
for his.great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL,
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling 1 quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to bs in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it hack again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and oough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle”
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more' medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—-My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,’
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. Q. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me on#
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for fiv# years, and now I do not feel saf# to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Sevan Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blo«l
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recover) - .
L’he first close of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and 1 steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.'*
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charieville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne's
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l -
-ani keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong', Victoria.
■' Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3502.
Small Size, 2s 6d, Ijftrge, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address token not obtainable Locally »
BRAN OH DEPOT'


A GRAND REMEDY FOR THE LIVER.
PLAIN QUESTIONS.
Do you wish to have a clear skin and a healthy
complexion ?
Do you wish to be free from Sick Headache, Depres-
sion, and Nervous Exhaustion ?
Do you wish to feel that your food is properly
digested, your body properly nourished, and
new strength, vigor and health is infused into
your system ?
Do you wish to have your stomach cleansed and
strengthened, your liver properly stimulated,
your bowels regulated, your kidneys freed from
deposits, and your blood purified ?
All this is quite possible ; and, to accomplish the
object, you are asked to send at once for a bottle
of Kut how’s Powder, and it is as certain as pos-
sible you will be convinced that at last you hare
secured an invaluable remedy for all derange-
ments of the digestive and excretory organs.
KUTNOW’S i
Improved EWfevesccNT carlsrad
POWDER.
m
Hiiichensprung or Deer Lap
i
«, nUWCOOH ROAD. UL {
(INTCRIO ATSTATIOKii^SIS
PLAIN FACTS.
The Liver is the mainspring of the system.
When active it is the great purifying organ.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous ten-
dency and contaminates the other organs.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about three pounds of bile daily.
It excretes the impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage farm of the body, and since
it is the sieve it must perforce he kept clean,
otherwise it becomes sluggish and cannot expel
its refuse, which, consequently, is absorbed back
into the blood, and is the cause of biliousness
and other distressing maladies.
The absolute, incontestable remedy for all derange-
ments of the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, and the one which never fails,is Nature’s
Great Restorative, KUTNOW’S TOWDER.
CAUTION! I!
The popularity of Kutnow’s Powder has now spread over the four quarters of the globe ; consequently amongst the
many medicine vendors there are some who do not hesitate to palm off closely imitated substitutes for the genuine Kutnow’s
Powder. These yield to the dealer an extra profit, and because he may tell you they are “ just as good,” we have to caution
you against these counterfeit productions which bear the same relative value as the spurious metal does to the sterling coin,
if you would avoid disappointment, accept only the sterling article—Kutnow’s Powder.
ACCEPT ONLY THE GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists
and Medicine Stores throughout the World.
Proprietors—B. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farrlngdon Rd., London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd, 853 Broadway, New YorK
When the Guns Go Into Battle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With Death on the off-side lead,
And Duty stern on the limber,
The men of the British breed
Strain sinews, steel and timber.
With jangling bar and trace,
And trace eyes all a-rattle,
The guns rush, thundering, in the race,
Where “ last gun in ” is a sore disgrace :
For the drivers drive at a reckless pace
When the guns go into battle.
See them breasting the rise,
With trace a-sweat and straining
Till the white hot lather flies,
And the axles roar, complaining !
Clatter l Bump! Bang! They come
Galloping hard on the level—
Never a note of fife and drum—
Only the whirr of wheels that hum.
(The fearless winds from the hills crouch dumb
When the guns crash on to the revel.)
The hard-drawn trace-chains twang
And the trace-hooks grip and rattle.
The hammering trace-eyes bang
When the guns go into battle.
The drivers urge their teams
With whip and spur and curses ...
A gun on the foot-hills glints and gleams—
A flashing roar ! And a shot horse screams—
I have dreamed what I see, in horrid dreams
Which the morning light disperses.
They have loosed the shot horse out,
And left a gunner groaning.
They are off with never a doubt
Where the long death-song is moaning.
The limbers leap and sway
To the poledjars’ noisy banging—
One horse’s breath is a crimson spray,
But he shakes his head and pegs away,
For he does not want his mates to say
They saw his short-trace hanging.
Oh ! hear the riotous beat
Of racing hoofs on the gravel—
You can judge from their flashing feet,
’Tis their utmost pace they travel.
The linch-pins clatter and ring—
The harness strains and shivers.
Each driver there is a battle-king ;
Each leaping gun a living thing,
And the war-god’s song their stout hearts sing,
Tho’ maybe a boy’s lip quivers.
They’re reining the right-flank team—
The centre driver is falling,
By his life-blood's pulsing stream
His last reveille’s calling.
But a comrade takes his place,
And so, with scarce a falter,
The gun is off again in the race,
Where “ last gun in ” is a sore disgrace.
Oh ! the British driver’s rollicking pace,
Is a pace that nothing can alter.
To the firing-hne they sweep !
Then— “ Action Front! ” —and swiftly
The active gunners leap,
And the gun’s unlimbered deftly.
The limber goes ; it’s “ Waggon Supply ; ”
The brass-capped shell is handed
From waggon to trail; and the strong hands ply
To many a jest and quick reply,
While the shells rush past with a shriek or sigh,
And the earth lifts where they’ve landed.
Arms signal “ Shot ! ” And the range?
“Eighteen hundred, with Fuse Seven !”
Ah ! tlie men at the trails will change
As their bellowing guns shake Heaven ;
For, steadily spitting hate,
The rifle bullets find them —
One moves too soon, and one too late,
When the tough spades lift the spent guns*
weight.
Yet steady the fight, and grim the fate.
Though the grime and the sweat-streams blind
them.
With Death on the off-side lead, .
And Duty stern on the near one,
The men of the fighting breed
Ride in where the hot shells sear one.
With jangling bar and trace,
And fast big-hearted cattle,
The guns go thundering in the race
Where “last gun in ’’ is a sore disgrace ;
Oh ! the drivers drive at a mad man’s pace
When the guns roll into battle.
M.P.
WILL LAWSON.
Called.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through all that little half-hour her eyes never
left my face, and though I did not realise it then,
I know now that tier soul was whispering to mine
the while strange things of Life and Death and
Love —which is Destiny. There was something
in her eyes that moved me strangely. It
held me awed and breathless at first, and its
meaning grew till a rushing instinct of fear
pushed it back. For this was the brief period
in Time for which we two had lived ; but I
could not beartiie cup, and sought weakly to push
it aside, though she had already drained it to the
dregs.
With anger and disappointment in my heart, I
turned and gazed over the shimmer of moon-
kissed leafage into the distance where lay my
mortal to-morrow. A light mist hung over the
tree tops and hid, like breath on a window-pane,
the darkness of distant hills. Into that hazy
blankness I was to ride and never turn back. I
had ridden that way before —she thought to
forgetfulness! But over all those leagues and all
those years her heart had called to mine and won
me back to —what ? A despairing revolt welled
up within me, and I turned fiercely upon her—
so sad, so crushed a little thing to turn upon !
Madness urged me to kiss her again and
again. I held her to me in a frenzy of passion.
I heard her panting against my bosom, and felt
her tremble in my unsteady, crushing arms. Yet
all the time I wanted to fling her from me. It
seemed as though I were pressing a raging fire
to ruy breast, And it was burning—burning into
my very soul.
Suddenly she threw back her head and held it
away from me. I saw that her face was pale as
that of the dead. A soft pleading in her eyes
met the blaze of passion in my own ; but I was in
no mood to understand. I bent my face closer to
hers, and tried in vain to speak. She beat at
me with her hands. “ Go—go—now ! ” she gasped.
Then her head fell to one side, and she grew limp
and still.
I laid her almost roughly on the grass under
the old, twisted she-oak, through which the
moon shone like fretted silver on her face. I
turned my back and staggered to the slip-rails,
where I leaned, sick and trembling.
Presently I heard her stirring. Then she
began to sob—shrill, tearing sobs. I did not
care, I could not feel at first. But soon those
hacking sobs irritated me, and I stamped
impatiently and struggled through the rails. My
horse was tethered a couple of hundred yards
down the track, and with slouching feet I walked
towards him. All life and energy seemed sapped
from out of me, and twice I failed in my attempt
to gain the saddle.
I had to re-pass the panels. She had risen and
was standing beside them, a white handkerchief
in her hand. As I passed I looked down at her
without pausing. She looked frail and helpless
and very piteous. I knew she longed for just one
word from me, but it never came.
* * * *
A slight bend in the track brought me face to
face with a horseman. He was hatless and coatless,
and the moonlight glinted from the barrel of the
pistol which he pointed straight at me. I dully
recognised her husband, but I did not attempt to
draw.
“ I saw all your little game ” The words seemed
muffled and far off.
I did not move or speak, but gazed back in-
differently at the face behind the revolver. I had
the feeling that the hour of destiny had struck for
me. I had read my call in the eyes of a woman a
few minutes before. The hard-set jaw, the high-
poised head, the hard fighting death which had
a'ways accompanied my conception of this hour
were forgotten now. I was cold, dumb, and
wholly disinterested, waiting for the pull of the
trigger.
“.Curse you ! Haven't you got a gun ?”
His voice was tense and high. [ nodded lan-
guidly. .
“ Are you afraid, you cur?”
1 shook my head negatively, scarce knowing
what he me sit. He glanced impatiently round,
puzzled and furious. Then he lowered Lis weapon
and pulled his horse aside for n.e to pass.
Mechanically I shook my bridle rein and rode
slowly on. He followed. A few minutes later
we came o i a small clearing beside a creek.
Teamsters camped there occasionally. To-night
it was deserted. He drew beside me as we crossed
the stream, and pulled up short, his horse block-
ing mine on the far side.
“I give you a chance, because—because—God
knows 1” he said. “When I reach that box-bush
I’ll turn and fire.”
I watched him go over the short distance, I
observed the sharp tug which turned Lis nag, the
simultaneous half-swing in the saddle and the
cpiick out stretching of the right arm. Another
instant and I was falling, falling through a strange
thick darkness.
* * * *
A pink dawn was creeping through the frail
mists of the scrub, and the bell birds were “ plunk-
plunking” gaily. Something wet and clammy
rested on my brow. When sufficient strength
came to stretch up a numbed hand to remove it,
I found it to be a handkerchief—her handkerchief.
I clutched it hard so that the moisture ran
through my almost unfeeling fingers ; and I re-
membered things.
The air was fresh and fragrant and it was quite
light now. It would be a beautiful day. [
looked round on the sweetness of the brief bush
Spring, the flowers and shrubs andtheflittingbirds.
I was only distantly conscious of pain. I looked up
at the light blue sky where stars had so lately
shone ; and I looked down at a sweet, smiling
face, a baby face, that rested on the dew-wet grass
beside me. For a long time I feasted my eyes
upon her loveliness. Then I took the handker-
chief, which last night had been wet with her
tears, and wiped away the ooze from the little
blue wound in her temple. The tiny hand still
clutched my revolver, but I took it gently from
her and placed it back in my belt, whence she had
taken it.
It seemed so beautiful to think that all through
the night she had been beside me there in
the dear Australian bush, which, after her, I
loved and worshipped most. Only the stars and
the night-birds had seen her nestle beside me and
smile, as she was smiling now, into my heart and
into eternity.
I placed her at the foot of a grey old gum-tree,
and gathered flowers and ferns and put them
about her and on her—in her hair and in her
hands, as I had done long, long ago—before I went
away. I remembered a song she used to sing me
in those days, and as I sat weaving more garlands
I hummed it softly, so that, if she heard, she too
might remember.
It was then that they crept up and arrested me.
They say, and he swears, that—but never mind
their delusion nor his lie which gave rise to it. He
seems glad to think that I shall die even a sect nd
time, as he terms it, at his hands. But he is a
fool, like all the rest of them. For I died when I
read what I did in her eyes under the old, twisted
she-oak. Her pure, white soul had whispered to
me then, and, on earth, there was nothing left to
tarry for.
6. A.
PETO.


Biliousness
AND HEADACHES CURED.
Wi
n
r
THAT Bile Beans do undoubtedly
oure Biliousness in its most severe
forms, is now a well-proved fact
throughout Australia. Many past
sufferers owe their present freedom from
that distressing complaint to the medi-
cinal properties of Bile Beans. Just as
one illustration, Mrs. Ellen Keßting, of
“ Louisaville,” Belmore-street, Enmore,
Sydney, says : “In my opinion your Bile
Beans are a splendid remedy for bilious-
ness and its attendant evils. I had been
troubled with biliousness, with the symp-
toms of splitting headaches, that miser-
able, sickly feeling, with no taste nor
relish for food, and was altogether out of
sorts. I had tried many so-called rema>-
dies to improve my deplorable condition,
but without avail. Subsequently,, Bile
Beans were recommended to me, and,
having taken a course strictly in accord-
ance with directions, I found a
perfect remedy for the complaints from
which I had suffered, and always strongly
recommend them to fellow-sufferers. ”
BILE BEANS are a speedy and permanent cure for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK-
NESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH, ANJSMLA, INSOMNIA,
LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG. and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin
to defective bile flow, assimilation and digestion. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all
medicine vendors, price 1/14, or 2/9 large box (contains three times the quantity of the
1/14 size)—THlS SIZE IS SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED FOR GENERAL
FAMILY USE AS BEING MORE ECONOMICAL —or post-paid freon the BILE
BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.,
s iSS
iliousi?ess
%
Rhymes with
r
t
f
s«
a
*W
*
/
>
% IN
- ’*
and so does
PEARS
Told in Liguria.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our window in the restaurant overlooked the flat,
stale Ligurian Sea. My companion, Captain
Eredo, passed me the Genoa sausage and the
great dish of raw peas in the pod. Then he
cursed—half in English, half in Italian —the
lagging proprietor of the restaurant, who had
brought neither the wine nor the second course—
the fish.
“ It would be bad matter,” said Eredo, “ if this
were collazione, not pranzo—but, as it is, my
good compagnone from Owstralia, we liaf finished
make examinationa of the mine, and it is night,
and we have bought the night with much work,
Eoco.”
The door opened, unlatched by a small boy,
who darted from under the great dish which the
restaurateur, behind him, held on a level with his
head.
The dish held a great fish, a fine sample of the
ombrina, whose nearest Australian equivalent is
the sehnapper. The bearer of the dish mur-
muring excuses for the delay, presented the fish,
asking us to choose a piece for our eating, and as
that meant more delay, he apologised again and
in advance, and called loudly for our wine. That
came soon —a golden wine like Capri—cooling in
a silver pail, whose rim was decked around with
wreathed vibe leaves. And while the ombrina
boiled, and the fowls and thrushes roasted on the
spit, we drank a bottle of the wine and talked
Australia.
“Ha! Owstralia! I know him much—Si, Sir
Randolpho. I make many voyage. I was
capitano of ships before I make this mining for
my affairs here. I make Owstralia many voyage.
I own part of the s!tip—so I go far looking for
cargo. For why? My family and my moglia,
they live in Liguria ; it is necessary that I maka
the money. So I stay away—sometimes I stay
away one year and more. All my family they
maka prayer- in Liguria that I return. Per
Bacco ! maka prayer do no good, also no harm.”
“What coast of Australia were you trading or
tramping on, captain ?”
“ All coast—Beagle Bank, Abrolhos, Newcastle,
Emoo Bay, and Porto Darvin. Ah ! Signor
Bedforto, in Nord Owstralia, the coral—he grow
prestissimo. On Booby Island passage, Si ! the
ship was sailing 10 knots the hour. I am by the
rail—l smoke—so—molto tranquille. Sudden I
look down, and I see the coral flash like light—
an’ clean watermark the map there. I feel sick —
I do not stop—it was no use. We drive on, and
get safe troo. , . . Ah ! my word ! . . . You
ricordo Krakatoa —the volcano erupted in 1884?
Bene! In the Straits of Sunda, when I got
through, all the lighthouse he is gone—there is
pumice floating all over. Do I stop ? Sir
Randolpho, no. One eye I maka on the little
lights they put up when the lighthouses flashing
the light 25 miles have gone—the other eye I keep
on the man with the lead ; sounding so all the
night; him crying profundities all the night, and
my ship—him driving through the pumice in the
most dark night.”
The ombrina came in with apologies and more
wine, and, before we were through with the fish,
came the chickens and the thrushes and the salad,
so that the coffee was ready.and my pipe and
Eredo’s cigarette alight before we again talked
otherwise than monosyllabically.
“You spoke of the Abrolhos, Captain. Were
you ever in the guano trade ? ”
“ I was, my friend—very strongly in affairs of
the manure of the fowls. One time we leave
Wollongon’ for JSamarang with coals—there is no
monsoon that time, so we have to make him
double distance. Seventeen day from Tasman
Sea to Capo Leeuvin ! What you think of that ? ”
“ And it was not profit—so long we are at sea,
and so much the payment for dock-perch. We
hit the coral that time. So back I come to
Melbourne, and there I have offer for cargo guano
to Scotelanda. But it have to be clean guano or
they refuse to apprehend it, and I buy assay plant
and learn chymics, while my ship he lay in Corio
Bay. One day, while I am cognisant where I get
guano, I meet a captain who know the Nord
littorale; and he say in much horror, ‘You must
not go there/ I say, ‘ Impossible I not go.’ At
last he ask me to his house. I go there. We
dine. His wife very nice lady. She say, ‘ Captain
Eredo, you no go there.’
“ Then I say again, ‘ Perche ? Perche ? ’ I say
‘ Perche ? ’ all the day.
‘ ‘ Then the 0 wstraliano captain he tell me plenty
guano at Browse Island, but terrible place. He
say, ‘ Me an’ my wife an’ seven sailormen go from
Rockin’ham Bay with jarrah—me wrecked on
Browse Island. We try get away on raft; my
wife incinte; shark swim around raft, under raft,
nearly get in raft, by Cristo ! When baby born,
there is no woman for to make my wife confinnecZ.
I am the levatrice, and the sailors stare away,
looking down at the sea. Wind blow hard, much
trouble get back to Browse Island ; stay there five
months and then ship pass and take them away.
“I say, ‘No matter. I go—there is much
guano.’ But moglia of Owstraliano Capitano
shut her eyes and say, * Oh, terrible place ! ’ And
I say again, ‘ I go, because my moglia and my
bambini they pray hard in Liguria—it is for such
reason good that I work hard with the guano.’
Then they see I must go, and the Owstraliano
Capitano he tell me tilings of the reefs.
“We are in Lacepede Bay quickly, and at
Browse Island more so. We find the guano so—
-70 centimetres of guano; one metre coral; 70
centimetres guano; and so more coral. Then
I see how good it was I learn chymics, so that I
do not put the stuff without value into the ship.
While I load -so slowly, for I am not yet used to
the assay—comes a Scotelande captain to load
guano also. He laugh at my assay work ; lie fill
up his ship quicker; but he take sand and coral
and stone an’ guano—all misto. When he get to
Scotelande, nobody buy his cargo—all his work is
for notiiing. .
“ But I stay on. There is not too much stinks.
The rainy time he had absolved all the ammonia,
and it stmk not.
“ But the time it was bad. Every day my
chief men they come and say, ‘Captain, let us go;
it is no use.’ But I have necessities, and I think
of Porto Felice in Liguria—and my little girls,
how they go next year for confirmation. The
priest he not work—l kick him, but women and
children they like the Church, and it is no value
to fight but with the men.
“ For eight months we stayed on Browse Island
—with the ship anchored in the good profundity
of water two kilometres from the shore. We carry
the guano to the ship in little boat—we go in the
sea to the neck to load the little boat. We are
cut in the thighs and the belly where we slip,
crash !on the green coral. We dust the skin off
our behind parts like salt when the hot sun burn
us. We lose our anchors and our chains when the
wind it come to blow. All our things to eat
rotten. The birds everywhere; all day they are
against our legs like boys in a big crowd. For
months we eat the eggs of the fowls. We brush
away a clean space of the rock. We call it our
poultry-house, and every morning there is more
than 200 eggs there. And sometimes the wind be
blow long, and we stay weeks on the reef. We
sleep on our faces because our backs the sun has
bursted in the water. One day I look in the glass
on the ship—that time I think of making abandon-
ment of the guano and sail away. And I see I
was bald, and my eyebrows gone, and my beard
fall out. It was the lice of the birds. The reef
crawl and the men crawl. When I see I lose my
hair, I say, ‘Per Dio—l stay here till my ship
full or my hair grow! ’ An’ I stay.
“ We load, an’ we make the assay, an’ we load,
and we eat birds till we grow feathers, nearly.
Then when the ship nearly full—more wind, and
all the anchors go. I send the ship to sea to be
safe, an’ I go out to the old wrecks on the reefs.
Per Dio ! there is an anchor of a ton. The cross-
bar is gone with grinding on the reef—and the
fluke part is under one metre of coral that grow
over it in five years.
“There is much tide by Browse Island —it is
much tide in all the Nord. At Porto Darvin there
is nine metres of rise—at Browse Island there is
eleven metres of the tide. We wait for the tides
to be low and we break the coral with dinamita,
and when we get the anchor loose we fast it to a
spar and many oasks, and take a cable to our little
boat, and propel most strongly ; and the tide rise
in one time quick, and pour out like a man sick
from much wine—it pour out high above the reef,
and the anchor come to sea on the barrels and the
spar.”
“ Good Man ! Good Man ! ” I cried, and filled
the glasses. The tale had fired my blood. Ligu-
rian hill and sea and vanished. I only saw that
tremendous tide rising as if it would lift the reef
with it, and the hairless men in the little boat
straining at the tow.
“Piano! Piano! Sir Bandolpho—it was not
yet to sea. We must make a crossbar. There was
much jarrah wood in one of the wrecks, but the
coral he grow over that. We have made on the
island a furnace to make the picks sharp and dig
up the guano, and we make many picks and
chisels hard in the fire, and cut the coral and
erupted it with powder. All the dinamita spent
when we break out the anchor. For 17 day, one
man, one boy, and me, we cut coral between the
tides, and at last we get the iron wood.
“Then we tie it to the anchor, and calm days
come, and we make signal to the ship, and she
come back. We fit the anchor—very good ; and
so we sail to Scotelande.
“ And in the clean sea my hair grow again, but
the marks of the coral is on my belly, and the
places where I burn by the sun are on my back.
But I sell the guano at a most high price, and I
keep the money.”
“ It was a gallant struggle, Eredo,” said I.
“ Yes —I think—2B months after I leave Genoa
I sail back to Genoa—and then I go to the affairs
of mining, chyraics and assaying, and I say to my
moglia, ‘There is no more sea.’ And the girls
who were to be confirmed ? One of them who were
children is conjugated in matrimony a month
ago.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A Tough Race.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re a wonderfully tough race—the Western
bushmen. There was Joe Stinson, who had
broken nearly every bone in his body at various
times; Joe, who passed six months in the Dead
Dog hospital, suffering from beri-beri; Joe, who
had Gulf fever, blight, concussion of the brain,
and an annual dose of delirium tremens —and he
hung out till the age of 75, and died finally bat-
tling furiously for life, as if he still possessed the
vitality of his 19th year.
His was no uncommon case. Whether it be
attributable to the hard living, the open-air life,
the long periods of total abstinence with the
inevitable eventual lapse into a deep and desperate
drunk, it is hard to say—but the fact remains.
There is abundance of evidence to be gathered
everywhere in the Bakblocks.
The other day a party of us paid a visit to the
Mulgatown Hospital. The cases were just an
ordinary lot—blight, sunstroke, broken legs, etc.—
but after we had taken a look round the doctor
called me aside and said, “ Come here, and I’ll
show you something worth noticing.”
On the cot was a little, wizened, grey old fellow
apparently between 55 and 60. As the doctor
lifted him up, a whistling, wheezing sound wa*
evident in his breathing, and the man of medicine
remarked, in answer to an enquiring glance,
“Pleurisy. This old man,” he continued, “had
a terrible fall, and it has left him so twisted and
distorted that he puzzles me. In the first place,
his heart appears to be displaced and to have
sustained a jolt to the right—more under the
breastbone. And —look here ! ”
He drew aside the shirt and showed us the old
fellow’s back. Some great blow bad so twisted
the shoulders and deformed the general configura-
tion that the spine appeared to be no longer in its
usual position. It gave you the idea of having
been wrenched to one side.
There was a preparatory wheeze from the
patient, and a thin quavering voice was heard
remarking : “ Soon be all right, doctor. Soon be
out on the billabbngs again.” Yes, a brave smile
lit up the battered old face—a smile that made
you feel what a miserable being you were for ever,
having discovered a single ruffled leaf in your
Sybarite rose-bed.
“Wonderful race of men, aren’t they, doctor?
Is it possible to kill them at all?” queried the
voice of the doctor’s visiting acquaintance.
“Kill them !” responded the bush Hippocrates.
“ Why, bless you—you couldn’t kill ’em with an
axe. Why, n,an, even I can’t kill them.! ”
P. L.


Used It 20 Years
When My System Was Run Down. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Could neither Eat nor Sleep.
a
W
Mr. F. W. Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us his photograph and
says:
“I certainly ought to know about Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, for I have used it over 20
years. My faith in it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two am
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been sold fpr over half a century. It has been tried
and tested in every way. Nothing like using ah old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Unknown and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “ Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
M
M
Tested and Tried'by Millions of People
are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness
by DB. J. C. AYEB & C
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION
blotches''roue-hne™’ drhes awa ?
fUrurements f r ? dness * and all dia-
sra2*. iSde p L i ®ri op " * ioreiy ski "-
USEFUL HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy is recommended for the speedy and per-
manent cure of dysentery, diarrhoea, chronic
diarrhoea, pain in the stomach, colic, summer
complaint, bilious colic, and cholera infantum.
It has been in the market 35 years, and its wonder-
ful sale has been effected by what those who have
used it say, and to its curative powers. It is to
be found in thousands of homes all over the
world. Sold everywhere at Is. Gd.*
DO NOT WAIT
until your good health is impaired, but take steps to
keep it up to the mark. Remember that ailments,
apparently trifling, may very soon develop into
serious diseases.
Do not hesitate to take
reechams
PILLS
on the first appearance of any distressing symptoms.
They will do more to establish and maintain your
general health than any other means you can employ.
For a Sluggish Liver, Sick Headache,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite,
Constipation,
and the depressing nervous conditions that arise from
these troubles, there is no more reliable remedy than
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
MM
JVetv X/.M.C. Cartri
Loaded with Smokeless Powder and Inside Lubricated,
which means there is no grease on the outside of
the bullet.
M
THE CLEANEST and MOST ACCURATE
CARTRIDGE MADE.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
Dr.L.L.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CARD.
MM
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P.,E., E.R.0.5.,E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases ot Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures
. Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MLKOER treatment in Disease
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the C mimonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browrie-Sequard, Krafft-
Ehling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the,reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL (Please mention this paper when writing.)
The Row.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was late afternpon, the bar—save for the two
lumpers sleeping on the bench—was deserted and
their two half-empty glasses stood abandoned on
the counter.
Suddenly the man with the tired eyes awoke
and started to recite something about his wife,
His muttering presently awoke the other, who sat
up and, with his hat drawn over his eyes and his
arms drawn tightly over his breast, commenced a
monologue which appeared to concern a dog.
They took not the slightest notice of each
other. Each man, in his turn, said something,
like a phonograph talking in its sleep, and then
relapsed into gloomy silence, until the other had
spoken. Then the first speaker would take up
the thread of his own particular subject and
drowsily pursue it till he ran out of ideas or breath.
Vhereupon the other would sigh aiid drone on in
his turn.
~ flies accompanied with their drowsy hum.
hrom the distant kitchen came the clatter of
plates. All was peace.
. m; re ' r } e, uber now—’er mother—-was a'terror
too ihe man with the tired eyes sighed at the
dismal thought, and gazed apathetically at a fly
tnat uad fallen into some dregs of beer.
„ ~ a,ne asl epy voice from underneath the hat. •
one was—snorter, she was. Alius ’ad t’ keep
er—on th’ chain !”‘ *
He of the tired eyes shook his head. “After
me buying’ ’er-false teeth ! ” he moaned.
There was an interval.
. sai5 ai l tlie . Hat, huskily. “ Yer couldn’t stop
,• tried t worry my leg one day.”
hrave er a good ome !” gurgled Tired Eyes,
lallersfed er—reg’lar on—dog biskits.”
Tired Eyes stirred uneasily. “ Wonder if she’ll
—ever come—hack ? ”
Tuppence er pound—tuppence er pound, an’
not many of em at that.”
* * * * *
Tired Eyes had nearly dozed right off when his
head sank so low on his chest that it jarred his
spine. He awoke with a gasp.
, sa i d Hat, still wrapped in
th’ I brute !” 6 Gr at t^l ' finisb > an ’ ’e shot ’er—
Tired Eyes dropped his pipe. “ Shot ’er ! ”
Ihe man under the hat half-awoke. “ Ye-es ”
he yawned and turned as though to sleep.
rn Was—’ ’e ’ung?”
„ V vo Sa y a K e flittering eyes looked out from
underneath the tattered brim.
‘‘ Was who ’ung ? ”
“But was ; e? ’’
“Who?”
“Y’r uncle!”
“ What ’bout ’im ? ’•
“Was’e’ung?”
There was a pause.
>J° r a V 101 1! or two the man with the tattered
deHhfr'r Wl .f ly at hls companion as if he were
I 3 1 wiftes , t w fy to kill him. Then,
/u° rt ’ ■ he f ul P ed d °wn his rage and
emotkjif d him m a V ° lCe that trembled with
here ’ Ned ’ if vou wasn’t my pah an’
wasn t like ye are, I’d-I’d smash yer !’’ And
Snmh h t cpuJd recover his breath he had
nung back the swing door and lurched out
* * *► *
Tired Eyes blinked and thought deeply for
several minutes. y lur
Finally he shook his head, pulled his hat over
his eyes and leant back. OVer
he
into t b h» dreg”Vbe»“ Pt * he °" e lad
All was Peace.
KODAK.
Ah Unconventional Fable.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Snooker was accountant at the Bobalong brand
of the Financial Batik/ and Spradkins was
manager. i
Bobalong had five churches and five banks
when one of each would have been sufficient, anc
the consequence was that the five managers had
good deal of spare time, on their hands, most of
which spare time was put in either at the billiard
room or the parlor of the Royal Hotel.
As Spradkins was most of his time at the Royal
saturating his kidneys with alcohol, Snooker was
practioally “boss” of the local branch of the
Financial, except when it came to any large
transaction.
Snooker didn’t drink; that is to say, he did not
soak and saturate, though he occasionally ab-
sorbed ; but he. had another weakness. He had
the strange idea that people in Australia breed
and train and feed horses at great expense, and
run those horses at race meetings for the amuse-
ment and profit of the public.
Snooker was -not by any means the only person
vvho managed to get hold of this foolish idea.
Snooker liked to back his fancy, and of course it
kept him poor. Still he was better off than the
•manager,-who was fooling away his health as well
as his money.
But the usual thing happened. Snooker got a
run of bad luck ; found that the owners and
trainers and jockeys and bookies were really all
living on the game and that he, as a punter, was
merely contributing out of his small salary to the
regular support and maintenance of the owners,
trainers, etc.
It Was only just after 'the half-yearly balance,
when all was square, and Snooker was very little
short in. the petty cash, that he heard of a “ real
good thing ” which only needed the investment of
a “ tenner” to bring in a “century.” This £lOO
would not only square him up but leave him a
balance of £5O to enable him to continue his
weekly contributions towards the support of
horse-owners, jockeys, etc.
He “borrowed” the tenner on Thursday and
“ wired ” the wager to Sydney, where the race was
received notice stating that he was temporarily
placed in charge of the bank, Mr. Spradkins
having been suspended, and an inspector would
reach Bobalong in time to investigate accounts on
Monday morning.
There was poor Snooker with his fate depending
upon whether Hardmouth won the Armstrong
Handicap. If the horse won he was saved ;if it
were beaten on the post his defalcations would be
discovered, and, though they were small, com-
paratively speaking, he would certainly be dis-
missed in disgrace even if he were not criminally
prosecuted.
* * * 4
Hardmouth won the Armstrong Handicap that
year with the greatest of ease, and on the Monday
morning Snooker was specially cotnplimente'd anil
promoted. He is now manager of a very much
more important branch of the bank, and is much
and deservedly esteemed.
This is the four-millionth short-sketch that has
been written about the cashier who embezzled
money to gamble with ; but it is the very first, so
far as I know, in which the cashier gambled and
won and lived happy ever afterwards. In the
the other 3,999,999 short stories on the same sub-
ject the cashier came to a bad eDd.
W. T. GOODGE.


FRUIT
JAR
RINGS
Best Quality.
All Fresh Stock.
Will not perish.
“ MASON ”...
Extra thick
•* LIGHTNING ”
Extra thick
«'FRISCO ”
Extra thick
“ CHICAGO ”
Extra thick
« GILCRIST”
Extra thick.
6d doz. 3s 3d gross
6d doz. 5s 6d gross
5d doz. 3s 9d gross
6d doz. 5s 6d gross
6d doz. 4s Od gross
7d doz. 6s Od gross
6d doz. 4s 6d gross
7d doz. 6s 6d gross
6d doz. 5s Od gross
8d doz. 7s 6d gross
‘leans oSjood
—ssaaaay ajso aiho
s nviaaaid
Rubber
Merchants,
LADIES*
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21-each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ingB made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive specia
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN
PRICE
and BUCCANEER,
■’ • ; -
Is. Id. Post Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTH IN.GTOM
trademark*
esentatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
WT SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd.
Worthington Pump Company, Limite i u "““
Warren Webster & Co.
Enquiries Invited fob ——•
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
m
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
wakk.
CoHjT
WOLF
MBS
or
I. ft J. MAX FIELD ProfrS., SHEFFIELD.
At ffc* Showroom®-
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
** BLOCK.” .
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney*
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
M
New Forms of Vise.
i!
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different portions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18*in., opens Uin.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney,
tax Address Of
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, eto., eto.
m
*
M
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 HAY st.._sydhey
" " « tj : ItnSlai'e.
have in stock and to arrive-
ck and to *rr.ve_— Portable. Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
and Minine Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting.
Engineers and g d s , oond .„aml Machinery always available.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty.
M
M
gin, 6J b x Si" x 5"
Direct I m Dorters
M
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all
for all
purpoaM)
Boilers, Engine,, Lathes Forges Drilling Sh^
Mills, end Mining Proprietor.
R. L. SCRBTTON&OB., Ltd
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
make the best
ROCK DRILLS - AIR COMPRESSORS
IN THE MARKET.
little giant drill.
SIMPLICITY OF
The Little Giant and Slugger
The Imperial High-Speed Comp
The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coal-Cutting Machines.
m-Jm
Particulars and Quotations -from the Agents
71 Clarence St-, Sydney.
N. GUTHRIDGE, L 5&
486 Collins St., Melbourne.
