

S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
"X&+
Mining
G. WA.TKIIVS & 00-,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
m
Sena for
Prices and
Particulars.
, •:
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-feutn
Mach intro.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character —very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
tree, on receipt of 2s 6el.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
m
m
m
m
“Grand Pariß, 1900.
Sawing & Woodworking
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
uni o THE WORLD'S RECORD
m
BATTLE & CO., a pm
BOTTLED
SCOTLAN
m
WHISKY
A POLICY FOR
•*. . | ...
pm 1
m
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
HOBART,
— y<m-
[jadleys Orient fioisi.
3
PIONEER
LEATHER
belting!
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
(fyed, Isftttav' bdwKtf'
m
EROOM’S i
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
X
and used by all th» best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddler!
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
010
O.JO
——
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
IQ
THE
fM
m.
AL
Lamp.
ED! & WAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY,
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
ihs isfeira
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-streat.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
m
m
m
m
V:
e
• . ■ -!
t
/"~'l ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow prround, rings
'-3T like a bell, and never requires grinding-. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
p /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 106. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
price /gj n g] e R aZ or, in Ivory Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the Wori-d.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
m
m
m
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Colonial Hospital writes : “ Our patients have
greatly benefited by the use of Joshua’s
Boomerang Brandy. It is a very Nour
and Beneficial Stimulant.”
S
m
(,K.BGISXBlR.Kr>.;
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
Aft 1 74 VICTORIA ROAD.
« U> LUBVIOUCN, AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
m
HERVEY’S
RfICKAROCK.
IS Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ELDKIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp.. Centenary Hall).
-1 onntrp. Orders by pout'from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VLtftrtncts throughout Groat Britain and Coionito*
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
i Nothing remains which can
1 ijroduce an attack. -You can
eat. sleep and stand exposure without slightest return ot
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; wliol&svstem buildup; hte made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. VV e have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and 1 lav Fever J^T
tablished I RB3. Exploratory BOOK 32c post FREE,
Address- Dr P. Harold Hayes’ Asthmatic Instiict*.
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. S. A.
MEMO. FOR 1904: “
.•MOT.
35
The Bulletin
Vol 25. —No. 1262. ]
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, April 21, 1904.


m
Crockett, S.R., Strong Mac. paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Maclaren, Systematic Memory, Is, post 3d.
Ti'acy Louis, The Revellers, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Green, A.K., The Filigree Ball, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Russell, Clark Abandoned, paper 2s 6d, cloth jta Bd.
Knowlson, Art of Success, cheap ed., Is 3d posted.
Seeley, J.R., Ecce Homo, cheap ed., 8d posted.
Brassey, Lord, 50 Tears Progress, Bs, post 4d.
Chambers’s Cyclopaedia of English Literature, new edition, in 8 volumes, cloth binding, 87a od, half morocco. 545.
Chambers’s Encyclopaedia, latest edition, in 10 volumes, half moroooo, £7 10s.
Write to us for any Book you Require. W« are always pleased to answer inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) *at MaMmarm, Adelaida, Brisbane A London-
Some Bulletin Publications
ARE, Our New Selection, by “ Steele Rudd ’’ (6*-)
uniform with On Our Selection (65.) by the
same author. Hearts of Gold and Other
Verses, by Will H. Ogilvie (4s. 6d,), following f air
Girls and Gray Horses, with Other Verses (4s. oa.)
by the same author.
Many thousands of these books have been sold; and
they have established their place among the most
popular Australian books.
All are handsomely bound in cloth, and will be
sent by post from The Bulletin Office to any address ,
or may be obtained from any Australasian bookseller.
For a complete list of The Bulletin Books, write
for The Bulletin Book Circular, illustrated, sent
poet-free anywhere on application.
Jt
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
214 George Si, Sydney, Australia,
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THB . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
doughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
m
A. The Larynx, or organ ol
voice. .
B. The Trachea or windpipe
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs. j
All Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or from Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, ipswieh, Queensland, post free
stamps. Sydney Depot: 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States, N.Z., and Regent- »t., •>
THE RED PAGE.
L' UOMMIBATTO.
O, uommibatto,
Agil, giocondo,
Che ti set fatto
Irsuto e tondo l
Deh non fuggire
Qual vagabondo,
Non disparire
Forando il mondo :
Peso, davvero
U un emisfero
Non lieve il pondo.
Chridina Resestti.
C ROSSETTI’S verses, in the new complete
edition prefaced by her brother and pub-
• lished by Macmillan, should be added to
the treasure of those who love and value
poesy. With all her useless baggage of religious
verbiage, Christina Rossetti is one of the memor-
able English-woman poets, and perhaps in sum
the greatest. In lyrical passion she is not inferior
to Mrs. Browning, and at times she rises to a
rarer ecstasy that can be matched with Shelley’s.
W. M. Rossetti, the survivor of a remarkable
family, spends his age in garnering knowledge of
his gifted brother and sister. There has been
complaint of the triviality of crumbs swept up,
and of some sides of Dante Gabriel’s life we know
as much as can be written. Of one side much
may never be told, unless Theodore Watts or
another should think fit to set down a history of
the years figured to some extent in “Jenny.”
Less has been recorded of Christina, and the full
and interesting preface to the new Poetical Works
mentions circumstances not previously related.
In minuteness of detail W. M. Rossetti is an
ideal biographer, seeing that his subject is
worthy.
&
Rossetti (pi.) is Italian for ruddy or reddish—as
if in English on© were to call a red-haired family
“ reddies.” The Rossettis’ father used to say
that the clan was an offshoot of the Della
Guardia family, well known in the province of
Abruzzo; and that at some date or other certain
children of the Della Guardia stock were noted
for florid complexion and reddish hair, and thus
got called “ the Rossetti a name that stuck to
them as a patronymic.
The paternal grandfather of the English Ros-
settis was a blacksmith: their father, one of
several talented brothers, had artistic aptitude
and came to study in Naples. There he joined
the Carbonari, won fame as a patriotic poet, was
proscribed by the Bourbon king, and fled the
country—reaching England in 1824. In London
Gabriele Rossetti supported himself by teaching
Italian. He died in 1854, aged 71.
In 1826, Gabriele Rossetti married Frances Poli-
dori, a girl born in London to an Italian father
(also a teacher) and an English mother (a gover-
ness). Of the four children by the marriage,
Maria was born in 1827 ; Dante Gabriel in 1828;
William in 1829; and Christina in 1830.
Noticeable biological factors are the age of
the father at marriage—fourteen years more than
the mother’s ; the strong vitality of the preceding
generation—both father and mother springing
from large families, the father from an exception-
ally robust stock and the mother from a stock
exceptionally long - lived ; the reproductive
activity of the parents and the consequent strain
on the maternal organism. All these things are
associated with the appearance of genius.
Genius, in a general sense, is a fever of the
brain—the brain itself being due to a localised
fever or ferment of the ancestral organism. Every
specialisation of function is accompanied by in-
creased energy in the specialised part, and pro-
bably every physiological gain has had a patho-
logical beginning—since a ferment in one part of
the organism robs the common store of energy.
Fancifully, therefore, life is a disease of the
universe and man an evanescent pustule.
Genius, is a special sense, is a disease of the
pustule. Setting aside structural and chemical
oauses, we can consider it in effect as representing
an abnormal series of oerebral vibrations, since
last year’s experiments with radium have confirmed
the theory (here expressed 3/10/96) that “ the atom
is really a sort of solidified vibration—half-a-
dozen spirit-waves tied, as it were, into a knot of
matter. ” The abnormality is pathological, because
gained at the expense of the life-sustaining forces
of the organism.
J*
Even apart from their achievements the
Rossetti family would be interesting. On the
mother’s side, there is a history of tenacious
vitality, strong will, literary tendencies, and
devotion to religion. On the father’s side are
literary and artistic tendencies and strong pas-
sions. Maria, the eldest, perpetuated chiefly jier
mother, her mother’s sisters, and her maternal
grandfather. She lived as a religious devotee,
and died unmarried at 49. Her fanatical ob-
servance of the English “ High Church ” creed
and its rites proved her mind unsound. She
lived in hourly anticipation of death and judg-
ment, and even refused to enter the mummy-room
of the British Museum lest the last trump should
sound while she was there, and the spectacle of the
mummies bursting their cerements should prove
too painful for endurance. She had no doubt
of her election among the saints, spurned earthly
aims, and joined an Anglican sisterhood, living in
floomy joy while awaiting her transport to
’aradise.
Dante Gabriel, the second child, took after his
father, from whom the degenerate genius-elements
were chiefly derived. Greatest of his family, his
mind also was clearly unstable. His burial of
MS. poems in the coffin of his dead wife appears
to hold the world-renunciation idea that inspired
Maria. Later he fell into passionate excess, was
subject to despondency, ruined his physical con-
stitution, took refuge from insomnia in chloral,
and died of a complication of disorders at 53—in
his life and work a clear type of genius. One
|till-born child was the fruit of his marriage.
William Michael, the next child, is living still
m 1904, aged 75. He is the most sane and unre-
markable of the family. In him counteracting
streams of heredity seem to have met in healthy
equilibrium, and only his children remain to
represent his parents. His life has been passed
in a Government clerkship and in literary work,
critical an 1 biographical.
Christina, the last and youngest child, was a
curious mixture, She inherited-constitution and
temperament from both father and mother. But
she was less well-balanced than William Michael;
exhibited in a lesser degree the poetical and
passionate temperament of D.G. and the vita’
and religious habit of Maria; and died
unmarried at 64. Her face as shown in her
portraits, with mystic’s brow and zealot’s chin,
accurately represents her. All her life she
writhed and struggled, a martyr to opposing in-
fluences. On the one side she loved life and the
manifestations of life ; she longed for love and
desired marriage ; was a full-fibred woman, affec-
tionate and pitiful. On the other side she was a
religious devotee, immersed in rites and cere-
monies, worshipping clergymen, attending con-
fession, praying and fasting, and in her later years
living in seclusion almost conventual, broken
only by pilgrimage-to her church. Reaching
neither the physical fulfilment of her brother
nor the fanatic’s bliss of her sister, she lived
miserably and miserable died.
d*
Her life was overcast almost at the beginning.
As a child she was bright and cheerful, despite
London gloom and her shadowed girlhood in a
struggling family where pennies were carefully
counted. But the fatal religion of her mother
and her aunts caught her in its net, and she
struggled vainly to escape to the satisfaction of
natural instincts and the craving for natural joy.
At puberty, she became a lifelong invalid-
repressed sex simulating various maladies that
Gerald Massey’s remedy would have cured.
1 have known f ull many a Maiden,
Like a white-roue withering.
Into fresh, ripe beauty redden
Through a golden wedding-ring:
Heigho, the wedding-ring.
Yet Christina was essentially lovable, and two
lovers came—one when she was eighteen, one
when she was thirty. They were good, weak men
both—the first James Collinson, an unimportant
Pre-Raphaelite painter; the second C. B. Cayley,
author and scholar. With either Christina
would have been happier; but. her poisonous
creed intervened. Collinson was a Catholic, and
Christina’s preoccupation with her “Soul” decided
her to break off the engagement on religious
grounds. To Bagot she gave the unreserved
affection of the woman of thirty who sees life
slipping by and realises how
earthlier happy is the rose distill'd
Than that which, withering on the virgin thorn,
Grows, lives, and dies in single
wretchedness. But she was nob sure of his saintly
calling and election; and truth to tell, Bagot,
an elderly literary beetle, however amiable, was
not the man she wanted. All her days Christina
Rossetti craved for a strong man to take her in
his arms and off her feet, to dominate her scruples
and carry her from the miasmatic regions of futile
piety into a healthier clime. He never came; and
she redoubled her tears and groans, her sweats and
bitter cries, in the endeavour to fit herself for the
chimerical bliss to which her real happiness had
been sacrificed. But always the old Eve cried out
in her, pining for husband and children and the
warm atmosphere of a woman’s home, and would
not be silenced. As her life waned she became
“ painfully despondentshe had thrown away
her skim milk without gaining assurance of butter
beyond the clouds; her agony in her little room
in a little London street was a saint’s tragedy that
never attained the dignity of a saint’s rest.
And out of her anguish was born her poetry.
Profes- )r Driver’s new Commentary on Genesis
may be taken to represent the extent to which
conservative theologians now endorse the Dible
myth of the Creation. As Regius Professor ot
Hebrew and Canon of Christ Church at Oxford,
Driver’s scholarly and religions authority is indis-
putable. His work in An Introduction
Literature of the Old Testament (18'J7)> all d -4 i °l ll ~
mentary on Deuteronomy (11)02), is marked by
great caution, and his unwilling convictions are
arguments perhaps more forcible than the unhesi-
tating analysis of German critics. In Genesis
Prof. Driver urges that the first compiler used
“ pre-existing materials in the compilation of his
work,” and declares that the book ‘‘is composed
of distinct documents or sources, which have been
welded together by a later compiler into a con-
tinuous whole.’ Prof. Driver denies that the
first eleven chapters of Genesis are historical,
and calls the period which they cover the Pre-
historic Period. The chronology is plainly false.
Prof. Driver writes-: —“We are forced therefore
to the conclusion that though, as may be safely
assumed, the writers to whom we owe the first
eleven chapters of Genesis report faithfully what
was currently believed among the Hebrews
respecting the early history of mankind, at the
same time, as is shown in the notes, making their
narratives the vehicle of many moral and spiritual
lessons, yet there was much they did not know
and could not take cognizance of : these chapters,
consequently, we are obliged to conclude, contain
no account of the real beginnings either of the
earth itself, or of man and human civilisation
upon it.” Since these are the words of a clergy-
man of the Church of England, representing its
highest scholarship, one fails to see why the
manifestly false Hebrew legend of the creation of
the world should be taught as a God-inspired
revelation in Australian schools.
A. J.M. joins issue with the Amer. criticism of
Browning’s musical references here quoted. He
says:
The critic’s insistence on the superiority of ‘ * dominant”
to “ tonic ” influence is beside the mark, as “ the answer"
in “ Galuppi’s Toccata ” would be the whole of the musi-
cal phrase which had been sounded in the dominant key,
re-sounded in the tonic ; and it would then, as the poet
implies, become the greater influence. And this for two
reasons, and irrespective of the alleged superiority of
dominant to tonic when both meet on equal terms—(l)
because it would be a well-defined phrase of some length,
and the tonic influence would thus have time to assert
itself, and (2) because it would be heard later, and when
the dominant phrase was only a memory.
Critic also errs in respect of diminished sixths being
unknown, and identical with perfect fifths. Practically
and on a keyed instrument such as the pianoforte the
two are identical, for there F sharp, e.g., has also to
represent G flat, and consequently the diminished sixth
F sharp to D flat is the same interval as the perfect fifth
G flat to D flat. But the keyboard is not an accurate
arrangement of intervals, but merely a compromise
invented to allow of the division of the octave into
twelve equal parts ; and as a matter of strict accuracy,
Fsharp is not the same note as G flat. Thus a dimin-
ished sixth as distinguished from a perfect fifth is
possible enough technically, and Browning’s phrase does
not, as the ’cute critic infers, demonstrate the poet’s
ignorance of “ the A B C’s of harmony.” It wag probably
so written with poetic malice aforethought, and for two
reasons—because it was unusual, and Browning was
given that way : and because the conjunction of “ sixths ’*
with the previously-mentioned “ thirds ” was more har-
monious than (say) the easily recognisable “fifths
diminished "would have been. , ,
No one who can appreciate Browning’s “ Abt Vogler,
a gorgeously imaginative account of a musical improvis-
ation, or “ Master Hughes of Saxe-Got ha,” a keen and
wonderfully accurate dissection, in terms of ljiusie, of so
forbidding a subject as an organ fugue, can doubt the
poet’s intelligent grasp of a good deal of the technical
Bide of the sister-art; and it would certaiidy be difficult
to name any other great poet who has treated musical
themes so cleverly and well.
The Australian bacbelor’s soliloquy, by a jealous
married man—
The world goes well-goes very well with me ;
I would not wish a better world to see.
Vain luxury I ahvays did despise,
For, like Dan Horace, I would symbolise
The loveliness of life in figures fair —
Tobacco, claret, and an easy chair.
Vain luxury in me no chord can stHke,
But this is comfort —this is what I like.
I am no Sybarite whose rose-leaf curled
Beneath him makes him quarrel with the world,
But just a single man—my own sole lord —
And this is, as it should be, my reward.
There are my pipes reposing in the rack,
Meerschaum and briar, golden-brown and black —
I still prefer a pipe to a cigar—
And yonder is my quaint tobacco jar,
A piece of Dresden pottery unique :
A workman’s family might live a week
On what it costs, I hear, but, if they could,
The world would be no better, if as good.
There are my books—the books I love, encased
In noble Kelmscott binding, rich but chaste.
There is my Flaccus—bard who never bores —
The Patron Poet of wise Bachelors.
At times I hear him, in the stillness fine
Singing between his covers, like old wine
That murmurs in its cask of summers’gohe
And golden sum that on its birthplace shone.
What have I lost ? The dear domestic joys l
A howling horde of hungry girls and boys ;
A wife made sour by constant motherhood,
A ceaseless struggle to buy clothes and food,
The need to keep a face of haggard cheer
Before the world from dismal year to year ;
The voice that once was musical a nd low
Groum shrill and acid as the sound a bow
Gone dry makes on an untuned violin; '
The grace that pleased—when I was still to ivin —
And all the charming coquetry of dress
Debased to slippers, wrappers, dowdiness ;
The squalid fear I never felt before
To hear the landlord knocking at the door —
They say ’t is like the knocking in Macbeth,
And dreadful as the call of sudden Death
And when I have grown grey with years of strife,
Ungrateful children and a wizened wife...
He may who will— but I shall never be
The Haggard Father of a Family.
Here I can sit at ease on days of rain
And read my Rabelais and my Montui/ne,
Self-centred as a solitary star
That has no satellites its peace to mar.
Society salutes me with salaam,
For I am single—thank the Lord 1 am !
V.J.D.
MEMORANDA
G. K. Chesterton’s log, rolled into prominence by the
egregious Dr. Nicoll and his clan, is solemnly rolled back
by The Athenatum. Chesterton is a bright, shallow, in-
genious journalist, dealing at present in too many half*
truths and hasty impressions. W. H. Griffin, who com-
pares the sources of C’s Browning, closes a page-recital
of blunders with the justified verdict that “With some
knowledge of what has been written on Browning’s life
and works, I must honestly say that I know of no volume so
carelessly inaccurate and so unconscientiously misleading
as that of Mr. Chesterton. I can but endorse the words
of one who is in all respects well qualified to speak ‘ I
have never dipped into it without drawing up bucketsful
of blunders. The fundamental facts being often wrongly
stated, the conclusions based upon them are even
grotesque.’ ”
H. :To illustrate the growth of simile :My boy, aged
8, saw a flock of newly-shorn sheep on an open grassy flat
about a mile away, and, perhaps, 50 feet below us.
“ Oh ! look at the sheep,” he exclaimed, “ they look like
a big carpet spread out on the green grass.”
Compare Tennyson’s simile quoted in A. C. Benson’s new
monograph : “ I accompanied Matthew Arnold and Ten-
nyson,” says the Rev. Fletcher, of Grasmere, “ on a
walk in the Lake country, and we came to a high brow
overlooking far below a great expanse of yellow mountain
pasture, in which a flock of brown-faced sheep were feed-
tog. Matthew Arnold made several interesting but far-
fetched comparisons of an elaborate kind. ‘ No,’ said
Tennyson, ‘ it looks like nothing but a great blanket full
of fleas.’*'
Benson, by the way, does not scruple to vary the
reverential attitude of son Hallam. Spoiled child, he
says Tennyson was, and quotes Coventry Patmore.
“Tennyson,” said Patmore, “ is like a great child, very
simple, and very much self-absorbed. In any other man
his incessant dwelling upon trifles concerning himself,
generally small injuries—real or imaginary—would be
very tiresome.” “ A lady has told me,” says Benson,
•• how she once went to call on the Tennysons, whom she
hardly knew, and sat for a quarter of an hour with Mrs.
Tennyson, during which time Tennyson came three
times into the room, as though oblivious of her presence,
to grumble over a cab of water, which toe had put out for
himself, having been poured away by one of the ser-
vants.”
So much treason to King Alfred has not been
talked for a long time. T. P. O’Connor, in addition,
quotes Mrs. Oliphant and Max Muller. Mrs. Oliphant
related that Tennyson, in his own house and drawing-
room, after listening for some time in silence to an inter-
change of compliments between herself and Mrs. Tenny-
aon, burst in with, “ What liars you women are! ” Max
Muller’s bride was overwhelmed with gratification,
but also with responsibility, upon hearing that
the poet would spend a night under her roof
in Oxford. She made the most sumptuous provision, but
was mortified to find that he grumbled peevishly about
the kind of sauce provided for the salmon at dinner;
while at breakfast the next morning, when he lifted the
cover off the cutlets, he exclaimed scornfully, “Chops!
The staple breakfast of every bad inn in England .
But pity the. lady who told O’Connor that Tennyson
read “ Maud ” to a company of which she was one. " hen
he came to
Birds in the high Hall-garden
When twilight was falling,
Maud, Maud, Maud, Maud,-
They were crying and calling—
he turned suddenly upon her to ask, “ What birds ? As,
plunged in reverie, she had not been listening to a wora
of the recital, she was taken completely aback, and stam-
mered out, “Nightingales.” “Pooh! Nightingales.
What a cockney you are! Nightingales cry Maud .
Pooh!” he snorted again in disgust, “Nightingales.
Rooks, of course ! ”
This latest biographer of Tennyson quotes again an
illustration of his critical faculty. He rejected two of
Aubrey de Vere’s best stanzas because they were too
long-hacked.” “Every short poem/’ said Tennyson,
“ should have a definite shape like the curve (sometimes
single, sometimes double) assumed by a severed tress, or
the rind of an apple when flung on the floor. ’
“An artist,” says A. C. Robinson, “is a person who
does only what he likes, and never likes what ha does
when it is done.”
A. G. Hales’s McGlusky is well worth, reading at the
sixpenny price.
Michael Macdonagh, writer of a new life of Daniel
O’Connell, notes that he had “ that curious Irish limita-
tion (unaccountable in a race so humorous) —a lack of the
sense of the incongruous ; a mental blindness to the line
where things noble and solemn verge on the puerile and
the ridiculous.” The Irish see the humourous aspects of
others, but not of themselves: they take them-
selves seriously. (Swift, of course, was. English in
all but the accident of birthplace.) Irish humour
depends upon a perception of external incongruities:
it is a generalisation of the qualities of objects
that does not include the subjective, nnna
as an essential factor. The Irish spirit deals
in simple reactions, and is- rarely qritical. The
Irishman is always on the stage:* can seldom or never
see himself from the spectator’s point of view : is ab-
sorbed, in his r6le to the exclusion of self-analysis.
Whether or not a local Irishman said “Vous @tes un
belly Kronsay ! ” and whether or not Sarah Bernhardt
said “Quel homme ridicule!” there is no doubt the
Irishman would have been the last person in the world
to see that he was ridiculous.
It would be safe to say that the lines heading this page
form the,only Italian poem ever addressed to an Aus-
tralian wombat. Readers may please themselves by
sending for print a neat version, rhymed.and measured
like the original. Christina Rossetti met her wombat in
the curious menagerie that brother Gabriel collected,
and took a great fancy to the little stranger. In “Goblin
Market” she tells how one of the goblins
had a cat’s face.
One whisked a tail,
One trairiprd at a rat's pace,
One crawled like a snail,
One like a wombat crawled obtuse a/nd furry . . .
R.A.K. : Not so bad as the others; he has taken the
idea, but re-drawn the whole....Mangus: Not worth
bothering about.
Translation of one of the brief Japanese poems—
What are those strangely-clad beings
Who move quickly from one spot of interest to another
Like butterflies flitting from flowerto flower?
These are Americans,
They are as restless as the ocean.
In one day they will learn more of a city
Than an inhabitant will in a year.
Are they not extraordinary persons ?
A.M.: The Saturday Review commentator upon article
and aspirate (7/4/4) is beside the mark. The use of an
before a word beginning with a vowel, or with a silent h,
is certainly intended to avoid “ an unpleasant assonance
between two vowels,” but this is not the point upon which
turns the use of an before “hotel,” “historical,”
habitual,” &c. The n is in these cases used to
avoid the difficulty of giving, after a vowel, due effect to
the aspirate in a word not accented on the first syllable
and beginning with sounded-A. followed by a vowel.
Thus, in saying,a horror,” it is easy to give the A
just the proper degree of aspiration ; but, in saying, “a
hypothesis,” one is liable either practically to neg-
lect the aspirate, or to attack it with the clumsy
Jerk so often observable in persons who have
with difficulty overcome the A-less habit. The a-
historical practice originated in the avoidance by Scottish
and Irish writers of what they erroneously sup-
posed was an English vulgarism. The custom then
came to be followed by the less scholarly of Eng-
lish writers, and has in time attained vogue enough
to be adopted, on the principle of uniformity, by a few
writers who are well aware of what is to he said against
the usage. In the word “ humanitarian,” hn presents
the only case in which A is (practically) followed by
another consonant — y, namely. The value of the u is
yew, as it also is in “ usurper,” “ unique,” “ European,.
&C.—words to which it is as unnecessary to prefix "an
as it would be to say “ an yew-tree.’
RECEIVED
Verse, by Godfrey Egreiriont (Lend., Mab Press;.
315 pp. of fluent verse, valueless. Half-a-dozen pieces
are inspired by Australia to little purpose—
No cruel winter hath nipt us...
Under the tall eucalyptus...
Aust. speech impresses the visitor thus—
But I laike a man as knows weU haow to go
On his own blessed 'ook .. -
The Forest Flora of N.S. Wales, Part vii, by 3. H.
Maiden (Govt Printer, Sydney ; Is.). Considers Cun-
ningham’s castanospermum (“black bean” or “Morton
Bay chestnut”), eucalyptus maculata (“ spotted.gum
and baloghia lucida (“brush bloodwood”); with tour
plates. An interesting number. The food value ol
black bean is discussed : the timber Maiden regards as
scarcely inferior to walnut when thoroughly seasoned.
The report of Cowdery, De Coque and Maiden on
spotted gum (1896) is quoted extensively.
A.G.S.


m
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
ABE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
singleton:s eye ointments
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
IN EVER
FAILS.
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
The Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
I. Hollis
& Sons’
wn
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action, Real Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt, Left Choke, Rebounding' Locks, Snap Fore-
end, chambered for 2§in. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
& SONS’ “ KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
left choke, right cyelinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap
haif pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
POWDER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price
Ho £Sw SONS ’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
G-UN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin.
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States
W1 ™ C ,?£ ST ? R AUTOMATIC REPEATING RIFLE, 1903 model, Special
22 Calibre, fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight s|lbs. ... ... ...
£5
£l2 12s
£5
AMMUNITION.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB
E. B. SMOKELESS „
AMBERITE
E.C.
12g. 6/- per
16g. 6/6 „
12 g. 6/6 „
12g. 6/6 „
16 or 12g. 9/- ~
12g. 16/6 „
12g. 12/- „
m
SW** remittance and freight must accompany order.
m
m
Folding
Collector Gun, 410 g.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel
barrel, case-hardened locks
WINCHESTER ” S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V sights,
scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lbs
“REMINGTON ” S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20iu. barrel,
weight 3Jlbs. ...
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifles, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine ... Round barrel, 555. ; Octagon barrel,
FIEFER’S “BAYARD” S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20iu. octagon barrel, weight
3|lbs.. 13s. 6d.
£\ 15 0
0 18 6
10 0
2 17 6
1 1 6
ABSOLUTELY THE! BEST VALUE IN THE STATES
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATOd
RELIABLE.
m
PjsM r\e” Pi fl e
v -jp»“
Rifle Ap&rt
22 Short or Lung, Bin fins, 80/tAction
Bound B/ued Ste etisinch Barret, Weight tb
fitted withptain Ifor Bi/ding Bach Sights
(Cudrran/tedfor3ooroi). Poiisheanaino/
Ott/ch. Postage on ß /fie. hijo extra-
m
kVITH PLAIN SIGHTS 15/6
MICK SIMMONS,
/V2j marker, SYonev.
SLIDING SIGHT 3 TO 3QOYDS 15/6
Car/ridgea Can Oufyße u?e/i</ered by Rail orQoaK
EVERY HOWE
NEEDS ONE!
No Home should be without one of these very instructive and interesting guides to Health, Strength,
and Vitality. Many thousands in this Country have obtained this Book, and the information contained therein
has been the means of bringing much Health and Happiness where misery and suffering existed. So that the
great value of Electricity should be widely known, it is our desire to place one of these valuable works in every
home and within the reach of all sufferers, and to that end we specially offer this Book FREE and Postage
Paid to all who will send or write for one. In addition to the many ailments dealt with, and the advice given
therein, the Book contains many engravings, showing the Belts and Attachments, and how they are applied to
any part of the Body or Limbs where there may be a weakness, a stiffness, or an ache or pain. The
successful treatment for the past twenty years by
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
has made it famous throughout the world. “ Electricity is Life.” It is the element that creates the Nerve, the
Strength, the Vitality, the Energy of the Human Body, and no one can hope to be Healthy and Vigorous unless
the system contains the amount of Electricity Nature gave it. Thousands of people are thankful they turned
to our treatment, and the most convincing proof can be seen or forwarded on application.
Vi
A
m
a#
,1
K
S
t
i
INDIGESTION, BILIOUSNESS, &c.
Gorden Street,
BOTANY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I have been under your treatment
for about 10 weeks for Sleeplessness, Biliousness,
and Indigestion, all of which, I am thankful to
say, have gone. I only wear the Belt occasion-
ally now, as I don’t wish to have too much of a
good thing.
Yours sincerely,
ARTHUR HAMILTON.
SPINAL MENINGITIS, &c.
EUCHAREENA, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —In answer to your inquiry after my
health, I have much pleasure in telling you that
I feel tip-top. I have worn your High-Grade Belt
for four months, and I feel 10 years younger than
I did before using it. The pains in my back have
just about left, and I feel very little of them now.
Thanking you sincerely,
Yours gratefully,
GEORGE GARTER.
KIDNEY and BLADDER TROUBLE.
EDWARDSTON, YIO.
Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to state that, since I
wrote last, I have received great benefit from
wearing one of your Belts. The Constipation and
other complaints from which I suffered have dis-
appeared, and I feel completely cured. Wishing
you every success, and thanking you for your
kindness, ♦
I remain, yours faithfully,
J. D. EDWARDS.
OUR OFFICES ARE OPEN DAILY
FROM 9 A.M. TO 8.30 P.n.,
and we specially invite all who can do so to call and obtain our
FREE ADVICE and see and have the working of this great Life
Giver explained. If you value Health, call
CAUTION.
Beware of unscrupulous Imitators
with their Worthless Belts, and who
know nothing whatever of Electricity.
Our success has induced many of them to try their hand.
There is only one Genuine Electric Belt in Existence—Dß.
McLAUGHLIN’S. It is never sold by Agents or Vendors. Don’t
waste your money on other trash
The McLaughlin go.
100 W. Market Street, Sydney
Melbourne Office—l67E. Swanston St.
N a Z. Office—s 4 Willis St., Wellington.
William Charles Crawford.
IT CURES
Weakness,
Loss of Energy,
Weak Back,
Liver, Kidney, and
Bladder Troubles,
Indigestion,
Constipation,
Dyspepsia,
Headaches,
Neuralgia,
Insomnia,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago,
VaricoceJe, Rupture,
and ALL PAINS or ACHES.


A NOVEL PRESENT.
m
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
anv address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Hell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 16ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King:, Cole’s
Book Arcaide, Mel bourne, Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG l
y
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELECTRO-GALVAN 10
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and othei
DISEASES in all STAGES
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney*
yANISHED VIGOR,
Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
Por Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
(or Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vinegar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s., eng.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy «
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasiteß of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry* without hard rubbing, and
apply CUTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS OSE CEIICERA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Axe a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid Cuticura.
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cures. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticura. Pills are alterative, antiseptic, tonic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
Cutiouba Humkdiks are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns A Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-38, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depots 6 Hue de la Pail, Faria. Pottbb Deuo and Cush.
Gobp., Sole Props., Boston, U,AA,
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
<
o
DC
©
S 3
o
SS
Q
I a EM! I*
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
m
HIS MAJESTY
THJE KING.
MOIR'S
BLOATER PASTE
IN LARGE AND SMALL TINS.
Manufre.—JOHN MOiR & SON, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE. Head Offiee : 9 & 10, Great Tower St., London, E.Ct
WILL ANDRADE'S u„ BOOKS
m
BOOK OP NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6vi, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-JDate Oomic
Reciter, Irish Oomic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter., Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
Howto Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, la 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 8s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
6s. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancino, Is. Oor New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d,
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with lull directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOBITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURBS THE WORSTCOUGHtS.
THAT REFRESHING FEELING I
of thorough purification given by |
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
P. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND.
NERVOUSNESS.
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
M. Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Oharge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0.. BYDNHY.
leaf
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn month's without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
EVERY WOMAN
1b Interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRIfJGE
L lnjection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient,
it Clenses Instantly.
m
If your Chemist cannot
6upply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free —
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MHRVEL, e©„
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS.BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
QS RX CORO'S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy. Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet
Price 128., or tour quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; JV.S.iF.-FaiiMing & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
w
THREE BY POST.—A reliable
J- recipe from the SPEOIAb
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURL
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereagh=st., Sydney.
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
w
Free to Men.
IRITE to me and I will forward yon my scientific
-- r book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous-the envy ofyour
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you \\
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the ad«ce it c °n
tains, and ill-health and weakness of initidandbodl'ih
vanish like magic, and you will be fnled. vvdh
strength and ambition once more. Fosted _
Moss. Armakd Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St.,Melbourne.


m
Business men,
lawyers, doc-
tors, bankers,
ministers,
teachers,
merchants
Read these strong words
from S. Hague Smith, Esq.,
the respected Secretary Col.
Mut. Fire Ins. Co., Sydney.
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
“For many years I suffered from
bronchitis, for which I tried a variety
of remedies including sprays and in-
halers. These did me no good and I
then began to use Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, with most satisfactory result.
One dose quieted my cough and
enabled me to get much needed sleep.
I would not now be without it for any
consideration. I have passed through
this winter free from the cough, and
I am glad to say that several of my
friends have been benefited in the same
way. lam sending a bottle to a friend
in New Zealand by today’s steamer. 11
• In large and small bottles.
Pit/ved by Dr» J, C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mggs., U. S. A.
ttses
SPOONER’S
I)
SPOONERS
V CK Cj,*
'M %
V
*
iMTENT LEATHER BOOTS
CUZED RIOSM
#*»•»*«
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold bv all Storekeepers,
Boot Snopt, Saddlers, etc.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
R
EYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Yigobous Articles.
price: one penny.
m
BaD Smells
are Danger Signals I
/“SANITAS”
'Disinfecting
Powder
1 Spreads the Healthful Aromatic
| vapours of Eucalyptus and Pine
I Forests wherever it is used.
Destroys all bad smells,
3s a Splendid Deodorant,
Belter than Carbolic yfcid.
By its use Closets, Stables, Kennels, Cattle. <
Sheds, Urinals, Ash-bins, Drains, Cesspools,
etc., can be kept entirely free from offensive
smell and disease.
Possesses Powerful Oxydislng Properties. '
THE STRONGEST
DISINFECTING
L POWDER on the Market.
V_ THE “ SAN IT AS” CO. LTD.,
JOBETHNAL GREEN, LONDON,
BONNINGTONS
foft
LUNGS
VOICE-
THROAT
CARRAGEEN
IRISH MOSS
02
I
>z
oc»
tf o>
r< o
Hi
X d
-rsnoe ano
small bottles
\
/
SMITH
*
■B49BANB
F9
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wale*.
Received Solid Silver Keyles*
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keep* perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part ol
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller, »
HJ.IIAIS 'd 'H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
w
IB
. .22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Rim Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H ” on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease*
less Bullets, which make them very clean to handle.
FOR SAXE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
New Zealand Loan « Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd..
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments ot SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
&
m
Concerning Elgin Watches.
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joinls and 15 Jewels*
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents :
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
repo i/m exiJd
UBASQ
m
Works t Birmingham, Enfflandi
These series
of Pens neither
[Scratch nor spurt
[They glide over
[the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for as
assorted Sample Box.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tea -All ” Thomson.
There’s a chap at Coolabinda, where the sun’s like
burning brass,
Widely known as “ Tear-all” Thomson of the rip-
or-bust-it class;
Who has swtrn off weekly wages, and is sinking
tanks instead,
At a contract price per cubic that allots but little
bed.
You will he; t him in the morning ere the stars
have ceased to shine,
Bawling to his weary henchmen that it’s time to
up and dine;
Then you’ll hear him pelting outward, and you’ll
hear his splitting yells
As he musters up the horses, with a deaf’ning
clang of bells.
He is bent with ever rushing, and through peering
in the dark,
And the fear to lose a minute on his face has left
its mark ;
You will never hear him whistle, and you seldom
hear him talk,
While his calmest gait’s a shuffle—that’s when
Thomson tries to walk.
When lie’s catching Cramp and Bowler it would
quite astonish you
To see him diving under just to save a step or
two.
Then it’s tear away with scoop and plough, full rip
from bank to bank—
’Tis a sight to see the energy of Thomson in a
tank.
Now ’n’ again a sportive cyclone calls upon him
unawares,
Takes him topsy-turvy downwards (Lord above us,
how he swears !)
You can hear the old scoop rattle and the handles
of it slam,
As a perfect avalanche of dust goes hurtling ’cross
the dam ;
You will hear his frantic “ whoa-back,” or exasper-
ated “ gee! ”
As he urges on the horses where no mortal eye can
see,
Till the blow is o’er, and Thomson with a gasp
comes stagg’ring out,
And the “Missus” grasps the water-bag and runs
to quench his drought.
After him adown the batters, faith, she hasn’t time
to think,
When she catches up he tells her, “Keep a-drivin’
while I drink ! ”
Then it’s “ Lend me that there bonnet, for me hat
’as blown away—
Cop old Ikey, now, an’ stop it —there’s a bridle in
the dray ! ”
When it’s smoke-o time with others you will hear
old Thomson shout,
“Get me pipe and fill it, Missus—hurry up an’
trot it out! ”
Lighting up and running after, with the smoke-
cloud veering south,
She will dab the smoker at him till she gets it in
his mouth.
He is rushing down the batters, and he’s dashing
up the bank —
Lord, his hurry’s real surprising when he’s putting
down a tank !
He is lifting here and dipping there, ne’er screened
by leaf nor bough,
With a dozen lathered horses harnessed to an iron
plough.
He is shouting to the leaders to “ get over, damn
your eyes!”
As he shakes his head like fury to unship a
hundred flies.
So he’ll go it hell-for-leather till the bloomin’ tank
is down,
And his cheque is writ and ready fir the bara
down in the town.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
“Cughter Know.”
He’s a curse where’er you meet him,
City street or land of crows,
Is the man that’s Bill Almighty,
Is the cove that always knows.
Has he travelled ? Course he’s travelled !
Ain’t he been to Lord-knows-where—
Drovin’ cattle nigh on twenty
Years (in dreams, I think) up there?
Been to where you'd never think of,
Seen the things you’d never dream ;
Spent a year or tv o there also,
“ In the sheds,” or “ with his team.”
Round the fire when tales are telling
In the grand Australian “ blow,”
“ Taller ” than the others’ tall ’uns,
Comes from him what “ oughter know.”
Northwards v. here the sheds are shearing,
Westward out to Farthest Back,
Bound’ry rider, station “super.,”
City “snob,” or “on the track,”
He’s a cove what’s been and seen it,
He’s no common pickin’ crow ;
You’re a fool, or you’re a liar,
He's the cove that oughter know.
Yes, the shearers mortal hate him,
And the bushmen wish him —well,
In a place unfit for naming
And a bit too warm to dwell.
And they all decide profanely
That when he goes “ down below,”
He will show Old Nick a wrinkle,
Will this cove that oughter know.
Q.
The Myrtle.


•s/dpuiJcj vo douvjnssy a// 7 joj
A}a;oos f.uapjAOJj |i?n}n|/j
*6fBX eiaHsnavjisa
uvj|«j^sny
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine 6 F F
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. \V Meeks, M L.C Deputv-Chairman • Bfn iavtn Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. BlIckM.L C Esq M P
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.1.A., FFA FSS ' q- ’
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. " ‘ ' kOBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
m
*>
&
fi'S‘
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tsn, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- d. 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
4
Carter's
There’s SECURITY in
31111
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SIGK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION. r
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Th« TOUCH the
Be
i
■ -== Small p,,, ‘ Small Dos «- Small Price;
LIVER
Sure they are CARTER*S
[F YOU WANT IT
IT WITH A
ODAK
m
•/' SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
OFALLDEALERS OR
of KODAK 1 TD284 COLL,NS s r i
AW l/M II L., MELBOURNE*/
9 mention this paper •
11l
SC
*2
the best natural
Aperient water.
m
the besfr nafural
Aperient wafer.
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperienh water.
RfINZ JOSEF
fhe besf natural
Aperienh wafer.
A
w/
i\\
SPECIAL
TRIAL OFFER
The finest Electric Belt in the world is
what we offer you. Our improved Belt is
superior to any other made. It is not charged
in corroding vinegar. It gives a stronger
current of Electricity than is possible with
any “vinegar belt.”
It is a guaranteed oure for all cases of
Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lum-
bago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver, and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women. "
We are practically giving this splendid Belt away on trial, as the price has been put at
the lowest possible figure, so that it is within the easy reach of everybody. P
We send absolutely free to every person writing us our beautifully Illustrated Medical
Book and the Best Improved Electric Belt on trial. We offer a better article at a lower
price than any other, and all writing us receive immediate attention.
fail. 'tL offer , y ° ll i3 T> th ,l S - : our . Medical Treatise Eree, together with our best Belt on
fair trial. Remember our Belt is positively guaranteed to be the strongest mads and will
cure you. Write to-day. It costs nothing to try it. Address-
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DEPT. M. (
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
New Zealand Branch,: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
I?! „ f Gramophone is the “ King ” of Talking Machines.
Ih! uunuinmi Gramophone is the “Queen ” of Talking Machines.
The MONARCH JunrGramophone is the “ Prince ”of Talking Machines.
WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT ?
Q r you take the whole “ROYAL FAMILY”?
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MABSHALL & SONS, Bundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOBEE BBOS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WEBTHEIMEB, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
S-' C(Y, 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. . .
m
Ml' 1
Send for Price Lists
and Catalogues of
Reccrds.
The ‘MONARCH’
Triple Spring
Gramophone,
Fitted with
Tapering: Arm,
complete—
£l4 10s.
, Wholesale Depot for Australasia-
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Acute Dyspepsia.
“Clements Tonic Restored
all my Strength and Vigor."
The Case of IV|rs. K WATKINS.
(by our reporter.)
There is a period in every person’s life,
particularly when in sorrow, that the sym-
pathy of a friend in need is greatly appre-
ciated, and although it is difficult to con-
jecture how many hearts maybe gladdened
by the news appearing below, it is safe to
remark that Mrs Rachael Watkins, of
Grosvenor-street, Woollahra, was actuated
by the best of motives in saying :
“ My health was in such an unsatisfac-
tory state some time ago that I could not
enjoy life. Every day I got up with a
splitting headache which made me feel sad
and w'retched from morning till night, and,
owing to the taste I had, I felt so sick that
I could not touch any breakfast. My tongue
was dry and my throat was so parched that
I was constantly drinking water, yet the
thirst from which I suffered still remained.
Sometimes midday went by and still I did
not feel hungry, nut as sure as I did take a
little food I paid dearly for it afterwards.”
“In what way, Mrs. Watkins ? ”enquired
the pressman.
“I used to feel ill all over me, especially
if there happened to be a little salt in my
food, which had the effect of making my
mouth and throat so much inflamed that it
was painful for me to swallow anything;
but the stomach seemed to be the worst
part, as it. was distended with wind
which came from the food which had not
digested, and the cramping pains inside
were simply horrible. Windy spasms often
caused me to get up in the middle of the
night and walk the floor in agony, for it
was more than I could do to lie there quietly
and suffer such frightful torture. What-
ever I had eaten always repeated, but it
would not come up, much as I would have
liked it to, as then I would have felt a
little easier.”
“ How long had you suffered in this
way ? ”
“I was very ill for twelve months.
Everything went wrong, even my chest
being painful with a heavy sensation which
almost stifled me. Many a time I tried to
vomit, thinking that if I could only do so I
Would be much relieved, but the lump in
my chest seemed to be a fixture, and fre-
quently made me feel a 3 if I were taking
my last breath, the trouble in breathing
was so great. I became so terrified that I
might suffocate whilst in bed that I used to
prop myself up with pillows, and, notwith-
standing the fact that I always felt weak
and worn out, I could not sleep when I did
retire, being very restless till about two or
three o’clock in the morning. When I
ought to have been asleep was the only
part of the twenty-four hours that I seemed
to liven up a bit, but it was very unnatural
for me to be so fidgety, and my system was
drained of all its vital force on that account.
If I did fall asleep I began dreaming, and
when I woke up I tried to recollect what I
had been dreaming about, but my memory
was so defective that I could not recall any-
thing to mind. Scarcely an hour passed
without some annoyance being caused by
sharp pains between my shoulders, and es-
pecially under my left shoulder-blade, and
my legs ached so much that after standing a
little while the aches developed into dis-
tinct pains. Across my loins the aches
were really terrible. I used to think they
came through sitting down so much, but I
found when I walked the pains were still
more severe. The least effort on my part
resulted in giddiness coming on, so I had to
be very careful how I went about, particu-
larly as my eyes were often so affected that
I could scarcely see out of them. If I
stooped to pick up anything from the floor
I felt half-dazed for a while, my head reel-
ing awfully, and small black specks dancing
all round. Not only did I lose all my
strength, but my nervous system was quite
unstrung.”
“I believe you consulted a doctor. Mrs.
Watkins. What did he say your complaint
was ? ”
“My doctor said I was suffering from
acute indigestion, and he treated me accord*
ingly, but to my intense dismay I could
see I had no hope of recovering under his
treatment, as the medicines he prescribed
did not have any good effect. In my sor-
rowful condition I lost heart completely. I
did not know what to do, especially as I had
got so much more feeble that on many oc-
casions I had to lie down in a state of ex-
haustion the whole of the day. It looked
to me as though my remaining days were
to be spent in misery, from which there was
no escape ; but I thought I ought to try
everything at my disposal, so I started doc-
toring myself with adverti-ed medicines,
and when I had taken enough of them to
base an opinion upon, I was forced to con-
clude that my afflictions were incurable.
As those medicines were also useless I
thought, in my desperation, that everything
else was the same, but a lady friend spoke
so favourably about Clements Tonic that I
could not help buying some.”
“ Did you find it acting as your friend
said it would ? ”
“Yes, thank God! her advice was not
misleading, for Clements Tonic had precisely
the effect which I was told it would have,
although my condition was so low that it
took a little time to make headway. Once
Clements Tonic got my maladies on the
move, however, it shifted them with great
despatch. I started by picking up my ap-
petite and getting an occasional sound
night’s rest; then, when my head was free
from pain, I slept tranquilly right through
every night, and the aches left, my limbs by
degrees. I considered this a great amount
of success for Clements Tonic to achieve,
taking into account the repeated failures I
had met with, so I got more of it as it was
required, and I shall never regret that I
stuck steadfastly to the same remedy, to
which there was nothing to compare for so
restoring my internal organs to a healthy
stats that my food digested properly. My
vision became clear, the distention of and
pains in my stomach did not occur again,
and the stifling sensations left my chest.
To put it briefly, I was relieved of every
pain which had made my life a martyrdom,
besides having my nervousness quite
abolished, and you may d pend I was de-
voutly thankful to Clements Tonic for bring-
ing back all my strength and vigor. In
every respect I was like a new woman, for
I had suffered from rheumatism close on
five years, and Clements Tonic was the only
medicine which gave me relief. My feet
and nearly all the joints in my body had
been assailed by severe rheumatic pains, but
Clements Tonic found its way to those parts
and gradually diminished my tortures. In
all cases of sickness I recommend to my
friends the use of Clements Tonic, and you
may publish these remarks in any way you
desire. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Rachaei. Watkins, of Grosvenor-streefc,
Woollahra, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I
have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting' of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my iliness and cure by
Clements Tonic; and also contains my full permis-
sion to publish in any way my statements— which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any pay-
ment ; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and deolared at Waverley, this twelfth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
J. L. DALE, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o XJEFY COMPETITION.
WINES Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, &<a
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. id.
Port Free.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for—
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
m Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6(1.
SOCK AGKNTB.
Th* Remit.
RAIG 4. AITKEIM. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PflllT IS ° UR lIERITAGE > AND WHAT
UUU I THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
m
Acetylene
Gas
TABLE-LAMPS.
OUR ADVANCE in
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6(1.
ACETYLENE GAS
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwelling's,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Large Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO
161 Clarence St.!
SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
FREE CURE.
Wonderful Home Treatment that Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 1317), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E. 0., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
Mb. A. Docherty.
avoid all questions of doubt, he
sends free to every sufferer a
free trial of his method, and
there can be no earthly reason
why anvone.rich orpoor, should
not avail themselves of this
generous offer. As an instance
of this remarkable method,
the cure of Mr. J. J. Hogan,
Cobar, N.S.W., is well worth
noticing. He was cured at the
age of 70 years, after suffering
10 years. He made an affidavit
to this effect, of his own free
will, before two J.P's.
Mr. J. Kubank, a farmer of Yarloop, Western
Australia, was cured after suffering 48 years from
a scrotal rupture. Mrs. F. Medley, 177, Sturt
Street, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia, was cured
after suffering 5 years. Mr. A. Docherty, 23, War-
wick Street, Birkenhead, Cheshire, England, was
cured of an irreducible scrotal rupture—one of the
worst kinds known. No treatment he had used
would enable him to return the rupture to its
proper place. He tried the method of Dr. Rice.i
which not only reduced the rupture, but also
effected its complete cure, and he is now as sound
as a bell. A full description and sample [of this
remarkable method of cure will be gladly sent
upon application. It has cured thousands. Do not,
hesitate to give it atrial. Write at once—to-day. I
Don t delay in a matter of such importance. ’
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Forgetting.
O ! my heart is empty. I have swept it clean of
you.
Of favors and letters and sweet eyes of tender
blue.
Your pictured face is taken down; the dust from
walls and floor—
The dust of sad and past things I am sweeping
from its door.
0 ! my heart is newly swept, between the curtains
white
My eyes are watching—long as God shall give them
sight,
For there comes another you along Love’s wind-
ing lane,
To cheer me and to comfort and to make me glad
again.
0 ! my heart is garnished and furnished for a
guest;
There’s bloom from the garden—l have chosen
spring-time’s best.
My caged thrush is a-singing. I have done with
sorrowing,
For my new love is coming now to tell me it is
Spring.
0! my heart is filling. My new love’s here with
me,
In all her goodness ; and how fair a sight is she.
I no more remember the dreams and grief of old.
My new, true love I welcome upon my heart’s
threshold.
0 ! hearts that sorrow and sweet eyes that smart
with tears,
For the dreams unfulfilled of the long and wait-
ing years
Open wide the lattice, breathe the air of God
and see
Spring is surely coming, with her balm and
sympathy. ,
M.L.
W. FRANCIS CHAMBERS.
What Is There After This?
Only a slow procession,
Only a sobbing breath,
Only a solemn service
Over the grave beneath,
Only the mound strewn over
With fair, white flowers of Death.
Only a hopeless weeping
Over the sacred biers,
Only the green grass over
Watered with many tears ;
Only a spot deserted
After a few brief years.
Only the wild birds singing
Requiems clear and sweet,
Only the grasses springing
Under the passing feet.
Only the breezes bringing
Odors and perfumes meet.
Only a memory, maybe,
Only a thought, I wis. . . .
Drop down the sombre curtain,
Does it not seem amiss ?
What do we know for certain 1
What is there, after this ?
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
The Scorn of the Sea.
A woman and a wild sea coast,
And Love repulsed in scorn ;
Nor were yon waves as wild as those
Within her bosom born.
“A Love,” she cried, “deep in this heart,
Begged, prayed, besought; but all
Was as a zephyr playing on
An adamantine wall.”
“O Kindly, ever-constant One,
I shall go unto thee;
Breast unto breast we twain shall lie
For an eternity.”
Cast up, rejected, on the coast
They found, at first of morn,
A woman—on her yearning breast
The froth of Ocean’s scorn.
N.s.w.
H. M. MOBAN.
Lost Fires.
Long years ago, it seems to me,
When Time, unheeded, passed us by,
In dalliance by the sunlit sea ;
When Youth was bold, and aims were high.
With love, and hope, and high desires
Our hearts kept pace, and days of old
Held dreams that fanned the sleeping fires,
And clothed the ways with rose and gold.
The wind that robbed God’s garden fair
Stole forth at dawn, and whispered low;
And, O, her breath held fragrance rare,
Her voice fell soft as music’s flow;
All harsher tones, that rant and rave,
Were held in thrall, by fetters bound,
And only song of wind and wave
The silence filled with subtle sound.
Their siren voices, soft with sighs,
Led on thro’ depths of palm and pine.
Where Love lurked deep in starry eyes,
And witching spells in sparkling wine;
And slighted Hope stood by the while.
That we, fast bound in Pleasure’s toils,
Of greater worth, held wanton smile,
Tnan high desires or Fame’s fair spoils.
But Pleasure cloyed ; with keener sight
We pierced the dusk we deemed so fair—
And 10, beneath lay Pain and Blight,
And fierce Remorse, and brooding Care.
Then wistful eyes to paths of old
We turned, but sapped by grosser things
Our strength waxed faint, and fires grew cold,
And Hope passed by on broken wings.
N.s.w.
A. CAB.B.


GUNDY.
The Standard
of Purity
throughout
the World.
BOTTLEO IN COGNAC.
It
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
With a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victor'a.
Oanz Induction Motor. SOLE AGENTS :
The Austral Qtis Engineering £O., [td., South H)elb.
EVERY
CLOUD
HAS A
SILVER
LINING
Our Electro-plate Department
IS
A SILVER LINING WITHOUT THE CLOUD.
We Shine in Silverware.
Wedding Presents. Birthday Gifts.
Souvenirs. Household Requisites.
The widest choice in the Commonwealth, at your own Prices—HALF THE U3UAL.
Silver Tea Services
Coffje Sets
Tea Sets
Cruets
Dessert Dishes
Entree Dishes
Liquor Stands
Mirrors
Photo. Frames
Knives
Fo'ks
Bpoo is, etc., etc.
A THOUBAND AND ONE DAINTY NOVELTIES.
REMEjTIBER—What we say we do, we do do.
Holdsworth, Macpherson &Co.
252 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
As the Years roll on,
we learn sense, we gain experience, and build up successes “out of our failures.” The
experience and the wisdom that we have accumulated during the past year have
taught us that
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES ARE GOOD,
particularly good in flavor, and reliable in quality.
This confirms the World’s Verdict.
i
m
frt
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
f JJ-L'LJB" ■' 1 1 . ■- ■ lil'iLl. -■' "• -.. 1 Ji. IL'SHB
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as” required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
w. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary■
'■[ . r
tori
■flirt
■P
yy
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of lariff and all Particulars posted on applies
on to The Manager.
RUBEROID
Throw Physic to
the Dogs.”
The man whose house has been made damp-
proof with the original and genuine RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE can safely “ throw physic to the
dogs,” for RUBEROID DAMPCOURSE and healthy
habitations are synonymous terms.
Wholesale Agents
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY AND
BRISBANE.
DAMPCOURSE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.— N0. 1262.
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1904.
Price 6d.
“GENERAL” BOOTH’S SPLENDID OFFER.
Suggested revival of an export trade in British moral deformities to Australia.
THE GENERAL : “ I HEAR YOU WANT POPULATION IN AUSTRALIA. WE’VE HUNDREDS OF MILES OF STREETS JUST
LIKE THIS IN THE DEAR OLD PREETRADE COUNTRY, AND 12,000,000 PEOPLE JUST LIKE THESE. TAKE
OUR SUBMERGED HALE"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A u strati a /or the A ustraliaiis.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED. ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 hi 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiie Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week, for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to lie addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary comm unications to be addressed to the Editor.
Sp ecial Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short, 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A miitaiir.s in lllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but, unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to here-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Aerica. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetoion ;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetown ; 11. It.
Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia ;
and others.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Tjfce '^tzZe&2i,
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1904.
WHAT PREMIER WATSON MIGHT DO.
The crisis over the Federal Arbitration Bill which
allows of a sort of political stock-taking—an audit
of parties and a calculation as to how far they
meet the economic needs of the moment—comes
opportunely. Australia is now on the threshold
of a new era in its development. The continent
has enjoyed the glowing prosperity which came of
the rush for practically free land and the search
for abundant metals ; it has also enjoyed and ex-
hausted the fictitious and unreal progress of the
boom coming from a wild loan policy. Now the
future has to be faced with but little good land
left to give away, with no sensational gold
prospects, and with no hope of another loan boom.
The time has come for a sober settling down and
settling up, for an effort to put the affairs of the
nation on a sound and honest basis. It has come,
not from any general recognition by Australians
of the follies of the past, but compulsorily, because
there is no longer a great credit fund to draw
upon. The position has to be faced willy-nilly.
Necessarily, facing it involves some unpleasant-
ness. After a period of prodigality, plain living
is distasteful. There must be a certain amount of
“depression” as the result of the change—the
sort of depression that comes to the man who
had two bottles of wine last night and must not
only do without any at all to-day, but must meet
in cold blood the bill for last night’s
razzle. So the occasion needs a firm policy,
and in many respects a new policy. The
old conditions have changed. The time of
spending loans has passed and the time for paying
arrived. The methods which did duty in the
borrow time cannot be fitted for the pay-back
time ; nor are the men wedded to the old methods
likely to be of much use to formulate the new
policy. The time calls for new ways and new
men.
* * * *
What needs to be done is to break away altc*
gether from the bad traditions of the past and to
face a new position with a courage which dares to
make precedents. It has been held to be a
political crime to construct public -works out of
revenue. The first article in the creed of the
public man has been that nothing should be paid
for honestly which could be had by borrowing.
The idea of a self-contained, self-supporting Aus-
tralia, manufacturing, and.financing on its own
account, has been scouted as absurd. All that
needs to be changed, in the State Parliaments and
in the supreme Parliament which governs the
whole Commonwealth. And the only reasonable
hope for a change is the coming to power of
men who have had nothing to do with the admini-
stration of the old policy, whose feet have never
helped to wear tracks to the national pawnshop,
and whose belief in Australia has not been palsied
by long association with dishonest borrowing
dodges. The Labor party in the Australian Par-
liament is the organisation which promises best to
produce such men. The party has to its credit
the fact that it "called a halt when the Common-
wealth Cabinet was, from sheer force of habit,
drifting to Cohen’s office. So far the Common-
wealth has not borrowed a penny, and in that
one fact shows itself a body of revolutionary
tendencies and regardless of established Australian
precedents, a legislature reckless of the fundamental
basis of our glorious Constitution. For a Govern-
ment to be without debt is, in fact, to almost pro-
claim itself Anarchist, for in the history of Aus-
tralian politics there has in the past been no
Government without a borrow. That there is one
now is due altogether to the Federal Labor party,
which has been a consistently non-borrowing party,
and by that attitude has shown itself, in one
respect at least, the party forthe present situation.
But there are other requirements to be met, other
difficulties to be faced. It is because The Bulletin
believes that these, too, would be confronted and
overcome by a Radical Ministry in which the
Labor party would predominate, that it calls now
on Watson to h ive the courage of his convictions
and strike out to be Premier Watson.
• e * *
The old party attitude, in the face of a stoppage
of loans, is to halt the processes of civilisation;
t) allow railways, roads, bridges, telegraphs to go
to ruin ; to starve the civil service and disorganise
the defence forces ; to let the unemployed, thrown
out by the stoppage of loan spendings, drift away
from the country, or join the ranks of the per-
manently submerged, or eke out a starvation
existence on useless charity relief works. All this
is based on the theory that the stoppage of loans
is only a temporary calamity, and that things are
temporarily suspended till the blessed and natural
work of getting into debt can be resumed. That
is not the attitude which is wanted. Predicating
that the Australian is as good a man as the
average, that he is not a specially poor creature
who must, in part, cadge for his living, and
who can only be comfortable by the charity
of foreign money-lenders, there is no reason
why, with the stoppage of borrowing, there
should be a stoppage of progress. Public works
can be constructed, and the civil service paid out
of revenue, if there is a party honest enough to
m ike taxation equal the necessities of the State.
Those thrown out of employment by the stoppage
of useless works—the jobs which are only possible
because of a combination of political corruption
and spendthrift borrowing—can be absorbed by
the encouragement of new factories to make the
goods we now import, and by a land policy which
will throw open to close settlement the fertile,
well-watered areas now monopolised by private
monopolists and lordly squires. The Bulletin
hopes, and has some reason to hope, that a Radical
Ministry would have the courage to put into
effect these reforms—to insist on home in-
dustry replacing imports from .abroad to a
greater extent than at present; and, by a graduated
land tax, to break up the large estates in the good
districts of the continent for closer settlement.
Perhaps the hope will prove to be a vain one. The
Labor Party might come to office and then do no-
thing but temporise with conditions which call for
a bold progressive policy. Even then some good
would be done. It would be proved that the
Labor Party, too, is hopeless, and the electors
would be able to turn to other men when the
pressing problem of to-day has become the inexor-
able crisis of to-morrow,
* * * *
Certainly the two other parties—those of
Deakin and Reid —are not equal to the occasion.
Both are agreed that Federal direct taxation is
wrong. Both, therefore, are agreed that the
Australian tariff must be primarily revenue-pro-
ducing and only secondarily Protective, and that
there must be no Federal interference with
the evils of land monopoly. Deakin is a good deal
of a Liberal. Reid is an out-and-out Tory. That
is a difference certainly, but in a case where the
call is for a pronounced Radical Government
with a platform to which both Deakin and
Reid are opposed, it is a difference of no
practical importance. The Labor party holds
out the only present hope of putting the
Commonwealth on the track which Maoriland has
blazed, the track towards closer settlement
secured by taxing out the land monopolist, towards
high Protection and towards a bold advance in
State enterprise. The Bulletin urges, therefore,
that party to take its courage in both hands and
put its leader into power, giving him a mandate
then to form a Ministry embracing all the honest
Radical elements in the Parliament. There is no
reason to fear that the defeat of Deakin will lead
to a Reid premiership. If Deakin is defeated
it will be because, though he is a Liberal, he is not
liberal enough ; it would be absurd to suppose that
in consequence of such a crisis, Reid, who is
absolutely reactionary in his policy, should succeed
to power. All the indications point to the con-
clusion that the present is a unique opportunity
for the Labor party to justify its faith. It has
available the materials for a strong Ministry ;
with wise choice of men and a bold programme it
can probably hold office during the life of this
Parliament—sufficiently long to show its policy
and to lay the foundations of such a term of power
as came to the Ballance-Seddon Government in
Maoriland.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Hook-Nosed Apostle.
That noble and kindly man with the pawnbroker’s
nose, General Booth, has again expressed his
willingness to come to' this country’s assistance.
Booth has heard or read somewhere that Aus-
tralia wants population—that it requires capable,
strong, and experienced agriculturists with
money, to settle on the land and make it profit-
able ; and first-class artisans who can start new
industries or help to enlarge those already exist-
ing. And Booth, in the fulness of his large heart
and the redness of his large nose, again offers us
the good old “submerged tenth” or “submerged
half,” or whatever it is. Booth’s theory is that
these persons are stunted, ignorant, diseased, and
enfeebled by hereditary starvation, and therefore
just the thing for Australia. They know nothing
about agriculture, beyond the fact that some
of them have, some time or other, made a pre-
carious living with a costermonger’s barrow. They
have no trade, as a rule; the real “submerged”
are the casual multitude of odd-jobbers, who can’t
live by their skill, for they have none, and who
can’t exist by their brute strength, for they have
little. This awful mob of “undesirables” have
no money, and they are so utterly undesirable
that Britain wants to get rid of them at any price.
Booth proposes, therefore, that Australia should
take a share of them—that it should put up the
money to bring them here; that it should give
them land (this at a time when it is buying back
big estates at high prices to find land for its own
people), and that it should generally -charge itself
with their maintenance, so that they may marry
and increase here, and transmit their diseases and
their stunted frames to future generations. And,
having been failures in their own country,
they are to have a share in the govern-
ment of ours, so that they may help in
their ignorance to steer it where it shouldn’t
go. The prospect, somehow, doesn’t look inviting.
Nor is the necessity very apparent. Britain acquired
many thousands of its “submerged” from foreign
countries, because it was built too much after the
manner of Podsnap, and wouldn’t learn from
anyone outside its islands, and wouldn’t restrict
the influx of undesirable aliens, and wouldn’t give
up its foolish boast that its ports were open to the
scum of all nations. Since it especially lays itself
out to secure the scum of all nations, it should not
complain about getting them, and it should be
glad and proud to keep them. As to its own
“ submerged,” it is better fitted to support them
than Australia is. With all the hideous poverty
of the great mass of Britons, the United Kingdom
has more wealth in proportion to its population—
more wealth per head—than Australia has. Its
whole policy, however, is devoted to keeping
that wealth in very few hands; it sedulously
cultivates a small crowd of the enormou dy
rich, and a vast, st arving, diseased, hopeless horde
of the unspeakably p >or. If Britain shut out the
undesirables of other countries ; if it set itself to
spread out its wealth by the compulsory resump-
tion of large estates and the creation of a peasant
proprietary ; if it further broke up its huge estates
by compelling the subdivision of the dead duke’s
property among all his children ; if it relieved its
people of some part of the crushing dead weight
of direct taxation and shifted the burden on to
imports ; Britain need have no submerged tenth —
or rather submerged half. No country in the
world has less justification for possessing a sub-
merged class, and the proposition of the hook-
nosed apostle, that Britain should send its poor
to a much poorer and more barren country than
itself, and do so largely at the poorer country’s
expense, and that Booth should pose as a philan-
thropist in the matter, is a fine commodious idea
and worthy of being preserved in spirits.
Under British Rule.
Sydney Telegraph’s Johannesburg correspondent
is evidently a fine specimen of the right-thinking-
black-labor Jingo journalist. In his letter pub-
lished last week he draws a charming Dicture of
the state to which the rule of Milner and the mine-
owners has reduced that once prosperous city
where, under the regime of old Oom Paul, white
miners drew £1 a shift:—
But during these weeks of rain, the lot of the workless
army has been indeed lamentable. You saw them huddled
under verandahs, loitering in glass-covered arcades, hang-
ing just inside bar doors, perhaps hopeful of a comforting
“ tot ” dispensed by some acquaintance with a couple of
shillings in his pocket. And in the remoter streets, out
of the gaze of hurrying thousands of business men and
toilers, live whole colonies of women and children, endur-
ing with what patience they may the weary struggle
against hunger and hardship. These are the camp-
followers of the industrial army, the poor victims of the
unending war between necessity and absence of regular
employment. There must be thousands of white folk in
this town, to whom not merely next Sunday’s dinner, but
to-night’s crust is a problem.
But the D.T. man doesn’t blame Chamberlain or
Milner or the millionaires—he puts the blame on
the miners who won’t work for ss. per day, a wage
that hardly represents food and a shelter on the
lee-side of a fence at Jewhannesburg rates —at least,
the D.T. man says he won’t work for that pit-
tance, though that statement is probably a lie :
White men cannot do this rough work as well as the
blacks. It has been offered to them at ss. a day—the
Kaffir does it admirably for Is. 6d.— and refused, after a
trial perhaps running- into one week.
He then goes on to say that unless the Chinaman
is welcomed the capitalist
will withdraw his support, and this wonderfully rich
country must go back to the Kaffir and the. solitary
farmer.
Most people imagine that the gold makes the
millionaire, but Randal Carey’s correspondents
are paid to teach us that the millionaire makes the
gold. We must not fall into the error, however,
of supposing that this D.T. man is , mere working
journalist. On the contrary, he tells us he is the
friend of Kings :
I affirm, from a knowledge of these Emperors of finance,
that they are not just money-making' machines, with
gorgeous mansions in Park Lane, squeezing every shilling
the3 r can out of the brains and bones of their employees.
Further, I affirm that they are prodigally liberal in the
cause of charity, and ultra generous to their servants.
Yet we find men at Home and in the colonies trying every
device of the party trickster to defeat our aspirations.
Think of it, you Australian miners who sent your
sons to make war on the women and children of
the Transvaal farmers so that your brother miners
in Johannesburg should give place to Chinamen.
And all for what? That a fat Jew in Park Lane
may be “ultra-generous” to his housemaid—
especially if she is a pretty housemaid. This is
Australia’s reward, and it is as good a reward
as Australia deserves.
Siddon’s Dilemma.
The blessed peace that has for some time been
brooding over Maoriland has been disturbed by a
rather alarming breakdown in Premier Seddon’s
health, and simultaneously there has begun the
first rustle of the girding-up of loins that indicates
that in a few weeks Parliament, and the Address-
in-Reply, and the waste of time, and the weary
old Tory yell about socialistic legislation, are to
put in an appearance. And when Parliament does
start, it will be unique in that there is practically
nothing ahead of it except the licensing question.
The Opposition press still talks about the land
problem and the labor crisis as matters urgently
calling for solution (quite regardless of the fact
that they were solved long ago while the Tory was
asleep, or hunting with a lantern for caterpillars
on his rose-bush after dark), much in the same
way as the Flat - Earth League keeps on
periodically warning civilisation that something
disastrous will happen if the shape of the globe is
not speedily faced. But the liquor question is a
snag of such colossal dimensions that it is a good
thing that there is nothing else on hand to distract
Seddon. The fact that he is seriously fagged just
now lends additional interest to the situation,
which is this : The Prohibitionist has been grow-
ing in number every year, since the time when he
was a curiosity and a public spectacle, until he
now outnumbers the enemy. And there is
every reason to predict that, when the next local-
option poll arrives, he will dominate the politics
and public life of the country. Licensing matters
in Maoriland got into such a fearful muddle after
the poll of 1902 that Seddon was forced to bring
in a Licensing Bill, and he brought in the
famous “No-Lieense, No-Grog” Bill which
was rejected with enthusiasm by an out-
raged House amid the plaudits of nearly everybody,
the only dissentient voice being a muffled and beery
curse from Bung. That a new Bill must be
introduced as soon as Parliament gets to work
is regarded as being quite as axiomatic as the fact
that man is born to sorrow, and that Seddon’s
political life depends on the Bill is thought to he
just as much a foregone conclusion as that the
sparks will fly upward. Seddon has only himself
to blame. All that was absolutely necessary last
session was a Bill that would remove some of the
wild anomalies of the Acts in force, such as the
357 diverse and superfluous species of bona fide
traveller, and the liability of a poll to become
void because the Returning Officer had red
whiskers or wore elastic-side boots. A measure
of that sort would at least have staved off the
trouble. But the Premier couldn’t resist the
temptation to shake up the Cold Tea gospel
by introducing a logical genuine Prohibition
measure, and impaling the Skim Milk crowd
on the horns of a cheerful and humorous
dilemma. Seddon has, during the whole of
his political career, leant to some extent on Bung,
and has of late years let Bung lean up against
him, until Seddon and Bung have come to be
regarded as synonymous. Now, in his old age,
Seddon is realising that ,P>ung is a frail
attenuated Bung, and is not able to bear
his weight without crumbling up, while the
beer barrel has become a shaky and undermined
platform that is liable to be upset and rolled into
the harbor at any moment. Seddon has for so
long tasted the sweets of power that he is desper-
ately anxious to keep his grip on things as long as
he is able to sit up and take nourishment, and the
Pump is the only reliable post to lean against
nowadays. At the same time, Seddon is unwilling
to desert the beer barrel that he used to stand on
in the old days when it was a hale and hearty
support, and apart from the sentimental claims of
loyalty and benefits remembered, he obviously
can’t denounce the beer barrel at this late hour.
He can’t reasonably claim that upon arriving at
years of discretion he has just discovered that
drink is a curse, and he can’t allege, with any
prospect of being believed, that a vision has been
vouchsafed to him on the subject, so that he has
to choose between two things, and neither of them
is the thing that would willingly be chosen by a
politician with any regard for his personal feelings.
Therefore, in the next few weeks he must con-
sider whether he will buy a continuance of his
rule by a surrender to the Prohibitionists (and thus
secure the undying enmity of the fast-fading
pewter pot and the shifty support of the pump) or
whether he will crown his career by an act of
desperate valor, and nail his flag to the mast, and
go down to oblivion in the raging sea of beer.
But Seddon is reported to he a very sick man
nowadays, and perhaps his collapse will come in
time to save him the trouble of deciding. Then
the problem will be left to Joseph Ward, and
Joseph can get through a much smaller hole than
his chief.
4.
Bent Makes a Scoop.
Thomas Bent has promised at the top of his voice
to do one good and wise act in the matter of the
Scripture in State Schools question, and thougli
he shows signs of backing down in his wisdom he
was still wise—till he became scared. For months
past, a noisy gang of brethren have been going up
and down Victoria complaining bitterly of “ our
Godless system of education,” and frantically
pointing out that “the vast majority of the people
favored religious instruction in State schools."
They backed up this gratuitous assertion with
alleged polls, taken by the parsons in various
towns, and showed heavy majorities on their side;
and they finished by demanding a referendum of
the whole State. When Bent agreed to this pro-
posal, the Scripture Instructionists fell over them-
selves in surprise. Then they began to suspect
that there was a string tied to the bouquet, and
that the referendum would turn out to be quite a
different animal from what they expected if it
wasn’t watched. So they came along with a fresh
demand—to be allowed to frame the questions.
And this is where Thomas the Roarer made his
scoop—till lie became flabby aiid ceased to scoop.
He refused, violently, to listen to the new demand,
though he afterwards became much less violent:
and, at Brighton, he announced that the Cabinet
had decided on the following questions:—
(1) Are you in favor of the Education Act remaining as
at present, strictly secular ?
(2) Are you in favor of the scheme of Scripture lessons
recommended by the Royal Commission on religious in-
The Karri Davies View.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
People talk about the Empire who do not the
Empire know,
And say, with sneers, that it is run by Cohen-
stein and Co.
It is well for men like Deakin to make statements
vague and grand—
They would sing another song if they owned mines
upon the Ran i.
I love the Empire—did I not ’twoall be a garish
jest—
Each day I wrap the Empire round in
My
White
Vest.
Tlr v must fancy we are imbeciles who think we
do not see
What will happen in the future if we get our
cheap Chinee.
I did not mike my coin in this wild-beast pit of
the South
By going round blind-folded with my finger in my
mouth.
1 know the British Empire down the steps of
Fame must climb
And most likely in a hurry—but ’twill
Last
Any
Time.
We can sing th' Jingo Anthem—we can sing it
loud and true.
Wt have the ships, we have the men, we have the
money too.
We’ve but to say that we are wronged and raise a
bitter yelp—
And the British Empire bursts itself in rushing to
our help.
’Twill burst itself for good someday. Yet while
they’ve coin to burn,
’Twill do for Karri D. and Co. ’Twill
Serve
Our
Turn.
While I and Beit and Coiien keep our grip upon
the Rand,
The V hite Min may go trekking—empty belly,
empty han 1.
We must have the Cheapest Labor—yellow, green,
or black or brown—
If the Empire goes to blazes with its glory and
renown.
Macaulay’s lorilander may the wreck of London
see,
Damnation and the Deluge can
Come
After
Me.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.


s traction being taught in State schools during school
hours to the children of parents who desire their children
to be so taught ?
(3) Are you in favor of State school teachers who have
no conscientious objection being allowed to teach these
lessons'?
“ And,” shouted Thomas as he mopped his brow,
“these questions will not be altered”— and
though he is now altering as fast as he
can, the remark is memorable. Before the
bulky Premier had got cool, one of the
members of the Scriptural Instruction Election
Campaign Council told the Argus that “the first
question vvas a great disappointment ” ; and there
is trouble in the black-coated camp, while parsons
udth even longer faces than usual are haunting the
streets and denouncing Bent’s questions with
great ferocity (and a good deal of success). For
there is now not the slightest doubt of the result.
There will be a hearty and whole-soled “Yes”
recorded to the first question, if Bent has the
courage to put it, which apparently that flabby mass
won t have. South Australia is a holy country com-
pared to Victoria ; and yet its referendum, a few
years ago, went solidly against the parsons. The
guileless Victorian parsons wanted the second
question only, believing that many electors
wouldn’t care to vote “No” to it, and they
demand that the people shall not be allowed to
express any approval of the existing system. Rev.
Murdoch (a member of the Scripture Education
Council) says that “a question of similar import
was asked at the S.A. referendum, and proved to
misleading. I should fear a similar result in
Victoria.” Why the simple question “Are you
satisfied with the present system?” should mis-
lead anybody isn’t explained. It looks the simplest
question on the list, and Bent said it was till he
wilted in terror and began to melt and evaporate
and apologise.
4
A Transaction in land.
Some few months ago, when the demand for the
bursting up of the large estates began, a Victorian
syndicate went up to the north of N.S.W. and
bought the Kyogleproperty, which was sub-divided
andsold, largely to Victorian farmers. Thesyndicate
was followed by the Maokinnons and Manifolds
(of the Western District of Victoria), who have
bought three estates on the Richmond River.
They are now cutting these estates up into farms,
which they are renting, with the right of purchase )
to dairymen. The landlords are straining every
nerve to coax the Victorian Western District
farmers to take up these farms, and already
several of them have done so, while many others
are now on their way to inspect the place. So far
as the writer can learn, the land is good, and
nothing has yet been heard of any serious oppres-
sion of the tenantry. But there are two points
worth noticing. The first is that the root-idea of
the Manifold and Mackinnon crowd is, appa-
rently, to take away as many as possible of the
Victorian Western farmers, and thus relieve the
demand for farms around the squatters’ Victorian
homes. The tenants of the big Western District
squatters are getting very restive under their shoit
leases and rising rents, and the squatters scent
trouble. The second point is that it is a
huge farce, viewed in this connection, to pro-
pose to encourage immigration to Victoria, when
Victoria’s own people are going 1500 miles, into a
neighboring State, to get land. Already over 30
first-class farmers, all with capital, have left the
Victorian West for N.S.W. It is a gain to N.S.W,
certainly ; but it is the old remedy of cutting the
top off the blanket to sew it on the bottom, and
Victoria wants its part of the blanket badly.
Within an hour’s ride of any of these emigrating
farmers’ late residences there are thousands of
acres of practically unused land, held by squatters,
which should be supporting hundreds of families.
Surely some strong Federal Ministry will arise
soon which will force the cutting up and sale of
these big estates by a paralysing tax on the
bloated variety of landholder. It is in this hope
that The Bulletin barracks for Watson as the
next Premier of Australia.
»
Lost, an Old Party.
\\ here is the old law’n’order party hiding ? Ten
or twelve years ago, when the working-man in
various parts got tired and out of temper, and
sometimes talked sedition and made a row, the old
law’n’order party used to say in great pain,
“ Monstrous ! The law must be obeyed. If these
fellows don’t like the law, let them change it by
constitutional means ! ” Now the same old law-
’n’order party only occasionally furtively shows
itself, and then merely for the purpose of
suggesting ways in which the law, which
has since been changed in the constitutional
way, can be dodged and defied. Something
of the sort happens pretty well every week.
Mostly, lately, it has had something to do
with the Arbitration law. Before that, it was
in connection with the Customs law. Back of
that, again, it was the Early Closing Act. This
past week’s case is in connection, with both the
Arbitration and the Early Closing laws. The
High Court, in a test case, said that the Arbitra-
tion Court had no power to prevent a man working
for his own benefit at such times as he deemed fit,
provided he did not bump against the Early
Closing Act. Thereupon the old law’n’order party
has poked its head through the Tory party papers
to suggest to the hairdressers that, if they rent a
chair, they can keep on saying “Your turn next, sir.'’
W ednesday afternoons and Saturday afternoons ai a
every afternoon, in spite of the Arbitration a wan ,
which says that journeymen hairdressers must
have one afternoon off a week. Presumably next
the law’n’order party will suggest to the journey-
men butchers that if they rent a side of beef, a
string of sausages and a chopper from the boss
they also may work “ for their own benefit at such
times as they deem fit.” Ten or 12 years ago the
misguided people and papers that suggested ways
of defying a law which they didn’t like were called
anarchists, and when the schemes they suggested
for breaking the law didn’t come off, some
of them found themselves in gaol. There
wasn’t anything very definite against some of
them; but when an Act of Charles 11. or
Queen Anne could not be dug up, there was
always the “common law” to go on with—the
common law” in such cases being a decision
given by a Judge a couple of hundred years or so
ago. The “right-thinking people,” however,
cordially approved in either case. The Labor
people are not likely to dig up the same weapons
to heave at their opponents ; yet their opponents
deserve it just as much as did some of the Labor
men who were gaoled 10 or 12 years ago. The only
difference is that, whereas the working' man who
didn’t like the law suggested physical strength to
defeat it, the modern anarchist in the bulging
waistcoat suggests other ways to do the same
tlung. One hoped to defeat it by his muscle ; the
other by his cunning and his craft. But
in essentials there isn’t the difference of two straws
between them their object was precisely the
same, just as the object of Cronje and De Wet
was the same. Their present attitude shows, how-
ever, that the old law’n’order people didn’t care a
fig for law and order. They only cared about the
law while it suited them,
The Education Problem, and a Larger
Problem.
The N.S.W. Education Conference has ended its
sittings after much talk of the problems of teach-
ing, but without any reference to the great under-
lying reason why in N.S.W. the task of educating
the child has been made one of more than ordinary
difficulty. The State has wisely recognised its
duty to give to every child, so far as is humanly
possible, the rudiments of education. But the
task is, under present conditions, one of
enormous trouble. Outside the one great city
and a few—very few—provincial centres, the
State has a thinly-scattered population. Settlers
have been pushed out into the far interior,
hopeless pioneers in most cases. The teacher
must follow these, and, in apathetic effort to bring
some knowledge to the children of the Outback,
starveling teachers live lives only tolerable to a
fanatic, a fool or a failure. It is one of the conse-
quences of early bad management of State affairs
that this difficulty exists. Had a rational system
of land settlement been followed from the begin-
ning, there would be no need for the small half-
time school with its half-paid teacher and its half-
baked pupils. The teacher must be out there now,
since the children are. The initial mistake is in
having the children or their parents in such
country. If, even at a comparatively late date in
the State’s history—at the time of John Robert-
son’s Land Act—the problem of settlement had
been grappled with in a sensible and business-like,
instead of in a reckless and vote-catching way,
the Education Department, and every other
department of the State, would find its way more
easy to-day. A sensible system of classification,
leaving the poorer and more remote areas
for pastoral settlement and gradually occu-
pying the good and accessible areas for
agricultural communities, would have con-
centrated the settlement which is now
spread over the whole State, into the coastal
districts, and the difficulties of road and rail
communication, of education and the adminis-
tration of justice would have been enormously
lessened, liven at this stage there would be wis-
dom in a change of policy. The hopeless outposts
of small settlers in the back country could be with-
drawn with advantage, and, though late in the
day, a settled policy of concentrated settlement
made the objective of land administration. Then
the enormously expensive, and, at its best, inade-
quate effort to bring something of civilisation
to the scattered settlements of the Back
Country might cease. Side by side with the
great administrative economy thus secured there
would be a tendency to check the drift of popula-
tion to the city. An agricultural colony, with a
near town to cluster round, presents far greater
attractions to the children of the men on the soil
than an agricultural outpost with no neighbors,
with a climate suggesting Hades, and with none
of the mitigating benefits of civilisation. In
wresting the locked-up coast lands from the land-
monopolists, and in concentrating agricultural
settlement on the well-watered and fertile acres, is
the key to the solution of the educational, and
many another problem. Without that radical
reform, new syllabuses and so on can do but little.
There is no question over a large area of the State,
under present circumstances, of what sort of edu-
cation a skilled teacher can give to his pupils ; the
practical question is what sort of education a
teacher getting £75 a year for living a blackfellow’s
life in the backblocks will give.
The Go-Slow Policy.
It would not be wise to accept as gospel all of the
evidence (given by employers before the N.S.W.
Commission to inquire into the local manufacture
of locomotives) as to trades-union efforts to limit
production by insisting on a lower output for a
day’s labor than is possible. To very many Tories
the word trades-union brings the first symptoms
of apoplexy. Some persons of this class, the other
day, even ascribed the fall in the birth-rate to
the pernicious actions of the trades-unions. But,
rejecting a great deal of Tory evidence as
being merely prejudiced allegation, and making
full allowance for what is said on the trades union
side, it is evident that in some cases trades unions
prefer a “go-slow” policy in production, refuse to
“ hustle ” even when there is a higher wage to be
made by hustling, and reject the sound economic
principle that, when a great deal of capital is sunk
m expensive machinery and premises, the higher
the degree of productivity got out of the machines
the more economical the production. This policy
is altogether a mistaken one, and no country is
ever likely to attain much prosperity under it.
When an iron-pipe manufacturer, for example,
wants 12 pipes per machine per day turned
out instead of 10 ; is willing to pay pro
rata for the hustle; and the task imposes
no excessive strain on the workers, he should get
his 12 pipes, and more if possible. When it is
easily possible to run out 10 rolls of fencing wire
instead of eight per day, and the price for the
labor is advanced in a fit proportion, the 10 rolls
should roll, and more if possible. These are con-
crete examples, picked at random to illustrate the
argument. It is not urged that the worker
should hustle himself into an early grave,
but it is certainly good policy on his part
to co-operate with all reasonable energy in bring-
ing production to the highest possible pitch. Only
in that way can native manufactures flourish and
high-wage workers increase. The mistaken notion as
to the advantage of “going slow” in work is
common to Ereetrade countries. The worker,
feeling the uncertainty that there is as to
the next job coming along, is naturally in-
clined to “spin out” the job he is on to
make it last as long as possible. But with a
food Protectionist policy that is not necessary.
Inder such a policy there is no cause for anxiety
until all importation ceases and the entire local
market is locally supplied, and that, especially
considering the vast increase of population which
would go on under such a policy, is a very far-off
contingency. When the local market, and all
available export business, are overtaken, then,
and. not till then, is it necessary to consider the
advisability of a “go-slow” policy. By going
slow with local manufactures, while the local
supply of goods is so inadequate that the bulk of
our manufactured supplies are still imported, the
country is kept poor ; the workers are kept poor
and their jobs remain precarious ; the supply of
skilled workers doesn’t increase as it should, and in
consequence trades-unionism is weakened ; and in
addition to everything else, the growth of popula-
tion is retarded. The “go-slow” policy, in short,
is a wilful and premeditated cultivation of a “tired
feeling,” and the country which deliberately grows
and fertilises and irrigates its tired feeling, and
preserves it as a blessed emblem of liberty, has a
poor prospect ahead.
»
The Position of Maoriland Liberalism.
“ Pucha ” writes on the above subject:—
A good many Maoriland democrats are now of opinion
that Premier Seddon has outlived his usefulness. That
he rendered great services to the country in the past is
unquestioned, but his continuance in office promises no
real reforms for the future. True that he often indulges
in a tirade against the useless and contemptible Leg.
Council, but as three-fourths of that old clo’ institution
are his own nominees his speeches on this head are re-
garded with some doubt, though they may be genuine
enough.
A great trouble with Seddon is his attachment to the
Imperial foolishness. He seems unable now to remember
that there is any such place as Maoriland. When the
Russo-Jap war broke out his solicitude was rather for
flattering British prejudices against Russia than for pro-
tecting Maoriland’s interests. Japan and not Russia is
the real menace to the whole of Australasia, hut because
Japan is Britain’s ally Premier Seddon must join in the
ignorant British mouthings against Russia. In his
speeches on “ Russian ambitions ” he almost places
Maorilanders amongst the Chinese and other Asiatics who
look up to Japan as their champion. Again, when the
naval subsidy was under discussion, Seddon rejoiced
that nobody in Maoriland advocated a local navy. He
preferred to pay tribute for a few British hulks that
would fall like a second edition of Jericho at the noise of
the first shot from a modern gun. Maoriland wants a
national Premier, who can keep in mind Maoriland’s own
interests first, last, and all the time, and Richard J,
Seddon does not fill the bill.
As regards the Ballance-Mackenzie policy of land
settlement of which he is the inheritor, Seddon seems to
waver badly. The whole of his declarations on the land
question are simply a large and decorated Yes-No. Maori-
land’s leasehold system of land settlement is far from
perfect, but it recognises to some extent the rights of the
State to the ownership of land. As the rent, however, is
calculated on the value of the land at the time of letting,
without any provision for re-valuation, it is clear that the
present arrangement can only be regarded as temporary.
On the one hand, there is the Farmers’ Union, a sort
of ’Pootra organisation, demanding the freehold not
only for all future settlers, but even retrospectively
for those Crown tenants who were settled on the land
under the leasehold system. On the other side are the
Land Reformers, who are opposed to any further aliena-
tion of the freehold, and favor such an extension of the
leasehold system as will include re-valuation of all land at
regular intervals for purposes of land value taxation.
Now, instead of hearkening to the advice of these
Liberals who are defending the rights of the people
against the attacks of would-be land monopolists, Seddon
just waits to see which is the winning side before he
definitely pronounces in favor of alienation or conser-
vation of the public rights.
The fact is, a long spell of power has weakened the
democratic fibre of the Seddon Administration. Mai.
Kenzie was the last of the old democrats. The bulk > f
the present supporters of the Premier are men of ptor
ability ; for Seddon’s Strong Man policv has driven
independent Liberals into revolt. Lawyers and specu-
lators with axes to grind form a large propor-
tion of the Ministerial party. Such men will
in practice support the Premier even when
they heartily disagree with his policy. George
Fowlds and' A. W. Hogg are about the only strong
democrats in the rank and file of the party. Nearly all
the Ministry are poor spirited and submissive. Joe Ward,
Seddon’s lieutenant, is about the only able man among
them. He is fat, affable and a good speaker, consequently
he is in great demand for opening Art Unions and such
like. Since he was knighted he has developed strong
Tory leanings, and many of the Tory time-servers look for-
ward to his succeeding Seddon, should death or some
other cause put the Big Man out of the way. In the cir-
cumstances it behoves Maoriland democrats to he more
energetic in preparing for the next election than they
have hitherto been. At the last election for Auckland
City, to take a typical instance, though there were two
Labor candidates, both of them sound men, the Seddonite
ticket won the day for a lawyer, a publican and a specu-
lator, all three of whom are wealthy men and merely
nominal Liberals. Labor Unions should see to it that the
same does not happen again.
A Lesson for Laborites.
Theiie’s a le3Son for every Labor party in the
mess into which the Queensland central sugar
mills have got. There is especially a lesson for the
Federal Labor party. With a modesty and a self -
suppression which few political parties ever had—
which, perhaps, none before ever had —the early
Laborites decided that they would be simply a
third party, casting their weight with whichever
other party offered them • most, and that they
would not aspire to hold office themselves. The
result was that, though they were able, up to a
certain point, to mould legislation in their way,
they never had a say in its administration. And the
result of that, again, is that numerous valuable
experiments have been spoiled, and public enter-
prise generally has got a bad name, through the
administration of those experiments being handed
over to men who had no real sympathy with
them, and who, in fact, would rather see them fail
than succeed. In the Queensland case the idea
was to free the sugar-cane grower from the middle-
man by helping him to provide himself with mills
in the most convenient central situations at the
minimum of cost. And instead of seeing that that
idea was carried out, Philp’s Ministers allowed
public money to be put into mills three times
larger than the area of surrounding sugar-land
justified ; and it allowed them to be placed, not in
central situations, but where influence dragged
them ; and it permitted the directors to pay ex-
travagant prices for their own and their friends’
cane; and it allowed them to go on, year after
year, piling up debts which they had no reasonable
expectation of paying. Now, when the Queens-
land Laborites have taken up the white man’s
burden, and accepted the responsibility of ad-
ministering as well as legislating, they find them-
selves hobbled with debt and bad bargains, and
unable to make a fair start. And that is particu-
larly hard lines on the Queensland Laborites,
because they, at any rate, never had the same
queer notions about not accepting office that the
Southerners have had.
Beauchamp’s Blunders.
Unless N.S.W.’s late Governor Beauchamp has
been shamefully misrepresented he has succeeded
in demonstrating, in a recent Freetrade speech in
the House of Lords, how it is possible for a man
to live for two years in a country and go away
knowing, if possible, less of it than when he
arrived. A London Daper credits the peer with
this awful yarn :
con trasted the commercial experience of New South
\V ales (Freetrade) and its neighbor Victoria (Protectionist)
during the ten years 1890-1900. In New South Wales the
imports rose 22 per cent. ; in Victoria they fell 27 per
cent. As to exports, New South Wales increased 27 per
cent., Victoria fell 11 per cent. The revenue in New
South Wales rose 147 per cent., in Victoria it decreased 3
per cent.
It is difficult to preserve any decent semblance of
respect for the House of Lords when one of its
members blathers in this pitiable fashion. And
doubtless the House listened to Beauchamp with
some respect, under' the impression that his
sojourn in N.S.W. made him something of an
authority. These are the principal holes in Mr.
B. Chump’s argument:—
(1) N.S.W. never was a Freetrade country. Even a
Governor of very limited intelligence ought to know that
there was a semi-Protectionist tariff in force right up to
March, 1892; a much more strongly Protectionist tariff
from that date to Ist January, 1896, and a partially-
Protectionist tariff after that date. The last-named was
certainly called Freetrade, but surely Beauchamp read the
’■'in tariff at some time or other, and saw the discrep-
ancies.
C ') During the eleven years, 1890-1900, Victorian exports
d.un’t fall 11 per cent.; they increased from £13,266,222
to £17,422,552, which is a rise of 31 per cent.
(3) The revenue of N.S.W. didn’t rise 147 per cent.—
m other words, it didn’t rise from about 94 millions
to 24 millions. No one but a fool would imagine such a
tiling. The general revenue rose from £6,861,498 to
£7,040,359, while the gross railway revenue rose by about
£1,000,000, and the net railway revenue by about £450,000
as the result of the opening of nearly 900 miles of new
railway, all built with borrowed money.
The Bulletin trusts that Beauchamp will invest
a shilling or two in Coghlan’s little paper-covered
book of statistics, and study it, so that he won’t
make an ass of himself and, incidentally, of New
South Wales in the future.
4
There is more ill-luck for the Bear. Makaroff
came out with his scrag-end of a fleet to see if his
friend Togo was about, and found him. It seems
to have been a case of 40 vessels against 10 and a
run for shelter, though other accounts have it that
the trouble took place as the Bear was coming out.
Anyhow, Makaroff’s flagship went down, struck
by five torpedoes, or a mine, or by the explosion of
its own boilers—went down so suddenly that out
of the 850 or so on board all that were saved were
four people and a Grand Duke. Makaroff himself
was drowned in the conning tower from which he
was directing the battle, if there was one, and he
was a man of size whom it will be very difficult to
replace. His fate curiously recalls that of a still
greater man—Admiral Grau, the Peruvian, who
met his death in the conning tower of the Huascar
when that superannuated mass of metal fought four
Chilian ships to the bitter end in the hopeless war
of 79. Torpedoes were little used in 1879 and
quick-firers didn’t exist, and the battle was a
slow and desperate process of pounding at short
range. When the Huascar was a mere shambles
it was surrendered by the principal surviving
officer—a sub-lieutenant or midshipmite or some-
thing of the sort. Still Grau, at the worst, had
better luck than Makaroff. He lived long
enough to make the biggest name in recent naval
history, and there was a sunset halo of glory about
his death, arrived at while fighting against im-
possible odds. Makaroff, on the other hand,
was drowned like a rat in a trap; the torpedo
gives no time for glory or halo or things like that.
Grau, by the way, represented a different variety
of tactics from those of Starck and Makaroff.
Thoughfar the weaker party he carried the war into
the enemy’s waters from the beginning, and‘for
months he raised Sheol up and down the enemy’s
coast, dodging the Chilian fleet with a skill that
seemed incredible. The end was the same—the
Chilian fleet at last closed in on the lone Huascar
upon the high seas ; but it was a better end than
that of Cervera, bottled up at Santiago, or
Makaroff, practically trapped in Port Arthur.
4
“ Demos,” from Tasmania :
Through lack of courage, Premier Propsting has lost all
chance of winning- fair renown as the deliverer of Tasmania.
The strong man dare stake all on an important issue, and
is ready to forsake his mistakes and acknowledge them.
Propsting does neither. He shows lack of courage on
great issues and stubbornness over small errors. His Self-
Assessment Bill of last session is allowed to moulder in
the waste-basket, where the House of Dodery placed it,
although it is the most important and most needed mea-
sure ever introduced in the Tasmanian Parliament. The
heat of battle now rages round the Occupancy Bate Tax
Bill—a poor little revenue measure, expected to produce
£15,000, and collected at enormous expenditure of time
and red-tape from 40,000 people—an average of 7s. 6d. each.
The tax is to be collected from everybody except Domain
sleepers. There are to be no exemptions. Every occupier
of a house, hut, humpy or bag tent is to be taxed.
Three Dodderers go for re-election in May. Had Prop-
sting put up a stiff fight on the Self-Assessment Bill and
persisted in it, those three seats might have been cap-
tured by progressives. They are all Hobart and Launces-
ton seats, where assessments are somewhere near actual
values, and the electors could have been easily shown
how they are being “ touched ” to release sheep-run
holders from just taxation. But there is nothing to fight
for now. Proppy has lost his chance. Labor members
gave hearty support to Faint Heart, hoping he would
develop strength with experience. It now looks hopelesss
to expect real reform until Labor is strong enough to
provide a Labor Premier. Meanwhile, hopes are centred
on the proposed Federal Land-values Taxation to break
up our big estates.
4
The British press has taken to making heavy
and unwise remarks about Australia’s birth-rate
when it would be much better employed looking
after its own, and we get such massive observa-
tions as this cabled to us :
London, April 12, 2.45 p.m.—The Daily Maii., comment-
ing on the decline of the birth-rate in Australia, sa3’s that
if the Australian population does not increase British
power in Australia is doomed.
Apropos of which, Mr. W. M’Lean, Government "
Statistician of Victoria, issues a very interesting
pamphlet dealing with the subject. He points
Back to the Harem?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I submit that an intellectual woman is an abnormality ;
she has the brain of a man in the body of a woman. . . .
Intellect in woman has so dazzled us by its brilliance that
we have failed to recognise it as a disease, like genius in
man, and the pearl in an oyster. But, nevertheless, it is a
disease, and must inevitably be the death of the race in
which it is fostered. — Curious Wail of a Sydney Tuck-
graph Correspondent re Birth-rate.
Lady, as you so severely
In the mirror scan your face,
Learn that intellect is merely
Symbol of a fading race.
Once again the critic heckles
Till your soul is scarce your own,
You may have the fat and freckles,
Mind belongs to man alone.
When you meet the archer Cupid
Hide your wit and do not speak,
Nature meant you to be stupid,
If you’re not you’re just a freak.
And, since, lacking mind, all beauty
Is a fraud and thing that’s vain,
Clearly then your patent duty
Is to be obtuse and plain.
“ Take, oh take, those lips away ” now,
They are not from ear to ear,
“ And those eyes the break o’ day ” now—
They should have a squint, my dear.
What’s the use of grace of features,
Soaring minds, and hearts of fire,
Since ’tis said that cow-like creatures
Are the mothers we require ?
They would bear a population
Who the wage of sweat might keep,
And by toil without cessation
Plant the crops that others reap.
Mothers, dumb and all-forgiving,
What to you is grace of mind—
Wh it to you is life but living
T > perpetuate your kind ?
Yet in vain such critics study
To re-write the written page,
Grace of soul as well as body
Is the woman’s heritage ;
And her mind that’s skyward winging
By the hand of Time set free,
Taken from the cage, soars singing,
Never more enslaved to be.
LOREL.


The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York*
SETTLEMENT BASED ON PRESENT EXPERIENCE.
The following policy has recently matured, and the result will be found worthy of the
consideration of persons seeking a safe investment combined with Insurance :
Policy No. 568,531. 10 Year Endowment; 10 Year Distribution.
Age at Issue, 40. Single Premium, £443 11s; 6d. Amount, £5OO.
Issued in the Year 1893. Matured in the Year 1903.
„ SETTLEMENT.
Policy £5OO O O
BonuB 103 12 6
Total Amount Paid £603 12 6
Cash gain to Policy-holder £l6O Is., being a return equal to over 3 per cent, compound
interest on Premium paid, and insurance for £5OO during 10 years, free of cost.
Accumulated Funds exceed £80,000,000
Surplus above Liabilities exceed ..£15,000,000
artieulars of Policies to meet every requirement may be obtained at the Head Office for
Aus alia, or at any of its Branches.
COMPANY’S BUILDING * Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
ones.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O
for this?
N i"s
Write for our Illustrated Booklet, mailed Free on application. Ask for Catalog 8.,
explaining what can be done with the Pianola.
All Records supplied from our immense Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
Sole Agents for
Australasia,
323 George St., SYDNEY ; 185-7 Collins St., MELBOURNE; & at Finney, Isles & Co.. BRISBANE.
out that the birth-rate, for all useful purposes,
consists not merely of the children that are born,
but of those that survive infancy, and if only the
children who reach their fifth year are counted (the
others, being in the cemetery, aren’t worth counting)
things are rather different." On this basis, among
the leading civilised States which furnish reliable
statistics, Holland has the highest birth-rate; then
come Norway, Prussia, Hungary, N. S. Wales,
Maoriland, Denmark, and England (a bad
eighth). Victoria is tenth. (Queensland, Tas-
mania, S.A. and Westralia are not included
in Mr. M ‘Lean’s list at all; if they were
tilings might look even better for this country.)
If the birth-rate, again, is looked at as the
increase of population by excess of births over
deaths, the Victorian statist reckons that
Australia has the highest birth-rate in the world,
and then follow in order Norway, Prussia,
Holland, Denmark, Germany, and the United
Kingdom (seventh, and a very long way behind
Germany). Further, he digs this curious fact
out of the last N.S.W. census. Among all
the wives in N.S.W. the one born in the United
States has fewest children. Next to her the least
fertile is the French wife ; then the wife born in
other Australian States or in Maoriland; then
follow in order the Italian, N.S.W., Russian,
English, Scotch, Irish and German wives. The
Germans in N.S.W. average 538 children to 100
German wives; whereas 100 wives b. rn in the
United States only average 324 children.
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Light that Failed."
Theatre Royal “Great Millionaire.”
Criterion “ Message from Mars."
Palace “ Little Red Riding Hood.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus.
Steyne Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Mama’s New Husband.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Darling of the Gods.”
Theatre Royal “ Her Second Time on Earth.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
.
The moral of “A Message from Mars,”
revived at Sydney Criterion on Saturday night,
is more clearly visible to the naked eye than that
of any other of W. F. Hawtrey’s pieces. Every
reformation, it seems, has so far been on the
wrong lines. The Sword and the Bible, the rum
bottle and the Society for Respectably Clothing
the Savage, the Sydney Morning Herald and
Elijah ll.—all equally miss the mark. The only
right weapon is Pig’s Foot and Cold Pudding
taken before going to bed. Gregan McMahon
was the worst man in all the world, because the
most selfish. He ate (this was before the curtain
rose), dreamed horribly, of course, and woke a con-
verted man. In the first act, before the Pig’s Foot
had time to get fairly going upon its missionary
career, McMahon would not give Hawtrey a
job at any price, even though he was an in-
ventor. After the Foot had finished its firstly,
he was prepared to give 2§ per cent, of the profits ;
and by the time it had got right through he had
offered the inventor halves. This seemed as far as
the dramatist was prepared to let the Foot go; a
more socialistic one would have let it tramp on
a few per cent, further, reckoning that, if Hawtrey
supplied all the brains while M‘Mahon simply put
in a little cash to start the thing, 25 per cent, was
quite good enough return for M‘Mahon. The
Bulletin suspects that the dramatist who stopped
at 50 per cent, and put a halo round M‘Mahon’s
head for offering such terms is really the Em-
ployers’ Union in disguise. Or probably the
English capitalist who was just going to put
£2,953,714 into Australia, but didn’t on account of
Johnaynes’ Secession movement, or Fitzgeralds’
Circus, or something.
* » * *
O. P. Heggie is the brown man from
Mars who comes into M‘Mahon’s dream and
teaches him “otherdom”—which, as before
explained, means collaring 50 per cent, of the
profits of a great invention in return for putting
an a few pounds to start it. He has only to stand
still in the limelight and talk at the rate of 15
words a minute from the bottom of his chest, and
he does it quite satisfactorily. W. F. Hawtrey’s
tramp—the inventor who has made a mess of
things—is the most admirable feature of the per-
formance. It is by far his best work ; and of it
all nothing equals that early scene in which he
meets M‘Mahon just when the Reforming Foot (or
whatever it was) is getting to business. Gregan
M‘Mahon, on the other hand, is seen at perhaps
his worst. Instead of representing a selfish,
money-grubbing egoist, he stages a flippant fool-
one of the racketty, nervous, fidgety asses that
one finds in Frank Thornton farces. The ladies
have less to do than in the company’s “ Society ”
pieces. Miss Lane is now Aunt Parker and Miss
Austin the lady who is going to marry the
dreamer. Each is just a moderate success.
Generally the fantastic piece is as well mounted
as it was when it set out on its successful career
nearly four years ago, and perhaps even better
dressed.
* -* * *
The next occupants of Sydney Lyceum
will be George Stephenson’s American Musical
Comedy Co.—including Edward Lauri—which will
open in the “Rose of Riviera.”
* * * -*■
This is the last week in which Sydneyites
who object to Barrie’s methods as a playwright
will have an opportunity to see and abuse “The
Admirable Crichton ”at Her Majesty’s. A local
genius is broken-hearted because the Thrums man
did not make Crichton refuse to leave the Island.
He ought to see the others off standing proudly
erect, yet moist eyed, and all the audience would
Seel that by-and-bye his Lady Mary would come
back, or send for him. Anyway, that he would
never buttle again. On Saturday next Kipling’s
“Light That Failed” will burn off the Admirable
butler from Her Majesty’s stage and glow there
itself. And the vulgar girl who was only Miss
Wrong, and the refined lady who was Miss Right,
will lay siege to the heart of the man whose eyes
go back on him and so give a name to the play.
-sfc s{£
Fitzgeralds’ Circus had its first change of
bill on Saturday, when it added a dancing elephant
to its show. Pony Commodore also was taken out
of his curl-papers, and put a few more pounds
into the pockets of the Fitzes, who are understood
to have lately admitted him to a junior partner-
ship in consideration of his long and faithful ser-
vices. The Jap. wrestlers throw as much spirit
into their fast and furious bouts as they did
hitherto; and, as the circus public gets more of
the hang of the rules of the Osaka game, the in-
terest in the turn increases. Gordon, the little
strong man, adds some new performances to his
string of old ones; in addition to lifting the horse
and swinging 4cwt. by his teeth, and showing a re-
markable chest expansion of l|ft., he now turns
himself into an anvil rest, where the blacksmiths
forge the shoes with which the giraffe is shod.
* * *
The Willoughby-Geach Co. turned itself
into a gathering of lightning change artists at the
Palace this week. In the intervals of packing up
for _ his journey north Willoughby has been
variously Jones and Wright—Jones that the
things Happened to up to Wednesday night, and
Wright that was Wrong for two succeeding
nights, in both cases with the same satisfactory
results as when he was the same people before.
He would have been Smith who left Home only
the Permans were waiting with Red Riding Hood
and the Wolf, and a waiting Wolf isn’t a thing for
a fleshy person like Willoughby to argue with.
** * *
Concerning “The Great Millionaire,” at
Sydney Royal, there is no cause to say anything
save that the robust drama is still booming, and
it would be rash to predict a date on which it
might be withdrawn without causing disappoint-
ment in some quarters. But when the millionaire
with his Bread Trust passes away, it is understood
that “ The Flood Tide ” will follow. Meanwhile,
the news that Pierpont Morgan, of the Steel Trust,
is now a crushed minion saying “Yessir” to
Rockefeller, comes opportunely. It tends to
prove that the Great Millionaire who puts bread
up to ss. a loaf is a precarious ruffian and a
public calamity that stands in slippery places.
He is always liable to be overwhelmed by the
righteous indignation of the Great Billionaire who
is busy putting meat up to 7s. 6d. a chop.
** * *
The Tivoli unshipped a new star from the
Himalaya last week—Miss Duprez, who began
her career in these parts on Saturday by telling a
number of smoking-room stories, which made one
old gentleman rise in wrath and seek the fresh air
of Castlereagh-street. The rest of the big house
seemed to like them, though, and wanted more,
lots more; but the newcomer, who patters in a
Dutch-American dialect, told in confidence that
she wouldn’t talk so much only she really wants
the money, and supplied a dance of the tornado pat-
tern instead. Between stories she sings a little,
but isn’t so distinguished in that line. The Bells,
Empire Girls, Miss Ray Jones (who is singing
even better than usual just now), Graham’s mon-
key, and others are still on the bill.
** * *
Violinist Ernest Toy, who returns to
America next week after melodious progress
through Australia, closed his season on Saturday
last at St. James’s Hall, Sydney. Ernest is a
Queenslander, and perhaps that’s one reason he
can put so much warmth and fire into his passion-
ate class of fiddle pieces. The resonant wooden
box with the tail is yearly becoming more
“fashionable,” so young Toy has a good time
ahead of him. On Saturday night he broke a
string twice—Kubelik often breaks his, so used
William with the j (otherwise Wilhelmj)—but
that only made the audience more attentive.
When the fiddler fiddles so hard as to break
things, then the audience knows it is getting value
for its money.
* * *
Mosman’s only musical society broke into
classic melody on the occasion of its fourth con-
cert, and coruscated through “Stabat Mater”
and a miscellaneous programme in the gaudy little
town hall, which is not an inspiring firmament for
any constellation of stars. “Stabat Mater ”is
one of the brightest of the bunch of gems Rossini
flashed before the eyes of a dazzled world, to prove
that the Parisian critics who said he was played
out were persons whose promissory note should
not be taken unless with a good endorsement.
The M.M.S. managed to render the masterpiece
with considerable strength and sweetness. ‘‘ Light
as Air,” from Gounod’s “Faust,” and Verdi s
‘ ‘ Borne by Memory, ’ ’ by the chorus and orchestra,
boomed interesting variety into the show. The
red-roofed suburb begins to take its society very
seriously, and the warblers are now firmly estab-
lished and threaten to expand into something con-
siderable. The society has only been a year in
existence, and includes such names as Alfred
Norman, pianist Tristram, organist Truman,
tenor French, basso Gooud, Miss Lynn Mills, and
Mrs. Truman*
* * *
Freida Miller’s concert of last week gave
the clever little pianiste a chance to exhibit the
improvement she has made since her last scintilla-
tion. Miss Hutchison Cooper. Mr. H. Reene,
and the resourceful Sykes—what would local
coneerters do without Sykes ?—assisted to make the
show a success.
tv t{£
Managed by Mr. H. N. Southwell, of
Paling’s, the Pierrot Entertainers, who introduced
their songs and stories to Sydney at St. James’
Hall a week or two ago,. will begin another season
under more favorable conditions in the Queen’s
Hall, Pitt-st., on Saturday, 30th inst. They were
very well worth hearing when they gave their
first drawing-room show; now that they know
better what Sydney wants, they should be still
more successful.
*• * * *
“ The Darling of the Gods,” with its early
suggestions of “ The Mikado” and “The Geisha,”
and its closing illusions of Spirit-land, appears to
go all the better for a course of practice at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.j. A crowded house gave “The
Darling” another warm greeting last Saturday.
People in general know what to expect from this
gay-to-grave drama, and the applause comes more
easily now than on the first night. As an enter-
tainment for the eye “The Darling” is a very
versatile production. There’s a rich crimson glow
about the Feast of a Thousand Welcomes which
makes an effective contrast to the following pic-
ture, and the scenes thereafter are strong in
variety. The Feast is a foolish thing as regards
refreshments, seeing that Kara, the guest of
honor, merely comes to take an ominous cup of
tea with Yo San’s contemptible father, who is
indifferent as to whether the hero will get
assassinated on his journey to or from the palace.
* * * *
All the same it is a fine feast of color,
music, and eccentric movement. Spectacle and
trumpet blares seem intended to divert attention
from the awful insincerity of those Thousand
Welcomes for Kara. Everybody knows that
Zakkuri, the Ko-Koof Japan, has got the honored
guest on his black list, but nobody protests against
the unsportsmanlike trap prepared for the visitor.
Even the gallery at Her Majesty’s is too impressed
by the gorgeousness of the arrangements to openly
resent the villain’s conduct. Perhaps the gallery
forgi/es him for the sake of his Gilbertian humor.
When a reckless courtier utters some high-treason-
able sentiments the sanguinary Minister tackles
the culprit in a comic opera spirit, wishing to
know whether he heard the other gentleman
aright, whereupon the democrat bows his shaven
head and assures the Minister that he didn’t hear
aright. If the authors of the drama meant Zak-
kuri’s style to be blood-curdling it is certain that
actor Warburton misplays the part; but if they
wanted the Mikado’s murderous minion to have a
little Ko-Ko in his composition Warburton fills
the bill. Miss Jeffries wins increasing respect for
her Yo-San, and the self-consciousness of Julius
Knight is a little less evident than it was.
* #
At the Princess’s nothing has occurred to
interrupt the reasonable success of “Mama’s
New Husband” except a long delay in raising
the curtain t’other Monday night. The plump
comedian in the name part was suffering
from his liver or something, and in the
end an understudy read his part. Stine’s
health is now restored to its best working order,
and all goes well. The merits of “Mama’s
New Husband ” being more numerous than con-
spicuous, they don’t call for a volley of adulatory
adjectives. Miss Olive Evans is the mainstay
of the farcical outbreak ; Stine and Bates are
important helps; a tall, stiff vocalist disguised as
a footman introduces a very musical voice
into the matter; the irrelevant Bicknells are clever
whirlwind dancers. The consistent briskness of
the performance accounts for its being good enough
to last four weeks at a theatre where frivolous
comedy of the lightest kind has rarely prospered.
The American Comedy Co. will make itself
pleasant until Friday, the 29th. Then “ The
Marriage of Kitty ” comes along for a fortnight
only. It is a new experience for Manager Wil-
liamson to stage an imported attraction for two
weeks only, but, in the forthcoming instance, he
will have to limit the run of “Kitty” as he is
booked to put on George Edwardes’ co. on a fixed
and cast-iron date.
»# * *
This is the final week of the prophetic
caterwaul which serves as an overture to the Face
at the Window. The reason why the Andersonian
Ripper thus invites his intended victims to open
the window and throw a boot at the Face is still
an unsolved mystery. Also the fact that they
don’t throw the proverbial boot is equally hard to
explain. Robert Inman has sufficient common
sense to prompt him to open the window, as any
ordinary citizen would under the circumstances,
but instead of waiting for another waul with a
missile in his hand he retires to the middle of the
stage and falls asleep, so that the Face may con-
veniently stab him in due course. A section of
Melbourne society has been much impressed by
the Face. The story is told of a local young man
suffering from insomnia who hoped to cure
the complaint by wheeling his bed to the
window and gazing at the stars until he fell
asleep. The nervous subject had begun to improve
under this star-gazing treatment before he was
tempted to try a night out at the Koval, since
when he has put his bed back to the old spot and
given up all idea of ever sleeping again. Many
similar testimonials to the efficacy of Anderson’s
drama wall be forwarded on application and
receipt of thirteen stamps. The bill for next
Saturday is “Her Second Time on Earth with
Miss Duggan as the second-timer.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the marvellous
Uessem boys are earning a large salary amidst
roars of approval. Sometimes a few excited ad-
mirers commence to roar what time the elder lad
is straddling his way to the top of the two ladders
with his brother balanced at one arm’s length
upon his round German head, and then the rest
of the audience says ‘ ‘ Sshssh !” in an awestricken
whisper. Probably this feat of acrobatics is a
matter of such absorbing interest for the per-
formers that they wouldn’t be startled by a cannon
explosion; nevertheless, the “Sshssh” is a thought-
ful compliment to the “turn.” Nat Clifford has
resumed work, and is singing and talking his best
song in his best Wootwell-cum-Coleman manner.
Nathaniel, it seems, is a maker of his own jokes,
and a wheezer of considerable ability, - but he
doesn’t know where to draw the line in risky
humor. Having scored a success with a permis-
sible French sort of joke, he followed it up last
Saturday with an English remark which was either
meaningless or objectionable. A sudden slump in
the merriment of the house indicated that the
majority didn’t think the remark meaningless.
*# # *
At Adelaide Royal, Williamson’s Comedy
Co. has run “The Marriage of Kitty’’for two
weeks. This agreeable trifle in three acts is
curiously constructed. There are no old people in
it and no young ones. In fact, besides three small
parts for servants, there are only four people
altogether, and they range from an admitted 28
for the heroine to an apparent maximum of 40 for
her godfather. The acting is good. Wilfred
Draycott and Athol Forde, Rose Musgrove and
Florence Hamer, hold the stage in pairs (or in
one great scene all together) all through the
three acts, and honors are fairly divided. The
second play, also new to Australia, is “Cousin
Kate,” by H. H. Davies. The love-interest here
is that of “Lady Huntworth’s Experiment” over
again. Kate, no longer exactly young, meets a
charming stranger while on a journey. The
attraction is clearly mutual. Then he proves to
be the man who is engaged to her young cousin
—who proves (in the end) to prefer someone
else. Scruples and self - sacrifice all very
proper, and all wasted; and a happy ending.
“Kate” only running for about two hours (as
likewise did “Kitty”), the bill is made up by
“Madame Butterfly,” that little Anglo-Japanese
tragedy by David Balasco. This new programme
fives an opportunity to Permain and Florence
ieclercp, a capable pair who only had trifling
Sarts in the earlier production. John F.
heridan has been crowding the Tivoli during
the race-weeks with musical farce. “The
Lady Slavey ” displayed him in trousers (except
when the said black trousers, by one of the
most wonderful trick-changes ever seen, flew up
and became a tartan cloak, leaving him in kilts !).
“Mrs. Dooley’s Little Joke” saw him back in
petticoats. This piece has been constructed by
Pat Finn around the great mother-in-law joke and
the Melbourne Cup, which is won by a filiy owned
by the Dooley family, as shown in detail by cine-
matograph. Lulu Zesch and Heba Barlow divide
the lead, and there are plenty of good singing
voices for “introduced” ballads. Among the
men, Tom Curran and F. Wentworth put in some
clever light comedy, and Gulliver wanders in and
out of the piece at will.
The Wild Cat Column.
Treasurer Butler, of S. Australia, who could not
show a legitimate surplus last year, notwithstanding that
his State had its brightest streak of luck for a long
while, is busy explaining that the deficit which is bound
to come along this year is all due to Federation. Last
year an insignificant little addition was made to
the land tax; and by faking the accounts and
leaving out the Northern Territory deficit, a bogus
surplus was then shown, and on the strength
of that bogus surplus the insignificant little
additional tax was knocked off at the demand of
the Opposition, and the Jenkins Government swallowed
the dictation without a kick. This year it will therefore
be impossible, it seems, to even fake a surplus. Treasurer
Butler is consequently now issuing columns of warning to
his State, telling it to keep its eye fixed on the Federal
Government’s frightful postal extravagance. Apparently
he sizes up S. Australia as a one-eyed place which, if it
keeps looking at the extravagance of George Turner (of all
men in Australia), won’t be able to observe the shocking
incapacity of Jenkins. What Butler forgets to mention
to S. Australia is that the Federal Government has not,
so far, borrowed a single copper, while, in spite of the fact
that it has built no new railways for years, his own incapable
Government has been borrowing upwards of half-a-million
a year, even since it professed to have given up the
borrowing policy, and in the past four months has success-
fully hawked £420,800 of Treasury bills, which, consider-
ing that S. Australia has a population of only 370,000, is
something wilder in the way of running into debt than
the Owe’See was guilty of even at its wildest. The
principal difference between Turner and Butler is that
Turner is trying to pay the painters’ and the plumbers’
and the masons’ bills himself as they come in, while Butler


m
m
m
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
IF INTERESTED, write
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
a. e. leplastrier, Manager. 40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Mining men -with concentrating problems to
work out will be interested to know that A. R. Wilfley of
Denver, patentee of the world renowned Wilfley Con-
centrator, which has proved itself superior to all other
types, has been devoting his attention to the production
of a machine to concentrate extremely fine mineral and
slimes, and has brought out and perfected an entirely new
table, using new mechanical principles for the separation
of mineral from its gangue. The new table has been
thoroughly tested and proved before placing it on the
market, and has already been adopted by many leading
mines in America and Mexico. It is adaptable to any
kind of fine mineral and will fill a want long felt in milling-
problems. It is of large capacity, being designed to take
the entire tailings and wash-water from one Wilfley table.
Pull particulars of the Wilfley slime table can be obtained
from the Austral Otis Engineering Company Ltd. of
South Melbourne, who have been appointed sole manu-
facturers in Australasia.*
* * * »
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903 :
“When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
* * » *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Rivited Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(m nber Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.* "
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * ♦
A machinery call of 6d. by the New Stirling
(Vic.) board brought matters to a head. A petition was
lodged for a special general meeting, and it looked as if
the whole management was to be upset. Committees
were wanted for everything, and to investigate the con-
duct of everyone. But the birds did not wait for the
gunner. Changes were made in the directorate, and as
the new men have the bulk of the shares behind them,
doubtless they will do any inquiring that may be thought
necessary.
CYANIDE
GUA'tAIVTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Cnrrie-st., Adelaide ;94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
piya them with an 1.0. U. and throws the 1.0. U. into the
Iradle for the baby to wrestle with presently. Then
Butler puts on his halo and asks S. Australia to be horrified
at Turner’s extravagance in paying for things as he goes
along.
* * * *
The Jenkins Government (S. Aus.) is looking-
forward to a deficit of “ £30,000 or £40,000 ’’—exclusive
of the customary N.T. deficit. And the only thing it has
done so far to stave it off is to impose a tax on tombstones
erected in the local cemetery.
* * *
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
tub United States
Income Total Added
Less Sums Claims. Expenses. Out- to
Written Off. goings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1596.. 9,535,204 4,609,086 1,650,621 6,289,707 3,245,497
1897.. 10.363.675.4,455,378 1,778,534 6,233,912 4,129,763
1898.. 11,301,446 4,987,464 1,819,464 6,806,928 4,494,518
1899. .11,742,265 5,106,596 2,173,613 7,280,209 4,462,056
1900.. 12,639,530 5,403,717 2,145,201 7,548,918 5,090,612
1901. .13,607,221 5,800,186 2,324,663 8,124,849 5,482,372
1902.. 14,438,370 6,054,346 2,609,330 8,663,676 5,774,694
1903.. 14,656,981 7,125,791 2,975,574 10,101,365 4,555,616
And so that succession of increasing figures, which is the
hustling American office’s ambition, is checked ; the
amount added to funds being over a million less than it
was for the previous year. But for most of this the re-
valuation of securities, which is an annual necessity under
the wise laws of the U.S., is responsible. The
amount written off is £618,230. Twelve or 18 months
ago Pierpont Morgan and his fellow-riggers were making
a boom. Since then Morgan has had a fall, and U.S.
stocks came with him. The Equitable doesn’t appear to
have held any stock in the Steel Trust or other concerns
in which the' boomsters figured most; but, just as other
stocks which it did hold moved up formerly in sympathy
with Morgan’s little rig, so now they have fallen in sym-
pathy. And the wise U.S. law, which has an idea that a
balance-sheet is issued for the purpose of reflecting the
true position of a co., insists that those movements shall
be noted. For 1901 the income was inflated by £441,246,
for 1902 by £313,427, gain in valuation of assets ; for 1903
it is deflated to the extent of £618,230, shrinkage in value
of securities. Under the Australian law, or rather
anarchy, an insurance co. may play with its assets as it
pleases. It may (and the thing has been done) write up
the value of its property 50 per cent, one year in order to
make a good showing and get business. Then it may
silently revert to the old valuation—only to presently
boost it up again, so that its canvasser may again pour
tales of great prosperity into the ears of ill-informed and
credulous people. The American law sits hard on that
sort of device, and insists that the values in the balance-
sheet must be real market values.
Still, though it certainly doesn’t make a balance-
sheet look any better to have to write off half-a-million or
so, the society need not be very much the worse for the
movement. It is not as though it bought stocks to sell
them again ; in 95 cases out of 100 it buys them simply to
earn interest with, and for that purpose it does not really
matter whether a £lOO stock-certificate is worth £B5 or
£ll5 in the market. What does make a mess of things is
interest earnings. The Equitable’s past four years’ record
has been:—
Interest Earned on Mean Funds.
1900 .. £4 6 0 p.c. I 1902 .. £4 111 p.c.
1901 .. 4111 „ | 1903 .. 31910 „
During 1901-1902 it had over £11,000,000 to find invest-
ments for, and it could only buy at big prices. The result
is that a considerable fall in earnings per cent, is shown
this year. After a year or two of buying at a low price,
earnings per cent, will no doubt be evened up again.
Booms don’t, therefore, pay insurance co.’s which have to
go on finding investments no matter how the market is.
Even now, in spite of the fall, the earnings are much in
excess of the average allowed for in the society’s actuarial
calculations. The exact amount of the surplus is not yet
known ; but it is probably somewhere between 15| and 16
millions. That is to say, even with a considerable
shrinkage in earnings, about £62,000,000 would be a suf-
ficient present fund to provide for all claims, according to
actuarial calculations, whereas £77,879,851 is actually
available. There is plenty of room here, then, for
the very worst sort of a slump, even if the slump had
no compensations in the shape of higher interest returns
per cent. It is a remarkably strong position—a position
which can never be reached by the concern whose one
thought when it sees a surplus is to wolf it in the shape
of bonuses.
For purposes of comparison, the next set of
figures are not worth as much as such figures ought to
be:—
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1896 ..£l7 12 6 per cent. 1900 ..£l6 19 5 per cent.
1897 .. 17 3 3 „ 1901 .. 17 1 8 „
1898 .. 16 2 0 „ 1902 .. 18 1 5 ~
1899 .. 18 10 3 „ 1903 .. 20 6 0 „
The last year’s figures are made to look worse by the de-
duction from the income of the amount by which securi-
ties have depreciated, while those of its predecessors were
made to look better through the increase of income from
the rise in those years. The expenses for the past three
years on income from all premiums, interest, dividends
and rents have been :
1901 £l7 13 1 per cent.
1902 18 9 6 „
1903 .... .. 19 9 7 „
That is probably a fairer statement of the situation. Even
then, of course, the movement is the wrong way—and the
rate was a long way too far on the wrong side before.
/~ * * * *
Industrial life assurance, poor as it is, has been
making such remarkable progress in recent years that
many companies and societies, which for a long while
would not think of having anything to do with it, are now
seriously considering whether they can afford to stand out
much longer. The greatest trouble with them is, not
that they are losing a business which is profitable in itself,
but that they are losing ordinary life business into which
the industrial policy often develops. In other words, the
offices which mix the two businesses are getting, or are
supposed to be getting, a good deal of ordinary business
through their industrial operations ; and the more con-
servative offices are viewing this with some alarm. It is
also pointed out by those who want the offices to go
into the industrial branch that they have for
years been providing for policies—child - insurance
policies, for instance—which they have really liked
just as little as they like industrial insurance, but
there was a demand for such tables, and the
demand was met. It is extremely probable, therefore,
that before very long some important announcements
will be made on the subject of industrial insurance, and
that at least one Australian office in the very front rank
will notify that it is prepared for the future to take up
this business. Of course it is impossible to say at what
expense rate the new business can be managed ; but it is
hoped that it will be under £35 per cent. Very little
industrial business is so far done at under £6O per cent.;
but, with the existing ordinary-business organisation to
work on, it is expected that a very considerable reduction
on that figure will be possible. Certainly if expenses can
be brought down to anything like the suggested figure the
chief objection to industrial insurance will be wiped out.
A remarkable wild-cat was dug up in Melbourne,
the other day, after 20 years’burial; at least, it was never
formally buried—the sands of 20 years had merely drifted
over it. In April, 1882, a co. with a nominal capital of
£200,000 was projected, and called the River Darling
Navigation Co. It was a Wilcannia idea ; the river was
to be turned into a permanent waterway, and half
the commerce of Australia, or thereabouts, was going to
pass between its banks, teeming with people. A few
hundreds were put up ; then a drought happened along,
and after that the rabbits, and the idea got
mislaid somewhere. Nobody had put up much
capital, and the man with £2O invested didn’t care
to spend £4O on finding out where his £2O had gone to, so
nothing at all happened for 22 years. Then the original
promotor, T. W. Chambers, thought the few hundreds left
might best be used up in letting the public know some-
thing about the Darling-. But there was a row, odd
pounds being apparently scarcer than they were 20 years
ago, and people who had forgotten all about the 22-year-
old wild cat wanted their money back. Justice Holroyd
ordered accordingly.
* * * *
The Bank op Australasia
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
April, 1897. .£45,375 5 p.c. =£40,000 £817,997
Oct., 1897.. 40,279 5 „ „ 40,000 818,276
April, 1898.. 48,546 6 „ „ 48,000 £lO,OOO 808,822
Oct., 1898.. 54,148 6 „ 48,000 5,000 809,970
April, 1899.. 56,312 7 „ ~ 56,000 810,282
Oct., 1899.. 119,871 8 „ „ 64,000 20,000 846,153
April, 1900.. 133,422 9 „ „ 72,000 20,000 887,575
Oct., 1900.. 151,466 10 „ „ 80,000 20,000 939,041
April, 1901.. 145,119 10 „ „ 80,000 35,000 969,160
Oct., 1901.. 140,077 10 „ „ 80,000 20,000 1,009,237
April, 1902.. 144,468 11 „ „ 88,000 16,000 1,049,705
Oct., 1902.. 136,943 11 „ „ 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
April, 1903.. 157,705 12 „ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116,353
Oct., 1903.. 151,598 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,146,951
The earnings on capital (£1,600,000) and reserves as at
the commencement of the half-year were at the rate of
£ll 3s. 3d. per cent. The recent movement in this
respect has been :
Oct., 1900.. £l2 3 7 p.c. Oct., 1902.. £lO 6 9 p.c.
April, 1901.. 11 8 7 „ April, 1903.. 11 15 0 „
Oct., 1901.. 10 18 1 „ Oct., 1903.. 11 3 3 „
April, 1902.. 11 1 5 „
In the half-year ended Oct., 1902, a bonus of £15,142
was paid to the staff, and is deducted from the profits
shown above ; without this deduction the earnings were
then at the rate of £ll 9s. 7d. per cent. Compared
with the position 12 months previously these results
show up :
Oct., 1902 Oct., 1903 Increases
Advances £13,652,571 £14,750,263 £1,097,692
Deposits 14,313,893 14,662,650 348,757
Reserves 1,084,648 1,146,951 62,303
Note Circulation .. 503,187 503,249 62
Bills and other Liabili- Decreases
ties .. 2,292,796 2,073,777 219,019
Government Securi-
ties 1,363,124 1,236,197 126,927
All Visible liquid As-
sets 5,874,369 4,996,287 878,082
Premises 355,583 336,077 19,506
Whereas at April, 1903, the visible liquid assets represented
26J per cent, of total liabilities to the public, in October
they represented over 28 per cent. The whole record is
one of continued and remarkable prosperity.
* * * *
William Sandford, who for 20 years has been
making a plucky attempt to establish the iron industry in
Australia —who promoted the Eskbank works, near Lith-
gow, and for some years paid an average of £lOOO a week
m wages and an average of £lO,OOO a year in railway
freights-—has made a definite offer to the N.S.W. State
Government. He asks for a contract to supply 50,000 tons
of manufactured steel and iron and pig iron during the
currency of the contract (five years) at the past five years’
average price, which is about £6 per ton. At any time he
is prepared to hand over the works to the State
at a valuation ; and, if the Commonwealth pays a
bonus for iron manufacture, he offers to hand over the
whole of it to the State. Finally, he offers to pay “ such
rates of wages for all classes of manual labor as are held
to be the rates pertaining in the Government service for
the equivalent of such labor employed in the State.” So
far, the “raw article” used at Lithgow has been scrap
iron. When the works were started there was plenty of
this available, and at low prices ; later on, as this material
was used up, prices ran up until, under Sandford’s last
deal with the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, he paid as
much as £4 16s. 6d. per ton for old rails. This explains
why the works have not been the success in recent
years that they were formerly. Also, on account
of the great modern increase in the use of steel instead of
iron, there is much less wrought iron scrap now becoming
available. The only hope for the future, therefore, is to
manufacture the metal from ores ; and that is really the
new industry which Mr. Sandford now asks a very modi-
fied form of State help in establishing. He is willing to
contract to use a certain percentage of N.S.W. ores ; but
the exact amount has not been fixed, though 75 per cent.
Is mentioned.
The offer appears to be the best which has yet
been made. The works would, it is estimated, cost from
£280,000 to £300,000 ; these would be very largely for the
purpose of producing pig iron, the plant for which would
cost from £lOO,OOO to £125,000. There is already plant at
Lithgow which can consume from 12,000 to 15,000 tons of
pig iron a year. Sandford asks for contracts which will
thus amount, in the aggregate, to the initial cost of the
new works ; and he only asks for the same price as the
State has been paying for mostly foreign-made goods for
the past five years. The State would gain, not only from
having its own requirements supplied here, but also from
the establishment of works which will be pretty certain to
supply very much of the requirements of the other States
as well. Further, a local iron supply would greatly assist
such works as those of the Clyde Engineering Co., Mort’s
Dock Engineering Works, as well as the various States
works.
* * » *
It has never been quite settled, apropos W.
Sandford’s new proposals for setting up the iron industry
in Australia, how much pig-iron the Commonwealth does
require. The lowest figure anywhere quoted is 140,000
tons a year; whereas William Jamieson, who projected
the proposal to smelt Tasmanian ores on the Parramatta,
reckoned that “ it requires 450,000 tons of actual pig-iron
to supply what is required for the manufactured finished
article in Australia.” Jamieson’s company proposed
to put up works to turn out 150,000 tons. J. B.
Jaquet’s official estimate of the cost of produc-
ing pig-iron at Lithgow was £2 7s. 7d. per ton ; but
while 150,000 tons at £2 7s. 7d. per ton would come to a
very tidy sum, it isn’t anything like the amount which
Australia could save by working up the manufactured
iron goods which are now practically all imported. The
total imports of iron goods (exclusively iron) in 1902 were
valued at £4,672,558 ; that, however, was much under the
average ; between 1894 and 1899 the average of all iron
goods was £6,535,901. Australia is busy scouring the
world for markets. It is poking into Japan, China and
S’Africa to find them. And right at home it has a wholly
neglected market for £6,535,901 worth of goods every
year, and goods, mostly, which it can produce just as
well as it can produce most of the things that it is trying
to find markets for—better, in fact, for the iron business
is a drought-proof industry. A new drought-proof indus-
try worth £6,535,901 per annum would be the resurrection
of Australia just now.
* * * *
The Pastoral Finance Association (Sydney)
—a belated notice: —
Deficit
(£24,516
goodwill
Bonus to In re- not
wool-selling duction of reckoned
Profit, shareholders, deficit. an asset).
1901 .. .. - .. £25,925
1902 .. £2530 .. £1037 .. £1493 .. 24,432
1903 .. 1611 .. 915 .. 696 .. 23,736
The Pastoral Finance Association’s principal asset is the
huge pile of buildings on Kirribilli Point, Sydney Harbor,
which there is now some talk of converting into a resi-
dential palace on fines of greater magnificence than any-
thing hitherto thought of in these parts. The P.F.A.
isn’t promoting that scheme, however ; it lays strictly to
its wool and its hide, and if it sells its store it will be
because it thinks it can get more suitable premises for
less money, since a bundle of hides gets no added value
for having rested awhile on a picked harbor site. Like
most pastoral co.’s, this one has had little luck lately,
and appears to have paid no dividend since 1897;
previous to that it had been paying diminishing amounts,
reaching 4 per cent, in the year mentioned. As pointed
out above, it has a goodwill item of £24,516 included in
its assets ; in audition to that it had a debit balance of
£l4lO on June 30, 1901. The latter, however, has since
been wiped out; and the business seems to be now dis-
tinctly picking up again. The paid capital is £121,679 ;
the whole of that and a little more (in all £122,272) is
represented by freeholds and machinery—chiefly the big
block previously mentioned. For the working capital,
including advances, &c. (£113,927) the co. is dependent
upon mortgages, overdrafts, debentures, and advances on
shipments, which seems to show that the co. could do
with a good deal more of its own capital very comfortably,
or could do with a good deal less invested in freeholds,
which would amount to the same thing.
The price of bread is much discussed in Sydney
at present. A year ago, when flour was selling at about
£l3 per ton, the 21b. loaf was 3|d. To-day, with flour at
£B, the ordinary loaf of bread is 3Jd ! In most of the
country towns of N.S.W. good bread is selling at 2d. and
2£d. per loaf. The Sydney hotel-keepers and restaurant
proprietors are said to be resolved on forming a co-opera-
tive bakery.
A Sydney happening this month revives interest
as to the law in regard to life assurance and suicide. Bx t
the Common Law of England—that is, the unwritten law
of custom and justice, framed by the alleged good con-
science of the Judges—suicide voids a life assurance
policy. The ecclesiastical law of England used to confis-
cate a suicide’s estate to the Crown, and to hold that he
died intestate whether he made a will or not. But that
does not affect Australia, our statutes having done away
with that aboriginal British barbarism. The Common Law
in regard to suicide and life assurance has still, however,
some force here. The basis of it is that it is against pub-
lic policy for anyone to be allowed to benefit from a
crime ; suicide is still held to be a crime, and consequently
a suicide’s heirs should not come to advantage from his
death. Similarly, it is against public policy to forbid the
marriage of adults ; a will proviso that a man or a woman
should not marry is therefore void. (This doesn’t apply
to widows ; the English law holds that a woman —and it
used to be the same with a dog—is only entitled to one
bite.) But whilst the Common Law makes the life assur-
ance policies of a suicide voidable, in practice this prin-
ciple of law has little effect. If by the verdict of a
jury a man commits suicide whilst of “ unsound mind ”
then he committed no crime since a lunatic cannot be
held responsible for his actions, and there is no voiding-
of his policies. Further, most life offices now definitely
contract in their policies as to suicide, stipulating that in
the case of the assurer’s death by his own hand within 13
or 25 months, or some other term, the policy is void. This
implies that in the case of suicide after the expiry of the
term, the co. engages itself to pay. Though this implied
agreement is not necessarily fully binding as against the
Common Law it practically binds the co. in honor to pay.
Still it is possible to imagine a case in which after 13
months a suicide’s policy might be voided—if it could be
shown, for instance, that at the time he took out the
policy he had an intention of suiciding after 13 months.
In practice, however, mutual life societies are extremely
reluctant to dispute payment of a claim. Very often
claims are paid when a certain legal defence against them
is available. It is not a “ good advertisement ” for a life
office to appear in court as a defendant against a policy
claim.
* * * *
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New Zealand
Drug Co., Ltd. (Dunedin, M.L.): —
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 £30,593
moo/ 7 p.C. = £13,549 - 17,237
IJU2 | p rem i ums on shares issued £1527 18,761
iqoq/ 14,941 7 p.c. - 13,649 1292 20,056
J.UOO -t p rem i ums on shares issued 209 20,265
.... / 16,479 7 p.c. = 13,683 £2OOO 796 21,061
1994 p rem j ums on shares issued 17 21,078
The paid capital is now £195,477 ; only £1254 of the
authorised capital is unallotted, and £3269 remains un-
called. The reserves consist of fire insurance fund,
£2OOO ; land and buildings depreciation account, £1100;
reserve on customers’ accounts, £3501; and undivided pro-
fit (including the premiums on new issues of shares, which
ought to have been put to a definite reserve fund
but were not), £14,477. There is another item which may
possibly be a reserve but doesn’t look like it—staff fund
account, £2953. Apparently this is a provident fund of
some sort for the employees ; if it isn’t available for the
company’s creditors, it ought not to be in the balance-
sheet. There is some doubt as to the depreciation
account also ; if it is a reserve for future depreciation, it
is a genuine reserve ; if the depreciation has actually
occurred, it isn’t. And as nothing appears to have been
written off for depreciation of buildings, etc., in the last
three years (figures available go back no further than
that), the doubt about the genuineness of this reserve
looks rather solid. The £2OOO written off last year is in
respect of stock. The past year was the best the
co. has had lately, and even it was not a very brilliant
time—making no allowance for any depreciation any-
where, the return was at the rate of £7 12s. per cent, on
shareholders’ funds. Everything considered, it seems
pretty certain that even now the dividend is too high.
British Broken Hill, which latterly has been
milling about 2300 tons of ore a week, is preparing to
extend operations, so it is apparently showing a profit,
though it can’t be very much. The co.—mostly English—
has had a poor time all through ; when, in the early days,
it might have made money, it was thrown back for years
through a great collapse underground (the first big thing
of its kind in the Broken Hill mines). Its ores are fairly
easily milled, but they are poor ; and during the last
few weeks they have been poorer even than usual,
averaging under 15 per cent lead and B|oz. silver. The
Sulphide Corporation’s average is from 17 to 18 per cent,
lead, and 12oz. silver ; B.H. South’s 16 per cent lead and
B£oz. silver. The Co. has the one advantage of having a
large area, a good part of which is still unexplored. And
it has the disadvantage of being heavily capitalised in
spite of severe writings-off ; there are 240,000 ordinary £1
shares and 60,000 privileged Bs. shares.
* * * *
The 8800 tons of zinc concentrates which were
shipped from Broken Hill in the last three months were
only valued on the spot at £16,226 —less than £2 per ton.
They would probably average about 14oz. silver, 12 per
cent, lead and nearly 40 per cent, zinc, or about £ll
worth of metal per ton. The difference between the £2
and the £ll is mostly represented by cartage of a great
quantity of waste to the other side of the world, labor
employed in foreign countries in zinc-smelting, coal and
coke produced in foreign countries. Australia gets less
than £2 and foreign countries get most of the £9. It is
to stop that that the zinc-bonus is wanted.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove (N.S. W.), trial crushing
from No. 1 reef at 15 level resulted in 1960 z. from 184
tons ; 4 tons concentrates saved are estimated to contain
20oz. Hawke and party (tributors) got 87oz. from
26| tons from upper levels. The battery has been
on another trial crushing from No. 3 reef; results so
far unknown. Some tribute parties are doing well out of
tit-bits, carelessly passed over in the early days. The old
miner hugs secrets of this sort for years, till he can get a
tribute. Manager M'George has had an uphill job with a
mine whose eyes have been picked out; but developments
in 14 and 15 levels now promise better things for him.
* * * *
New Hillgrove (N.S.W.) has crushed 130 tons
for 9280 z., exclusive of concentrates and plates. Manager
Porter has received instructions from London to notify to
Sydney agent the result of future crushings, concurrently
with cabling same to London. The mine at lower levels
(Nos. 6 and 7, 7 especially) is looking really well. The
rich Baker’s Greek chutes have now entered the Pro-
prietary mine, and shareholders can look forward to some
good crushings. Battery, since re-starting after this
crushing, has only been working day shift; but it is re-
ported that when the large air-compressor, now almost
erected, is finished, the battery will start full-handed.
* » * *
Small parties of tributors have been burrowing
in the old workings of the Eleanora (Hillgrove, N.S.W.),
trying to get out a few tons to put through the small 10-
head battery. But the once fine old mine, the parent of
all the Hillgrove shows, is in a terribly bad state. The
upper part of the north shaft has long since tumbled in ;
machinery that cost thousands has been sold for a trifle ;
boilers, engines, etc., have been carted to other fields,
and only 10-head of stamps are left out of 75 head. The
mine belowns in a parlous state, yet men will risk their
lives to obtain a few ounces. The Inspector of Mines
should step in .and see that those portions of mine now
worked are properly secured.
* * * *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), after in-
spection by expert Hewitson and director Uren, has received
their blessing, but nothing more. Hewitson won’t risk his
reputation by accepting - the managership, and in this
he is probably wise. It is much easier to lose a reputa-
tion than to gain one, even in mining, which is -another
way of saying that it is much easier to find a bad mine
than a good one. A second test parcel, this time at
Boulder No. 1 mill instead of at Adeline, is to be tried,
although the former mill isn’t absolutely overwhelmed
with public confidence, while the latter is steadily
increasing: its clientele, parcels even coming from far-off
Goongarie, 90 miles away. It is hardly likely that the
result of the second crushing will show any improvement
on that of the first. The co.’s No. 17 balance-sheet,
recently published, is a curious document. For in-
stance, the plant is valued at £3780, the additions,
for patches on boilers, and repairs of sorts, totalling up
£155 odd, while the depreciation writf n off is £25 odd,
or at the rate of two-thirds of 1 per cent, per annum. By
this system the more the machinery is patched the more
valuable it becomes. Then the balance-sheet shows £29,838
from profit and loss account, which anyone would natur-
ally conclude was something tangible, whereas it merely
represents the working costs since the co. started, and
consists of directors’ fees, wages, law costs, fuel, &c.—in
fact, money long since “blewed.” Accompanying this
grotesque document is a most optimistic report by
manager Johnson, estimating the ore in sight at 27,000
tons, and suggesting the erection of a 10-head mill, cap-
able of treating 2000 tons monthly. As 240 tons have
just been treated for 290 z., this is very valuable informa-
tion and advice!
* * * *
Murchison Associated, Cue (W.A.), is still
pushing on with the development and equipment of its
Rubicon lease. The small picked lots so far treated by
the antiquated 10-head mill, can’t be called very en-
couraging. For the first time in the history of the mine
a legitimate effort is being made to really test the ground.
Although it has been held for the past 10 years, the pros-
pecting done till recently was of the farcical sort. At
present the lode is being followed down to 500 ft. on the
underlie, equivalent to 430 ft. vertical, and a new main
vertical shaft is being sunk, from which all will
be done. This shaft is now fully equipped, a\.d sinking
can be pushed on cheaply and quickly. The reef runs up to
nearly 30ft. wide, but the best of it only goes from 10 to
15dwt., and, taken out in bulk, would be unpayable. It
certainly can’t be called a very promising venture ; but
still there is gold there, and as the glamor of the Great
Fingall dazzles the eyes of shareholders, they live in hope
that they have got another such mine. It may be so, but
the odds are very much against any such luck. A big
mill is promised if the result of present developments
warrants it.
* * * *
Bendigo’s gold tally to the end of March was
541 J tons.
* * * *
The heavy material that is causing cuss-words
among Creswick (Vic.) dredge-masters is clay. The screen
is to be shunted at one plant, and a sluice-box tried. This
is following Bright practice. But there the clay is
trifling, while bores along the Oreswick creek are ad-
mitted to have proved a lot of puggy stuff. Those who
held off when the floats were on look like waiting a bit
longer. Still it must not be forgotten that 15oz. a week
or so ought to cover every expense.
* * * *
Gov.-General Northcote, when visiting Bendigo,
was taken to the upper levels of the Clarence mine to see
some rock-drilling. That’s no experience. He ought to
have been shot down to the 3856 ft. in the New Chum
Railway, where 9cwt. of ice was used to try and cool the
air for the men working in the rise. Applying ice to coo’
the walls of Sheol would be about as sensible. Or, better
he might have been dropped to 3310 ft. in Lansell’s 180,
whence |oz. dirt is coming. Or, best of all, lowered to
Victoria Quartz 3700 ft. crosscut, and then sent down in a
bucket to the bottom of the centre country 7x4ft. winze,
230 ft. deeper. He would then have breathed the air and
dust that make for miner’s phthisis and realised the
grimiest side of the miner’s hell, in addition to being
at the bottom of the deepest gold workings in the world.
Continued on page 21).


m
THE “ORIENT
ONE GUINEA BOOT
Black Calf.
Special.
Price =
21/-
Delivered, Carriage Paid, to Any Address in the States,
DAVID JONES AND CO.,
6EOR6E at)d BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
NOTICE TO
AHATEUR
PHOTO
GRAPH
ERS
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD., beg to remind you that
in addition to catering for all your requirements in the
way of Cameras, Lenses, Mounts, and other Photographic
Accessories, they have also unparalleled facilities for
making elegant ENLARGEMENTS from your choice
ne & a tives at a nominal charge. Also, Developing
Plates and Films, Printing, Retouching, Mounting, Burnishing, Coloring, &e., are all
executed in first-class style at our Factory.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—OVER 300 PAGES—FREE
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd. Photographic Herchants,
66 King St., Sydney, & 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
TRADE
Society
Canadian
Club
Whisky
IT GUT BOTH WAYS.
SHE (Utterly): “If I’d known you drank I’d
never have married you.”
HE (truthfully): “If I hadn’t drank you’d never
have had the chance.”
The other day a Commonwealth Depart-
ment sent a letter to a Northern Water Board—
addressed Charters Towers Water Board, Bris-
more"atrocious" Bnll *** Seldom d ° n ° anythmg
jiiuic atrocious.
‘ K.H.”: A few excited people have
caught on to Dowieism. One night last week a
meeting was held in a room in George-street
(Sydney)—there were five women and three men,
including me. The women did the talking, and
the two men who weren’t me looked dreamy, and
ruminant, and listened. One of the black-
macintoshed and umbrella-ed ladies spoke for an
hour on the work of the disciples, describing with
horror the reception which had been accorded
“The Prophet” in Australia, and at each mention
of ‘ ‘ The Prophet’s ” name the dreamy and ruminat-
ing men woke up and applauded. Another
woman who, I was told, had some connection with
a paper about hens (the Southern Rooster or the
Federated Egg or something of the sort) de-
claimed on the cures that were being daily effected
by the “faithful,” and gave examples of healing
done in Zion. She told me that my cold in the
head could be overcome with sufficient Faith.
But, alas ! those cures in Zion are a long way off,
and the snuffles in my head are right here, and
the disease that is right here never is cured by
faith.
* * * *
“ Alix,” from Adelaide :
Elijah Dowie’s departure from this city was a strangely
scared and subterranean business. Instead of going on
board the Mongolia from Largs Bay, like any ordinary
human, be announced that his place of embarkation
would be kept a dark and loathsome secret. Then, while
the crowd haunted the jetties of Glenelg, Semaphore,
Largs, and even Henley Beach, he sneaked down to out-
of-the-way sleepy Brighton, where a launch waited. He
made the passage across in the stuffy little launch cabin,
and declined to come out until the crowd on the deck of
the Mongolia had finished kissing its departing friends and
gone ashore. At the last moment a terrified prophet fled
up the Mongolia’s gangway as if the devil was behind him
with a stinkpot, and almost broke his neck getting into
the cabin out of sight. It didn’t look at all like the
departure of a prophet. A fraudulent greengrocer
getting away from his creditors couldn’t have been less
dignified. Yet Thieves and Stealing will probably tell
later on how he left Adelaide in a carriage and four, with
brass bands, and arches made of vegetables, and the
Governor waiting at Largs Bay to see him off.
* * » *
N.S.W. Arbitration Justice Cohen on the
campaign of misrepresentation in the Sydney
press :
I read the papers on all the doings of this Court and
the criticisms, and I have found, more than once, mis-
statements deliberately made as to what the Court has
done. I have found that mis-statements have been cor-
rected, but I have never yet seen a disavowal of the
original mis-statements by the persons responsible.
Many criticisms passed upon the Act and its administra-
tors are founded upon mis-statements as to what the
Court has done.
Has the Tory press anything to say in reply to
this declaration from the bench that it is a de-
liberate and unprincipled liar—for that is about
what it amounts to ?
• • * *
A Melbourne woman went into one of the
ladies’ baths at St. Hilda and emerged from the
dressing-room leading her three-year-
old son in the nude". “Excuse me,
madam,” said the attendant, after an
interval of a few minutes, “ you’ll have
toget a bathing costume for your little
boy. The ladies are complaining. They
don’t think it nice for a boy to come
here at all, but they won’t object if he
wears a costume.” Meanwhile, on the
open beach outside the baths, uniformed
policemen were making an organised
raid on scores of nude, roly-poly babies,
and taking the names they weren’t sure
about and the addresses they weren’t
old enough to know, with a view to serv-
ing on each infant a blue-paper summons
twice as big as himself charging him
with indecency. Victoria has queer
notions about decency—in politics and
other matters.
* * * *
“P.” : Surely it is time the low-
necked, short-sleeved evening dress was
doomed, since the barmaids in some of
the third-rate _ Sydney drinking shops
have adopted it as a working uniform.
Looked mto one such den the other
day. Behind the bar I saw a fat angel
m a soiled and frayed evening blouse,
hob-nobbing across the counter with a
swarthy, pock-necked and unsober long-
shoreman. He was relating in a thick
voice some idiotic sea-front anecdote,
and every time he thought he’d made
a point he smacked the bare, fleshy
shoulder of the Hebe with his large
“mud-hook,” and said “shee?” She
only laughed, andsaid “I see.” Verily,
H I never be able again to “ swing-
corners” with Gwendoline de Potts-
pomt at Guv’ment’ouse without smell-
ing rum.
“ Wallaroo : Near me are camped a
couple who, in six years, have gathered unto
themselves three children, one small tent, and a
partly-paid-for buggy. Man, unable to hit on a
payable job, now talks of lending his family to
ma-m-law and going ’possum shooting. Also of
six 1902-3 weddings that “took place ” in my par-
ticular district, here are the results: Two brides
still lodged with mother ; two living in small
rented cottages; one residing with her husband’s
pa; and one in service. Husbands getting work
when and where they oan.
“An’ holds poor Barney the day, Mrs. Hogan?”
“ Och, sure, it’s bad he do be. The dhocter sez he’ll niver sec the mornin', an ’ he knows best
what he guv him.”
A malefactor, or possible malefactor, gets
the benefit of curious chances now and then.
Witness this remarkable action by Judge Back-
house at Sydney Metropolitan Quarter Sessions
(S.M. Herald report):—
Luigi Bunna was charged with assaulting Stella Sly, a
girl under the age of 14 years, at Windsor, on February
27. Also that he did beat and assault the said Stella Sly.
Portion of the evidence for the Crown was given before
the lunch adjournment. Upon resuming, a slight delay
was occasioned by the non-appearance of additional wit-
nesses for the prosecution. His Honor, after waiting five
minutes, said he would not wait longer, and, on the evi-
dence given, directed the jury to enter a verdict of not
guilty. This was done, and the accused was thereupon
discharged.
Apparently his Honor’s dignity was hurt because
a small hitch compelled him to wait five minutes —
five minutes of the public’s time for which the
public pays him liberally. So by reason, appar-
ently, of this small accidental indignity, his Honor
turned loose on the community a man who was
possibly a criminal _of a very bad class, without
waiting to find out if he was or was not a person
from whom the community should be protected. In
other words, he revenged himself on the public
when the Crown Law Hepartment trod on the
Court’s personal corn.
Coroner Cole, of Melbourne, recently
missed the chance of a grim joke—a joke that
would make his predecessor
Youl laugh in his grave. Cole
was on his way to dispose
of the victim of a tragedy
near one of the quietest
beauty-spots just out of
Melbourne, when he fell
in with a picnic party
consisting of some lead-
ing public servants, a
military officer or two,
and several citizens of
some tonnage. The
district is a lonely one,
where it is difficult to
get a proper inquest
crowd together, and
by law the coroner
could have seized the
picnic party there and
then as jurors to sit on his cadaver, yet the possi-
bilities of the situation never struck him.
Humorous opportunities are wasted on such a
man.
» ♦ • •
Par. about a bailiff (B. 24/3/’O4) who took
possession of a steam-launch but could not stop
the machinery, so that he “steered the captured
asset in circles about the harbor for four hours and
shrieked for help,” reminds an Adelaide corres-
pondent of the beginnings of the now cock-a-hoop
Japanese navy. His uncle, now an Admiral
(British), ha,d, as a first independent command,
somewhere in the sixties, to take out a steam-
yacht presented by Queen Victoria to the Mikado
of that day. The brown potentate accepted the
gift with delight, but declined the offer of an en-
gineer’s services to go with it, and called in the
commander of his chief war-junk; so the English-
men retired to watch events. The position proved
to be exactly that of the aforesaid bailiff, except
that the Japs did not shriek for help. Instead,
they navigated the yacht in majestic circles round
the harbor of Nagasaki for many hours until the
fires went out; then they went ashore in boats—
and engaged a Scotch engineer.
It is seldom indeed that any evil strikes
the human race but the bony hand of the church
holds out a collection plate over the corpse, and
states that if the thrippence had been put in more
regularly the remains wouldn’t have been dead.
Even the decline of the birth-rate has moved the
church to hold out the usual receptacle, and to
point to it as the true cause of babies, and the
only means whereby the infant can be made more
frequent.
» * * *
Adelaide is suffering severely through the
Howie descent. A man was arrested in a main
street recently whilst standing without hat, coat,
or boots, and shouting, “I’m a little ahead of
Howie; I’m John the Baptist.” Apparently,
however, he wasn’t making any money at the game,
in fact, as already mentioned, he seemed to have
lost a good part of his clothing. Prophecy and
manslaughter are two things that only pay when
done on a large scale.
THE FAMILY TRAIT.
Natal declares itself ready to cut the painter rather
than forego the advantages it expects to derive from the
introduction of Chinese labor into the Band.
J.B.: “What, Ikey! Leave your poor ole fader!
Tink of der Hempire! Tink of der secret of
Hinglanlt's greatness!!"
IKKY : “Fon t talk shop. Besides, that's all
bunkum. Peesness is pecsness, you know.”
The Russian Admiral forgot that 13 is an
unlucky number. His flagship went -down on
April 13th through his indiscretion in going for a
cruise when the enemy was hiding round the
corner. Now that Admiral Makaroff is dead,
there’s a fine opening for a “circle” of spiritua-
lists to summon him from the vasty deep and ask
him the object of his fatal cruise. If the Jap
vessels had gone right away from the Port Arthur
neighborhood, as was supposed, the Russian
commander would have been none the wiser for
not sighting them. When he did sight them he
was sorry he had ventured from the harbor. He
didn’t expect to see them, he didn’t want to see
them, but he went looking for them.
A BIRTH-RATE SUGGESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Women's Branch of the Maoriland Natives’ Associ-
passed a resolution imploring the Government,
in lev of the disastrously diminishing birth-rate and
othei evils to increase the tariff on corsets to such an
extent as to prohibit altogether the sale of these injurious
articles of woman’s attire. J
Mr. Deakin, I would offer a suggestion
(It is physical and fiscal intertwined)
On the all-absorbing absent infant question—
The solution’s very readily defined.
Ignore the scientific explanation
Of the luxury and sin of modern days ;
ou can lay the firm foundation of a mighty population
If you stick a heavy duty upon stays.
It is idle to declare the moral fibre
Of a people rank and rotten at the core ;
Don’t you listen to the wail of “Old Subscriber”
Re the drugs that should be banished from our sh ore
The benedict would gladly do his duty,
In spite of what the morning paper says,
But he sacrifices duty to the fatal outward beauty
Of the woman held in bondage by her stays.
Rome of old was very rotten, but prolific ;
It was just as tough a shop as us, and more ;
It was sensuous, but its birth-rate was terrific,
By reason of the flowing robes it wore.
The man who says that luxury’s to blame
Quite lamentable ignorance displays.
An easy way to fame and a long-enduring name
Is to stop the manufacturing of stays.
There are other evils also I would mention
That are due to laughing lips and golden curls,
Moonlight strolls and ankles neat; and my intention
Is to urge the need of plainness in our girls.
You will legislate against them if you’re wise ;
You will cause a mighty mending in our ways
If you strictly penalise kisses, sighs and goo-goo eyes •
But meanwhile put a duty on to stays. ’
M.L.
M. CORMAC.


UAIR DESTROYED.
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Desttoy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or In iurv
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits, but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DRUG CO., 8 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS. ’
At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all days on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from fJ-porcre-street to TCin.cr-8 f .*
facile princeps.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
m
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
The town of Cairns(Q.) is very busy agitating
in favor of the Etheridge syndicate railway exten-
sion. At a recent meeting one speaker recounted
the horrors of living beyond railway commum-
cation and the advantages of possessing a line :
“ Why, without a railway, beer is Is. for a small
glass ! ” And Cairns shuddered unanimously.
* * * *
Adelaide possesses a religious crank in the
itinerant fish trade who punctuates liis “Eisho”
with quotations from the scriptures. At the time
of the earthquake in Adelaide ’tis said he used to
fling texts at the multitude from the midst of his
sehuapper and garfish, and now he has turned
Dowieite and is going to Zion. His place on
the Glenelg-road—a tin shed —has ‘ ‘ Prepare
to meet thy God,” painted across it in large,
black letters. Reminiscent of the Westralian
butcher who was stricken with religion during
Geil’s visit to Perth. One day a nervous cus-
tomer entered his shop and asked for some chops.
Butcher turned on him with the knife in his hand
and said in a deep basement voice, ‘ ‘ Are you pre-
pared to die ? ” The customer didn’t answer. He
just took a flying leap over 21b. of suet, fled swiftly
round a quantity of sausages, and dashed into the
street, upsetting considerable pigs’-feet in his
fligl t.
« * * *
The death of that one-time brave old
battler, Bishop Salvado, of New Norcia (W. A.) —
the most notable thing in the way of aboriginal
missions in Australia —and the succession of a new
abbot have been followed by a works policy of
almost Owe’Sullivanesque vigor. Tanks, dams,
fences, shearing-sheds, wool-presses, windmills,
and residences have been built, 4000 acres of land
has been purchased, nearly 10,000 vines have been
planted, a whole agricultural-implement yard has
been bought out, and generally the mostly-Spanish
community is making things hum. Some day,
probably, the question will arise whether New
Norcia doesn’t think more of its black brother’s
body than of his soul; but for the present, any-
way, it can at least be answered that the native
workmen’s wages have lately been increased and
their accommodation greatly improved.
“ Curlew ” : Fired by zeal to be up-to-date
in the slanguage of the period, I had
laboriously learned the three
degrees of “boshter,” “bon-
tostha,” and “boshter-
wobbler,” and had dis-
carded them again for
the single, comprehen-
sive title of “glassy”
(the symbol of abso-
lute perfection), but
confess to coming to
utter grief over the
casual remark “He’s
no harm.” What
does it mean ? Well,
Trumper’s no harm
at cricket, and Vul-
cana’s no harm at
muscle, and Pagel’s
no harm as a weight-
slinger, and—and—
George Reid’s no
harm as a Dry Dog.
The English lan-
guage is becoming
too complicated.
Hang the English
language !
* *
A photographer
new to Sydney and
its ways lost breath
for a while a short
time ago in the execu-
tion of a commission
for his boss. He
marched off with the
traps as directed, and
soon found himself
in an appallingly
desolate - looking
uumpy. “Fix yer-
self there,” said a
man in blue. The
photo-man, with one
eye on an object on
a long table and the
other on his accou-
trements, fixed him-
self there. “ Right-
-0,” said the man in
blue, and “click !
whirr!” ropes ran with greasy smoothness,
and up rose the object on the table. The
naked corpse was “taken” right enough,
but the photographer got drunk imme-
diately after, and swears he’ll do no more
work for the Morgue.
Notice from a southern paper
INSOLVENCY.—The estate of Mary Anne
O Brien, of Yarrawonga, nurse, has been sequest-
rated. Liabilities, £74 10s. 7d.; assets, £l5 ;
deficiency, £59 10s. 7d. Cause of deficiency'', decline
in the birth-rate.
Poor Mary Anne Gamp !
* * » *
From Sydney Telegraph, April 6 and 13 :
TJOUSEKEEPER wanted for bachelor. Age and
wages to C.H.Y., Daily Telegram.
H OUSEKEEPER wanted for bachelor. Age and
wages to 313, Daily Telegraph.
Does advertiser change his ‘ ‘ age and wages ” lady
every week?
A lady in the bar sends this
We have an ex-sergeant of police from Melbourne stay-
ing here, and he told me how he and another sergeant
were sent pub.-catching. “ It’s a dirty, mane job,” he
said, “ and me and my mate made it up that, if we caught
the big places, where all the toffs go, we wouldn’t be sent
on this work again, our juty being to catch the shmall,
shtruggling publican. We stood watching a big hotel,
and presently I sees the Mayor of a big suburb and some
other toffs inter the pub., wid me followin’ on their heels.
When the publican served them all, they asked me to have
a drink. ‘ Unfortunately I’m the sergeant, and can’t,’
saj r s I. The publican said, 1 Well, why don’t you catch
some of those rough houses in Little Bourke-street, an’
lave me alone ? ’ ‘ Sure,’ said I, ‘ I was down there, an’
they asked me why I didn’t catch you, an’ lave them
alone ? I’ve got to catch somebody.’ ‘ Anyhow,’ said he,
‘ I’m all right. I’ve a shooperintendent of police drinkin’
in the parlor this very minit,’ an’ he took me in to show
me. Then I laughed the worst laugh I had about me, an’
tuk all their names an’ addresses, mcloodin’ the shooper-
intendent’s. After that, I went out to my mate, an’ we
spent the rest of the mornin’ in a quiet little pub. I knew.
The publican was fined £5, an’ all the men drinkin’ were
fined, but from that day to this I was never told off to
catch any more pubs. An’, somehow, I got out of the
foorce soon after that.”
THE DECAY OF PIETY.
“The Scots Church, Abelsmith-street, Wellingtin
(M.L.), has been sold to Mr. P. Dwyer, licensee of He
Victoria Hotel, who is going- to make use of it in this
business.” —Daily paper.
“Ain’t you ashamed of yourself to be seen in this
state? ”
“Nosh a bit. Jus' come straight from the church
in a bee line.”
Stated by a speaker at the N.S.W. Edu-
cational Conference that he knew a man worth
£lO,OOO who kept his two little girls home frcm
school to help feed and drive a chaff-cutter. He also
instanced another man in good circumstances who
worked his boy from 4 a.m. till 11 a.m., then sent
him to school only to have him home again at 3
p.m. to help chaff-cutting. Result—boy fell asleep
at the chaff-cutter, fell into it, and was maimed
for life. Pity the father didn tgo right through
the machine !
Sydney Wharf Laborers’ Union indulges—-
not alone amongst trade societies —in gaudy regalia
for its officials worthy of the worst traditions of
the Lightsome Elks or the Gladdened Buffaloes.
Trades-unionism should be above that sort of tom-
foolery.
* * * *
At Camberwell (Vic.) £5 has been reli-
giously voted every
year to the Public
Library, but never
claimed, although
the word “Library”
appears on a door
in the Shire Hall.
An inquiry at a
recent council
meeting elicited
the fact that the
“library” con-
sists almost en-
tirely of those
valuable books
of geographical
reference,
“Gulliver’s
Travels ” and
“Pilgrim’s Pro-
gress.” The
balance of the
library is a
standing monu-
ment to the whole-
hearted generosity of _
the late Duncan Gillies, in the
form of a cart-load of Han-
sard —copies of which the
Government sends gratis to
anyone and everyone on the
least excuse—“ generously
given ” by the late Speaker
when Camberwell was the
centre of his old pocket
borough, the Eastern
Suburbs electorate. /
“Gr.M.” writes :
Have just been absorbed in the spectacle of a servant
girl cleaning a pair of boots. Scene —the back yard. Left
hand tucked in boot, which is held at a distance, and sur-
veyed with cold displeasure. Then the brush is brought
to bear in little, spasmodic wriggles on spots where tie
mud-clots are. Next, she jabs the brush into the dry cal: e
of blacking, and then, on a selected spot, depos ts a
splttch of the substance. This she repeats, gloomily
viewing the effect, until the boot looks mottled. Now
her attention relaxes, and wanders to a cat which is
stretching itself against the sky-line on the roof of an
adjacent shed. Then to the yard next door, where she
can hear the butcher’s boy discussing with Evangeline a
forthcoming social. She is much concerned in this, ab-
sently slaying flies on her face meanwhile with the brush,
till she becomes an awe-inspiring study in black at d
white. At length she remembers the boot, upon whit h
she bends an expression of withering disdain. Spurt-
ing it to arm’s length, she slowly treats it to a sort cf
tickling with the brush that would hardly wake a fly.
The blacking is bone-dry, and she scans the result with
disgust. Then suddenly her humor changes. In a passion
of mad, devouring fondness, she hugs the boot to her
breast, and with chin down and hunching shoulders,
brings to play upon it a very. whirlwind of flying brush.
The boot springs to life and tries to escape —-useless. Her
hair is down, and in lank, straw-colored wisps flies into
action, and lashes both boot and brush to madness.
Putting in the foot-work of a boxer, she writhes, fights,
bends, struggles, and pants until the boot, goaded to
fury, leaps like a dog to a flower-bed for air, while the
brush, choosing suicide, in one spring is in a neighboring
pail of water. All is over. Time, 20 minutes. Con-
dition of boot, abominable. Aspect of girl, appalling.
* * * *
Walter Malcolmson has arisen again in
England to make remarks about the ill-treatment
( f Westralian aborigines, especially under the
indenture system, and the look of pained surprise
worn by the old gang in Westralia as it asks,
“Who ever heard of such a thing?” is very
amusing. A particularly shocked official asks
why Malcolmson, when in Westralia, didn't
appeal to the local law on the matter. The
Bulletin has a vague idea that he did, but
whether he did or not, it wouldn’t give much for
his chance. When the lonesome squatter-J.P. up
in the wild North-west is flogging his male or
female slave, and a charge is laid against him,
either with himself or with the adjacent squatter-
J.P., who L similarly occupied, the case is apt to
be promptly dismissed. More than that, the
plaintiff is liable to have dogssooled after him.
Rev. Larry Rentoul, of Melbourne, is just
now calling attention to the case of the Westralian
blacks, who are much in need of an eloquent fight-
ing advocate like the president of the Peace and
Humanity Society. Rentoul, unfortunately, is
apt to weaken the effect of his humanitarian
indignation by shouting at the oppressor from a
.parsonic standpoint. In this case he protests that
‘ ‘the western aboriginals have sacred tribal customs,
and even religious sanctions and yearnings, which
ought to ensure for them from us some rescue from
debasement and ruin, some uplift into the mercy
of Eternal God and into the compassion of our
Christian Commonwealth.” When a parson intro-
duces “shop” into a protest against shocking
barbarism, he seems to rate common civilisation
lower than church dogma, as though there were
no Christian kindness outside of the so-called
Christian world. And when he mentions the
“ religious yearnings ” of the Westralian blacks as
their particular claim to fair treatment, he is say-
ing a good deal less than he means. Moreover he
is wasting time. Ordinary brutality has no
religious side to its conscience, but it is mostly
amenable to plain manly argument.
* * *
In the case of two men charged with
blackmail in Parramatta Park, the other day, a
police-sergeant swore that the local police had
received not less than 500 complaints of this
offence. Yet no action was taken until a Victorian
railway employee, on a visit to N.S.W., courage-
ously prosecuted the accused, who were sentenced
to six months each. The magistrate thanked the
prosecutor on behalf of the public. But what
about the police who had, according to their own
evidence, suspected the scoundrels for two years,
and were inundated with complaints of black-
mailing, receiving sometimes as many as six a
day?
A COLLECTOR.
HIS MOTHER : “ Why all those terrible grimaces,
Tommy?"
TOMMY: “I’m making a set of them, mother, and
I only want five more to finish it.”
Maoriland is still in the throes of mili-
tarism, and at Easter it had an outburst of
campaigning which ended in the bombardment of
Auckland. The last item had not been reckoned
on; Maoriland was certain that the gallant
boys under arms would drive the foreign miscre-
ants into the ocean. But one morning, somewhere
in the cold mists of 4 a.m., the attacking force got
through the defensive lines and opened on Auck-
land at close range, and made such a row that
many people believed either that the Russians had
broken out of Port Arthur, or that Admiral Togo
had gone mad and was running amok. Anyhow,
crowds of fat old shopkeepers swarmed out in top-
coats and pyjamas, and rushed wildly to harness
up the moke and remove the old woman and kids
to a place of safety. In less than no time the
streets were full of an angry crowd demanding
what the devil it was all about, anyhow. Then
the attacking force appeared and explained that,
in theory, the town had been plundered, all the
Eretty women hugged indiscriminately, and the
otels drunk dry. The defending force was
understood to be partly captured and mostly dead.
Auckland now holds that military manoeuvres at
4 a.m. are a fool of a business.
* * * *
In consequence, evidently, of the remarks
of the Age concerning the Victorian Eight Hours
Art Union, the State Law Department has sent a
letter to the secretary of the Eight Hours Com-
mittee, reminding him that a lottery can only be
legally conducted for the disposal of works of' art,
and for other objects when the proceeds are exclu-
sively devoted to charities. The balance-sheet for
last year has not yet been published, and a copy is
demanded. There is said to be a chance of some
queer disclosures as to the manner money has been
used for luncheons, &c., in connection with the
fete,
• * * *
Commandant Hutton asserts that the be-
havior of the “disqualified” Tasmanian troops
shows that “ they could not be relied upon, except
in some event in which they had a personal inte-
rest.” Evidently it never struck Hutton, G.0.C.,
that this is exactly what Australia wants its troops
for. The Commonwealth has no use for the auto-
matic man-slayer, who is ready to shoot down his
own brother because a millinered officer issues an
order on a subject of which neither knows any-
thing.
* *
Youthfulness was a strong feature of the
prisoners at the recent Criminal Sessions in
Adelaide. Zola never invented anything more
striking than the story of the boy of 18 who shot
in the face another of the same age, allegedly for
paying undue attentions to the prisoner’s mother !
Cross-examination sought to cast reflections on the
prosecutor (and incidentally on the lady), and the
upholder of the family honor got off with 12
months. Another 18-year-old had to answer
eight distinct charges of horse and cattle stealing,
and was told he had earned 64 years gaol, but the
Court made a discount of 60 years, seeing it was a
wholesale transaction. A girl of 22 who had
forged a cheque looked almost an aged criminal
in such company, yet she was released as a First
Offender.
MISTER WHITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw last night
Mister White,
Cool and calm and quite polite,
With his rare
Debonair
Smile that made a jest of care.
I saw last night
Mister White
Making fun of Wrong and Right—
How he chaffed,
How I laughed,
While the purple wine we quaffed.
I saw last night
Mister White
Wearing patent-leathers bright :
Mirth he feigned,
I was pained—
One a cloven foot contained.
CREEVE ROE.


BEAUTY IS BOWER.
“ VALAZE,” Dr. Ltkuski’s RUSSIAN SKIN FOOD,
will make you beautiful. It is absolutely the best skin
cleanser, guaranteed to remove freckles, tan sunburn,
wrinkles, acne, blackheads, all skin impurities ; restores
flabby muscles and starved tissues. Valaze will improve
the worst skin in one month. Just try one jar, and see
for yourself.
NELLIE STEWART SAYS : “ Have used skin prepara-
tions from America, London, Paris ; paid fabulous prices
for some, but nothing has proved half as beneficial as the
Russian Skin Food, Valaze. It is absolutely the very best
skin preparation I ever used. Can never praise it
enough.”
Price 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Guide to
Beauty, 3d. Leading Chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 293 Collins St., Melbourne.*
OKly
Sj
*
*
V
❖
£
*
ORIGIN M 4
(B# 0
o
“GRAVEN ETTES”
|ty llsK
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
m
THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS
RD.
ufuey
1
*• *
m
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ , Sydney, April 19, 1904.
My Dear Arini,—
At Miss Rose Scott’s conversazione in honor of
Miss Spence, of Adelaide, the guest suggested
memories of Seneca and Emerson on “ Old Age.”
Miss Scott escorted her guest up to the top of the
hall, seated her on a seductive chair placed on a
Persian rug, introduced several Brains to her, then
backed down, leaving a lane of view for some
300 persons to see the venerable lady whose
mental outlook, is, at 78, as bright and mellow as
the colors_ of the rug aforementioned. “Age
is comely in chairs of State and ceremony,” but
Miss Spence positively looks as if she could flirt
and do it well. The age of her heart is not measured
by the grey of her head.
Amongst the Brains present was our statist,
Ooghlan. With what veneration a person who
does her arithmetical calculations by means of
strokes or counting on fingers and toes looks upon
such a man ; a youngish, dark man is Mr. Coghlan
of the figures. Minister O’Sullivan and Mrs.
were present, and M'Gowen, the Labor leader, who
always reminds me of a boss buffalo, a buffalo who
would stamp his herd into obedience and then lead
it to the succulent grass country and warm mud
wallows. Women doctors were there in plenty,
and some editors and their wives, but the majority
was made up of women’s political educational
leaguers and women franchisers. Miss Blaine
made vocal music, and Mr. Wallace (Miss Scott’s
nephew) did the same in an uncommonly pleasant
baritone. Miss Spence recited a sonnet of her
own composition, which entreated Australians to
give up being dismal and take a brighter view of
the passing show.
You recollect reading of a Sydney girl of 18 who
committed suicide lately through sheer discontent
with her surroundings ? She was always reproach-
ing her widowed mother for the poverty of their
home. This querulousness towards life is a not
uncommon attitude among girls. The dry rot
of self-pity is on them. Lately whilst seek-
ing a Tweeney (thanks to Barrie for that word)
at a registry office 1 met one who, in reply to
sympathetic' questions, told me quite gravely that
she left London for fear she should commit murder.
Further sympathy elicited the confession that she
never went into Rotten Row or Hyde Park and
looked upon a finely habited equestrienne without
feeling a desire to drag her off her horse and
kill her. A psychological study, this Tweeney.
She said that cheerful feeling only went out
towards young women who were in carriages or
on horseback. And if they had well-groomed
young men escorts the more the lodging-house
slavey (that is what she was) desired to assault
them. Her reading had been entirely of the order
that treats of the joys and griefs of Lord St.
Asaph and the Honorable Eleanor Boseawen.
But what was really brilliant was her reason for
not experiencing the same throttlesome desire
towards young Sydney women in carriages or on
horseback. “Well, you see, I don’t believe that
they ” (contemptuous emphasis) “are any better
than I am, The people that made me mad
was the aristocracy, and there’s none here. Besides,
I feel I’ve as good a chance to ride in my carriage
some day. The gentleman I’m going to marry is
a platelayer, and he knows all the politics back-
wards, and he’s sure to get into Parliament,
sooner or later. What’s to stop him being Pre-
mi-er?” Like Dr. Johnson, I “had nothing
ready.”
By the way, if you do see a Sydney woman on
horseback, it is two to one she’s a barmaid. There’s
a great lack of the equestrian spirit among the
rich women in Sydney; they seem to be too lazy
for the exercise.
If ever you want to explain away any hasty
remark you may have made about a fellow-
creature in your wrath, my des r Arini, consult a
political friend in the matter. 7 noticed the other
day in the morning paper, that our State
Treasurer had said this:—
Some officers who dealt with the Amiidale water works
must have heen absolutely incapable of performing their
duties, or else they had acted very carelessly.
It seems there was trouble over these remarks,
however, and, a day or two later, the Treasurer
explained that he didn’t say that; he said this :
He would inquire into the statements of the council as
regarded the estimated and actual costs of the works, and
if he found that the estimate had been so far exceeded as
Alderman Wilson seemed to think it had been, he would
draw the attention of his colleague, Mr. O’Sullivan, to the
matter.
No mere woman could climb out of a difficulty so
actively as that. She would rather go and hide
herself under the bed till the storm blew over.
All through the past rainy week the Educational
Conference people have interchanged opinions,
ideas, and suggestions, and sharpened their brains
on one another. Morals, the proper kinds of
desks, gospels, truancy, the rococoness of the
University and the need to bowstring the pupil
teacher have been under review. Concerning
cooking-lessons in State schools, Minister Perry
said a number of parents objected hotly to their
children doing what they call “ the drudgery ” of
the lessons—cleaning pots and pans and knives.
This is inflated head and no mistake. At the
Technical College cooking class pupils scour and
polish and do kitchenmaid’s work. Two sisters
who attend these classes are the daughters of a
rich man, who has a first-class chef and half-a-
dozen other servants. Asked why they did not
learn of their own cook, one of the girls replied :
“ Impossible. We’d never keep to fixed hours in
the house ; besides, we’d have no respect for
lessons that we didn’t directly pay for.”
Marriage of Elma Carina, daughter of Mayor
Lees, of Sydney, to Rev. Mr. Reynolds took place
at Pitt-street Congregational Church last Wednes-
day.
The balloon ascents from Dr. John Hay’s
grounds, which so interested North Sydney resi-
dents, turn out to be the work of an American
photographer. At an altitude of 600 ft. he ’graphed
a splendid city view covering an area of some 60
square miles.
Mr. George Cruickshank, who died at Bowral
last week, was married to the immensely tall
second daughter of late William Clarke, Victoria’s
first baronet and step-daughter of dowager Janet
Clarke. The Cruckshanks had no children, but
the lady caused a buzz in Melbourne Society by
returning from a visit to England with an adopted
infant.
Orchestra at ‘ ‘ What - Happened - to - Jones ”
theatre plays, these nights, between the hap-
penings, Mascagni’s “ Farewell to America.” An
uncommon and fascinating composition. Your
musicianly ear makes you see the liner wearing to
sea, watched by a mass of blurred faces. You
hear the storm of cheers from the wharf and swirl
of water around the vessel. There’s a reminiscence
of the roar of traffic around the New York Metro-
politan Opera House where Mascagni shone, a last
look at the Statue of Liberty and a joyous stave at
the prospect of getting back to his own country
and seeing the polenta waiting for him on the
shore and the macaroni boundmg on a thousand
hills.
Mayoress Lees held her first big reception on
Tuesday at Sydney Town Hall. All the dress-
circle-and-reserved-stall section of Sydney turned
up in its race-gown. Also all the odds and ends
who had presentable frocks attended for a smile
and a hand-shake and tea. Mayoress wore fine
raiment, greyish-blue as to color, with deep lace
collar and a big black hat.
An audience, bright as a macaw, came to the
revival of “A Message from Mars,” at the
Criterion, last Saturday. Mr. Robertson Clark
and his two sisters were in the circle. The latter
arrived during the week and are stopping at the
Australia until the Rawsons’ return, when they
will go to Cranbrook. They are pretty, slender
girls, with dawn-pink and white complexions and
much light-brown, silky hair. And they were
dressed. Most of the Englanders who condescend
to call on Australia are merely covered, or have
had their clothes thrown at them, either by hand
or per dynamite explosion.
Mr. Ambrose Pratt, solicitor and writer, was
given a send-off last week by a number of his
friends. He is going to Murwillumbah to practise
law. Attorney-General Wise was in the chair
and several other distinguished men outside it,
and the service was fully choral.
Such a bloomy little journal called the Amateur
Gardener has come into existence. ■ It is pub-
lished at 58 Pitt-street, and will teach you now
and when and what to plant in the way of flowers
for every month in the year. The vegetable patch
has a niche, and the telling is not done in siccus
hortus fashion either. It has often literary merit,
and there is humor in it as well as cauliflower and
daffodil.
Lord Francis Hope’s second marriage recalls the
attraction the stage-girl has lately had for Eng-
land’s old nobility. The marriage m 1889 of Belle
Bilton to Viscount Dunlo—later Earl of Clancarty—
ushered in a lot of like unions. Connie Gilchrist
got the Earl of Orkney, Rachel Berridge the Earl
of Clonmel, May Yohe Lord Hope, Rosie Boote
harpooned the Marquis of Headfort, Marie Tem-
pest secured a Gordon-Lennox (nephew of the
Duke of Richmond), Ellis Jeffreys won an
Hon. Curzon (a brother of Lord Howe), and
Isabel Jay married a Cavendish man who
is a great-grandson of a Lord. Wonder
ifthese charmers are mostly of the big,
fair, fat, sleepy type. An authority tells me that
English lords, Australian bookmakers, and other
desirable partis, like that sort; it is a taste which
sympathises with a liking for under-done steak
and large tankards of beer. Within our own small
purview the stage women who attract most male
admiration from a purely physical point of view
are of the Celia Ghiloni and Blanche Wallace
order. Maie Saqui and Francis Adler, both fine
heavy-weights, had swarms of worshippers.
On board a ferry steamer, I was studying
a twelve-stoner of about 28. She was beautifully
dressed, with good taste. You know with what
phrase Henry VIII. described Anne of Cleves.
The same would have done for this full-busted,
great, round-hipped study. The glossy throat
that rose above her single-string pearl necklace
roused vague memories of the sleek necks of the
prize Herefords at the recent show. The upper
arm was as thick as an average woman’s waist,
and the wrists merged level with the large, strong
hands. Her fat looked hard and healthy, her color-
ing was fine, and her eyes bright. She was a first-
class specimen of the preservation-of-the-species
type. She was a likeable, soothing creature, but
looked as if presently she might develop a large
appetite and drinkitite, and want to go every
evening to a theatre with a different escort. Give
her a show on the stage, and she’d be at least a
viscountess in a year.
Governor Chermside, of Queensland, has gone
a-tripping to the Gulf country. Lady C. passed
through Sydney this week to join the Ophir in
Melbourne on her trip to England.
A marine friend writing from a port half-way be-
tween here and England tells of a fellow traveller
on one—a lady with a young infant. All day
long “the baby is left in a huge butter-cooler
hanging on deck—and the deck steward seems
more anxious about it than its owner. When ma
found that he was willing to pay it some atten-
tion she left it entirely to him.”
Magnus Laing-Meason, a 16-year-old pianist of
freat promise, is here from his native Maoriland.
Ie may submit his music-making to Sydney
critics next Spring; meantime he will tour Maori-
land supported by a good co., starting from Christ*
church m June. Magnus, who has a fine
Paderewski nimbus of hair and a pretty feeling
for Chopin, has been a pupil of Prof. Wolff, of
Dunedin.
A correspondent from Broome, in Nor 5 -West
Australia, sends me an account of a mar-
riage recently celebrated there. The bride-
groom, a Manilaman, was “Mr. Francisco
Trinidad, one of the most expert divers on the
coast,” and the bride was “Miss Marie Concep-
cione Ojycana, a charming belle of Chrysan-
themum land. The bride, who walked to church
preceded by a brass band, wore a beautiful dress
of Perth creation.” There must be some points
about having a diver for a husband. Mrs.
Trinidad ought to have a lien on the biggest pearls
Mr. Trinidad fishes up.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ Complications arose last week when the Alex-
andra Club proposed to burn an offering to Miles
Franklin, many of the members disapproving of her
Maryantics in the kitchens of Toorak. Every
dame who had a frequent change of Mary Anns
during the last year suspects she was under the
potato-peeling observation of Miles for a term,
and naturally squirms at the thought. There are
times in every stylish woman’s life when her soul
is in curl-papers and her temper off the chain and
barking in the back-yard. And fancy the gimlet
eye of a journalistic, copy-making slavey finding
her out! Horrible ! So the Alexandra Club was
divided on the offering of honors to the prying
young lady, although Miss Franklin had care-
fully and judiciously stated to the interviewers that
the missus proved better than she expected to find
her.
“Mrs. Bulky-Johnson is improving things at
Government House. She’s a big, bright, attrac-
tive force. Her great earrings and sweeping
velvets are not in it with her large rambling eyes
and lively expression. At times she exchanges
her trained garb for trim driving dress (when her
figure gets a show) and takes her pink-com-
plexioned spouse off on country tracks. The
Private Secretary’s wife suggests the sporty Mrs.
Corbet, of past memories, at her best.
“The Bulky Johnsons are off to London again
shortly. Lord Dick Nevill, who has been waiting
in the Micawber spirit, is likely to replace the
appropriately-named Bulky as private sec.
“An interesting item of the bright entertain-
ment, tendered by his friends to Fred. B. Norton,
was the promising violin-playing of little Leila
Doubleday, daughter of the ‘discoverer of Amy
Castles. The Bendigo Castles is said to have
shown herself none too grateful to the lady, who per-
suaded her to go to Melbourne, arranged for her to
sing at the Austral Salon, etc., and promoted her
first Town Hall appearance. It is to be hoped
that the music-loving widow’s own daughter,
whose gratitude, presumably, may be relied on,
fiddles her way to distinction. Another performer,
Olive Kingston, sang in the brilliant French y
fashion she acquired under Marchesi’s tuition in
Paris. ‘Sunset,’ a one-act comedy by Jerome K.
Jerome, wound up the programme, Miss Elaine
M‘Donald, daughter of Akgus M‘Donald, figured
in the cast; so did Mrs. Maurice Dudley, a local
elocutionist, who married her cousin, Maurice
Dudley of comic-opera fame, a month after his
arrival in Australia.
“Latest royal trousseau seems to have given a
look in to some new materials. Wedding-gown
was ‘satin-charmeuse,’ said to have the richness of
satin and the suppleness of crepe-de-chine. It
boasted much white chenille fringe and wreaths of
embroidered (raised) roses, tied with knots of white
ribbon-velvet, sparkling with brilliants. Another
new stuff, pale pink ‘chiffon-cloth,’ described as
‘fine as rose-petals and more transparent,’ made
an evening-gown. A black ‘chiffon-velours’ was
plain, save for sleeve-puffs and berthe of snowy
tulle. Grey ‘mole-cloth’ was used for a driving-
cloak. Its lining was white Thibet goat and its
enormous roll-collar, Persian lamb. The scarlet-
fever at present sartorially prevalent infected the
Princess’ millinery, to the extent of a French
sailor hat of plaited satin straw and chenille in
bright geranium color with trails of geraniums in
different shades.
“Father Robinson, who captained the Amy
Castles boom, is preparing a big bazaar, to be held
in Melbourne Town Hall. Each stall will repre-
sent a different Japanese flower, and the girls will
be chrysanthemums, or crotons, or flame flowers,
according to the booth they belong to. The pro-
moter, knowing what’s what, and having more
authority over his flock than ordinary mortals can
exert, will probably set up an age limit for his
blossoms, or, at all events, will prescribe suitable
blooms for wearers past 60. (A very old lady with
no teeth might go as a gum blossom.) Some
shocking apparitions have appeared at recent cos-
tume bazaars.
“Melbourne Block girls are inconsolable at the
temporary loss of one of their curled darlings,
owing to a nasty accident at the M.C.C. ground.
The poor wretch got a cricket ball fair in the
middle of his nose. Result, ‘his chiefest beauty,
his most prominent and best point’ all ‘squosh.’
He was taken to Dr. Bird’s Hospital, and was on
the operating table for an hour. The bone is
broken on both sides, and the doctor won’t promise
him a straight nose to finish his life with.
“ Toorak is just now killing the fatted turkey
for the return of the plump son of the L. S.
Mackinnons, who has been deer-stalking and
glouse-shooting—in fact, following all the fashion-
able sport, except, perhaps, ‘ ragging’—in the Cold
Country.
“Eardley Turner, of the Tree Co., now in Mel-
bourne, had an evening off last week to marry. The
lady hails from St. Hilda, and is reputed to be
clever, sweet, and interesting.
“George Swinburne, whom Tommy Bent
thought fit to cable for when he was forming a
Government to go on with, was thereby inter-
rupted in some investigations re the work of police
matrons in London. At the time of the inter-
ruption he had got so far as to conclude that, when
the lady with the unhappy craving and the crushed
bonnet has to be locked up, a large policeman with
a baton is not her fittest custodian. He was iust
gathering valuable knowledge on the subject when
Bent interrupted him.
“ There’s quite a host of the wealthier Victorian
dames putting their sons to Eton, or Harrow, or
Rugby. ‘lt’s such a foundation for character,’
they explain. The innocence of these society
dames ! Don’t they ever read the papers of the
Cold Country which they worship so fondly ?
“ The sparkling playing of Mrs. C. Heath—.the
Miss Nellie Billings of old Conservatorium days—
was the surprise of the last Foulis concert. Mrs.
Heath shone in a choice Greig number with much
brilliancy.
“MayorM‘Eacharn made an impressive reap-
pearance after a dark indoor period of lumbago,
or politico, or something of the kind, at the
Women’s Political Congress, the other day, and
with such measured dignity that there came
instantly to the mind a picture of Mr. Turvey-
drop, whose deportment, you know, was * very
beautiful,’ and whose ‘feelings were extremely
sensitive.’
“By the way, a mixed clulf of sports is not
always a complete blessing. There is just now
the instance of a she-member causing such a
fracas and disturbance and taking such a pug-
nacious stand that the secretary, after some years
of good, solid service, has been forced to resign.
The fact is, when a certain type of woman takes
up a sport with anything like earnestness she’s
a plague to everyone. She’s not an impeccable
George Washington, and her idea of sporting
honor is vague.
“ The Conservatorium fgted Miss Lilian Foulis
the other day and inspected her precious Strad in
a glass case. Students asked one another what
was the matter with a ‘ Please-Do-Not-Touch ’
card, or some other admonitory injunction. Still,
the instrument wasn’t nailed down, so no asper-
sion on anybody’s honesty was meant. And
before the evening shadows gathered, the fiddle
was exposed to the naked gaze, and Prof. Peterson
announced that the artiste would treat the Con-
servatorium to ‘Annie Laurie.’ The professor
was able to inform the students that he remem-
bered Miss Foulis as a wee mite in his harmony
class in the city of Auld Reekie.
“Mrs. Foulis, who closely shepherds Lilian
and the Strad, is a dame of aquiline fea-
tures and a strikingly fresh complexion. Toorak
has fussed a bit (bearing in mind the facts of the
Rosebery kith and kin), but with very little
encouragement. Beyond remarking that the
floors and artists’ rooms are deplorably dirty in all
the halls visited, the stately dame has little to say.
“ There is on quite recent record the story of an
actress who, on coming out to these variable
climes, got herself engaged, married, and separated
on the voyage. And all within the space of three
weeks. It’s a large, solemn fact. If that girl were
only a racehorse!
“ The coolest affair in the shape of a collapse in
a matrimonial contract has just tickled a wide
Melbourne circle. The bride-elect holds a business
position of trust, and quietly cancelled the wedding
arrangements two days previous to the appointed
date. Brief letters announced the news to her
f iends, with the cheerful addendum that the same
b rsiness address would find her for the next few
years. She might have added ‘prices greatly
reduced ’ or something like that, but she didn’t.
“An overpowering bevy of Toorak bridesmaids
and escorts descended upon a Collins-street cafe,
the other night, in a sort of two-by-two Hiawatha
step, and showed the stray parties negotiating
oyster and stout, the up-to-date manner of dealing
with chicken and a wash of wine. There were 12
in the party, with something very young in the
way of a chaperone, and those 12 had lusty lungs
and a capacity for sparkling refreshment that left
the waiters stupefied. And this was only the
wind-up of the bout; a dinner and a theatre-
jaunt had been left behind with much bubbling
wine in the wake.
“There are ructions at a certain theatre, and
one of the principals is for shaking the dust of
Melbourne off her feet, because a favorite from the
ranks has been exalted above her to chief under-
study.
“‘Baby’ was a competitor at the Women’s
Political League Flag contest the other day. The
ingenious designer introduced the thimble, the
mangle, the comforter, and the rolling-pin or
something akin, into her star-studded flag. But
the heart of the League wasn’t touched, and the
design was bluntly dubbed impossible. Was it a
bold girl’s satire on the advanced woman, or an
effort of some mindful soul aghast at the dwindling
birth-rate ?
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“ J.A.C.” : “Demos” (8.14/4/’O4) states
that I am wrong in ascribing the old cross-roads
burial of a suicide, with a stake driven through
the body, to barbarism. It appears to me that his
explanation of the custom as an attempt, however
kindly the intention, to hoodwink the Angel
Gabriel, is an accentuation of the barbarism.
Barbarism does not necessarily imply ferocity.
The Latin and Greek signification was “foreign.”
Webster defines it as an uncivilised state or con-
dition. The word is now used in English to
denote an offence against the idioms of tht
language; a solecism.


WHAT WOMEN SUFFER.
A woman needs medicine more than a man. Her organism is more complex, her system more
delicate. Her health is disturbed regularly in the course of Nature—and if anything happens to interfere
with that natural course, she goes through unspeakable suffering. In fact, the health of every function and
the happiness of every moment in a woman's life depend upon the richness and the regularity of her blood-
supply. That is the simple scientific reason why Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are worth their weight in gold to
women of all ages from fifteen to fifty —for they actually make new blood.
A GIRL OF FIFTEEN.— “ When I was about four-
teen ” says Miss Florrie Smith, Harrow-road, Auburn, “ my
blood grew thin and watery, and I began to suffer from bad
headaches. I had pains in my side and back, my appetite
failed, and I could not sleep. My complexion became
sallow, my gums white, and I grew languid and despondent.
The least thing made my heart flutter and left me breath-
less and I was always afraid of fainting. I took no end of
medicines, but none of them did me any good. I grew
worse instead of better, till a friend told me that
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People would actually
make new blood for me. After three boxes I felt a great
deal better. By the time I had finished six boxe3 I was as
full of health and energy as any g>l in Sydney.-”
A WOMAN OF FORTY-FIVH.— “ My health was
wretched when I was nearing: middle life.” says Mrs. E.
Field, No. 1 Ellen-street, Rozelle, Balmain. “I had most
terrible headaches, and often I had such fits of dizziness that
I could not stand. The least food gave me cutting pains
right below my breast-hone. I grew thin, weak and miser-
able. My nerves broke down and my whole health gradually
slipped away. And I grew worse and worse, till I decided
to give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a fair trial. In two weeks I
began to mend. I felt new power to tide me over my crisis.
In°a couple of months I was enjoying perfect health, and
have been splendid ever since. I tell all my friends that
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are worth their weight in gold for
women in irregular health at any time of life.”
Write for Free Medical Advice.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
2s. 9d. a box. —Refuse all substitutes.
n
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
William Shakespeare is an inmate of the
Benevolent Asylum at Dunwich (Q.).
’Lige Dowie, in his abuse outbreaks in
Australia, never tackled Ikey Mo. and co. It
cannot be, surely, that Ikey has got ’Lige in the
bag.
The Bishop of Newcastle recently remarked
at a temperance meeting that the list of share-
holders in liquor enterprises included the names of
far too many of the clergy.
Grattan Grey, whom Seddon, when blood-
blind, crowded out of his office of chief of M.L.
Hansard staff for daring to be pro-Boer, has now
gone to Westralia as editor of the local Record.
Dill Macky of the Calves is a modest dog ;
he allows his own Watchman to call him “ William
the Lion-hearted,” and to compare him with
Daniel, Cromwell, Luther, Garibaldi, Hercules,
and a few others.
Kingston’s health is said to be slowly im-
proving, though it is doubtful if he will ever again
lie fit to take part in a severe political fight. He
can take his ease with honor: no man in the Com-
monwealth has done more for Australian political
progress.
Justice Barton was severely Dill Mackyed
because, in going through Rome, he called on the
Rope ; and now the leading Presbyterian clergy-
man of Sydney, Rev. John Ferguson, is reported
by cable to have been presented to the gentleman
in the tiara.
Both the Russian Czar and the Japanese
Mikado are severely curtailing their living expenses
to help their national Treasuries during the present
struggle. They were probably inspired to this by
the self-sacrificing attitude of the British royal
family during the S’African war !
Colonel G. W. Waddell becomes Consul-
General for Peru at Sydney. Peru, no doubt,
believes the rumor that if the martial financier can
only gain a seat in N.S.W. Parliament his merits
will at once make him Premier. Spain heard a
similar rumor about Don Freehill.
The bald-headed, big-bearded, squat per-
sonage who goes by the name of Dowie, but says he
is the son of a duke, ignored his only brother all
the time he was in Adelaide, but paid great
court to his rich brother-in-law, Opposition leader
John Darling. Zion has no use for poor people.
Almost the last word Elijah Dowie said in
his last interview, as his steamer quitted Aus-
tralia, was “Stinkpot!” By the way, any
reliable evidence about the cure of any of those
cripples—especially the boy with the club foot—
whom Dowie treated on his arrival here, would
be welcomed.
SENATOR MARY ANN GOULD .
On May 1, Capt. W. R. Randell, the first
man to take a steamer up the river Murray, will
complete his 80th year. He sat in the S.A.
Assembly for six years as member for Gumeracha,
and he still lives in that town. In his park is the
oldest and the largest oak tree in the State.
Randell planted it.
The ages of five honorary J.’sP. who
recently met at the Collingwood (Vic.) court,
averaged over 772 years- The patriarchs were:
Joel Eade, 81; Jas. Page, 79; Peters and
Tait, 77 each ; Peter Hanslow, 74. How much of
the evidence these honorary venerables heard
goodness only knows.
There died, recently, at the Hospital for
Insane, Goodna (Q.), a Chinaman who had been a
patient there since January 1861. He was
admitted to the asylum from the old gaol on Petrie
Terrace, Brisbane, the remains of which are now
used for police barracks. This lunatic alien
cost the State £1092 for his maintenance.
Dean resigned the secretaryship of the Vic-
torian Reform League ostensibly to devote his
time to running candidates for the State elections.
But the show was sinking, and, thanks to his old
friend, Figure Meudell, he had obtained the
secretaryship of the Investors’ Club, composed
chiefly of Stock Exchange jobbers. Dean knew
when to get in out of the wet.
Ex-Governor Swettenham, who has been
arguing against N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland
in favor of Chinese labor, has a habit of talking
about things which he does not understand. Re-
called that at the Colonial Institute, some time
ago, Swettenham was soundly dressed down for-
ms ridicule of the theory of malarial infection by
mosquitoes—now an established scientific fact.
Deaths recorded in the Sydney papers for
week ended 16/4/’O3 supply 16 veterans whose
total ages amounted to 1256 years, or an average of
73J years per death. An ex-military man of 9l>
and a civilian of the same age dead-heated for first
place. Two other ex-officers tallied 77 and 73
years, and a military relict passed over at 77.
Also there were defuncts aged 87, 80, 78, and two
of 77-
George Francis Train, recently deceased,
on arriving at Melbourne in June, 1853, addressed
letters to the Boston papers descriptive of the city
by the Yarra. In'one letter he said: “Lord
Melbourne pitched his tent nine miles from the
Y.irra’s mouth on account of better water, and,
where the town first started, I suppose will be its
centre.” Lord Melbourne’s tent by the Yarra
sounds interesting.
There is again an effort afoot to get rid of
Lieut.-Colonel Neild from the Defence Forces.
He was some years ago recommended for retire-
ment by a military board of inquiry in N.S.W.,
but his friend, George Reid, who was then
Premier, saved him on that occasion. It would
give a distinct impetus to the volunteer movement
in N.S.W. if Lieut.-Comical Neild could be got
rid of.
After nearly 50 years of fitful practice in
various parts of Victoria, and occasionally else-
where, John Steele Park, Licentiate of the
Apothecaries’ Hall, Dublin, 1859, and L.R.C.P.,
London, 1874, suicided by prussic acid in the
Victoria Coffee Palace, Melbourne, on Thursday
morning last. He hadn’t much luck in his life,
but at least, being an apothecary, he knew the
best thing to take to end it.
Solicitor Lindsay Thompson, of Sydney,
whose recent violent death has caused a stir, was
possessed of a title which is, ordinarily, a term of
amused contempt. He was a true “sea lawyer.”
He was the holder of a foreign sea-going master’s
certificate, and was also a qualified solicitor. This
unique combination gave him a decided “ pull ” in
all cases connected with navigation, especially in
the Court of Marine Inquiry.
Record summing-up by Judge Boucaut in
a robbery case at Adelaide (Register, April 9),
evidence having been given, and prisoner having-
denied guilt:—
His Honor (to the Crown Solicitor) : “ Anything to
say ? ”
The Crown Solicitor: “No.’
His Honor (to prisoner’s counsel) : "You?”
Counsel: “ No.”
His Honor: “Nor I. Gentlemen, consider your verdict.'*
Ex-Premier Philp, of Queensland, has at
last one bright spot in his piebald character—he
does not believe m baubles. Some time ago he
refused a knighthood, passing the superfluous pre-
fix on to his bounceful Attorney-General, Rut-
ledge. Now he has declined to allow the Imperial
Government to gazette him a humble, but mean-
ingless, “ Honorable,” although the two least useful
of his colleagues, Gray and Murray, have grabbed
at the barren honor.
Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, took a
close look at death the other day, and returned
from the view looking slatey and much
aged. This was his second knock-out within the
last three years, and a third is absolutely dreaded.
His chief boast has ever been “to keep faith with
the public,” and on this occasion he pulled himself
wearily out of a sick bed in the country to present
a charter to the first Maori Liberal and Labor
League (of all things) at a big political picnic held
at Masterton on Easter Monday. The old man
never appeared so tired on the stump, and his
many worshippers —for this great, uneducated,
brainy being is loved and worshipped—saw what
they did not want to see—a probable beginning to
the end. Another portfolio will break him —or
has the last one done it ?
Hyman Herman,
who has done some
first-rate work for Vic-
toria as senior geologi-
cal surveyor in the
Mines Department, has
b ,en enticed away to
Tasmania as assistant
manager of Mt. Bis-
choff, with “the right
of succession.” Too
late Bent’s Govern-
ment offered a 30 per
cent, increase in salary,
which even then didn’t
make it equal to what
rhe private co. will pay.
The State often lets its
Ministers have curious
notions of a man’s
value. One N.S.W.
mining inspector, about
three years ago, was
offered and accepted
the sub-management of
a mine at just double
bis State salary, and
the co.—an English
concern has since
thought him worth a
further advance equal
to very nearly the
amount of his original
screw.
“ Fitz,” otherwise Herbert Fitzherbert, a
young caricaturist, of Wellington (M.L.), with a
strong taste for the sporting element in his
sketches, has gone to London. He had a difficulty
in persuading nis people to provide the money to
follow the arts in foreign parts, until London
Punch accepted three of his illustrated jokes.
Three M.L. artists—Hiscocks, Bowring, and
“Fitz” —have had pictures PuNCH’d since the
visit of proprietor Bradbury. Bradbury, by the
way, writes from London, expressing astonish-
ment that Australian artists do not send pictures
to Punch. The explanation probably is that in
this climate it is difficult for an artist to get to
the proper degree of deadness that drawing for
Punch calls fo-. - ;
CLAY IN THE HANDS OF THE POTTERS.
It is already rumored that Victorian Premier Bent is going to reconsider his irre-
vocable decision on the Bible in schools question.
BISOP CLARKE : “ What'll we make of him, think you?"
BLREDS FITORETT AND CO.: “A vessel meet for the service of the Loard,
brother, before we're done."
A curious run of bad luck has been experi-
enced by a resident of Sale (Vic.). One night,
burglars entered his house, and, in his absence,
made a general clearance. Next day, a purse con-
taining his month’s earnings dropped into the
river. On the following day, his horse bolted and
smashed his buggy and harness to pieces. On the
r iY j i. ,
fourth day, he stayed at home, expecting trouble
of some sort and his wife returned unexpectedly
from a visit to re a i ves.
One or two Labor papers bark at Labor
leader J. C. Watson because he attended an official
dinner given by the Governor-General. There is
no wisdom in such criticism. Watson could only
refuse to attend an official affair of that sort by
taking up the attitude that he was too good for
the company (which would be priggish), or that he
was too Wile for it (which would be Uriah
Heepish). If Labor men go into politics they
must accept the disadvantages as well as the
advantages of their positions.
Died in Jewhannesburg last month, ot
fever, John Chipp Hanip, till 12 or 18 months ago
one of Adelaide’s best-known younger lawyers—in
criminal court work perhaps the best of them, and
certainly the lengthiest. He belonged to a large
f amily of bushmen and bushwomen who averaged
something over 6ft. all round. He left a solid
practice to go where, as he said, he reckoned he
could find more criminals to the square mile to
defend than anywhere else in the world.
t-.. . Tv/r i. i.„,ij-i w ,
Pierpont Morgan, who overs la
financial world a year or two ago, is now a sort ot
head clerk to Rockefeller, a bigger shark than
himself. Morgan collapsed badly over his shipping
combine and other gigantic operations, and though
he doesn’t exactly get down to Rockefeller s office
at 9 a.m. with a, penn orth of speckled apples in a
brown .paper bag for his lunch, it is generally
understood that, until the tide turns, lie is merely
the big oil man s menial and has to brush Kocke-
feller’s hat if Rockefeller wants it brushed.
An old N.S.W. inhabitant passed over
last week in the person of Mrs. Jenkins, widow of
the late Dr. Jenkins, of Nepean Towers, a famous
stock breeder. The deceased lady was the
daughter of Major Johnstone, of the 40th and
SM? who mu,, not be confounded
with the Annan dale Johnston es. lne 4utn±vegp.
ment was in Australia on two occasions, nrst m
1824, secondly in the early fifties. It was with the
59th however that Major Johnstone and his
familv arrived. In 1852 the lady married Dr.
~> , i
Jenkins, who was distinguished in politics, and
was a member of the refoimed .Parliament under
the Act of 1857.
The biggest Australian horse-owner in the
■« >« tt tr •
Cold Country these times is K. ±l. xiennmg,
formerly of Adelaide, where his father used to run
a brewery. Two brothers went to Westralia in
the early gold days ; this one struck a rich patch
in company promoting, while the other one, a
in wuiiw j Y , „a..i Adoloido
youngster lately out of the law school of Adelaide
University, having some ot the glory or tne otfier
brother’s gold reflected on him, was pitchforked
into the Groper Leg. Council. He came east as
one of Bigiohn’s tame flock to the Federal Gon-
vention and then quitted politics without leaving
veil tun I, a h u
a finger-mark behind. J. E. Bre e g
for Henning at Newmarket, at a place witn
accommodation for 50 horses ; so the money is
flyin <r .
Now that the
•O’Sullivan has de-
cided to hang out his
electioneering sign in
Phillip division (Syd-
ney), Eugene Ryan,
teacher of Irish and
half-a-dozen other
dying languages,
publican, and politi-
cal aspirant, who was
waiting anxiously for
Dan’s scalp, will pro-
bably stand down. If
he did run, the names
O’Sullivan, O’Con-
nor, Sullivan (the
Labor M.P.) and
Evan might tempt
Dill Macky into the
field. It is rumored
that Dan O’Connor
is preparing a speech
in Irish which will
confound the re-
porters and knock
the Owe’Sullivan
clean through the
ropes.
The proprietor
of a Sydney four-
penny restaurant
beckons favored cus-
tomers aside when
going out and whis-
pers, “ See ’im ? ”
The customer sees a
grizzled hunk of a
man in flannel and
trousers, with be-
grimed face and na-
ked arms, messing about among pots and pans.
“That ” adds the whisperer, “is , Member
°f Par lament for 10 years ago. Poor ole
chap ; he s a willin worker, but slow.
Adelaide claims two prophets—Do wie and
T] a OI . Q wi;. * i Elii „u ~„r l
~ , A % f iC •-j • • J\ ■ . •
other that the soul of David is reincarnated m him.
EH however , piles up wealth, while David
ifc . H(! once sold a n tha t he had and
gave it to the poor, sending a cheque for £3OO,
without any letter, to the promoters of a charity
scheme. Unlike Dowie, Gum holds that there
will be smoking in the kingdom to come. Now he
is a canvasser for a picture framer, and a park
lecturer. In his latter capacity he is sometimes
asked awkward questions about Goliath,
T A „. , t. „ ~ n .
James Oddie, who was Ballarat s first
Mayor (at least, it was m the days when mum-
cipal councils only had chairmen.) is still living,
a?id is pretty hale yet. It is just on 50 years
since he first began to rule things out of order
and issue instructions with regard to the wan-
dering goat. A few years back he offered to
present to Ballarat city the observatory he had
fixed up on Mt. Pleasant; but as it is outside the
city boundaries the city couldn’t take it, or,
rather, the City Council could not spend any-
thing on its upkeep even if it had taken it.
_ _ . f . rnnn ,
G- F - Todman who has given £5OOO to
Sydney Children s Hospital, is a tobacco man -
the same as Kronheimer, who offered a glittering
sum for a Consumptives’ Hospital in Melbourne
Todman’s business was merged into Wills
and Q O-) Ltd., a year or two back, and now there
| ias been a general merger into Kronheimer, Ltd.
- g a coincidence that most of the big tobacco
p e() pi e w | lf) are no t Jews (about half of them are)
are deacons or something in Christian churches - r
more G f a coincidence still, the comparatively
sma q Baptist sect owns a very large proportion of
including the Dixsons ; while one of Tod-
man’s former managers is now a hard-shell
minister.
. ... f deserintion bv “TH ” •
A blt ot description, by L.tl. .
I went to Vic. Premier Bent’s meeting at Brighton,
Never witnessed such an exhibition in all my life. Bent
Q x with a flashed countenance, on a throne. Either he
had not much policy to disclose or he lost the run of it
early. But he roared. As he roared the men on the
platform applauded. Finding that he was giving satis-
faction he attempted to roar still louder. He carries too.
much flesh, however, and the attempt Was not a success.
Thg night ’ was h ’ t . As Bent> *. bf e ath began to.
g.j ve ou t his great waistcoat heaved and tossed,
His arms worked incessantly, and the shaking
his enormous fat fist carried no conviction.
Perspiration leaped over the fat-rolls of his neck like a
cataract, and streamed down'the back of his greasy frock
C oat. When he shook his head great drops of sweat were
scattered about like water when a wet dog shakes himself..
V foggy froth collected on his short curly beard. He
e nptied glass after glass of water but it was no use His-
tongue swelled, his throat began to close, his neck turned
a blue> as the hours s passed the yell died away to
a m'serable froggy croak. Bent was evaporating visibly
before the eyes of his constituents,; but still he fought
round after round with the British grammar, and smote
his pronoun in the eye every time he saw it. He didn’t
come to any definite ending, but melted into his seat at
last, a voiceless mass, with wetness pouring off him m all
directions, while Minister Murray filled the breach. And
as i looked on the vast, half-insensible spectacle I thought
0 f that beautiful poem about how the butter comes down
at Lodore.


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
Most central, largest,
most comfortable, and
best appointed hotel
in Australasia.
Lounge Bar.
Winter Garden.
m
Every possible atten-
tion for the comfort
and safety of visitors.
NIGHT STAFF regularly
patrols the building. . , .
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
“DON’T’S” FOR THE DEAF.
The things that deaf people should avoid are
specially described in the last number of the
“Review of Ear, Nose and Throat
Anyone whose hearing is failing should send for a
free copy of this Medical Journal, as a number of
copies have been sent out from London, England,
for free distribution. Address “ Review,” c/o Box
241, G.P.0., Sydney. With the “Review,” there
is also a report form, by means of which anyone
can obtain free advice on any case of deafness, or
ear, nose or throat ailments# Send fcr a coov to-
day. s
vam
m
JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS and WATCHMAKERS.
Diamond Ornaments.
HARDY BROS, are noted for thefr Fashionable, High-class
GEM and DIAMOND JEWELLERY, NECKLETS and
PENDANTS, set with Diamonds, Yellow Sapphires, Peridots,
Emeralds, Tourmalines, Olivines, Rabies and Whole Pearls.
BROOCHES, BRACELETS and RINGS in Special Designs,
'"k N k
NOVELTIES in Jewellery, personally selected by
Hardy Bros.’ London partner, received by every mail
"k. k* k,
Goods forwarded at Sydney Prices, and without delay
or trouble with the Customs to all parts of the Commonwealth.
Fine Diamond Buckle
Brooch. This can also
be worn on a velvet
ban i for the neck.
£24.
13HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY,&ATBRISBANE&itfNDiD
Aboriginalities.
HIS NATIVE TONGUE.
PARSON: “My dear man, cannot you drive these
poor cows without using those terrible ad-
jectives?”
BULLOCKY : “ Cows be-!
An ’ wot the -d’ye mean by-
adjectives, anyhow?”
“ Thurla ” : Re imitating dingoes (B.
17/3/’O4). Sometimes the imitator doesn’t come
off so well. Some time in the eighties, in the
Wurrumbungle Mountains {N.S.W.), a couple of
’roo shooters heard a dingo howl near an old
mia-mia on a creek. Seeing something move in the
hut, one fired, and was horrified to hear a human
cry of pain. Panic-stricken, they made no attempt
at helping, but ran to the head station some miles
away. A search party came out, and found the
body of another shooter some distance from the
mia-mia. He had been shot through the main
artery in the thigh, and had died through loss of
blood. It was supposed that he was dingo-imi-
tating to have a lark with the others.
Anybody can have
his choice of two times
at Broken Hill, if not
of three. Under the
Standard Time Act,
Sydney was an hour
ahead of Adelaide,
and all N.S. Wales,
including Broken H ill,
was the same as Syd-
ney. So the Govern-
ment offices kept Syd-
ney time; also the
pubs, and some other
things that are more
or less ruled by law.
But the trains are run
by South Australian
clocks, and so the
mines also work by
S. Australian time.
Most of the business
places follow the
mines. By-and-bye,
however, S. Australia
fot tired of being an
our behind Mel-
bourne and Sydney,
as it interfered- with
its Stock Exchange
tricks the Eastern
birds had an hour’s
pecking at the worm
before Adelaide could
make a start. An
amending Bill was
therefore passed in S.
Australia, making the
S. Australian legal
time only half-an-hour
behind that of Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
But, meantime, Bro-
ken Hill hotelkeep-
ers, who had to close
at 10 o’clock (11 o’clock
Sydney time), had got
a Bill through the
N.S.W. Parliament providing that, for the purposes
of til© Licensing Act and a few others, ,S. Austra-
ban standard time should be observed at Broken
Hill j but, as S. Australian legal time is not now S.
Australian standard time, Broken Hill has three
times—-N.S. Wales standard time, which most of
the Government offices and the banks keep; and
S. Australian legal time and the original S.’Aus-
tralian time which the others keep. One curious
result is that bank clerks have to get to work at 8
o’clock in the morning, and on Saturdays close
their doors at 11; another that, until a week or so
ago, when it was altered, the post-office and the
tramway clocks stood on opposite sides of a street
calling one another a liar to the extent of an hour.
“Dab No-
tice the persist-
ency with which
the average horse
will follow a
track, however
winding, in pre-
ference to taking
a short cut home,
He will choose
the right path,
where there is a
choice, but has
an instinctive
dislike to strik-
ing out on his
own line. A dog,
on the contrary,
rushes home by
the easiest way.
I am inclined to
think that this is
the result of
heredity. The gregarious
horse moved in a mob to
accustomed pastures, and so
formed a track to and from
camping places, while the
roving dog went where he
listed, and tore straight home
from whatever point of the compass evening found
him in.
* * * *
“ Rypo ” : Is the Vic. Rabbit Suppression
Act dead ? Seems that to be allowed to catch
rabbits is a special favor in some parts. The fol-
lowing advt. is from the Stawell (Vic.) Times, of
NOTICE.
T) ABBIT-TRAPPERS are hereby notified that they
may trap Rabbits in any of the paddocks on
Woodlands Estate, for the next two months. Dogs
strictly prohibited. William M'Culloch.
It is presumed that poor old M‘Culloeh is going
to save up his rabbits afterwards.
“Viator”: I lately encountered those
pilgrims who (according to “ Myrtle ”) travel with-
out a water-bag on the W.Q. tracks. They were
almost perishing with thirst and had stuck up a
stockman and cadged his water-bag and contents
off him. “Why don’t you carry a bag?”
he queried. “O, it’s against our religion ! We
believe the Lord will provide.” “Yes, but if I
believed the same where would you be ? ”
* * * *
“S.S.S.” : Re “Elmore” (B. 31/3/’O4) on
threshing machines. Writer was recently asked
to put the pump of a threshing machine engine in
order. After operating on pump, walked round
engine and saw a poker and pickaxe hanging on
the safety valve. Looked at fire tubes and found
them nearly burned out. Engine and boiler
appeared to be of the Methuselah type. After
seeing steam rise to 751 b. I suddenly remembered
that I wanted to call on my aged father in Greece
and see how he was getting on.
“Vinco”: During the drought in 1902,
when looking for weak sheep in a pocket of the
hills at The Peaks, Byfield, near Feppoon (Q.), we
came upon a goanna asleep at the foot of a tree.
He was nearly five feet in length. We slew him,
and as we cut him open a frilled lizard about a foot
in length wriggled out of the stomach, erected its
frill and ran up the tree near by. Jim Ross,
manager of Taranganba station, was with me
when this occurred and will vouch for its truth.
We obtained six bottles of oil out of that goanna.
MURPHY BIN PETCH HIM.
THE STIPENDIARY (to King Billy): “Drunk
again. Billy! I thought I told you to keep
away from here.”
KING BILLY: “ Baal you yabber that fellow alonga
Murphy there” (pointing at policeman).
“ Baal mine bin here now only he petch me.”
The whole settled part of S.A. is suffering
from something very like a fresh drought. Since
the end of January—which month was both cool
and dry—the weather has been cool and dry.
Total rainfall for Adelaide in 2£ months is under
seven-tenths of an inch ! This was widely distri-
buted over one showery afternoon and two
showery nights. All through Sydney and Mel-
bourne’s wet test matches the ground in Adelaide
was dry as a bone. First half of April has beaten
the record for sustained warmth—every day 85° to
90° or thereabouts.
N.T.B. : Be Les. par (7/4/’O4) —120
miles m 48 hours is slow time for a dog to travel
when making homewards on his oWn. Six years
ago I owned a dog, in Hillston district, that cut
out 95 miles in 15 hours. It is a well-known fact
among doggie men that when a dog starts on these
expeditions he sets a good solid pace (rarely stop-
ping to trot), which he maintains till his destina-
tion is reached.
* * * *
_ Ur.’ Roth uses some pretty plain words in
Ids latest report regarding N.Q. aboriginal stations.
Whites and browns and yellows are out-bidding
the blacks for the available eligible ladies, and as
the blacks can t get wives they are discontented,
the department has therefore turned itself into a
matrimonial agency, and sub-protectors in various
parts have been asked to help on the scheme by
sort of ear-marking budding damsels and shoo-ing
off unholy competitors.
“W. J. Baxter” : Donald Macdonald, in one
of his natural-history sermons in the Argus (April
2), talks of the “flute-like note of the dingo.
I’ve for some years dwelt out-back where the
dingo roams plentifully ; and to my uncultured
ear dingo music in chorus has its closest comparison
in the woeful sounds that proceed from a gathering
of Fatmen, bewailing the desolation and damnation
which God threatens to inflict on Australia since
McEacharn didn’t get in. The dingo's solo song
is much like that of the suburban back-yard dog
on a moonlight night; pitched in the same key,
but weirder in effect, and with something
suggestive of an anguished human yell as he
approaches his top-note. In (Queensland, dingo
music is most frequent and prolonged on frost)'
mornings just before daylight.
* * * *
“ Whaffor ” writes from the land of Gold
and Sin:—
“ White Australia ! ” It makes me smile ! I’m a t’other-
sider, and came to Groperlawl with the boom. There’s no
boom now, and tilings are in a bad way. Everybody goes
to the goldfields, and outside the metal radius there’s no
work for white men, although a glance at the map shows
the country to be vast. I follow cooking. Recently i
trekked down the Murchison River, starting at Mill)'
Milly, almost at its source. I tramped from there to the
seaboard (about 450 miles) calling at 12 stations. The
first had a Chow cook ; the next a Jap ; the next a gin ;
then two more gins ; then a Chow ; gin again ; white man
(German). At the next two the squatters’ wives did the
culinary business, and then a Chow again. Disgusted, I
tramped 80 miles through sand over your ankles, with
water every 30 miles, to Shark’s Bay. At Talma station
the cook was a Siamese ; at the out-station a Chow. Then
I tramped 70 miles through the waterless wilderness to
“Freshwater” Camp (Denham). It is a pearling
station. All colors are represented there —black, brown,
brindle, yellow, and white. Diving and picking up is all
done by the colored man. The pub. has a Jap cook and
a nigger groom ; the doctor a Malay rouseabout. Whites
are not wanted there. Shouldering my bundle once more, I
tramped 00 miles round the bay to Hamlin Pool telegraph
station. There the cook was a Cingalese. Went another
48 miles north to the Worramel River —Chow. Broken
down, footsore and miserable, I footed it for another 80
miles along the line to Carnarvon. “Ye gods ! ” Every
other person you meet is a Jap, Chow, or imported nigger.
The three pubs, had Jap and Cingalese cooks, and all the
odd jobs were done by niggers. Determined to tramp no
more, I pitched camp a mile from the town ; four days
afterwards I was arrested as a vagrant, rogue and vaga-
bond, and received a sentence of three months hard.
* * * *
“The Sfciffner” : Par (17/3/’O4) anenfc
stock crossing Georgina River recalls the big
smash with Tyson’s mob from Meteor Downs to
Eeyfield (Vic.) in the Balonne at Surat in the
early ’9o’s. The flood waters were level with the
decking of the bridge, and the wash against the
timbers scared the leaders when half-way across.
They turned and tried to get back. The main
body, crowding from behind, burst over the side
railing, and 150 went over up the river and got fast
in the bridge timbers underneath. The others
went over down stream and proceeded to ring.
James Brown, in charge, swam out to the circling
stock, and with whip in hand climbed about on
the bullocks’ backs till he got them headed for the
shore. Then he successfully negotiated his way
back over the mob, the last beast being landed
with Brown hanging to his tail. In all 180 were
lost. For this mishap Brown expected the sack,
and was not a little surprised when, on returning
to Tinenburra, he found a valuable watch waiting
for him from old Tyson. The watch was for his
pluck ; his ill-luck was forgiven.
A LIVELY INTEREST.
HOOLIGAN : “’ Tis gr-reat interest Donnegan do
be talcin' in the Scripture in State schools
quistion. This is the thirud foight he's had
over it in two days.”
“O.”: I don’t know much about the
length of carpet snakes, but the length to which a
black snake can be stretched is marvellous. When
Dan and I were camping on the Hawkesbury we
caught one about lift. long. Dan took the tail and
I took the head, and we began to walk apart. We
got about 40ft., and the snake was getting very
thin. I think it would have stretched to a mile,
but just then my end slipped. Before you could
wink, the snake had become its original size, and
its head was 34ft. away from me. But it was 34ft.
nearer to Dan. Dan is lazy, but he forgot that
fact then, as he escaped up a mangrove tree.
A WORD FOR THE WHEEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Room—make room ’mid the poems and stories,
Room for a word on the noble wheel;
Yield place to a verse on the gliding glories
Of the neigh-less steed with the hocks of steel!
Sing ho for the push of the shining pedal !
Chant hey for the whirr of tyres and chain ;
Like a brace of gods on their stars a-stradd’e,
We flash down the road and the country lane !
Ensceptred, aye, with our strength we travel
A-winding the miles on a golden reel ;
Fall dead, ye galoots who at bikesters cavil—
Ye have never bestridden the glorious wheel!
Say, is it a crime to be young and lusty,
Or a sad misdeed to be glad and strong V
And, furthermore, do the old and musty
Drive all the worlds and the stars along?
AVe are ripe ; and red is the blood within us—
Aye, red as the dust of powdered stars ;
Ho, strong are the limbs that kick and spin us,
And strong wrists rest on the handle-bars !
With our week’s work done, we are chasing pleasure
Afar from the noise of the tiresome town ;
It is better far than a flat, limp leisure
To whizz with our faces warm and brown !
For what is life but a splendid hurry ?
And what is death but a “ knocked-up ” man ?
And huzza for the haste and the rush and scurry—
Let us bike the globe while yet we can !
Some preach of a life like a cosy corner—
Sort of languid laze on a cushioned seat;
Shall man be a pale, half-pathetic mourner ?
Bah, boil those prophets—and give man meat!
All the week we toil with the pen and pencil—
For a day-and-a-half we are off the chain ;
And we write those hours in a crimson stencil,
Standing out on the dull, grey waste of pain !
Give loud applause for the malted liquors
That we drink in the cool, calm country pubs. ;
For the belted coat, and the sane short knickers,
And the tyres, and the chain, and the shining hubs.
Three cheers, in short, for the whole darn planet,
And hooray for the neigh-less moke of steel!
Make room, O paper, with heart of granite—
Make room for a word on the glorious wheel!
GRANT HERVEY (AND CO.).
JOGRAPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A nismus is a piece of land —
Cripes ! that was Riley’s calf—
A nismus— What’s that in yer ’and ?
A napple ? Give us ’alf.
A nismus is a—Come on, Ben,
I give yer one last week—
No, sir, I wasn’t speakin’ then—
All right, yer dirty sneak !
A nismus is a piece o' —Whoo !
Young Spoffie’s coppin’ out.
Yah ! Nosey’s split ’is cane in two
While givin’ Spot, a clout!
Oh ! that was great—but look out ! Nit 1
’E’s lookin’ over ’ere.
A nismus is a—Shift a bit—
I wanter reach Ben’s ear.
Got ’im, my oath ! Bad luck, I’m copped—
Please, sir, ’e ’it me first—
I’ll plug yer, Ben, if I git whopped ;
I alwuz gits it worst.
A nismus ? I knoo what it was,
Now on’y know ’bout ’alf;
I couldn’t learn it all becos
Of Riley’s noisy calf.
PETO.


Dr. Thomas, of 57 and 59 Swansfcon-St.,
Melbourne, is the most progressive of dentists.
He combines all the latest American methods and
discoveries in skilful and painless dentistry with
amazingly moderate charges. *
FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
SALT
From Grocers aad Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
They are GOOD CLOCKS
m
Grand Clocks to go—Accurate
—Strong—Reliable* In the
fashionable Wood Cases.
The one we illustrate is 12 nclies high. Price, 38/6
We stock them in different designs. Some of these are as
low as 20/-. They are guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order for 2 years (breakages excepted).
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Reliable Clock, in Oak Case, strikes
hours and half-hours on Cathedral
Gong, 38/6
“ D.H.8.” : Many of the stations up New
England (N.S.W.) way have notices displayed
announcing the fact that: “No rations are given
here.” One warns :“ Beware of the dog.” Under-
neath this one has written : “ The Dry Dog.” One
notice reads : “Strangers found on these premises
Mull be shot at sight.” At another roadside gate
there is a strong iron box affixed which is con-
nected with the lock on the gate. Above is the
notice: “ Drop a shilling in the box and the gate
will open.” Struck one place one day, and noticed
the boss dressed in ancient costume, with hair
down to his shoulders, and hugging a copy of
Milton under his arm. Told him I was a poet,
and hard up. Stopped there two days as a guest
of the family ; and when I left, the old fellow gave
me some sets of verses he had composed on 1 ‘ The
Ethereal Dome.”
* * * *
Apropos of the oft'-hand remark, which is
never supported by any visible evidence, that
“white men can’t grow cotton,” Sydney Tele-
graph recently published this on the authority of
a certain Captain Barclay, of the Royal Geogra-
phical Society :
My contention is that in the cool season, at any rate,
when the principal work is necessary, there is a magni-
ficent field for white labor —men, women, and children.
The economical production of cotton depends entirely
upon the possibility of getting- a sufficient supply of suit-
able labor to pick the pods after they burst. The work is
light and pleasing employment for children, and it would
be quite possible for Australia as a whole to utilise the
cotton fields of the Northern Territory as London utilises
the hop gardens of Kent. Large numbers of people could
earn good wages for a season of the year, and could leave
again when that season was over. I believe it would pay
for vessels employed to carry away the cotton crops to
also carry labor, but 1 am sure that, having once had ex-
perience of the country, numbers of people would make
their homes there, and supply the greater part of the
labor necessary. The climate is altogether different to
that of the South Australian Desert, and is by no means
as hot as it is in many parts of Northern Queensland.
Except in the wet season the air is exceptionally dry, and
during 10 months of the year no part of Australia is
better adapted to white labor. T lived there for years,
and never enjoyed better health. On the Barclay Table-
land 3 r ou could run a plough for 400 miles in a straight
line through soil that would grow almost anything, in-
cluding wheat.
* * * *
“ T.J.P.” : Was riding in the bush on the
Upper Clarence, the other day. Noticed very
large carpet snake lying across a log. Rode
round to investigate, and found on the other side
a medium-sized goanna, of the yellow and black
variety, with about 2ft. of carpet snake, head in-
cluded, swallowed, and doing his best to take in
the rest. When frightened, disgorged snake and
departed. Snake measured 74ft. Came back the
same way .six days’ later. Found goanna had
succeeded in swallowing the lot, except a few
inches of tail, which was reduced to a skeleton.
[This yarn isn’t so clear as it might be. Does the
writer mean that, on the second visit, he found the
goanna with Gin. of snake skeleton hanging out of
its mouth, or that he simply found the remnant,
and assumed that the goanna had eaten the rest ?
—Ed. B.
STANDS TO REASON.
CITY VISITOR: “ What sa-say? Wa- washing dirt, old chappie!
By Jove, th-that’s a dooced f-foolish thing to do! It’ll
only get di-dirty again wight away.”
‘ ‘ Mimosa ” : Most people in the bush have
their own peculiar weather guides. I know one
woman, whose meteorological prophet and rain-
gauge is a little tree-frog. She says its chirp
is invariably the sign of wet weather to conie. I
took notice of it myself, and the only time its
prophecy was not fulfilled was when the kitten
caught it and patted it too hard. When you hear
chirping, and are sure it isn't chirping because
of the kitten; take someone’s umbrella with you.
Even the curse of the bush track isn’t
west of the law these times. A tank-keeper
back-o’-Bourke told a drover the other day that he
and his sheep were “ a blanky nuisance, coming
after hours.” Other blankies followed in natural
course—then a summons from the nearest town-
ship, 50 miles or so away, and a fine of 40s.
“ Bush Arab ” : A recent
lecture by A. J. Campbell
about Australian birds, was
interesting. It was a synopsis
of his two large volumes on
“The Nests and Eggs of Our
Birds,” a valuable supplement
to the monumental books of
Gould. “My great master,”
said Campbell, showing a por-
trait of John Gould, by his
magic lantern. Gould was born
in 1804, and much profited by
his father being appointed to
the charge of the Windsor
Castle gardens. When only 34
yearsold, Gould had made£7ooo
by sumptuously illustrated
quartos on birds at large, and he
came to Australia in 1838, to
study them on this continent,
and in Tasmania. Two of his
scientific co-workers were killed
by Australian blacks, in dif
ferent places. His excursion
here lasted two years, 1838-40,
and cost him £2OOO, but the
British Museum refused to give
£lOOO for his magnificent col-
lection, which was secured for
Philadelphia, where it remains.
There are 770 species of Aus-
tralian birds, and Gould, in his
time, doubled the knowledge of
those then known. Campbell
has been all over Australia in
pursuit of this grand hobby.
His lecture abounded in fresh
observations, and led to the
widest thought on bird migra-
tion. The swifts have never
been seen to alight on this con-
tinent. How strong on the
wing are other small birds,
fiying from Japan to Australia !
A mysterious line of demarca-
tion exists between the Asian
and Australasian birds, known
as the Wallace line, through
Wallace having discovered it.
There are 15 miles of ocean
between the islands of Lombok
and Bala, in the Indian Archipelago, and yet you
will see the Asian birds and fauna generally, with
the flora, predominant on Bala, while the Aus-
tralasian types prevail on Lomb&k.
* * * *
A letter recently received by a N.S.W.
country teacher: —
Deer Sir,- Don’t you teeeh my John no more farmin—
wun fule in the faultily is enuf. I want him made into a
carprinter. I can find him a hadze if you got the other
things. Will lie want a sperit Jevil.
Yours Sincear,
J.F.
“E.C.,” from Puponga (Maoriland) : My
mate and I were out prospecting. We ran out of
tucker, and were three days without anything to
eat. At last we made our way down to the mouth
of Deadman’s River. The water was thick with
whitebait, but we had no way of catching them.
At last we hit upon a plan. My mate had a white
cotton shirt on. We took that and put a supple •
jack through the tail of it, tied up the neck and
one sleeve, made a bit of a channel, and put the
shirt on. We lit a fire on the bank and put the
frying-pan on. The whitebait swam into the shirt
and up the sleeve that was not tied, the end of
which hung over the fryingpan. When the pan
was full we had a good feed of them. Then we
picked up our tools and resumed our journey
refreshed.
BEEN THERE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the glory of the ridges that
lie
Green and still!
Ah ! the beauty of the ch wile Is in
the sky
O'er the hill,
Rising from the plain below
Where Macquarie s waters flow
Like a strip of stiver white from Broken Hill!
See the station-hands they come,
And they go
Some to urge the stolid plough and some
The hoe
VIC.
Ah 1 how fair all Nature seems !
’Tis a picture full of dreamt
Worthy all the art a painter could bestow.
But they know not, and they care not, they tl at
grope
Where the green
Lies like some rich carpet spread from hill to slope
And between.
The picture’s passing fair
(But I’ve toiled as they do there):
It is distance lends a glory and a sheen
To the scene.
ZIZI.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insuficiently stamped. Same and
address must apnear on MS. So liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will Mb be returned unless stamps (oj any
State) accompany.
Gisiwo : Only hysterics. Of course, a German
ironclad, or any other ironclad, might surprise and bom-
bard, or capture, almost any port, but unless a country
feels strong enoug-h to hold its own in the subsequent
argument it doesn’t do such things. Similarly any man
can hit Pagel on the ear when he isn’t looking, but he
wants to be sure first how he will come out of the scrap
when Pagel does 100 k.... A. Mac. : A trifle late for cheap
odes to Shakspeare.... 11. Cinclaire : Don’t believe your
statement (in two verses) that you would go to Sheol to
be near your best girl Prooshan : Verses about the
crush of bishops at Heaven’s gate viewed unfavorably
Schoolmaster :Re indeterminate sentences. You “resent
Bulletin’s insinuation that Australia hasn’t as fair and
incorruptible persons for pardon boards as have been
found in other countries.” Bulletin never insinuated
any such thing. No large number of fair, incor-
ruptible and capable individuals have been found
for the purpose mentioned in any country
W.V.O. (Montreal): “ Harvest of the Ice” good, but very
much off our beat M.P. : Falls off after the first two
verses Bertie Dripping (what a humorous name !) :
Your Pegasus props about twice a stanza and jolts you
off... .Solomon Smith : Your notion that the way out of
the liquor difficulty is to abolish the license system alto-
gether, and let anybody sell alcoholic drinks, doesn’t
justify your front name. Read up the horrors of the drink
trade in London before the license system G.S.T. :
“ Come Back ” is an unwise poem, wherein a lady calls to
a person whom she knows to be out of hearing to “ turn
his barque,” which he can’t do without great incon-
venience to the other passengers, and return to her at
the sea-wall. If you ever ran a barque against a sea-wall
you would know better... ..Jacques : There’s a bounding
cheerfulness about “ Optimistic One,” but heaven knows
what it means, and the compositor couldn’t set it
till it left off bounding... .J.M.S. : “Wind’s Errand”,
rather pretty, but a well-worn idea M.A.F. : “Ring-
barked ” good in places, but rest just ordinary.
S. Wegg: Inefficient verse; and The Bulletin doesn’t
share your appreciation of the writer,dealt with.
E. O’N. : One bad and t’other worse.. . .Bario :
Afraid it is useless for you to persevere. A.B.M. :
Spo.lt by the lack of a central idea Will D.: The
lady is still in England and is understood to be doing
well in literature Robert B. : Too unequal Laylee”:
Much too long for the interest Jigger Brails: “ Idyll”
not worth much elaborate treatment; “ Star ” stiff and
stodgy... .D.B.G. : Rather feeble and futile... .Ne’er-do-
weel : The bulk of it is superfluous to what story it
possesses Berepo : Matter all right, but manner jerky
and inconsequent—Leonard H. : Idea good ; treatment
not clean-cut and dramatic enough Treble C. : Infor-
mation duly forwarded N.W. : Yes; but “moral,” in
that connection, means merely non-physical S.B.T. :
Worried through it with difficulty and found it all barren.
.. H. Mac. : Anything you send will be judged strictly on
its merits. The Bulletin has no such prejudices as you
hint at Knare : Try Thornton’s First Lessons in Book-
keeping, price 2s. 6d H.S.H. : Townsend’s Asia
and Europe (10s. 6d.); Du Bois’ Negro Problems
(Is. 6d.) J. Dick : The Sydney Telegraph was started
July 1, 1879 Jim: The Swiss President gets £540 a
year: but his is a country of extra small salaries....
Huaki: But a rule that divorce suits should always be
heard in camera would have its evils t 00.... W.H.C.
(N.Q.): Don’t know anything of the co. ; its name doesn’t
inspire confidence... .Henry P. : Have patience. The
Australian Parliament at its worst is still immeasurably
ahead of any State Parliament; and Australia can’t be
built in a day... .H.A.F. : Small, tame verses, quite out of
our line T. : Don’t know that “Cardinal Moran’s
attitude on the present war” is of any particular
moment, but, as you ask, it seems to be a general
declaration that both nations are bad lots be-
cause they don’t observe St. Patrick’s Day
Hiawatha : Sketch referred to by the writer “ Children of
the Sun ” was “ Now November’s There,” by Dorothy
MeCrae, in Bulletin of 26/11/’O3 Angle C. : “ Hope”
not very fresh idea, and the imperfect “dawn-morn”
rhyme makes us tired Bijah : Sacrifices sense to sound
in too many places The Ghost: Too wretchedly
scribbled to waste time over Squire: Sorry we can’t
inform you ... Francis H. : Sketch not up to mark, but
you are probably capable of better work. Try again....
Annie Graley : Too difficult to deal with for print
Selma: No ;it doesn’t promise better things. You
haven't the literary instinct Vampire: Flat and
colorless W.McK. : You try to prove too much in
your diatribe against the tote....K. : Par good. Opal
verse indifferent Willie S. : “I Sit and Muse,” “Soft
Twilight,” “The Rose Red,” “ Your Dainty Tread” —
alas, we have had these properties many times before....
J.T.B. ; You have a long way to travel yet before you get
to acceptance point... .J.D.M. : Same idea has been
voiced a dozen times before... .A. E.S. : Little conver-
sazione in honor of some little person in some little
centre of no possible interest to Australia Rochester :
Well versed, but too trite in sentiment Hamer:
Verse all a little below acceptance mark
Sydney M. : Lacks deftness and finish... .Mariquita :
Thanks for address E.W.K. : None quite suitable
Mordred : There’s a glimmer of promise about it Tyro :
Very weak as yet. Try less complicated “ situations.”
R.K.G. : “Tommy” found no room in the poet’s corner...
La Paienne : We wouldn’t care to bring a dead democratic
leader down to the level of a royalty by a grandiose
description of his grand funeral. Browne left a
good record, and had no need of a gaudy bury-
ing. (2) Glad to get personal pars Frank A.:
In the Senate Victorian parties remained as before.
In the House of Reps, the Opposition gained one
scat from the Ministerial party ; since then the Labor
party has also gained one from the Ministerialists. As to
Freetrade no candidate was returned in Victoria who
favored changing the present tariff in a Freetrade
direction Subscriber : The highest chimney stack in or
about Sydney is that of the City Council’s electric light-
ing plant ; it is 200 ft. high. There are many higher stacks
elsewhere ; one at Glasgow is about 400 ft. high Cosmo :
Thomas Williams, alias Frank Johns, one of the Moon-
light gang, was tried and sentenced to death over the
Wantabadgery affair in 1879 ; but the sentence was after
wards commuted to imprisonment for life, the first three
AND SHE WAS A WTDOW.
THE VICTIM (to his pal): " No, Billy, for my
sake don't deal it out to ’im. Remember ’e is
the sole support of ’is poor ole mother.”
years to be served in irons. Whilst serving his sentence
Williams attempted to murder a warder. For this offence
he was tried at Sydney Criminal Court on May 26, 1885,
and again sentenced to death. He was hanged on July
14, 1885 C.A.: You say you “ enclose a short attempt
at pessimism.” Great Scott! Isn’t there enough real
pessimism in this world without attempting more
Curlew : Your list of occupations isn’t remarkable enough.
Unsuitable : Gisimo, Max M., J.L., The Sniggerer.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Jennie S. : Silly-bus idea a mere pun, and a poor one at
that Pors : Dunno where the Corset Lady’s food goes.
Xipi : Nothing very promising Donald : Two held
for further consideration H. Vale : Joke about the
hairpin burning in the bottle is quite too venerable
J. Byrne : Not humorous A.D.L. : You can’t draw—
you can nearly draw ; but that’s different Mac : Very
old joke slightly varied E.L.A. : Joke used before
R. Bourke : They don’t get in at all John Hennessy :
Oil-painting on canvas, with colors all the same dark
slatey tinge, no earthly use for reproduction
Doctor’s Wife : Idea not bright enough' E.W.K. :
Pictures very moderate Unsuitable :—Exlex, Will C..
J. Le-B.


Doctor : “ How long is it since these growths
upon the scapular region first attracted
your attention 1 ”
Patient : “It was about the time I announced myself as a
candidate on the Good Man ticket."
Doctor : “Urn!—l see. Well, it’s nothing very serious.
You are about to cut a pair of wings, that’s all.”
An inquiry is progressing as to tbe suitability of Mr.
Blink to be the Good candidate for Barracoota, the start-
ling rumor having gained currency that he employs a typo
writer.
If Dill Macky will only consent to
stand, those legs of his ought to carry
him into Parliament. (Note : Our
artist begs to say that the above sketch
does not do full justice to Dill’s under
standings It was hastily taken on a
rainy day, and the original, relying,
doubtless, on a rather long macintosh,
had left, the padding at home )
Pf HE Rector: ‘‘We will now take up a collection for the
benefit of the Holy Smoke Electioneering Fund.
Nc>'■ Thursday will be set apart as a day of prayer
for the success of our dear brother, Mr. Wool. E.
Lai L, who, as you know, is a rv.
cnndirtate cn the Good / -
tic’.,:V etc. [Am J ___ J
“Maria, dear ;I am standing for Parliament. But before I am
accepted as a candidate by the association they require a certificate
from you as to my morals. Now, Maria, you know that my morals
are simply perfect,” etc., etc.
Trrrs Good Man Candidate fgot
no for the occasion, addressing
< meeting for lady voters only) :
“In conclusion I may tell
you that, besides all tfiis, my
Christian name is Joseph.”
(Loud and enthusiastic cheers
and a unanimous vote of con-
fidence. )
At the conclusion of a most enthusiastic meeting at Goshen Flat the Good
Man candidate asked everybody present to come and have a drink along with
him. (Tumultuous applause and general stampede for the door.) But when he
took them to the town pump a reaction set in, and the Good Man’s friends
(are now rather apprehensive as- to his chances.
The Good candidate will not use the unholy cab fop the display,, ol
bis posters ; his printed virtues wall shine forth from the prams.
THE GOOD MAN TICKET.


m
Ul>*Curry Spt*Kin«on IHI white ocean b#|icy
day of oood old Bri fish ra r
1$ pasr Ifie best" liters rcov* a r « Iffe
/T'N lndian<y
Shade fir
l°f Marryaf man Shiver me timbers- s® yo «re
I Ibe roa" Ib'ats ousfed me- are you ' Pood job
Ijj \\f Ql vvaifed t,ll Dfile were /
/). fi | 'S r 4
Benf ] repre^efff^^Vme!
MaoiCimion • I
labour * We ll i Int on ny own-
l b«f^*Come, on-
Mr Kelly tes) *°" ,d .
Soon be a bolishinp private
children and binding
soon as tt)«y
s/Z} born over j
l4e 3\ crC*
jrfM srare rn t ■
G ov/< leA M +~
b
to slate -
servants into Fed employ $1
M r ß«nF lia> re fused IHe low™ ft +&)
fye old T?CAy*rt B«*> to fa Fed Gov.
If Beni- objects X
beino t>irTon fa red offices
M’BenK objects f° »)« Y'T".!,
of money on a. bush a k
& J#l
M>rolfa Huss - 0 1 AW go+ffe
cold cabbas* jusf ready for \\\w
-too 1 "
1 The Aee wifas
/life Übo«*r
} pA r °
perceive Ilf*?'
if is
info life hands
'Vi - 'b' e
rJdT'*<pr
j^o^S l
ft
/
> X> X J
f *V>4l
f y'^V^M
Vf'ly N (J3gKh
/ / o 'a. <y wM
JT O o <<s
u/ *
Ae rfX* * •
RZkysgst*:^
I I ||k
V J |ffl \ %
As®*" st^on
rr,y lap Ijer's,
y©u, Boy ?"
* ~ NaK
b\
VvC'
Wl lllrto
W
Gen Boot?) (b J Oull) .
*' Only Tilth? pillion. boss» Mil Send hi*7
Kiqfih
% f(
% \& a (]( tv
CA "> pZ te
££ r mTo <T~ W% I ,m Al>
vfz ptyer "'5 O *
AROUND HOBSON’S BAY AND ELSEWHERE.


A. SAUNDERS, for WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELLERY.
A. BAUNDEWS
Indies’ High-f'rade Solid Silver
WATCHES. Pull-jewelled, J-plote,
£2 10s. £3, £2 10s, £4, £4 10s ;
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £0 10s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed, 3,4, 5, and 0 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Ivy Deal BROOCH, 7
Isct. (r. Id, 15*.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Ametbvst and Dove Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Odd Motto BROOCH, "20s
loot. Gold, 35s ; 18et. Gold, £'2.
gb ■ »
A. SAUNBEKS.
15ct. Gold Diamond Cluster and Sapphire BRACELET,
£l2 10s.
Smaller Diamonds, £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Name BROOCH, with Raised Flowers, 7s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 15s. Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Real], Red and Green Stone Set Butteifly
Gold BROUGH, 15s 6d ; Large Size. 20s.
A.. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, 3 Pure Double-cut Dia
monds, wiih Safety Cham, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
«SHUTS
QH&iFROMm
AiN.OiTiHIE ,-R
SOS s s
A. SAUNDERS.
Mizpah Gold BROOCH, 12s 6d. Very Naat and Effective.
&Ql
A. SAUNDERS
Very Neat and Pretty Opal and Pearl BRACELET, £2 15s.
The Latest Style.
Tr A. SAUNDERS.
very Handsome Double Crescent Pure Diamond BROOCH, Double-cut, £6O
With Sapphires and Diamonds, £35 ; Opals and Diamonds, £27 10s.
A- SAUNDERS.
Good Wish Gold BROOCH, 13s 6d ; lset.,
Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDER 3.
loot. Gold RROOCH, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 255.
9ct. Gold Heart Shaped LINKS, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
N.Z. Greenstone, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, Chased, 22s 6d ;
New Zealand Green Stone,
22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Waltham Watches,
£7 10s, £B, £8 10s, £9, £10; Other
Styles, £4 4s, £o ss, £6 6s ; guaranteed
4,5, and 6 years,
K. SAUNDERS.
8-Bar Amethyst Gold BROOCH, 25s ; 15ct.
Gold, 455.
A. SADNDERS.
2 Bar Onyx Stone BROOCH, 8 Pearls in
Centre, 15ct. Gold Mounts, £2 ; Similar,
3 Bars, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon BROOCH, with Ruby or Pearl,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Amethyst Gold Bar BROOCH, 8s 6d.
A. SOUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy Leaf and
Knot Diamond and Opal
BrtOOCH, £2 10s ;
Larger Diamond, £3
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. dold BROOCH., Pearls
and. Turquoise with Ribbon,
£•2 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Uold bird BROOCH, with Raised Flowers, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Gold BROOCH, Pearl, Ruby,
and Sapphire Set, 22s 6d.
Very Neat Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire and
Pearl BROOCH, £8 10s.
A. SAUNUEBS.
Gold Pin Chain and Bell,
5s 6d.
A. SA UNDE US.
Gold Dog and
Kennel (JHAK.M,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Gold Candlestick
and Mouse
CHARM, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Artist’s
Palette aud Easel
CHARM, 10s.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Gold Artist's
Palette CHAKM.
10s.
15ct. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds and 3 Rubles,
255.
18ct. Puie Duuble-
eut Diamond RING,
£2 10s, £3.
Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 12s 6d ; 15ct. Gold
Stone Set, 80s ; Diamonds, £2.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond-out Amethyst BRACELET, Gold-mounted, £4 10s ;
Padlock, £5 os.
Amethyst Heart
m
Ladies' Cuib Chain
Gold Snap PAD-
LOCK, 255, 30s. 355.
40s, 455, £3; Isct.
Gold, £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s,
£B, £lO.
10s extra for key
padlock, all with
safety chain.
A. SAUNDFRS.
15ct. Gold Pearl-set 2-Heart BRACELET with Love Knot and
Wings, £5 10s.
18ct. Gold Marquise
KING, 12 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, or Sapphii es,
£lO : all Diamonds
or 3 Emeral 's £l2 10 ;
Larger, £l5, £l7 10s,
A. SAUiNDELIS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and Keepers, 9ct.
Solid Gold, 5s 6a, 7s 6d, 10s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, 15s ;
extra heavy, 25s : 1 Set. Gold, 20s ; extia heavy,
30s, 355, 40s ; best quality and Einish.
A. SAUNDERS.
Goli Pin Chain anl
Wishbone CHARM.
7s 6d.
lf?ct. Gold Half-hoop
Five Double-cut Dia
mond RING, £5 ;
Large Diamonds,
£6 10s, £7 10s. £B,
18ct. Solid Gold Dia-
mond and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s, 8
Diamonds, £3.
IBct. Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2 10s; Size
Larger, £3 10s.
4.. SAUNDERS.
!Bet. Gold Ha If-hoop 5
Pure White Double-cut
Diamonds, £l5; Size
Smaller, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pheasant and Crescent BROOCH, Bet
with Turquoise, Pearls, and Ruby, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold BROOCH, Ruby and
Diamond Heart. £2 10s.
A.. SAUNDKRS.
2-Bur Gold Diamond-cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 25s : loot. Gold, £a.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, 2-bar Pearl-set Scroll BROOCH, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Secret Name BROOCH, 25s ; Isct. Gold, £2
any name. free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Lons Gold Muff' IIAI N’S, in Every Style and
Pattern made, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5
10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Key,
£3 10s.
-
.
m
i ;
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
p U re Silver Cases, Dust and "Watertight, £3
10s. Extra duality, with Chronometer
Balance. £4 10s, £5, £5 10b, £6, £7, £B.. Solid
Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O. A written certificate for
3,4, and 5 years. Try one, you will not
regret it.
Keyless
£b.
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable
WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s fid ;
New Sliort Wind, 10s ;
New Model, Gr., 13s 6d ;
Extra Uuality, f-plate, 18s fid and£l ;
Silver, 35s ; Hold, it'l 15s.
The reputation of these watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
No
Ad-
vance.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled Non-magnet DEVEU,
Perfect'timekeeper, Screw Cases, Dust
and Watertight, 20s ;
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A written guaiantee given with each
watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS ’
Fly-back only. In solid Nickel or Black. Extra
duality, £2, £2 10s; Split Seconds, same as
above, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5,
£6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and
£3O. A written certificate for 2, 3 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s
mm
!M«
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers Puie Solid Silver
Bunting Cases, Extra ttualitv aiomnentis
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £o ; P* 1 *'?!
Cases. Walthams, £4 4s, £5 os ; S.did Gold, £<
10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, and £2o.
3, 4, and 5 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cases,
£i 4s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND OPTICIAN,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST., OPP. RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Nature’s Pleasant Laxative.’
m
m
'MATURES
PIEASANT.
LAXATIVE”
OF:
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
3
Wi
California Syrup of Figs is now
without doubt the most widely
appreciated household medi-
cine of modern times. Doctors
everywhere recommend it, be-
cause it strengthens the Liver,
Bowels and Kidneys whilst
at the same time thoroughly
but very gently cleansing the
sluggish system. Its great
value lies in the help it gives
in permanently overcoming
Habitual Constipation and its
many attendant ills.
WORDS OF ADVICE.— Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and
see that the package bears the name of the California Fig Syrup Co
Imitations are numerous, but as you value your health you cannot risk
taking a substitute. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
SAVING
CHILD LIFE
When a child is ill what is wanted is some
thing that at once restores strength to the
child’s system and gives it the fullest possible
fighting chance against the disease. Nature
will always do good work if you will give he:'
the medicinal assistance she requires. This
is essentially so when children have marasmus
—wasting away. The exact remedy is Scott’s
Emulsion, which begins the rebuilding of the
strength and the checking of disease with
the first dose. No Mother should despair
of saying her child so long as she has not
tried Scott’s Emulsion. It is the greatest
friend to children among the world’s prepara-
tions. It is made of the purest Norwegian
cod liver oil and contains hypophosphites of
lime and soda. The weakest stomach .can
bear it and children take it without a murmur.
This letter shows how it works :
Chinaman Flat, Wallsend, N.S.W.
July Bth, 1903.
Dear Sirs, —My little daughter, May Harris,
when 13 months old, had a very severe illness,
and suffered greatly from malnutrition and
m
m
m
May Hau.ao.
she wasted away to
such an extent that
the Doctor had little
hope of saving her.
lie advised me to try
Scott’s Emulsion, and
was delighted to note
after having given
it to her for a little
' ime —a very decided
mprovement in her
ondition ; and, after
■ course, a complete
and thorough cure was
effected. It quickly
rebuilt her lost health
and strength ; and,
had no trouble; or cause for anxiety of any
kind in regard to her health since that time.
Faithfully yours,
(Mrs.) Helen Harris.
Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.
to Messrs, (Scott and Bowiie, Ltd.,
■lB3 Kenc-street, (Sydney, N.B. W.,
send Id. (for postage), name this
paper, and you will receive a free
sample bottle. Note this Trade
Mark when buying. Of all chemists.
m
Westralian Treasurer Gardiner, though not
going up for re-election, is trying to help the Government
through. Lately, he has been dwelling on “ the remark-
able fact,” “ the very noteworthy circumstance,” “ the
reassuring fact which can hardly be too much insisted
upon,” that, whereas only 13 per cent, of the net general
expenditure of his State is required for interest payments,
in Victoria, which is the State next in order, the amount
is 26 per cent. But there isn’t much credit in pointing
out that you are not as drunk as somebody else if the
object in making the remark is to get Bung to hand you
more liquor. Also, there is another way of looking at the
Westralian position:—
Interest, &c., Per Head op Population, 1902-3.
Victoria £1 13 0
Tasmania .. .. .. 2 0 6
New South Wales .. .. 2 2 6
South Australia .. .. 2 14 8
Queensland 2 18 8
Westralia .. .. .. 3 4 5
Westralia’s “ most reassuring circumstance ” simply arises
from the fact that, for the present, it happens to have
more than twice the revenue of the other States per head
of population ; but as that revenue falls (it has already
fallen this year as compared with last by £294,548)
Westralia will be in just as bad a position as the others.
If it keeps on borrowing it will probably be in the worst
position of any of them.
* * * *
Last year, when prosperity was so utter a
stranger to N. S. Wales that the Government could not
make ends meet by about three-quarters of a million, and
the State (according to Ministers) had to borrow in order
to keep its people employed, the wholly-absentee A. A.
Company was still able to make a profit of £61,022, and
pay a dividend of 255. per share. The co. has put the
money it got from the sale of the Gloucester estate into
the Hebburn colliery, upon which it had spent up to Dec.
31st, £76,381. It talks now of another 30,000 acres of land
which it has to dispose of at Port Stephens. Well, this is
a good sign, anyway. It means that at least one pretty
well advised co. reckons that the Federal graduated land
tax and the absentee surcharge are coming.
* * * *
Portland Guardian, of All Fools Day, 1854,
records the presence of over three tons of unclaimed gold
in Melbourne Treasury. Does anyone know where that
money is now ?
* » * *
The statutory returns’filed by the co. which owns
Melbourne Herald and Weekly Times show that it has
over 100 shareholders. The co. is in 250,000 shares, half of
them preference. S. V. Winter, managing editor, is the
largest holder, with 26,765 shares. Carl Pinschof and his
family have 15,660 shares between them. A. H. Massina
has 9002. Other large shareholders are Theodore Fink,
W. L. Baillieu, Simon Fraser, and Bowes Kelly ; smaller
ones, Madame Dolores, C. G. Duffy, Geo. Tallis, and
M‘Donald Paterson, of Brisbane. David Syme is popu-
larly credited with having a large interest, but the name
is hot on the list. Pinschof is, however, a close friend cf
Syme’s, and so is Simon Fraser. The net profits for the
last year shown were £23,479. The last dividend was
6 per cent, on preference and 8 per cent, on ordinary
shares. Directors are Fink, Baillieu, Massina, Pinschof,
Moloney, and Thompson Moore.
* • ■# *
The “ simple farmer ” seems to be able to give
away a good many points even to the smart city shark.
Lately Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait ukased that he
would charge freight on wheat at the rate of 9 bags per
ton. The farmer accepted this order to pay reasonable
freight on his wheat and said nothing—but immediately
set to work to acquire bigger bags. By employing old
sugar bags and other huge receptacles he had got the
weight of wheat per bng up to 4061 b is, he was pay-
ing about three t. os freight on five tons of wheat—when
the wharf 1 .borers, who had to hump 4001 b. bags all day,
objected, and asked Minister Murray to try and fix a
standard weight. Murray was surprised, and promised
to do his best for them ; but, if the farmer has a hand in
the game, that isn’t likely to be much.
* * * *
The Yanko-Anglo-Australian tobacco combine
has got to work now in Maoriland ; it has set up head-
quarters in Wellington, started out to reduce trading
expenses, and proposes to put up a factory. So far,
though Maoriland ranks fairly high as a smoker, practi-
cally nothing has been done in the way of home manufac-
ture ; there are two small factories, but they only employ
20 hands all told, exclusive of those engaged in putting
up the baneful cigarette. There is a duty of 2s. on leaf,
and an excise duty of Is., while the manufactured article
carries 3s. 6d. per lb., which doesn’t leave much of a
margin to work on.
* * ■» *
According to the British Australasian, the'
Aberdeen line of steamers between Australia and London
has re-entered the shipowners’ combine. This will end
the war of rates, probably, and freights'will go up from
the present 20s. a ton Sydney to London rate. Also
the Federal liners’ £25 first-class passenger tickets to
London may become a thing of the past.
* * * *
In spite of the high recovery of metals in the
concentrates, the returning charges on zinc concentrati s
are so high that the magnetic process only shows a pre-
sent profit of from ss. to 10s. per ton of crude Junction
North (Broken Hill) ore. Yet this ore is alleged to be
particularly suitable for treatment by this process. A
magnetic plant, capable of treating about 1000 tons of
ore per week, would cost about £6OOO.
* * * *
The Government battery at Black Range
(W.A.), has made a start, but, unless things are changed,
will prove a frost. No provision has been made for an
adequate supply of water, and the consequence is the
mill can only run a few hours a day. Some 50 applicants
came forward to get their parcels treated,, and it was
decided to draw lots for turns. The first on the list is
“ Baby ” Green, long known on the fields and well known
in the East. Opposite opinions are expressed as to the
merits of the field ; but, if it turns out trumps, it will be
an agreeable surprise to many. One man sent up by a
Perth syndicate to secure a property returned empty-
handed, as he said there was nothing worth buying ; and
agents for mining syndicates are not usually very squeam-
THAT TIRED FEELING.
FATHER (to daughters): “ Yous jes’ let that tree fall on me an’ I’ll give, yer wot for.”
ish as to the kind of properties they buy so long as their
com. is all right. The Black Range Option Syndicate has
had such wild fluctuations since speculators were first
warned in Tiib Bulletin to go slow, that gambling, not
mining, is apparently the scheme of the promoters.
* * * *
A little while ago, the results of numbers of
assays of stone were published by a W.A. mine ; and,
by a system of averaging, it was ascertained that the
mine had a shoot going over 20oz. It turns out now that
the mine hasn’t either a complete assaying plant or an
assayer, and that most of the returns were little better
than guesses. The stone is highly mineralised, and con-
tains a lot of pyrites, familiarly known as “ newchum
gold,” and this had seemingly been mistaken for the real
Mackay. And yet the manager of that mine has been
taken by some for a Westralian authority, and has given
addresses on technical subjects !
* * * *
Ivanhoe South Extended, Kalgoorlie(W.A.), has
passed into the control of Bewick, Moreing and Co., along
with the Horseshoe. Some months ago a diamond drill bore
cut a.jode at 1500 ft., giving very good values, and it was
decided to sink the shaft to 1500 ft. and crosscut for the
lode. Since then a survey has proved that the drill was
deflected, and that the lode pierced is really in [vanhoe
ground. As the co. has lots of funds, sinking is to be pro-
ceeded with in the hope that some of the Ivanhoe lodes
will be met with at depth. The outlook isn’t very pro-
mising, as the lodes, taken all through, are nearly verti-
cal, the slight underlay to the west being counteracted by
sudden twists to the east. It probably is a legitimate
venture, but can’t be recommended as an investment for
poor folk.
* * * •
Ida H., Lavertoii (W.A.), is to have one more
try. The reef at 400 ft. is very poor and unpayable, and a
contract has been let. to carry the. shaft down another
200 ft. to test the ground. All the quartz mines in the
Laverton district —in fact, most quartz mines in W.A. —
have petered out, or become very much poorer, at a
comparatively shallow depth. Even the Great Fingall,
according to the published assays, is poor at the lowest
level, and the Cosmopolitan is very decidedly poor. Since
it started, some four years ago, the Ida H. Co. has paid
£41,100 in divs. on its issued capital of £54,000, which
looks well on paper ; but then shares were peddled out to
the public at £3 premium, so that somebody has been
“ left.”
* * * *
Even the James Government begins to feel
u icomfortable over the grip which Bewick, Moreing and
Co. are getting over Westralian mines. In his “ policy
speech ” thte Premier referred to a danger of “mining
operations being" conducted in a manner which would not
be beneficial to the State, and hoped that if the occasion
ever arose the people would display initiative and deal
promptly with the monopolist.” Suppose I’reliSier James
himself “ displays initiative ” for,a start, lie might, to
begin with, draw the Australian Government’s attention
to the fact that more Italians are reaching the State than
Britishers, and he mig'ht suggest an inquiry whether
they are coming under contract. And even if they are
not coming under contract, be might furnish a report as
to the mode of goldfields life of many of them, and put it
to Deakin whether he thinks such people are desirable
immigrants. If that didn’t do any good, he might dis-
play some more initiative. It is quite possible that many
of these men are not under contract; their foreign bosses
know a better trick than that—they probably put them
at competitive tendering ; and the man who has been used
to living on 3s. a day puts in a price on the 3s. level.
James might see whether hecan pump up enough initiative
of his own to stop that. Also, seeing that if there were
not any foreign-owned mines there would not be any of
this danger which Premier James foresees, he might
display enough initiative to get from the foreign mining
co. enough in taxes to make up for the general damage it
does to Australian interests. Nobody has half as much-
chance as Premier James to “display initiative,” and
nobody has half as much call to do It, either.
* * * *
“S.R.F.” writes re Bulletin's par. (7/4/’O4) on
slump in Westralian pearl industry through fall in price
of shell and increase in number of boats :■ —-The trouble in
the West, as in Torres Straits, is not with the scarcity of
shell, or the cheapness of shell, but the enormous profits
the owners want. Shell on the Nor’-West coast costs
about £BO per ton to raise and place on the London
market, so that with price at £l5O, or even lower, an
enormous profit is made. Last year over 1)00 tons of shell
was. lifted from the N.W. coast, and the only local people
who benefited by it were the Japanese brothel-keepers at
Broome, to whom go the earnings of the Asiatic crews.
So mean are the boat-owners that the little flour that is
used on their fleets is cheap Californian, bought at Singa-
pore. Until white divers are insisted upon by the Govern-
ment, the industry, for all the good it is to the community
at large, could be shut up.
* * * *
The Blinman, one of tire Far North mines which
30 years ago made South Australia’s name as a copper-
producer, is now being handled by the Tasmanian Copper;
Co., a concern which consists mostly of J. Bull. In the
old bullock-dray days it was only possible to work the
richest ores; now, with the Northern railway nearer,
though still some distance off, a new 100-ton smelter is
going up, a mill is being got ready, and the whole 000,000
tons of surface stuff (slag, &c.) will be rehandled. There
are still some second-grade carbonates left in the mine to
feed the mill with, and sulphides have been proved for a
couple of hundred feet below water level. The mine is,
however, 360 miles from Adelaide, and costs must keep
high, though the railways have arranged a special tariff.
The directors of the new co. which took over the
Burra mine (S.A.) from the old S.A. Mining Association in
1901 include Broken Hill directors John Darling and
Muecke and others of considerable tonnage. The old
Assi, which got fat on the profits in the early days, has
had no energy for anything these 20 years past, and made
no attempt either to see if the-big deposit was connected
with a lode, or to rework the dumps. The new co., in
which the old Association holds about 25,000 shares,
reckoned upon making its first profit out of these dumps,
but the machinery laid down at a cost of £12,000 was a
thorough failure. There are 6000 tons of copper there,
but it looks as though it will have to stay for the present.
This failure knocked the heart out of the new co., ai d it
has done little more than the old one ; and the recent find
of a supposed lode would not have been made but for a
stray tributor. The find is hopeful, but its permanent
value is not yet proved.
* * * *-
Annual conference of Australian Institute of
Mining Engineers, held in Sydney, attracted no
attention whatever, which wasn’t so very much less
than it deserved. It was attended by hardly anybody,
and most of those who were there do the chief
part of their engineering in Pitt-street. The papers
presented were poor things, as a rule, and evoked no dis-
cussion worth mentioning, because there were not half-a-
dozen practical mining men present, and silence covers a
multitude of things. Stanley Hunter, of Vic. Mines
Department, had a paper worth remembering on the
misplacement of mining shaftsconcentration of
Broken Hill ores was appropriately dealt with
by the Broken Hill manager who has had least
experience of it, and therefore has fewest sins
to answer for ; and the most distinguished contribution
of all the rest was a plain-spoken essay on '• Dredging in
N.5.W.,” in which the writer, Mr. Blair, bom bard
“ first robbers,” who, in order to swell their own pickings,
over-capitalised most of the enterprises, as being chiefly
respons.ble for the very large proportion of failures, lii
plain words, the greed of the city crowd, which professes
to speak for the mining industry, and which has most to
say about the shocking unfairness of the labor conditions
is held mainly responsible for crippling dredging in
N.S. Males.
Two German dredges are to be put on N.
Terntory nvers-one on the Margaret, the other on the
J\lcJ\ ill l&y,
* # *
‘JW®” (Fossdbroob, N.Q.): Charters Towers
and Ravenswood s timber reserves for mining and firing
purposes are fast becoming exhausted. Already several co’s
import coal What’s the matter with the Kidston-Morgan
combine testing the coal beds which exist on llavilah and
oanoma stations and other parts of Bowen River ? If
successful here, they could continue their Wangaratta line
till it junctions with the Townsville railway, run a junction
from most convenient spot to their State-o'wned coal mines
and supply Ravenswood, Charters Towers, Townsville, etc.,
with fuel. Given a good coking coal, up-to-date reduc-
tion words could be erected on the permanent waters of
the Burdekin. Of course, it all hinges on the coal behw
good ami abundant; and there is a heap more chance of
that than the boring plant (put there in the Philp regime)
lias of £ citing* even “ indications ” out in Townsville’s
backyard. All through the late drought a coal seam on
bandy Creek, Havilah, was on fire \ and in years gone hv
a line survey was made from Bowen to some coal beds
adjacent to Sanoma.
* * * *
Recently Q. Ministry wrote to other States with
a view to arranging that mining engine-drivers’ certificates
issued in any State should be accepted in all the States.
Favorable replies have been received, but it will be
necessary for each State to pass a short amending Act first.
If the Federal legislative powers were extended the job
could be completed in a week, but six Parliaments mean
six years or never.
Harry Clark, one of the men who first pegged
the Long Tunnel blocks at Walhalla (Vic.), is still out of his
coffin, and living in Gippsland Clark, P. O’Brien, M.
Rice, J. Sutcliffe and John Puff first pegged out blocks 1)
and 10 on the line of Cohen’s Reef at Walhalla, in ’63.
Block 9 was sold to W. Pearson (of Kilmeny Park) and
the brothers Firebraee for £5OO ; W. Gardiner and W.
Cunningham paid another £5OO for block 10. Next year
these purchasers amalgamated, took up 30 acres behind,
and formed the Long Tunnel G.M. Co., which lias since
raised £2,000,000 of gold. Pearson stood by the mine
through thick; and thin, even mortgaging some of his
property to help equip it—a fine contrast to the present
day “ first robber,” who mostly rushes to float a company
in London. Clark afterwards helped to discover the
North Gippsland, the Gladstone and the Earl’s Reef
claims, and later on worked at the Long Tunnel battery.
* + * *
Bendigo is jubilant over recent results. Last
year’s were good ; this year’s, so far, heat them easily :
Jan.-Mar,, Jan.-Mar.,
1903. 1904.
Gold .. .. 46,3590 z. 60,5056 k.
Dividends .. .. £58,772 £85,879
Calls £30,250 £38,779
The March gold-figures were 24,0310 z. ; only two months
have given more in the last 21 years.. The fly in the oint-
ment is the comparative failure of the deep ground. But 1
Bendigo has a splendid faith in its own field, and it pays
its calls as no others do; moreover, it is patient and
plodding, and what it can’t do to-day it reckons upon being
able to do to-morrow if it keeps trying. Most of its life
Bendigo has been facing tougher problems by far than the
Jewhannesburgers have to grapple with, but has never
disgraced itself by whining for cheap yellow labor to
help it out ; so the district deserves all the success it
has had this year, and deserves it for a long while.
* * * *
English papers have lately been remarking
upon recent results of about the best-known and most
typical of Cornish mining co.’s—the Cornish Tin Mining
Co. Year after year it has been losing money :
last half it, lost £4595 ; previously there was an
accumulated deficit of £13,682. The reason is the
poor grade of the ore. Most of the same papers
“barrack” for Chinese labor in S’Africa—also on the
ground that the ore is low-grade. But there isn’t one of
them that is game to propose the importation of cheap
Chinese labor to England—though there are multitudes
of mines in England which need it quite as much as
do the Rand mines.


WHISKY
m
GrO TO SCSSI.iL-
HiOI.ANJ) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
■FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
JUiStralasa Siamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
' Money order or draft on London.
R. GENNERT, 890 Fauby, St. Martin Paris, Fran-e.
RHEUMATJGURO
NEVER FAILS TO CURE
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
and Neuralgia, Of all Chemists , 2/9
AGENTS—FKI.TON, GRIXIWADK & CO., MELBOURNE.
SPECTACLES
m
—FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, ™
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-aceurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to —
H. A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Land Acts than has Land Agent
W. IST. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. ... Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Should Premier Morgan get his promised
Electoral Reform Bill safely through Q. Parlia-
ment, the Democratic party will probably blot out
the small remnant of the black labor crowd at next
election.
A general election being almost in sight in
Victoria, Premier Bent is promising wildly to
build railways all over the place, “and,” said he
to a recent deputation of unemployed, “all of you
will get jobs.” Bent, the economist, grows very
reckless when an election approaches.
A few choice phrases culled from the
literary effusions of Reform correspondents in last
week’s S.M. Herald: “Professional politician,
windbag, and man who lives on the game”;
“Hypocrite”; “Domain dosser, yahoo and
travelling crawler”; “Unfairness and corrup-
tion”; “ Larrikinisin of the gutter.”
“Dicky” Haynes, K.C., who set out on
his Westralian campaign a few weeks ago
determined to “scotch socialism wherever he saw
it,” now announces that he thinks the Midland
railway should be purchased by the State. The
Haynes family doesn’t seem to be having any luck
with its “ campaigns ” lately.
The Protestant Defence Association in
Maoriland is sitting in the dirt in a dazed condi-
tion. It recently approached Anglican Bishop
Neligan and asked him to take an active part, or
at least to allow his name to appear as one of its
leading spirits; and the Bishop treated the
P.D.A. as the noxious insect it is, and stood on it.
John Bull’s supplementary Estimates for
1904 show that it has taken him a long while to
find out what “ Colonial patriotism ” in S’Africa
was going to cost him. The original estimate for
1904 to settle up balances of “pay, etc., colonial
contingents, S’Africa ” was £5OOO ; the supple-
mentary Estimate puts down the sum needed as
£BOO,OOO.
Senator Pearce lias a good notion to stop
the influx of aliens (which continues in spite of the
Immigration Act). His idea is to fix one port in
each State as the onl ■ one at which Asiatics can
secure admission. There is good reason to believe
that in the matter of the admission of aliens there
is considerable laxness, or tiredness, or winking of
the other eye at outports.
The Commonwealth Government has cir-
cularised all wholesale chemists to the effect that
any goods purporting to be “ preventives ” will in
future be stopped at the Customs and destroyed.
Result, one big firm is starting the local manu-
facture, and prices are coining down as a result of
this cursed Protection which increases the cost to
the consumer.
THE NEW MOTHER AND THE OLD DAUGHTERS.
“ Mustn’t interfere —’twould be encroaching on State rights.”
“ We’ll be down on this socialism as hard
as ever we can ” was one of the bull-like bellows
emitted by Bent when he took over the Premier-
ship from Irvine. And yet every important item
in Bent’s policy, so far as it has been disclosed,
is pure, unadult rated socialism. At Bendigo
t’otner day Bent promised that his Government
would extend the Mines Development Act in the
direction of granting Government loans to pros-
pecting companies, and that the Government
prospecting batteries, whioh have proved a great
assistance to the mining industry, would be
improved and increased in number.
Mr. Chamberlain, at Johannesburg, during
his S’African tour :
It has been rumored in London that there is an ignoble
bargain between my friends who represent the mining in-
terests and myself ; if they consent to be taxed, I on my
part, and on the part of the Imperial Government, will
agree and approve of a proposal to introduce Chinese
labor. Well, a rumor of that kind does great credit to the
ingenuity of its author, but it would not be creditable to
any intelligent man if he gave it the slightest credence.
Anything of that sort would be discreditable to the mining
interest, and almost treasonable on my part.
And now?
Something has gone wrong with ‘ * the
colonising genius of the British people” surely.
About four years ago, just before the war, the
Orange River State and the Transvaal were
flourishing under the rule of the despised Boer.
To-day, after something like a year of peaceful
British rule, the Transvaal is practically bankrupt,
and, according to the Milner gang, only to be
saved by imported Chow labor.
Some of his enemies tried to get the
Redfern Deform League to nominate J. H. Want
against Labor-leader M‘Gowen. But the local
leaguers knew Redfern couldn’t be caught with
that brand of chaff, so they rejected the proposal,
and chose a local alderman with a profound know-
ledge of the local culverts and spoon-drains. The
Deform party relies upon everything except
Deform.
Though it was not even suggested that
either candidate for the disputed Riverina seat in
the House of Reps, had been guilty of improper
practices, the Chief Justice, after declaring the
election void, ordered Blackwood to pay most of
the costs, and Chanter the balance. The mess
arose out of the capacity of the bush J.P. and the
way-out policeman to do the wrong thing ; and
neither Chanter nor Blackwood appointed the
J.P. or the policeman. Nor did the Federal
Government appoint them. Still somebody had
to pay.
Socialism is threatened with attack in
Tasmania, and —the Tories are up in arms
in its defence ! The Propsting Ministry talks of
abolishing the Council of Agriculture. This State-
supported body is elected by farmers and
orchardists, and its abolition is suggested for
economy’s sake. And the farmers, who are
always cursing “socialistic legislation,” are
rallying valiantly in defence of their bit of
socialism.
A noble sentiment by Yictorian Premier
Bent in the course of his Brighton speech :
Education is the cheapest police and the cheapest gaol.
I have always shown my desire that the children of the
poor man shall, if they have the brains, go right BANG
up to the University.
Then Bent said that the area of Victoria was
88,000,000 square miles, or about 29 times the size
of all Australia, and the fact that Bent never went
bang up to the University became painfully ap-
parent.
Before the Melbourne election a woman
wrote an appeal to her sex, which the Argus pub-
lished. It, among other things, said
Upon the issue of this election will depend the welfare,
not of the Melbourne electorate alone, but of the whole
Commonwealth, for the credit of Australia in England
must be materially affected if socialism, which is the worst
kind of tyranny, over-rides liberalism, which is the best
kind of freedom.
And now that Maloney is elected that woman
(who, it may be safely wagered is “Lady” Some-
body) is not to be seen in the offing by vessels
crossing Bass Straits, hanging on to a life-buoy and
waiting for the Commonwealth to smash up.
More socialism for the anti-socialistic far-
mer ! Victorian Agricultural Minister Murray’s
latest idea is “ Experimental poultry farms—the
State to establish such and to give lessons in
poultry-raising to farmers or their families. Model
houses would be erected and instructions given by
poultry experts.” Socialism is such a good thing
that the farmer wants all he can get; but, above
all things, he wants the city worker to help pay
for his blessings, while he (the aforesaid farmer)
objects to the other having any such advantages.
Now that the rab-
bits are in full posses-
sion of Westralia’s
sand y wastes and have
actually got within
cooee of the coast, the
J immy Government
is making frantic
efforts to drive back
the invaders. The
first fence, near the
S. Australian border,
was quite useless.
Portions of it fell
down as soon as the
men had turned their
backs on the job;
besides, the rabbits
had got well past the
site of the fence before
it was commenced. It
has just been decided
to put up another
thousand miles of
fencing running north
and south of Cunder-
din, a point on the
Coolgardie railway,
but the money might
just as well be thrown
into the sea. Rabbits
are already well past
that point also. There
is not very much for them to eat on the goldfields,
unless they take a liking to the tins that formerly
contained some of their relations from the other
side, and the droves are hurrying towards the coast.
Before the Jimmy Government gets its new fence
started the rabbits will probably be climbing up the
steps of the Treasury at Perth and biting the
deficiency.
After the hearing of the disputed Riverina
election appeal before the Australian Chief
Justice :
Air. .John Quick asked that costs should be given on the
highest scale. He thought it would perhaps be as well
for the High Court to start with a precedent on the ques-
tion of costs.
In other words, the first thing the Court should
do is to establish a precedent—otherwise, the
“common rule” of the Arbitration Court —that
the rate of pay to the lawyer shall be on the
highest scale. And yet there probably isn'
another profession which, taking it all round, ha.
harder things to say about the Arbitration Court,
and the “greed” of the men who come to it for
awards.
THE NEW AUSTRALIAN POSTCARD DESIGNS.
Cohen might like something of this kind.
The Mikado lately celebrated the 2564th
anniversary of Emperor Jimmu’s accession to the
throne of Japan. Civilisation (of a sort) is very
young and tender, but history is darned old and
tough in the land of the tawny Monkey.
The Reform League-Government combin-
ation has selected a first instalment of 42 candi-
dates for the new Victorian Assembly. The list
commences with Tory Frank Madden, and includes
such as Methven, Swinburne, Boyd, J. Harris,
M‘Cutcheon, Fairbairn, Levien, Mackey, Trash-
worth, Downward, Forrest, and the rest of the
reactionary incapables. The blessed Kyabrama-
pootra has moulted now and shows himself naked
—a groggy, stupid, cumbersome bird, with Bent
legs and an apology for a head.
Sydney Telegraph has done a multitude
of glaringly clumsy things, but it never did any-
thing more elephantine than when it recently
published a letter signed “A Trade Unionist”
demanding a large all-round reduction of wages,
and denouncing trades unionism and Labor legisla-
tion as the cause why the men of Sydney have
“no manufactories to work in.” Present writer
is going to try his own hand at a letter to the
Telegraph. It will be in support of unionism and
Labor legislation, and will be signed “ A Bloated
Capitalist.”
“T.”:N early time there was an audit of De-
fence accounts in some States, anyhow; also a differ-
ent system of pay for parades is urgently
required. Officers commanding some
corps require signatures to vouchers by
the whole corps before payment is made.
Some men sign and leave at once, com-
pany being dismissed and they anxious
to get away, and it’s odds on in one corps
if those ever see their pay, being con-
fronted with their receipts when they
ask for the money. In one case the
0.C., after getting all signatures,
paid nobody, but applied the pro-
ceeds to meeting defalcations of which
he had been guilty as a church officer.
Many men in one man’s corps have
not been paid for duties perform; d at
the time of the York visit. One or two
bluffed him, and he “paid out of my
own pocket if you’re so damned hard
up.”
Queensland Treasurer Kiclston
has extended the engagement of Dr.
Maxwell, the sugar expert, for three
years, at £'3ooo per annum. Maxwell
will be responsible for the management
of the central sugar mills, and Kidston
hopes to turn what are now hopelessly
insolvent concerns into prosperous State
enterprises. The Government shows
courage and common sense in paying
the high salary mentioned. Dr. Max-
well is a more valuable public servant
now than when he first arrived in
Queensland, and if he can run the mills
successfully, and also attend to his expe-
rimental duties, he will be worth tens of
thousands to the State.
The Australian national policy
should be throughout anti - foreign :
against foreign money-lenders, foreign
manufacturers, and foreign land-lords.
The ‘ ‘ Orange Free State’s ” name
should now be changed to the “Man-
darin State.”
“Huffin-Guffin” : Bent’s blacklegs are
not all pleased with their jobs, notwithstanding
the special consideration they receive. One of
these individuals recently went off duty on the
Elea of sickness. While “sick ”he w-as found to
e away working with a threshing machine. The
man who prefers that job to Bent’s does not offer
much inducement to others to become blacklegs.
The broken-up invalid, perhaps because of his
disloyalty in making Bent’s job appear so poor a
“ collar,” has been called on to show cause why he
should not be dismissed from Bent’s locomo-
tive.
There is no enthusiasm among N.S.W.
Ministers over local government. Said John Kidd
in his district (Camden) the other day :
How in a place like Burragorang- were the people to
raise sufficient money to carry out the necessary works to
enable them to get their produce to market? (Cheers.)
The establishment of local government would not relieve
the Treasury to any extent, and those who told them that
local government was not going to cost anything would
have to show where the money was coming from.
(Cheers.) In six and a half years no less a sum than
£70,000 7s. Id. of Government money had been expended
in the Camden electorate.
These are what they call the great natural
resources of the country. But when there is talk
of giving a much smaller bonus to establish the
great national industry of iron-manufacture Joe
Cook (Camden is in Joe Cook’s Federal electorate)
says it’s monstrous, and an interference with the
laws of nature, and not to be thought of.
Applicants for additional
holdings are well treated in the-
new N.S.W. Land Act. They
have the right of a draw in the
ballot. Failing there, They have
a prior right to put in a claim
to the local Land Board for
the land, at which the success-
ful drawer in the ballot is not
allowed to give evidence, nor
protest. If the land is con-
firmed (as it mostly is) to the
“additional” applicant, the
other fellow has to hunt about
for another block. It doesn’t!
seem to matter to the Depart-
ment if he has been kept in
suspense for months and missed
several opportunities of acquir-
ing land m the meantime ! A
business-like Land Act would
settle the claims of the “ addi-
tional ” before the land became
available for the general pub-
lic and thus save much annoy-
ance and expense.
The unspeakable Bent is developing his.
election campaign; the railway employees have
been circularised asking them to sign an agree-
ment that they can be dismissed without notice
and all civil servants are threatened with chsmisad
—with subsequent re-engagement on re-graded
salaries—so as to confiscate their pension rights,
the Tory press last Monday reported this,
gigantic suggestion of swindle and repudiation
without a word of protest. ,
More extracts from j Carrutliers’ Book
pi n 4 lflir i^ a
* . .
thousands more. We are crippled by want of population,
the bare inflow of capital, and the poor circulation of
capital, which are necessary to bring capitalists and.
workers together in the production of wealth and employ-
nient. The thing which arrests the wheels of progress in
this country, and its development, is the dread of the
current of‘legislation and administration. 1 fear very
grave disasters from political efforts towards the evolution
of mankind by theoretical socialists.
It all sounds so like a Dorcas meeting drinking
tea m the distance Will Joe, the Oily and
Indefinite, say exactly what he means to do about
anything, supposing he gets into office / lhe-
country, by his account, is full of vague and m-
definite evils. Why not define one of the evils,
and say distinctly, like a clause in an Act ol rar-
liainent, what he means to do about it? Then we
w uM know something about Joe. At present he
j s only a diffuse O hoot whirling in a fog.
HOIST WITH HIS OWN PETARD.
(Tommy Bent has promised to introduce a Compulsory
Voting Eill.)
THE ELECTOR : “ Well, I’ve been too tired to rid
myself of you, but since you insist upon it”
Several of Premier Bent’s colleagues make-
no secret of the disgust with which they regard his
efforts at the deliverance of apolicy speech. They
declare that it was impolitic and even stupid.
Some of them are saying, “That sort of thing is
all very well for Bent, but how are we going to-
stand up against it ? ” Attorney-General Davies,
too, has openly protested against one of the items-
which Bent announced as the policy of the
Government. On the day following the speech
Bent said he had intended to tell the Brighton
audience that the Government had determined to
abolish the State Full Court with the view of
sending on all appeals to the Federal High Court.
Davies promptly declared that he was no
Earty to such an arrangement, and had never
eard a word of the proposal in Parliament. Bent
then climbed down and said he had intended to
say that the Cabinet was going to carefully con-
sider the idea. The suddenness of Big Thomas
lands him in all sorts of difficulties.


S:
<***
ss
H
i 4
£
w »
J?*A
t
I
J*.
1
n
Are tKe BEST tHat Money can Buy.
LOW IN PRICE BUT HIGH IN GRADE.
Come and See our Magnificent Showrooms full of Good Pianos.
CATALOGUES ARE POST FREE.
W. H. PALING CSL CO., LTD.,
336 George Street, Sydney.
Brisbane and Newcastle.
J. G. Griffin, of Sydney, not content with
the glory of the chain letter and the profit of his
sewerage billet, seeks Parliament under Cocky's
wing and wants to represent Botany. Political
intelligence, nil; front, 100 per cent.
STOP DRAGGING ALONG.
If your household or business cares
exact so much energy that sometimes
you feel run down, it is wise to at
once take. . .
VITADATIO.
It may be that your weakened state
is a warning of coming illness and. . .
VITADATIO
will thus save you weeks of unneces-
sary suffering, and pounds in doctors’
bills.
Begin taking this Remedy to-day,
for though. . .
VITADATIO
has cured and will cure diseases in
its advanced forms, it cures the
earlier stages quicker.
VITADATIO
CUBES ECZEMA.
Kemuera, Auckland, N.Z.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered from Eczema for two years
without any relief from any of the many cures tried, I
was completely cured after taking three large bottles of
your VITADATIO two and a half years ago.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. A. CAMERON.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
Head Office: Clarendon Street
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W,
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
m
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
“A White Australia Impossible.’*
From The Argus, Melbourne, April 13, 1904.
" Mr. Ei W. Cole is forwarding to 880 news-
papers and xo.ooo citizens, of all professions
and positions in the Commonwealth, a minia-
ture paper and a postcard, in wnich are epito-
mized the main arguments against a 'White
Australia,’ which he is convinced ■ would be
unpayable, morally wrong, and altogether im-
possible of continuance.’ The little paper has
been produced in a form likely to attract notice,
and those who receive postcards are asked to
vote for the five which they consider strongest
of the thirty reasons enumerated. When the
return cards are received, Mr. Cole will publish
the relative votes for the whole of the thirty
reasons for the information of the public. The
reasons are as follows:—x. Because every
seventh person in the Commonwealth is already
more or less coloured, and gradually many will
blend. 2. Because the sun is the cause of skin-
colour. 3. Because all Australians will in time
become coloured. 4. Because the white man
cannot work in the tropics. 5. Because white
women' become wrecks in the tropics. 6. Be-
cause white children cannot be reared in the
tropics. 7. Because the coloured man must
develop the tropics. 8. Because Jesus Christ
was a coloured man. 9. Because Jesus taught
the universal brotherhood of man. xo. Because
humanity exists in every human heart. 11.
Because the feeling of human kinship is univer-
sal 12. Because all mankind are capable of
inter-blending. 13. Because all mankind ‘are’
inter-blending everywhere. 14. Because the
British people are for universal freedom. 15.
Because the British Empire has seven coloured
to one white. 16. Because the Act is an insult
to all coloured nations. 17. Because Australia
will tire of being a laughing-stock. 18. Because
Australia’s own humanity is against the Act,
and all Christian teaching is, must, and will be
against it. 19. Because the Act is against the
interests of commerce. 20. Because the Act
prevents the development of Australia. 21.
Because our white birth-rate is diminishing.
22. Because enough white emigrants will not
come so far. 23. Because we are surrounded
by coloured people. 24. Because Australia has
a hundred times the area of Scotland, and a few
millions of white people have no right to mono-
polize it. 25. Because Japan, China, India, and
Java are awakening. 26. Because China has
400 millions, and is overflowing. 27. Because
India has 300 millions, and is overflowing. 28.
Because Java’s 30 millions are very near to
Australia. 29. Because the whole world belongs
to those who need it. 30. Because God has
made mankind of one flesh and blood.”
m
LADIES’COLLHRETTE SHOE
Post Free
Duty Free
13/6
’
■:
Km
Full of wear
and value.
Ladies’ Fine American Glace Kid Lace or Button)
Shoe, with up-to-date, stylish toe-cap of 1 1
patent leather, and having new-fashioned I
collarette, as shown in engraving. J
12/11
POST AND DUTY FREE,
13/6
W.A. excepted.
CALLAGHAN HOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct.
as we wish DISTANT Customers to be as pleased as those In town.
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied with the Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceobce st., Sydney.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. W ILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,330,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,330,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaiirin, Kt., M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.LO.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq, A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Coi respondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circulai
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
-|-HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Meibom ne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £12,019 18 3
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
£l,OOO for 1- £l,OOO
A Fortune for Is. A Fortune for Is.
£l,OOO for Is.
£l,OOO for Is,
fFIRST )
jGREAT \
IPRSZE J
£l,OOO for 1s
£l,OOO for Is
Or 12 months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all
Expenses paid, and f'GOD in Cash tor one person, or
tight months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from
£1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours 48th Annual Great Art
Union.
48th—The Oldest and Most Popular—4Bth.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Chargts.
A list of winning numbers will be posted to any person
sending an addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaflixcd.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 23rd April, or
send direct to the Representative, 312 Flinders-street,
Melbourne, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
WFF’ Tickets—ls. each, or 11 for 10s.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the
date of drawing, 11th May, 190 h.
BE SURE AND TRY YOUR LUCK.
OHAS. HARRIS, Secretary.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Building, 312 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Do You Want a New Suit ?
For £2 we will forward Post Free to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Ready-Made
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Price List of other goods on application.
Address:—
T. C. BEIRNE & CO.,
TJie Valley, Brislbaue.
DEBILITATED
TT7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
*» trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Addriss—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabath-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET. Mslbgcbnb.
Shipping.
nxr. id. tlm.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS ROOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To EUROPE via SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. I RINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tens, 6th JULY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
FARES TO LONDON .. Ist. £77; 2nd. £5O.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS
fMILTIADI S
MORAVIAN
R. B. V. M'Killiam
T. F. Spalding ..
A. Simpson
Noon, May 14
Noon, June 4
Noon, June 25
t Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London . .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
j Dalfjety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Baioonsfiold Parade
ST. HILDA.
fPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
QCBA.RTIO
STE A M S H I P
A. AND A. LINE.
O O 3MC JE* A. 3XT Y.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including 1 St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., rianaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
m
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3NT.S.VV.
Plant depiete l.C®*»Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—Til 15^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; lion. 0. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Brook Smith, lis |., M.H.K.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millkr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Folicies issued 91,305 assuring' £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500.000
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esi|.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250.100 ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Dire 3 tors —Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright &Oo.), Sir John See, Lfc.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a. boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the YVaverley Pen.”
m
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~mg
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
t* EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAH.
CANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
The New Twin Screw Steamer,
MANUKA,
SAILS ON MAY 16.
Salt and Fresh Waver Ba hs of All Kindr.
ROOMS LARGER, LOFTL R, BETTER FITTED
THAN CN OTHER STEAMERS.
A Tourist of many years and by all i cules says the
MANUKA
is the Best Steamer upon which he has ever
Travelled.
NEXT SAILINGS—
June 13, July 11, August 8.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Koval Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT lev. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (luvested in Government Stock) 62,00 C
£695,46?
Head Office: BBJSBANF.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Aword
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
Tb - Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con.
venient and Healthy Lccality,
riodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution. Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BUOUCHITU
DIARKHGEA, &>., hears
the Government iStftinp the name
of the Inventor
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS A
Sept. 2s 1695, say a:
“If I were asked which single medicine [ should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bi
most generally useltil, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say GhlokodyMfi. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to tha
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.'’
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITISI ).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingafc Fremantle
to all North We stern Port*
S.S. Ointra, Friday, Ap d
22, at 5 p.m. (Transit.P'
ping at Melbourne.)
S.S. Yongala (newest a *d
fastest Steamer on the
Ooast), Saturday, April 23,
at 11 a.m. (Without
Transhipmi nt.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Claims
S. S. Allin Apr. 22, at sp. m.
S.S. Ointra, Sab., April 30,
■ at Noon.
S.S. Warrejro, Saturday,
May 7, at Noon.
Jlest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, whloh oan be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARI3.
Steamers of 6600 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, oalling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Inain, Onina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY. JU27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
.. BY THE . . 1
“E. AND R.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, < r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Lincoln, Stuart’s
IS
TH
All over
Australia
A 3 THE CHEAPEBT HOUSE FOR
MEN’S
BOY’S
Clothing
Write for Patterns and Self fleasure
Forms
Lincoln, Stuart &Co.,
Flinders Street, rielbc urne.
m
aIVEN
AWAY
To Advertise
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch.
Post Free
3 Tips with Osprey*.
Black, or Black tipped with White>
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Write To-Day. Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Con.er of Tourke and Swanston Sts., k elbourr.e.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
m
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches& all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEB’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache'it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.” —Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
WARS DHL’S
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia,Constipation,Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Op all Stores.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
In 1903 Australasia imported 475,389 pairs
of boots and shoes from America alone, which, at
an average price of ss. per pair, diverted over
£lOO,OOO from local workers and manufacturers.
N.S.W. imported leather-work valued at over
£500,000, more than half of it from abroad, the
rest from Victoria. That item alone shows where
the State could find permanent and reliable em-
ployment for more people than it manages to “ put
on the land ” in a whole series of years.
Arnold White, in London Daily Chronicle,
puts his finger on a truth: —
The Press of the world is so much in Jewish hands that
it is not surprising that everything that Russia does or
leaves undone is represented in an unfavorable light. It
is no business of mine to take up the cudgels for Russia,
but I cannot help thinking 4 that the majority of my
countrymen, if not “ backing the wrong horse,” are some-
what unjust to the Russian people. The Russians, for
example, regard their occupation of Manchuria exactly as
we British regard our occupation of Egypt. The Russians
declared that they would evacuate Manchuria on Octo-
ber 8 ; the British declared through the mouth of their
Prime Minister, not once, but repeatedly, that they would
evacuate Egypt. Britain remains in Egypt, just as
Russia, after building a railway of 8000 mile's, intends to
remain in Manchuria.
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip,
street Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
A Great Battle.
“Is not life an incessant battle, which does not
flag even for a second ? ” This question is asked by
the great French writer, Zola, in that book of his
whichso offended his countrymen by the unpleasant
truths it contains. Of course there is but one
answer to the question—a very emphatic Yes.
And the fact being admitted, what is his chance of
success who feels always languid and drowsy,
oppressed by pain ; in brief, a victim of indiges
tion ? None, absolutely none. And yet there are
thousands of people in that condition whom Mother
Seigel’s Syrup could change into healthy, energetic
citizens. To succeed one must work ; and to
like work one must like food, and must be in a
condition to properly digest it. This is what
Mother Seigel’s Syrup enables everybody to do.
“ I suffered violent pains between the shoulders,
in the stomach, and across the small of the back,”
said Mr. T. Brown, of Baptist-street, Redfern,
Sydney, N.S.W. Sure signs of indigestion !
“Nothing gave me ease but Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, to which I owe my cure.”*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out door work our Silk Stbips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
3.3/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
Business, Robbery, etc.
IN A FREE COUNTRY, TOO.
O'HARA : “ Good evenin', Hogan, it's dhisthressed
yer do he lookin'. Phwat's the trouble?"
HOGAN (who has been fined for expectorating on
tram-car): “An’ how would ye have me
lookin' when O've gist sphat me week's wages
on the floor?”
The leading drapery firm in Adelaide recently
announced in the Advertiser, as a special inducement to
laay uuyers, “ All our high-class hosiery greatly seduced.”
For gall it would be hard to beat the Bull co.
which owns the Anaconda mine (W.A.), and which lately
stll PP, e “ away all its copper and left its workmen unpaid and
so badly stranded several hundreds of miles from anywhere
t.iat the Government had to issue to them railway passes
and tucker. Some of the men, later on, got work from the
co. on tribute ; and the men who had delivered the fire-
wood on the mine, but had not been paid for it, offered
the timber to the tributors at 10s. a cord. Whereupon
the co. jumped in, said that the timber, having been
delivered, belonged to the co., and demanded 235. 6d. a
cord for what it had not paid a cent for itself.
Vic. Marine Board justifies its existence by-
transacting’ the following business at its ordinary meet-
ing:—
(1) Report received that the cable of. the Italian ship
Maria parted while under pilotage. Decided to report to
Harbor Trust. , , . . ~
(2) Ditto that unlicensed boatmen were plying m the
bay. Referred to counsel for opinion.
(3) Ditto from pilots. Received.
(4) Board adjourned.
How the official mind loves to muster sheep with a bul-
lock dray !
* * * *
Ninety-eight dentists’ signs are hung out in
Oollins-street, Melbourne.
*’* * *
Director Holtze, of Adelaide Botanical Gardens,
is growing rice in one of the lakes as an object lesson, and
he has also managed to get cotton to grow. _ He is very
enthusiastic concerning the possibility of cultivating both
in the Northern Territory, where for years he was the
State’s botanical experimentalist. #
A Sydney spieler has discovered a new source of
income. When the time comes round for the man on the
land to forward a return of his stock, the spieler hangs an
inkbottle round his neck, grips a ledger, and wanders “ on
to the land.” He represents himself as a collector from
the Stock Department, makes entries regarding the stock,
and charges dairyman or sheep-cocky something per head.
One of these swindlers made £4 in one day not 40 miles
from Sydney.
The following testimonials appeared lately in an
English paper, the Sunday School Times, in praise of
Somebody’s Complexion Pills :
Mr. , Shandon Road, Clapham Park, S.W.,
writes :—“ You will be pleased to hear that after taking
your pills, my complexion has become most beautiful
and clear. Though I am not vain, I find it difficult to
abstain from seeing myself in every mirror I come
across.”
Mr. , Crawleg, Sussex, writes : —“After taking
your pills my complexion has become most beautiful and
clear. I shall tell all my friends to try them.”
Mr. ■, Oxford, writes :—“ I should like to say
that, without a doubt, they are, and do, what you claim
for them. I have only taken 30 of your pills, and now my
complexion, which used to give me great trouble, is
absolutely without fault or blemish of any kind.”
It isn’t every day that you find three men who are pre-
pared to admit their own beauty so frankly as this.
* * * *
Some firms make every shilling of their charity
gifts tell in advt. Melbourne Argus, the other day, re-
corded one firm’s subscription of £l4 odd. It was divided
into four whole guineas to four different hospitals, 10
half-guineas to 10 somewhat smaller institutions, and the
remainder was cut up into more subscriptions at 10s. each.
And each donation got a line of advt.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : Surely in no country in the
world does quackery find more encouragement than in
N.S.W. In Moree, Jimmy Bloggs is a butcher’s boy per-
haps. A few short years see him a “ competent boot-
maker” in Yard Flat. Next year we find him a dentist
of the “ painless extraction ” type in the town of Lon-
gone, where a broken-down German doctor named Von
Somebody rents half his shop, and stays long enough to
have one spree, and leaves his drugs and his books to
square the rent. James Bloggs then becomes some kind
of a chemist, and makes furniture polish and other things
for the croup. Years pass, and we drive outback past
the Once Wet Creek, and find our “ jack-of-all-trades ”
frying fencing wire to make tincture of iron, which he
sells at Is. a bottle to innocent, cockies’ wi. <ss. How long
would a man like that reign in Germany ?
* * *
One American railway co., in Colorado, has
decided to risk it and
charge passengers by
weight. The thing will
be quite simple. As you
line up to the ticket office
you step on an automatic
weighing machine. The
clerk reads the record,
and calculates accord-
ingly. How the co. is
going to be sure that the
Fat Man doesn’t get his
shadowy clerk to take his
ticket for him is not ex-
plained. If it can be
worked, though, it is a
great idea, and will bring
a little ray of sunshine
into the heart of the or-
dinary man who is crushed
between two fat ones
every time he boards a
train. The nearest ap-
proach to the scheme so
far in working order has
been on some European
lines where the half-price
limit is fixed by height and
not by years. The young-
ster can lie hard about
his age, and his mother
can he still harder, but
neither can lie success-
fully about inches. The
only trouble is that the
question may lead to the
cultivation of a chronic
stoop. But this scheme
is leaky, after all. It
doesn’t matter so much
how far up a passenger
runs ; it is the spreading
out that is awkward.
Latitude, therefore, and
not longitude should be
the test.
“A.”: The latest in
1 the hire-purchase-insta'-
ment - swindle system.
Called recently an apoh •
getic, black-coated, moun,
ful-looking individual, who
observed delicately that I
had lately lost a much-loved
relative. He sincerely hoped
that the Almighty had sustained
me in my sad Bereavement; and
trusted that I was not going to allow my
ancestor’s name to sink into Oblivion. Then,
. with a sickly smile, he of the black coat produced a book
of monumental designs, and stated that he gathered
orders for such things. “Now, that’s a very neat stone
for five-ten,” he said briskly, as he tapped one of the
designs with his pencil, “ and if necessary I can do it on
time-payment.” Think of it. The world is full of tomb
poetry and tomb literature—the rain pattering on the
grave ; the willow hanging over ditto ; the mother weep-
ing over ditto ; the wife planting flowers on ditto ; and
not one of the tomb litterateurs has even mentioned the
instalment t ;b.
* * * .
“S.G.B : A man told me he was coming'
through Syo icy Domain early one morning, and at a
gate he saw an Italian fruit-seller sitting on the edge of
the pavement, polishing apples with his sock. The man
who told me is moderately truthful,
“ What can I do for you, Mr. Casey ? ” said the
beaming damsel on the drapery side to her hayseed
friend. “ I want a surcingle for my ould woman,” said
Casey, blushing and speaking in very low tones. “ Oh, a
singlet—yes; cotton or wool?” “Naythur—jusht a
shtrong- pair o’ canvas an’whalebone.” “ Oh, you mean
corsets—what size, please ? ” Casey hauled out an old
fishing-line, hopelessly tangled, with which he had
measured Mrs. Casey’s circumference before leaving ; but
the “limit” mark was not there. “I’ve lost the girth-
mark,” said he ; “ jusht hould on a while till I go and
run this round the ould mare outside. They’re the same
size about.”
“AND SOME HAVE
GREATNESS THRUST
UPON THEM
THIS NEW NURSE : “ Oh, she is such a tittle dear. What is her name!"
THE NEWEST MOTHER: " Well, we have not decided yet, but it will be quite different if you
call her Miss Baby."
“Bull’s Wool”* A type of digger still to be
found about old fields in Victoria is a confidence man pure
and simple, though his efforts in that line only bring him
in tucker and an odd beer or two. He is affable and
genial to the unsuspecting stranger who comes prospec-
ting and has a few pounds, or at least is able to put a few
months’ tucker into the camp. After the preliminary
skite, the old digger reluctantly accepts him as a mate.
Then he steadily levies on the tucker. Every day he takes
a little and plants it. No gold is got, and the disgusted
stranger is at length starved out. The “ old digger ” often
hastens the end by going to get more tucker and not
returning. Stranger rolls up his swag and clears out,
sometimes leaving his tools and cooking utensils in the
camp. O.D. then comes back and lives on his plant of
tucker until the next victim comes.
* * * *
Most dolls sold in Australia are made in German
prisons. It has been found that women convicts take
readily to the work. In Australian gaols women are kept
at such unlovely and useless toil as picking oakum. A
woman in a German prison who makes and dresses dolls
earns, it is estimated, four or five times the cost of her
keep.
* * * *
A New York firm is putting up a building on
Broadway with five storeys below and 40 storeys above
ground, and on top of all a6O feet tower. The building
will be 616 feet high, and the climate on top will be quite
different from that at the base.
* * * *
“Petramos”: The Bulletin’s frequent refer-
ence to “ stamp lunatics ” hurts my nerves. In my time
I have collected cigarette pictures, bottle labels, crests,
buttons, theatrical programmes, dance cards, tote
tickets and some dozens of other articles, including
stamps, and these last were certainly more interesting
than any of the others. The great point in favor of stamp-
collecting is that it is remunerative. When you have
collected 1000 specimens it ceases to he a hobby, and then
most collectors cease to collect and put the album in the
bottom of an old boot trunk, or amongst the lumber in
the cellar, and in about 10 or 20 years bring it to light
and retire on the proceeds of the sale. I have an album
somewhere about that I never touch, having reserved it
to sell in order to provide myself with an old age pension.
* * * *
“ Q.": While seated at dinner, recently, I saw a
covered cart arrive, containing an oldish man and his
wife and child. The woman got out, and asked, in a
plaintive voice, for a spoon “ to give her little sick child
some medicine with,” as she had lost her own spoon. My
wife instantly gave her a dessert-spoon, and dropped a
tear, sighing, “It’s really frightful to see the misery on
this road.” Next day, I found that all the residents of
the place had been touched for a spoon. And then it
really was frightful to see the misery of the place. I
believe the oldish man sold six dozen spoons in the next
town.
* * * *
“ Marat ” : The struggle to make money with-
out doing anything useful. Hunting for a shorthand
writer on the top floor of a big Sydney building yesterday
I took notes of the different professions housed there as I
walked along the dusty corridor. No. 1, phrenologist ;
No. 2, lady masseur ; No. 3, manicurist ; No. 4, palmist ;
No. 5, clairvoyant ; No. 6, lady owning electro-medi-
cated baths. The shorthand writer resided at No. 7, and
when I entered he was chatting with a lady whom he
afterwards informed me occupied No. 9, and performed
marvellous cures by means of tiny pills of the homoeo-
pathic breed, her own invention. I inquired if there was
an empty office in the corridor as I wished to open a
boudoir where ladies and gentlemen could have the soles
of their feet tickled with feathers. He said there wasn’t.
* * * *
“ Bull-ant ” : Apropos birth-rate slump. Largest
traders in certain goods in the country are Hindus.
Many also do big biz. in the indecent photo line.
» * * *
“Cooey”: They are very mean in Wellington
(M.L.). A party of three fellows (one a prominent press-
man), boarding together in the Maoriland capital, pay
twopence each towards buying The Bulletin every week.
After reading it they sell it to the man next door for
threepence. The latter, when he has done with it, swops
it with a neighbor for John Snorting’s paper. The neigh-
bor saves the Bulletins up and takes them round to the
butcher, who gives him a penny a pound for them. All
the above are in good billets.
* » < *
An ingenious “dead-beat ' has been doing a
roaring trade among some N.E. Victorian cookies, as a
pill-seller. His story was that he had been employed in
certain chemical works in England and there learned all
the ingredients, and he was prepared to sell the famous
“Reachem” pills at Is. per 100. He was doing great
business, when one of the cookies suddenly discovered
the pills were nothing more or less than tares, millions of
which were growing among their wheat-crop. A deputa-
tion of indignant cookies, armed with middle-sized trees,
went to interview the tare-seller, but he had left while the
agricultural population was making up its large, slow
mind.
BAD TIMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE BARBER.
“Bad Times? Yes, you may say so, sir—l never have
seen worse ;
The hair on top, I may remark, is just a trifle scarce.
A little bottle of my oil—it’s mostly made of limes
And purest Lucca guaranteed. What, no ? These are Bad
Times.
“ I’ve often told my customers, as I may tell to you,
Men don’t grow now the ’eads of ’air that years ago they
grew :
The ’air is ’arsh and splits at ends, and grows both poor
and thin—
Men can’t afford the money now to nourish up the skin.
“ Yes, times are bad and gettin’ worse and worser, mark
my words—
I lost ten quid at Randwick on the deadest of dead birds.
We’ll ’ave to starve, that’s what it means, provisions cost
so much.”
Voice from the hack:
“ Your chops and eggs are ready, Bill.”
Barber :
“Right 0, my good old Dutch.”
Tiik Butcher.
“The Times are Bad. Look here, my lad, you take this
tip from me—
I’ve seen bad times, but worse than these I never want to
see.
I have a mare—you know her well—a better no man
owns :
She lost me fifty quid last week—beat by that mare of
Jones’.”
The Merchant.
“ The Times are Bad. Of course they are. What would
you have them be.
When this Fair Land is ruled by Deakin and such folks as
he?
The Labor party’s wrecked the State, and wrecked it will
remain
While—Waiter, will you kindly put more ice on that
champagne. ”
The Publican.
“ The Times are Bad. I might as well be now a blanky
monk,
Men come to my hotel to drink, but nobody gets drunk.
They don’t upon the counter now their weekly wages
plank,
They but you must excuse me, sir—l’m (holding up a
hag of coin) going to the Bank.”
The Bailiff.
The Times are Bad. Indeed they are. The worst I ever
knew,
I haven’t had for three months past a blessed job to do.”
CREEVE BOB.
A Perfect Lady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a Lady. There was no doubt of it, for
she was stylishly dressed. If it hadn’t been for
that you wouldn’t have guessed it once in five
thousand tries. She was stamping her dainty
tan-shod feet furiously, now and then exhibiting
inches of shapely limb, and always several yards
of crimson silk underskirt, while in a shrill soprano
she yelled advice to the players or abused them,
according to which side they represented.
The match was the last of the season, and the
Red and White had a lead of two goals. The
Lady was barracking for the Blues. There were
only 10 minutes to go, so each side played
desperately.
Behind the Lady was a Girl. She didn’t have
a crimson petticoat or tan shoes. She wore
flannelette, and took eights with square toes.
Her voice was still, and the crowd around was
lucky she didn’t stamp, or something serious
might have happened.
“Good boy, Charlie,” screamed the Lady,
dancing and waving her arms. “Spill him!
That’s it—break his neck ! Oh, you brute !! ”
The last remark was uttered double forte, and
was the result of Charlie getting the worst of it.
For a moment he was still, and under the mask of
her rouge and powder the blood ran hot.
“Hoist him, Jim ! That’s it—good !! I hope
he’s broken his arm ! Now then, Micky, now’s
your chance ! Oh, you chump ! —No, good boy—
GOAL!!!!”
Everyone looked round to see who had gone
mad. But the Lady didn’t mind that. She simply
slapped the old gentleman in front of her—whom
she didn’t know—on the back, and asked him
what he thought of the Blues now. He didn’t
take any notice, being very proper.
Five minutes to go, and a goal wanted to draw.
“ Tear it into him, Jack ! Hooray ! Played !!
Smash him ! Ah, you coward !! Hoo-00-00-oo!!! ”
as Jack went over like a ninepin. “Down him!
I’ll fix you up after ! ” Stephens was playing the
game for the Red and White, and the Lady didn’t
like him.
“Now’s your chance ! Kick ! kick !” but the
Blue didn’t kick, for Stephens beat him badly.
The ball was right in front now, and three of the
Blues together. But Stephens was with them,
and, instead of a goal, three men lay in a heap
together, and the ball went up to the centre.
Then the final bell rang.
The Lady fumed. The Girl smiled, and even
felt inclined to applaud. The crowd cheered, and
as Stephens, hero of the day, was leaving the
field, he met with an ovation. The players passed
down an avenue of admirers to the dressing-room.
Suddenly the Lady was inspired with an idea.
Gathering up her glace-lined skirt in both hands,
she rushed as fast as her dainty feet would carry
her, and got a front place in the avenue. There
was something devilish in her expression.
As she took her place in the front rank she with-
drew from her immense headgear of chiffon and
ribbons a long hat-pin. She felt the keen point
with satisfaction. Stephens was now but a few
yards away. As he approached, the Lady’s
expression became more set, and she moved about
nervously, to get her elbows free. He was
passing. She directed the pin for a powerful,
half-arm thrust that would have driven it into his
arm right to the bone. But just then a 10-stone
girl with No. 8 boots leaped in the air and came
down fair and square on the dainty tan shoe.
The Lady squealed. The arm was suspended
motionless for a moment, then dropped. She
walked over to a seat and felt like hugging her
toe, but said things instead —under her breath.
The Girl was facing the other way, with a far-
away look in her eyes.
Which all goes to show that there is some virtue
even in big feet.
C.P.S.


The Coming Federal Ministry.
As The Bulletin goes to press, it is almost certain
that the Deakin Government must fall, and that
Watson must be called upon to form a Ministry.
There are two courses open to him then ; one is to
form a purely Labor Ministry—a Cabinet without
any administrative experience, which would
necessarily antagonise outside Radicals by its un-
seemly hunger after all the portfolios, and which
would necessarily be weak and precarious for want
of outside support. The other possibility is to
form a Ministry in which the Labor party is pre-
dominant, but which seeks added strength by the
inclusion of (say) three men selected from such as
Turner (and possibly Playford or Chapman),
Higgins, Isaacs, or Trenwith. Turner, it is
believed, if it were put to him as a matter of
public duty, would stick to his Treasury stool; he
should, as a matter of policy, learn to consider
himself perpetual Treasurer of Australia. If the
Labor party forms a Ministry solely from the
caucus it will look like a merely office-greedy
move, and such a Ministry would have a poor
chance of survival, though Deakin as leader of the
Opposition would probably give it an honest show,
and Reid, as leader of a Third party on the cross-
benches, would have to gnash his teeth impo-
tently. Still, at the best, Watson needs to form a
Government that will exist by its own strength,
not by the forbearance of anybody in “ giving it a
show,” and that can only be done by absorbing the
Radical element in the Deakin partv. Wisdom
dictates a Radical Ministry—one embracing all
the Radical elements of the which
might bid for as long a term of office as Kingston
enjoyed in .South Australia and Seddon in Maori-
land. The Bulletin hopes that this view will
be recognised by the Labor caucus.
Strength.
Is an attribute of manhood universally desired.
Few people understand that the only source of
physical strength is food, and that everyone
f
who has sufficient
nourishing food
should be strong.
But there are thou-
sands of puny people
who have plenty of
good food. How is
that explained ? The
explanation is simple.
Food does not nou-
rish the body unless
digested and assimi-
lated. Diseases of
the stomach and other
organs of digestion
and nutrition hinder
the proper digestion
and assimilation of
the nutrition con-
tained in the food
eaten. Thus the
strength of food is
lost, wasted. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills cure diseases of the stomach and its allied
organs completely and permanently. They cure
so that they stay cured. They put life in your
liver, a move in your bowels, and make the stomach
clean and strong. No other remedy can he
depended on to so thoroughly cleanse the stomach
as these pills, aiding digestion, and thereby
nourishing the whole body. Packed in amber
bottles and sold throughout Australasia.*
Melbourne’s limited cognoscenti are awaiting
the auction sale of the late Alfred Felton’s art treasures,
to take place at Gemmell Tuckett’s rooms on the 27th,
28th, and 29th. Felton’s collection ’includes; a wide
assortment of marble statuary, bronzes, carved ivories,
silver curios, and paintings, of which latter the local
Public Gallery trustees might, could, and should have
annexed many specimens—but took only a few. An
interesting item in the catalogues is the announcement
that the auctioneers get their instructions from the
Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co. Another reminder
that the capitalist of nowadays, who bequeathes a big
estate for the benefit of the public, prefers to entrust the
administration to an enduring corporate power, rather
than place it with a couple of transitory individuals,
whose personal honesty doesn’t necessarily extend to
their successors.*
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
biti >us young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL.
Write To-hay for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
15 St. Dnnstan’s hill,
London, E.C., England.
RESCH'S S
STOCK
AND
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFEICES: BOWLING ST., REJDEERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Theie’s a prad in Maoriland revelling in the
title of Matamataharakeke. A wire stating that Mata-
mataharakeke had won the Ohinemuri Cup at
Ngaruawahia is among the fearful possibilities of the turf.
* * * *
The luck of it. Drawer of third horse in Syd-
ney Cup sweep is a Dungog (N.S.W.) tailor. Told that
while he and a friend were driving along the road they
picked up £1 and decided to try their luck with it in a
sweep—result, £750 between them.
* ♦ * *
Crack cross-country rider Frank Barr (aged 45)
succumbed to injuries received when Ben Nevis fell in
Onkaparinga Steeple. Case looked hopeless from the out-
set. Barr (originally in the circus business) was a fearless
and well-balanced horseman. He did well in the Western
District of Victoria, and went to Adelaide several years
ago where he topped his “profession.” Barr won the
Grand National on Kronberg; other winners piloted by
him were Repetition, Floodbird, Otahiety, Isis and Con-
voy. The dead rider figured prominently as aped., and
several Sheffield handicaps and hurdle events were appro-
priated by him.
* * * *
“B.B.”: Died, last week, at Berry, M. McGee,
undoubtedly the finest and most plucky show-ring steeple-
chase rider N.S.W. ever cheered. He easily occupied
premier position (mostly through riding H. D. Morton’s
string of jumpers), but by far his most successful work
was to mount show-ring prad Pippo, when the brute was
jumping all over the enclosure, since it couldn’t be
mounted in any other way. Once in the saddle, he was
rarely thrown, except when the animals came down at the
obstacles.
* * * «
Placed nags in recent Sydney Cup each had the
Musket strain. First and third (Lord Cardigan and Sweet
Nell) get it through their dams (Lady Trenton and
Novelette respectively, both grand-daughters of the great
sire); second (Saida) is by Musket’s grandson, Medallion.
* » * *
Sixteen events on programme of one-horse
M.L. township Fielding’s J. C. two-days’ meet., Easter
Monday and Tuesday, sent £29,039 through the tote.
This is a record for a country meeting, and £5368 in ex-
cess of sum Canterbury J. C. handled during same couple
of days at Christchurch, and in connection with the same
number of races.
* * * *
S.A.J.C. races Saturday, boycotted by several
owners and otherwise hampered considerably, panned out
poorly. Acceptances were bad, attendance was small,
and tote business showed a shortage of £2856 compared
with last year’s. Fancied Adelaide Cup candidate Irving-
ton and trainer and rider were “ sent up ” for six months
through suspicious display in Somerton Handicap.
The Grafter (winner of Melbourne Cup six years
ago) now follows the hounds in England, ridden by the
wife of his owner—J. G. Clarke.
* * * *
Remarkable Westralian nag Yale Lock (by
Padlock from Bavaria) win of Padbury Hurdles at
W.A.T.C, Easter meeting under the crusher of 13.3 recalls
that in his 11 years of existence Yale Lock has started at
least 200 times, won 39 races, and gathered upwards of
£5OOO in stake money, and still, ’tis positively asserted,
the great old toiler is as sound as ever.
* * *
Big thing (City Tatts. Handicap, lm. 3f.) of
City Tattersall’s meeting at Randwick, Saturday, fell to
Sweet Nell’s full sister Carrageen, by Haut Brion (imp.)
Novelette 11. Though a set back to betting public
Carrageen’s win was anticipated somewhere, for invest-
ments brought her down to sevens. She won City
Handicap (ljm.) on third day of A.J.C. Autumn meet
but failed badly—was absolutely last (with Insolence)—in
Place Handicap (ljm.) on fourth day when her weight
(7.3) was exactly the same as on occasion of her latest
success. Saturday’s triumph saw Carrageen always
handy and when the time came to strike she took charge
inside the distance and galloped home a comfortable
winner. Favorite Fungus (2 to 1 against) finished in the
ruck. Carrageen (now a 4yr. old) is only just beginning
to return some of the IOOOgs. she cost present owner as a
yearling.
* * * *
As if the crass stupidity of tbe N.S.W. anti-
betting laws was not exposed enough by the spasmodic
raids on Chinese and third-rate European betting places
while the gilded dens in Pitt-street do a roaring trade un-
hindered, the police are making it more apparent. At
Rosehill the big bookmakers plied their illegal calling un-
checked, but two of the smaller fry thoughtlessly stood
on boxes the better to see their customers, and were
promptly haled before the Police Court and fined £2. A
box is “ a place within the meaning of the Act,” and the
ground isn’t, so, legally, a man who stands on a box is
somewhere, and a man who stands on the ground is
nowhere.
* * * *
That there is money in horse-racing recent
thoroughbred horse sales at Randwick (N.S.W.) proved.
259 lots realised 26,456g5., and of that number 103 lots,
costing over 12,000g5., will leave the State. It was by
far the greatest horse sale ever held during the autumn at
Randwick.
* * * *
Seems that Lord Cardigan can’t win a 2 or 3
mile race unless the pace is good, and Emir can’t win it
unless the pace is poor, or middling, at the best. There’s
a lot of difference between even a Lord Cardigan and a
Carbine. The record of Australia’s noblest gee-gee in-
cludes all sorts of winning performances over all distances.
His Melbourne Cup was the fastest on record, whereas his
two champions were among the slowest. The two Sydney
Cups to his credit were won in 3.31 and 3.37 respectively.
Carbine didn’t need a pace to suit him. He suited his
victory to the pace, whatever it might happen to be.
* * * *
That unaccountable little horse, Seaport, ran
second for the April Handicap, at Flemington last Satur-
day. As usual, the consistent enigma seemed too slow to
live with the field until his victory was out of the question.
Then he gained a lot of ground and finished a length or
so behind the winner. The opposition is never so weak
that Seaport can assert himself in the beginning or middle
of a race, and never so strong that he can’t make a bold
show at the finish.
• * * *
Hurdle race at City Tatts. meeting, Saturday,
was a depressing thing from go to stop, and should almost
bring about the oft-threatened elimination of jumping
events from race programmes. Of 13 eligibles. only three
stripped, and betting foreshadowed the finish. Mite was
5 to 4 on, Burnima 2 to 1, and Argown 6 to I against.
Argown came down early—abreast of the Leger stand—
and rider J. Montgomery sustained a fractured collar-
bone. Mite and Burnima were together till latter ran off
at 6 fur. post and allowed Mite to finish solus. Burnima
went back and completed the course.
* * * *
Devious practices of alleged amateurs are causing
N.S.W. Athletic Association much concern. Several
meetings of the Council have been held concerning certain
occurrences at St. Patrick’s Day Sports on Sydney Agri-
cultural Society’s grounds. One competitor known to
have been an instrument in the hands of others,
whom he saved by refusing to disclose their identity,
was passed out. Other cases are likely to be dealt
with shortly. An erstwhile professional, taken into
the amateur ranks a few years ago, competed
early in the day as an amateur, and, later, took
part in a professional event on the same programme
under an assumed name. The audacity of the thing is
staggering. Manner in which money'has been made
through fixing up and working heats has prompted
N.S.W. A.A.A. to call a meeting of “ all sporting bodies ”
to consider ways and means towards preventing betting
at their meetings ; a huge task !
* * * *
Maoriland alone will be represented at the
Bisley rifle meeting—the “ enthusiasts ” of the Australian
States having dropped the idea altogether, when the Federal
Defence Minister refused the subsidy. The despatching
of the team doesn’t increase the country’s defensive
power, since the successful pot-hunters aren’t going t°
give away the knack of judging sight, allowing for wind
and distance, etc. At its best, professional rifle-shooting
is a sedflsh pastime. * * *
“Steve”: Have noted cool attempt of pot-
hiint-incr rifle q W« to loot the Australian Ti-p-iam-v
and hoodie trip to the CoW ciuntr/
They allege that subsidies encourage men to train as
defenders. Have on various occasions been out shooting
—duck, kangaroo, etc.—with range rifle shots, and have
generally found them failures in open at unknown ranges,
On prepared mounds, at fixed targets and known ranges,
their gallery work was perfect, but what enemy is likelj 7
to fight them under such conditions ?
* * » *
The visit of the Cold Country football team has
awakened N.S.W’. Rugby Union, and among the many
proposals is to do awav with the silly idea of picking a
representative football team a couple of days prior to a
match. Football requires plenty of practice together by a
team. Rugby is a showy pastime when played without
jealousy and in combination ; otherwise it’s a farce,
* * * *
After a fair .trial in .order to stimulate long
kicking . the int er-State Rugby Conference has decided
that the policy of high values for field goals has failed in
loUoti “ d Pr ° P ° SeS t 0 ame " d the SCOring laW “
r‘sr * , irj i
oa * ,7, *> ” ” f ”
, y ue 6 ” ”, ” 4 ”,
Which seems a pity ; a try goal may be ever so much more
decisive, but from a spectacular point of view there is
nothing more picturesque than a brilliant passing rush
ending in a potted goal; and in this respect the proposal
to allow goals to be punted is a move in the right
direction.
E. E. WAHLBERG, CHAMPION BOWLER
OF AUSTRALASIA.
Photo, by Beames & Co., Sydney.
The great weakness of N. S. W. Rugby footballers
is lack of practice in dribbling-rushes and fast passing. The
Cornstalk footballer’s great idea of preparation is to prac-
tise with dumb-bells and do running exercise in a sweater
on his own, and when a crowd of him bump a team which
has been trained to play a combination game—which
passes implicitly at the word of command andean keep
the ball jerking up and down a long line of forwards
spreading right across the field—their individual brilliance
is simply useless. Man for man there is no real difference
between the Cornstalk and the Maoriland footballer,
excepting, perhaps, that the Cornstalk is more wiry and
less beefy. ’Tis combination does the trick. When Maori-
land is sending away a team of crack players it usually
plays matches with club teams before it leaves—and gets
licked. When it comes back it has acquired combination,
and rages through the islands leaving a long track of
defeated club teams and broken collarbones behind it.
A few shins had been kicked previously, but
real football started on Saturday, and Quinsey, of the
South Sydneys, had to leave the ground with a fractured
rib. It was a mercy that every ground played on was as
soft as a feather bed, having a thin blanket of soup-like
mud spread over it, which gave it a nice, spongy feeling
when fallen upon heavily—otherwise the slaughter might
have been heavy. Most of the clubs had a strong
sprinkling of new players, whose presence proved fatal to
combination, although Eastern Suburbs, with nine new
men, got off one passing rush that was really brilliant,
and had it been repeated a few times must certainly have
won the game. The first blood of the season is always
interesting. Eastern Suburbs, last season’s premiers,
was beaten by 5t03 by University. Newtown downed
North Sydney by 10 to 3. Western Suburbs finished off
Glebe by 3to nil; and South Sydney gave Balmain a most
unholy walloping, scoring 9 points to Balmain’s nil.
* * * *
Announced that one R. B. Bedell-Sivright, an
international forward with Scottish and Cambridge ex-
perience, will captain the English football team through
this country. Strange that nearly every English enter-
prise has a Scotchman about the head of it.
* * * *
Stated that Hackenschmidt; the Russian wrest-
ler, is under engagement to visit Australia, but no' reason
is given why the recent conqueror of the Terrible Turk
should run away from a lucratiye notoriety in London and
come to a country where “ championship'” wrestling is at
present confined to colored aliens.
* * * *
Old Harry Trott stood easily first both in the
batting and the bowling of his Bendigo Club this season.
Playing in nine matches he had an average of 71 - 4 runs,
and he took 58 wickets for an average of B‘2. He made
easily the most runs, and only one other (Sarvaas) took
more wickets (61 for 9 - 4).
* * * *
The strangest part of the first-grade cricket
averages in N.S.W. is that, of the leading 25 players, but
half-a-dozen have represented the State in- the inter-State
fixtures (leaving out the Queensland match; which was
mostly a picnic for the second-best players). Hopkins
(103.50) and Farquhar (87.) stand clear from the others.
Farquhar has had to stand down so often that he has flung
up inter-State cricket in disgust. In bowling, aboriginal
bowler Marsh stands out among a lot of moderates, getting
50. wickets at an average of 11.48. Marsh has held the
premier position for a number of years now, but owing
partly to prejudice (and partly to the opinion of visiting
English players that he is a “thrower) he has been
debarred from representative cricket. “Influence” is a
huge factor towards becoming a shining light even in
Australian sport.
* * * *
“Young Waterman” : “Old Timer” is quite
correct in saying that Dick Green was the first Australian
sculler to compete in England, but Chambers beat Green
on that occasion, hence we did not raise so much
“ hurroo,” and the plucky attempt to down the Thames
rower soon passed out of memory. At the same regatta,
hoivever, Green beat George Dewett, and Green and
Kelly \von the champion pair-oared race open to the
world. Later on Green received forfeit from his old rival,
Chambers.
* * * *
There are more unlikely things than that coming
swimming championships will be fought at Broken Hill,
of all places in Australia. George Read, Australian
champion in the professional division, has settled there as
manager of the local municipal baths, and agrees with the
council that an v matches he makes shall be swum there.
j, ' * * *
The crowd of correspondents who are inundating
this office with alleged facts about running under water
are hereby informed that the mass of literature on the
subject is being disposed of to a paper mill at a consider-
able reduction in consideration of prompt removal. The
Bulletin is tired of the subject ; and the man who sent
in the yarn about how he loaded himself with half a ton
of iron to keep him down, and then dropped into the
water off the end of Manly pier, and, touching the
bottom, bent his body at right angles to his legs, and,
with his arms laid stiffly along his sides, pushed the iron-
mongery along the bottom in a wheelbarrow towards the
ladies’ baths, and only came up to the surface every fifty
yards or so to breathe, and in that way progressed right
across the floor of Manly Cove till he reached the wall of
the ladies’ baths, where he found a peephole, through
which he saw his fiancee bathing, and was so shocked at
the shape of her feet that he swooned, and, getting one
foot tangled in the wheel of his barrow, was drowned—is
a liar. Any future contributions from him will be treated
with disrespect. To wind up : Mr. Lionel A. Walcot writes
that he is authorised by swimmer Wickham to say that
that youth is prepared to run 20 yards along the bottom
of Farmer’s Domain bath any fine afternoon when any
scoffer likes to call round, provided that the scoffer drops
him a line at the bath the day before. Which seems a
fair offer.
* * * *
The woman athlete proceeds gaily on her course.
Recently several of her journeyed from Brisbane to Rock-
hampton, and competed in a teams relay swimming event
against male competitors. Defeat was their portion, but
the contest was a good one.
# * * *
S.A. has definitely decided to take part in the
8-oar championship in Brisbane next month. Each
member of the crew will have to find £5, besides making
the necessary arrangements for absence, and this will
greatly limit the range for selection. The various clubs
are asked to meet the remaining expenses of the long
journey.
• * * *
Brooks made something of a sensation at Geelong
lawn tennis tournament with what he calls the “ Ameri-
can break service.” Why it is called “ American ” only
the gods know. The break service is as old as lawn tennis
almost, and every variety of it was in full use in even little
country courts in Maoriland when writer was a boy, and
that is a few years ago. Neither the break nor screw back
is difficult to take, provided the receiver is on the spot,
and their great value is that, when used by a player who
can romp in a straight, rocket-like one when required,
they enable him to baffle the receiver badly. If he stands
well back for a fast service the ball is screwed Just over
the net; should he stand in close, it is sent whizzing to
the farthest corner. The break is itself very unreliable,
and only one in a score can be made to break with any
speed ; but when they do, they are indeed difficult. Writer
has seen a player on the Carisbrooke court at Dunedin
(M.L.) with the old-fashioned “demon” racquet with thick
strings, make a ball jump right back overthe net. The most
difficult swerve to take is the one that strikes the ground,
with a sound like a bursting fish, and simply revolves
wildly on its own axis without rising off the asphalt at all.
The back-break is accomplished best with a coarse-
stringed racquet, which should be shortened in the grip
and drawn like a flash across the bottom of the ball so
that while it travels through the air it is revolving up-
ward at a high speed, and the faster it revolves and the
harder it strikes the court, the more emphatic the back
jump. Side breaks of a fast, bewildering nature are
accomplished by making the ball twirl according to the
direction in which it is required to break, and much
depends upon the covering of the ball and the size of the
racquet strings. The Geelong singles contest ended in a
victory for Brookes over Dunlop, the games being 6—4,
3—6, 6-3.
* * * *
The progress of Maoriland lawn tennis crack
Parker came to a sudden stop in Melbourne on Saturday,
when he was to have joined Diddams against Dunlop and
Tatchell for the doubles championship. It was objected
that Parker, being a Maorilander, could not compete, and
the objection being upheld Diddams didn’t do as well as
he expected. He had to take R. Heath for a mate, and
although they won their first set by 6—l, Dunlop and
Tatchell pulled themselves together and won the next
two running by 6 —2 and 6 —l; which, taking it all round,
was pretty conclusive.
* * * *
The disqualified Yankee pie-biters are rather
confident that the body which controls U.S.A. cycle racing
will not uphold the penalties inflicted by the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen. As some of them leave by the
Sonoma, Monday next, they are evidently not going to
tell all they know of the late Sydney Thousand from the
witness box in the case of Corbett v. the Summer Nights
Amusements, Ltd. Notwithstanding the general roar
and rumpus the S.N.A., Ltd. is not discouraged, and has
officially announced that the Sydney Thousand will be on
deck just the same next March. In the meantime the
syndicate has £750 on hand, first prize money, and the
Supreme Court is to decide who shall have it.
The great Warrnambool-Melbourne road-race,
annually promoted by the enterprising Dunlop Pneumatic
Tyre Co., takes place on Saturday, Aug. 20. In the mean-
time, throughout Australia and Maoriland, country
travellers will see strange apparitions shooting along,
head down, eyes glaring at the space of mud just in front
of the wheel, and lower jaw working convulsively as the
scorcher sucks his pebble or chews his chewing-gum and
curses the persistent fly that buzzes at his right eye.
There is no need for alarm ; these apparitions, so long as
they don’t inadvertently run over the traveller, or cause
his horse to back suddenly down a precipice, are quite
inoffensive.
* » * »
The fostering care of the cycling bodies for
Major Taylor is becoming plainer than ever. The S.A.
League of Wheelmen left nothing to the imagination in
dealing with the appeal of Scheps and Pye against their six
months disqualification for not pacing. The appeal board
found the offence proved, but added that the evidence
“ proves conclusively that Taylor also was a delinquent in
the same respect. This being so, we think the penalty en-
forced was too severe, and that a fine of £6 each will meet
the case.” Scheps, however, refused to ride any more at the
meeting’. He was probably all broken up to find that he
only got his suspension removed because the precious
nigger was in the same boat, and the nigger mustn’t be
suspended.
* * * *
The Australian cycling season practically ended
with the conclusion of the Adelaide Farewell Meeting on
Saturday. Remarkable as it may seem, no one was dis-
qualified, but this was probably because, in the Only race
in which he started, Major Taylor’s tyre blew out before
the first lap was completed, and the champion retired.
The winners of the day were Don Walker with two, and
Filsell and Farley with one each. Walker won the Easter
Wheel Race (2 miles) from the 20 yards, in 3min. 59 3/ssee.,
\yith Filsell (60 yds.) and McDonald (30 yds.) second and
third respectively. His other success was the one mile
Hawthorne Stakes in lmin. 56sec., w'hich was fast.
Filsell gathered in the half-mile Malvern Handicap
in 58 3/ssee., while Farley got aw’ay with the Five Miles
scratch in lOmin. 59 1/5 sec., with Filsell and Walker
second and third. In fact the meeting seemed to be all
Walker, Filsell and Farley.
* * * *
Advance of up-country boxer Ted Nelson (who
recently defeated Blackmore) has been remarkable. He
never had a lesson in his life of 23 years, but ahvays loved
fight better than anything, and rarely hesitated when
opportunity' for a good, honest scrap offered. Eighteen
months ago Nelson was cutting sleepers on the Wee Waa-
Narrabri line, and, having saved his earnings, started for
Westralia, but Sy'dney saw him stranded. Novice boxing
tourneys were suggested as possible opportunities for
making a -rise,, and Nelson shaped in a 9’7 event at tl.e
Golden Gate Hall with more than satisfactory results. In
his four heats he met the best men engaged, and took
less than eight rounds to settle the lot. Quigley was
beaten in 6 and Sparks in li. One punch flattened
Burgess out, while a bitter rally saw “ Spud ” Green done
with. Since then Nelson has beaten half-caste Maori
Larsen twice, Watty White, M‘Coy (“The Poet ), Paddy
Martin, Denny Moloney, Whitelaw (twice), and, a week or
two hack, Blaekmofc.
* * *
Notwithstanding- the vigor and courage shown
bv Thompson, his light with Felix at Sydney National
Sporting Club on Tuesday last week was a foolhardy fiasco.
That Thompson’s-case was hopeless was obvious from tne
first round. Although Felix seemed to be quite untrained
and in three minutes was dripping moisture all round tne
ring, he utterly outclassed the white, who looked a verit-
able pigmy opposite him. In fact the disparity in height
actually disconcerted the black, who is evidently mot
accustomed to wood chopping and wanted someone whom
he could hit straight at. At last he discovered that by
spreading his legs out like those of a miniature Colcssus
of Rhodes he could get his opponent’s head somewhere in
the neighborhood of where he is accustomed to look tor
what he punches at, and then quite a number of blows
that previously went over Thompson’s head began to take
effect. Thompson certainly played the game the only way
that gave him any shadow of a chance ; he got close in
and mixed things so as to disconcert that long, brown
left. In doing so he left himself open to right crosses,
but the black did not avail himself of the chance as he
might. He seemed anxious to fight an ultra-generous
scrap, and while he was doing the chivalrous act towards
his small antagonist Thompson was getting home on his
mouth and ribs. This had the effect of warming Felix up,
but it was the fourth round before he began to really
fight. Half-way through the fifth he threw in three
savage rights, which made the white man reel. Recover-
ing himself he rushed in and landed on the black man s
mouth, the black man hit out with the left, and as they
parted he leaned over and brought his right down
on Thompson’s jaw. The soldier fell like a log, and after
two ineffectual attempts to rise, was counted out. It was
a plucky though impossible and ridiculous fight. The
crowd was a disgrace to its country ; a considerable Pro-
portion of it was a foul-mouthed horde, which jeered and
hooted the black and called him names that it would have
been unsafe to breathe in his presence outside.


V-
You can save Repair Bills
by buying a
BIRD
BICYCLE
The “ Ali-Red ” Wheel
Branches Everywhere
in Australasia.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
m
Patients will hear of
something to their ad-
vantage by writing to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY.
Sydney D.T. on tlie Vic. Labor party : —
In the bright lexicon of the Victorian Labor party there
is no such word as economy. We find that one of the
main planks of their platform is the establishment of a
Department of Labor, with a responsible Minister, while
another is the reform of the State Constitution. Is it
conceivable that the establishment of a Department of
Labor would lead to any other goal than that of extrava-
gance, at the expense of the taxpaying community ? And
could the most sanguine optimist suppose that reform of
the State Constitution by the Labor party would mean
anything else than largely increasing the number of Par-
liamentary seats to be filled as soon as possible by Labor
members ?
A few countries which have lately established a
Minister of Labor and Industry, with a depart-
ment to correspond, and which seem to find it
pay, are Hungary, Belgium (which has also a
Minister of Agriculture), Bolivia, Brazil, Chili,
France (which also has a Minister of Agriculture),
Italy, Mexico, Russia, and Switzerland. Den-
mark, the United States, India, Cape Colony,
Natal and Canada have each a Department of
Agriculture, and Canada has also a Depart-
ment and Minister of Fisheries. Britain has a
Department of Trade and a Department of Agri-
culture._ So there is nothing wild or unusual or
outlandish about the proposal of the Victorian
Labor party to establish a Department of Indus-
try. It is quite an ordinary thing, and one which
almost every progressive country finds to be neces-
sary, but the unlettered Telegraph thinks it has
struck something quite new.
Representative Crouch has a motion
on the business paper of the House of Reps,
which treads on Bill Lyne’s too-affable corns :—
That this House, recognising that the great falling off
in Customs revenue, consequent upon the present
Minister for Trade and Customs coming into office,
seriously affects the finances of the Commonwealth and
the States—•
Directs that a true copy of all evidence taken in
Customs cases, and the recommendations of the officers
who heard same, together with the decision of the
Minister thereon, since 1st July, 1903, be placed on the
table of the House within fourteen days ;
Declares its opinion that the present Minister should
strictly observe the provisions of the Customs Act; and
Is of opinion that honesty of administration in the
Department would be better obtained if these cases were
decided by a competent and reliable tribunal.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“Nobetter
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
•Tanos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
m
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
All Subjects relating; to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the "States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
143 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
WILLIAMS’
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
m
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR.
mm'
M ■ HI '
itgl’Every Bar
weighs 17
Honest English
Ounces, divided
into Six Oaltes.
N T OT SOLD IN
SLICES. 232
Clarence St.,'
Sydney. Elliott
Bros. Ltd, Bris-
bane,sole ag’nts
for Queensland.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is 1 Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
lUiated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
U£tiv
UI.LiL.LS
Melbourne
Branch —
W. WOOLLEY
AND SON,
Equitable
Building:.
Queensland
Branch—
H. J. DIDDAMS
AND CO.,
Brisbane,
Catalogues Free.
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do you believe in NEW IDEAS
and NEW METHODS? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
They Cut down TIME and LABOR—does that
mean money to you ?
The PRINCIPAL has “grip” and control of
affairs hitherto unknown.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent.
DON’T GET THE GLOOMS !
If you ever get “ On the Tank” and need a
Mental Bracer read
“MORE EX-TANK TALES”
(First published in the New York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable, American. Make a Corpse Laugh.
Tells the funny side of the booze business.
Price 3s. 6d. post paid. American Book Agency, Box 457,
G.P.0., Sydney, or Dymock’s Book Arcade, Sydney.
SHARPS MOOTING
m
For Sport and War.
m By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKJ
18# Parks, 100 Illustrations, 1/- kbit. •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ F you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
817 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
ROTherhaivis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
QNi>
K R /£
<y*o
TSr
'Ba
%
/
S-
HOTHEIHAMS
E~
ksa
sold by all
WHO-CAN-SHOW-
v Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATEDCATALOGUES
m
m
r
ruletheWor/d
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory* The memory
must be trained if the b r ain is to do good
work. The memory can be successfully
developed by proper training, just as an.
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
Is a practical and successful system .v'aich
benefltsall brainworkers. It will m ike
a poor memory good, and a good one
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write fog
Booklet and copies of
free on apolication to the
Secretary, PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
Box 403. 0.P.0,
MKLBOIJKIVK.
And 4 Bloomsbury St.,
LONDON, W.O.
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
U
E
E
N
S
T
* • u
Waterproofs and Oilskins.
Are you prepared for wet weather, in the shape of a
Waterproof or Oilskin Coat? When you get them from
“GILBERT’S” it’s a guarantee you’ve got the best, every
garment being sound, fresh and reliable.
WATERPROOFS (as illustrated), Fast Black,
all seams sewn and taped; or in
CHESTERFIELD Shape (with Sleeves and no
Cape), in Fawns and Drabs, with re-
versible back and velvet collar—
21s, 255, 30s, 355, to 50s
BLACK, LEATHER-BOU.MD OILSKINS, double
throughout, specially light weight .. 21s
All Goods Sent Carriage Free.
The next “Mail-Order Prize Competition” closes April
30th. Why not try to win it ? Write for Patterns of New
W nter Suitings and particulars.
m
R
P
m
Acting-Premier Wise of N.S.W. fires off
his vigorous defence of the See Government to all
sorts of audiences. Last week the Independent
Order of Bogged Fellows, or some such body, was
in session in Sydney, and the Acting-Premier
told the Bogged Fellows at great length of the
surpassing virtues of See and Owe’Sullivan. But
it is uphill work, and after all B.R.W. might as
well give it a rest and trust to the awful inca-
pacity of Opposition leader Carruthers to pull the
Ministry through. Every time he holds a meeting
he is distracting the attention of people who might
otherwise be noticing the incapacity of Car-
ruthers. Everything that diverts people’s atten-
tion from the incapacity of Carruthers is bad
policy for the See-Owe’Sullivan Ministry.
Mrs. L. S. HAGER, Alexis, N. C., writes:
" I was attacked by PNEUMONIA. Our best physician
pronounced it severe and dangerous, being in both right
and left sides. As the disease did not respond to treat-
ment, I resorted to Jayne’s Expectorant, and in a few
days I was able to be up' and walk about, and soon began
work again.”*
A woman last week laid her infant down
in a Sydney park almost, under the eyes of the
public—where its presence could not but be dis-
covered in a few minutes —with a note pinned to
its dress saying, “Please care for this child ; the
mother is an unfortunate woman who cannot.”
The S.M. Herald, whose pietistic smugness has
been largely responsible for the absence of a State
foundling hospital in N.S.W., sideheads its report
of the incident with “A Heartless Mother.” “ A
Heartless Newspaper” would fill the bill much
better. How does the heavy organ of Mister James
know that the mother was “heartless”? She
might just as reasonably be heartbroken when she
decided to give her infant the only chance she
knew of to avoid sharing her own starvation. The
heartless parent of Moses did the same sort of
thing in Egypt, and at the church which Mister
James attends, conventional tears of oil and piety
are shed over the beautiful story. And the prin-
cipal difference after all may be that one story was
in Exodus and the other in Sydney. Exodus is
dead, nowadays, and can be wept over without
entailing any personal trouble or cash responsi-
bility.
That Scripture-in-Schools Referendum may
yet cause the downfall of Bent. After listening,
lately, to the Scripture League Council —which
wants to put only its own particular questions in
its own particular way on the ballot-paper—he
bellowed at the saintly Balfour, M.L.C., “ 0, you
and your blooming council; what’s the good of it,
anyhow ! ” Balfour said nothing—he only smiled,
but it was the smile of the old Covenanter before
he slew his enemy. There was gall in it, and it
was leathery and baggy and crinkled, and sug
gested one of the minor prophets as he cleared his
throat and got ready to curse Babylon. ;■
The 1904 edition of the “ Australian Handbook,”
published by Gordon and Gotch, is now available. As
hitherto it contains most of the information that a handy-
sized handbook should, and will be found especially
valuable for commercial purposes. Among other things
it includes the best Australian Gazetter published any
where.
If it is true, as alleged, that there are
some members of the Federal Labor party who
are opposed to the party taking office under any
consideration, it is hoped that the community will
find out their names and throw them out as
traitors at next election. The only reason why
any party is sent into Parliament is that it shall
get office if it can, and carry out its programme.
The country wants democratic administration as
well as democratic legislation, and if any of the
present Labor men are too badly scared to take
office and supply this want, they should make
room for others with more progressive ideas.
Quite appropriately on All Fools Day
S.M.H. printed a quaint piece of cackle about a
man who supported a wife and family on half an
acre of land, and that there was the solution of the
unemployed difficulty! Such talk is silly to a
degree that is painful. The 8000 or more unem-
ployed are largely smiths, bootmakers, tailors,
building tradesmen, general laborers —anything
but agriculturists. Intense culture is the highest
form of agriculture. What folly it is, then, to
talk of dumping a host of artisans and mechanics
down to practise intense culture on half-acre
blocks ! It would be just as rational as to bring
10,000 cookies into Sydney to build the new rail-
way station or to man machinery shops.
MOTORISTS
CAN MAKE NO HISTAKE BY ORDERING
The Pleasures of Motoring depend on the Tyres fitted.
DUNLOP fIOTOR TYRES GIVE THE LEAST TROUBLE.
DUNLOP MOTOR
s
i
i it
TYRES
to be fitted to their
Car or Motor Cycle.
Our Tyres
are made expressly
for Australian con-
ditions.
Prices on application.
Re=stripping and Repairing
Motor Gars a speciality.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co* of Australasia, Ltd*,
And at
150 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY;
M jlbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


The achievements of Havelock, in India, have brought undying
fame to his credit. The defence of Cawnpore and the relief of
Lucknow are both stirring events in the history of that awful
Mutiny. The name of HAVELOCK will be remembered as the
greatest name in the long list of heroes that helped to save India to
the British nation. ......
And in the realms of commerce, no less than of war, the
name of .......
HAVELOeK
will be remembered as the title and distinguishing mark of a great
achievement. .......
Not many years ago 44 HAVELOCK” Tobacco was
unknown; to-day it is spoken of and smoked throughout the
Commonwealth. .......
The determination of the proprietors to succeed, the efforts
towards perfect manufacture, the almost heroic attempts to secure,
amidst the greatest competition, the finest selected leaf, the
incessant study of the taste of the Australian smoker, and, finally,
the constant daily effort to procure for “HAVELOCK” Tobacco
everything that was of the best —from the leaf in Virginia to the
most skilled workmen and the best machinery—has built up for
** HAVELOCK ” Tobacco an enduring reputation that few will be
found to question. It is no exaggeration to say, that ♦ .
"HAVELOSK”
is the best pipe-smoking tobacco in the world —best made, best
material, and best in all those qualities that the intelligent smoker
looks for. ........
“ Havelock” is sold in plugs or tins—Aromatic or Dark.
Victorian Premier Bent is just now having I
a*great time with the two members for Ballarat
West, Joe Kirton and comical old Shoppee. Both
were Government supporters in the Parliament
about to be dissolved. Ballarat West, under the
Keform Act, is reduced to a one member seat,
and Kirton and Shoppee both yearn for the
Government nomination. Joe Kirton was one of
the renegade Liberals who deserted George
Turner to- put in the Tory M‘Lean-Shiels
Government m 1899. He clung on to the skirts
of Toryism until rewarded by an honorary port-
folio in the Irvine Cabinet, and subsequently by
the chairmanship of the Ballarat Water Com-
mission at £300 a year. Shoppee is one of the
“great reformers” who went into Parliament to
reduce the number of members and then humbly
retire from public life. All these men—Lancaster
of Kyabram, M‘Cutcheon of St. Kilda, Ashworth,
Wallace of Maldon, Kirkwood of Eaglehawk,
Martin of Geelong, Fletcher and Mackey among
the number—are now making frantic efforts to
either keep their old seats or win others. A visitor
calling on Bent any morning now will be told
by the orderly that either Mr. Shoppee or Mr.
Kirton is with the Premier. They seem to watch
each other at the Ballarat end, and when Shoppee
comes back from seeing Bent Kirton hurls himself
into the train and goes off to see Bent. At
present Kirton is ahead in the betting.
On detectives, by “ William the House-
breaker” : —
Don’t let your cover pale because the photos of the
Sydney detectives are in the hands of the criminal class
(B. 24/3/’04). The class is a fool if it couldn’t tell a ’tec at
sight without the aid of a photo ; in fact, the photo
might be misleading, as his perambulating machinery
would most likely not be depicted. The Australian ’tec is
picked mainly on account of his fleshy extensiveness,
which is mostly joined to undeveloped faculties. He
manoeuvres in couples, each man carrying the end of a
lost cue which makes him walk heavily and with much,
caution. He halts at street corners, and, twirling his
watchchain, revolves like the South Head light so that
any fool member of the criminal class knows he is not an
ordinary respectable citizen. This knowledge is shown
by the fact that, although the ’tec draws attention to his
jewellery, no criminal has been fool enough to sandbag
him to gain possession of it. The large-sized Australian
native of English, Irish, or Scotch parentage is unsuit-
able for detective work; he doesn’t possess enough
versatility of expression to cover a coat button.
From being a policeman himself, or from walking much
in the company of policemen, he beats a tune of “the
law, the law, the law ” every time he smites the pave with
his foot-gear and the echoes fly down the street before
him, and the criminal class climbs into an ash barrel or
a dog kennel and watches the palings tremble as the ’tec
goes by;" The confidence man and the spieler are as
sacred as Hindu bulls. They walked round unmolested
for years before he joined the force, and he doesn’t feel
inclined to crusade violently against them. Besides his
pond of criminal ideas is mostly full of sandbags, jemmies,
and dark lanterns, and as the Fiji philanthropist’s nephew
only carries a brass facial expression and a diamond ring,
he flourishes. The European continental ’tec is a ferret,
particularly fitted for lassooing the aristocratic criminal;
our ’tec is a ponderous bulldog, whose ideas of crime are
measured by his own capacity if fate had pushed him into
a crooked path. Therefore, the lower form of the crimi-
nal class is the one that engages his attention—burglars,
sneak thieves, garotters, etc., being chased into sewers;
while the aristocratic magsman walks about with as much
assurance as a civil servant whose uncle is a Cabinet
Minister.- Please don’t worry about his photo, Mr.
Bulletin. When I walk down Pitt-street on the dark
side and note the crowd of well-dressed thieves, mags-
men and guns fat and thriving, I feel inclined to throw
my jemmy at the ’tec in contempt. •
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Price, 6d. ; Posted., Bd.
Visitors to tlve Old. Co it airy
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s G&,te London,S-W?
CONSIDERABLY
ENLARGED-NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT
& CONVENIENCE
m
ONE OF THE
, MOST FASHIONABLE
'HOTELS IN
LONDON
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has just been re-furnished and renovated throughout in the most up-to-date style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy first in the public’s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
£ ingle Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL -
SYDNEY.
sew
■V.W'Wx
\
A Gold or Silver Watch Free I
SEND NO MONEY.
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading: of the following PUZZLE :
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of oiur Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Wa»tch.
Simply forward youv answer, and enclose stamped
D**T M**S T**S C****E
and addressed envelope, so ihnt
we may inform you if you have
won the Watch. We are makinsr
this offer solely with the object of introducing and advertising- our
goods. Forward your letter to our address [or Box 865 G.P.O.]
GOLDSMITHS COLONIAL CO., PI’JfT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
1 tlephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
IYEs
MORRISS
IMPERIAL
hhtmemt
CURES
r
ZEMATONE POWDER aCICARETHS
Hi
ZEMATPNE POWDER.aCLCAREITES
The marreUous remedy for ASTHMA, “a ,
Complaints of the Respiratory Organs. InstantrehelaiKl |
cure. Recommended by the entire medical profusion. Price 1
2;6 nw box. Trial box free from Coknford &. uu,
6 Coronation House, .Lloyds* Londoo+l^j
The Bal etin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers,
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
Cloth, 300


RHEUMATIC SUFFERERS.
Many sufferers from rheumatism h ive been sur-
prised and delighted at the prompt relief obtained
by applying CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM.*
Shooters obtain the mo3t satisfactory results by using
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
and U.M.C. AMMUNITION,
ORDER
AND ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE
FROM OVER THE SEAS.
show here some illustrations, with prices, of New
Arrivals—all worthy goods of standard quality and
priced as only big se'ling can allow. Since the Ist of the
month we have opened up many cases of choice goods
in Solid Silver, Silver=Plate, Purses of English make, Gold
Jewellery of every description, and we will gladly point out
their many excellencies to callers.
m
CORNER, CEUHt ;p
.—Presentation Oak and Nickel Inkstand, 2 Bottle,
with Stationery Drawer, £1 Is.
Solid Silver-Mounted Lady’s Hair Brush, Cloth Brush, Powder
Jar, Scent Bottle, Tooth Brush Bottle, Comb, Mirror, File,
Nail Cleaner, and Scissors, in Leather Case, £6 6s.
Write for
oar
Catalogue.
The Balance
Pepper,
Silver-plate,
4/6 and 6/6-
-Jo. Gl4l4.—Embossed and Silver-
plated Hot-water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2 15s.— Special Value.
No Gl<s7.—Case of 6 Pairs Good Silver-
plated Fruit or Fish Knives and Forks,
No. F2B76.—The Shell Butter Di»h
and Knife, First Quality Plate,
13/6.
No. Gl427.—Silver-plated G'ass-
lined Butter Dish and Knife, 6/6
m
ppMntmenip
DAY
WED
THU
FRI
SAT
SUN
■ UWWfI
No. F6s3l.—Solid Silver Appointment Frame, 17/6*
No. F6094.—0ut Glass and Solid Silver Salts Bottle, 12/6
No. F47lo.—Child’s Set, in case, Silver-plated. Knife, Fork, and
Spoon, 14-/6. New and dainty styles, in solid silver,
35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 42/-, 45/-, 50>
\ a /
THE “TRIUMPH” WATCH.
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths, is
rightly named the “Triumph,’’ inasmuch as,
although sold by us at such a low price, it is a
gigantic “Triumph ” in quality over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. It has a very
fine-finished, full-jewelled keyless short-winding
movement, and the case is made of a very hard
nickel, beaut fully polished, fitted with un readable
crystal glass. Our price for this most excellent
timekeeper is 18/6) and we can recommend it to
those requiring a cheap hut reliable Keyless Watch.
In Open Face Solid Hall-Marked Silver Cases, *l/10/-
No. Fl2Bs.—Full size Tea Pot, nicely engraved
and Silver-plated, price 18/0.
g&SBSfi
S 5
No. F7963.—Very Handsome Silver-plated Presentation Inkstand, £3 10*.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
£
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
Other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its exce:lence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
When the Rations Are Gone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dr ; country of the interior of Australia is a
hungry land when a man’s rations are gone and
he has to rely upon his wits-for sustenance. Only
where there are pools of the life-saving water can
lie hope to get anything to stay the cravings of
1 mnger. Hunger maybe the best of sauces, but
even hunger will not make tasty some of the dishes
a starving man is compelled to eat. Eyre, in the
journal of his march round the Great Bight, says
that he could not reconcile himself to the idea of
keeping the horses alive as long as possible, so as
to be able to eat them as a last resource; and he
was surprised to find that his companion, Baxter,
entertained the thought without any repugnance.
This looks like a bit of affectation on the part
of Eyre, for the idea of being reduced to eat-
ing horse would not be absent from any explorer’s
thoughts, particularly under Eyre’s circumstances.
But horse is a most unpalatable food, particularly
when you have to kill it yourself. A bullock dies
warm and dry ; you can handle his skin without
repugnance. But a horse dies cold, with a clammy
death-sweat, and his flesh tastes like the smell of
his sweat. If it were possible to eat a smell, then
eating horse is like eating the smell of horse.
Horse-flesh, prepared with sauce and seasoning
may be palatable, but is otherwise tasteless and
repulsive. „
The worst? thing to tackle in the feathered line is
eaglehawk. Carrion is the only term to apply to
the flesh and a man’s stomach revolts at it. The
ordinary kite and crow are not nearly so bad and
can be eaten by a hungry man, but starvation it-
self turns from the eaglehawk. The pelican and
cormorant (or “shag”) are both unfit for food on
account of their disgusting characteristics. Their
food putrifies in their intestines, and they abound
with worms. About the various kinds of kangaroo
I need say nothing* SSTone of them are of much
account, unless well dished-up. They have always
a “blacks’ camp” flavor about them. Besides,
they are by no means plentiful in the interior. In
places you may ride for days without seeing one,
and there are few bones in the niggers’ camps.
Ducks of all kinds are good eating ; black-duck
and wood-duck perhaps the best.*"’ The whistling
duck is easy shooting for pot-hunting, and is nice
and fresh are always good at a pinch,
but they are beefy and require a lot of stewing.
The emu also is beefy and not very tasty, and
only portions of the plain turkey are appetising,
but the native companion is first, rate. Curlews
are very good; but, for a dainty dish, nothing
approaches the bronzewing pigeon. Sit down at
a waterhole, in the dusk, with a shot-gun, and
your supper will come flying to you, for the
bronzewing always drinks very late. Split the
pretty little fellow open, broil him on the hot
coals, and eat him d la spatch-coclc, and Fate can-
not harm you that night. Flock-pigeons, too, are
capital, and you can mostly get many at one shot.
Amongst reptiles, snakes are difficult eating and
the goanna is too fat and rank. By the way, the
term “goanna” has now apparently established
itself as the proper name of this lizard, though it
doesn’t belong to the Iguanidse, but to the Moni-
toridse, the largest of the true lizards. Crocodile
flesh I have only just tasted, and cannot pro-
nounce judgment on it. But the choicest bush
tit-bit is the frog, though he is awkward to kill,
and there is very little of him. But his hind-
quarters, even cooked in the roughest fashion, are
like dainty and tender chicken, and I should
imagine that, cooked professionally, _ there could
be no more appetising dish. Bandicoot is con-
sidered choice eating by some; personally I don’t
care for it.
The vegetable foods of the bush are few, and I
don’t think any of them would support life. The
fruits are too few to be worth mentioning, and
very astringent in their effects. Grubs and white-
ant eggs I have never tried.
Taking it all for all, the bush of the interior of
Australia, unless you happen on large water, is
about as hungry a country as any in the habitable
world. ALt large water, in addition to the birds I
have mentioned, you can get fish, mussels and
crabs, while such birds as geese and (in Westralia)
swans are continually coming and going, resting
during their long flights.
ERNEST FAVENC.
4 4 Platelayer ” writes from Kalgoorlie
(W.A.): —
Premier James harangued a crowd in Kalgoorlie Miners’
Institute last Friday, and everything slid smoothly till he
started out to adversely criticise Labor parties and their
tactics. The ’orny-’anded were, however, in a humorous
mood. When the speaker said nasty things about them
they said “ Hear, hear,” and when he again spoke harshly
they said “ Hear, hear,” some more; and Mr. Jimmy
failed to see which leg was being pulled. Presently he
said something about the slavishness of Labor candidates
in pledging themselves to a platform, and “ A Voice ”
yelled at him, “ What about yer chairman ? He’s signed
the platform of the Citizens’ League.” Mr. Jimmy
grinned biliously at his chairman (Keenan), but the latter
wore a very remote expression, and his eye was fixed on
the century before last. Fight for the Kalgoorlie seat now
resolves itself into a clawing match between Labor mem-
ber W. D. Johnson and Keenan, the latter basked up by
the Bewick-Moreing Dago-employing element, the Cham-
ber of Cats, and the Citizens’ Cheap-Labor League.
James Carroll, Native Minister in M.L.
(his Maori name is Timi Kara), when at his home
acts the Maori properly, eating r shark, pawas, and
other native delicacies. It is his recreation, after
wearing tight European clothes and struggling
with a hard angular portfolio.
At a meeting held in Sydney in Sept.,
1883, to consider the desirability of securing an
amendment of the law of libel, Dan O’Connor
gave his opinion of the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Judges, now all dead :
He had the greatest respect for Mr, Justice Martin as a
lawyer, and he had the greatest admiration for Mr. Justice
Paucett as ary able lawyer and a just Judge, and he be-
lieved that Mr. Justice Innes would prove himself to be a
law-giver and useful man. They all respected Mr. Justice
Manning, whose age and culture entitled him to admira-
tion, and he believed Mr. Justice Windeyer would become
an ornament to the Bench.
Good old soapy Dan ! Dan’s enormous admiration
for everybody is pathetic.
J. G. Gilberd, who sfcage-managed M.L.
team and its war cry at Geelong Fire Brigades
Demonstration, was present at an exhibition in
London years back, and was once travelling by
train with another Maorilander, Fred Smith.
Somewhere in the provinces two English utterly-
uttahs got into the carriage. They responded to
Smith’s hearty “good day ” with an insolent stare,
and proceeded to talk in German. The choleric
Smith was “ropeable,” and Gilberd, fearing a
scene, hurriedly strung a number of Maori place
names together and discharged them at Smith,
finishing up with Kikoyhakariri and Matamata-
harakeke. Smith replied by mentioning a lot of
Maoriland lakes in an aggressive tone. Gilberd
replied with 19 rivers and two gulfs. Smith
gathered up the whole of the Maoriland moun-
tains and cast them violently in the direction of
his friend. Gilberd responded with a string of
Maoriland capes and bays. Finally Smith seized
all of the known geysers and craters, and inter-
spersing them with faintly remembered Welsh,
projected them at Gilberd. The Britishahs, who
from the first had stared aghast at the ferocity of
this strange language, fled wildly at the first
station, with cinders from Tarawera in their hair.


These are the last days for purchasing shilling
tickets in the Melbourne Eight Hours’ Charity Art Union,
to be drawn on the 11th May. Applications which reach
the representative, Mr. Theo. W. Heide, 312 Flinders
Street, Melbourne, on or before the 7th May, will be duly
attended to. Each ticket gives the individual purchaser
a chance—somewhat faint, but nevertheless visible to the
naked eye—to win any of the 140 prizes. First prize is
£lOOO, or twelve months trip round the world and £6OO
in cash.*
Missing Friends.
Kopje, of Birmingham, is earnestly
requested to COMMUNICATE WITH
HIS FRIENDS.
INFORMATION WANTED relative to ALEXANDER
GORDON, a native of Deeside, Aberdeenshire, Scot-
land, who was at Hokitika, South Island, New Zealand,
about 14 years ago, and, if alive, would now be about 71
years of age. Please address to JOHN CRAIGEN,
Solicitor, 193 Union-street, Aberdeen, Scotland.
Business Announcements.
The Felton Collection
AUCTIONEERS’ SPECIAL NOTICE.
The MAGNIFICENT and UNRIVALLED
COLLECTION of
OIL PAINTINGS,
WATER-COLOR DRAWINGS
MARBLE STATUARY,
BRONZES,
CARVED IVORIES,
STERLING SILVER,
ART FURNITURE,
CURIOS, &c., &c.,
ACCUMULATED BY
The late ALFRED FELTON, Esq,
Will be SOLD by AUCTION by
Gemmell, Tuckett & Co.
Acting under Instructions from
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Company, Ltd.
(Executors in the Estate),
AT THEIR ART GALLERIES,
Tackett Chambers, 359-361 Collins St„
MELBOURNE.
Pictures—
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, at 2 o’clock.
THURSDAY, APRIL 28, at 2 o’clock.
Art Treasures—
FRIDAY, APRIL 29, at 11 o’clock.
On View on and after Friday, 22nd inst.
Note.—The VALUABLE LIBRARY OF
BOOKS will be sold in the following week.
To Mining Speculators and Others.
T\T ANTED ASSISTANCE to DEVELOP VERY PRO-
vv MISING GOLD, SILVER, and COPPER REEF.
Assays sent of Ore. Apply,
GENUINE MINER, Hanging Rock, via Tamworth.
Analytical chemist, f.c.s.,
late Associate Society Public Analysts,
England, requires engagement in works, private
or Government laboratory. Ten years’ English
experience in general works, fuel, food and water
analysis, in water treatment for manufacturing
and domestic purposes and sewage effluents.
Address—Box 1443, G.P.0., Sydney.
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 23,
THE PERMAN’S
SUCCESSFUL AUSTRALASIAN
PANTOMIME, “*
Little Red Riding Hood.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the Sole Management of
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and EDWIN GEACH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Wrong Mr. Wright
Presented by Mr. GEORGE WILLOUGHBY
and
Company of English, American, and Australian Artists.
43T PRICES AS USUAL. 'SS Plan at Paling’s.
Amusements.
piTZCERALD BROTHER S’
CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
LOCATION—
BEL MORE BAR:
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS !
SUCCESS ! SUCCESS! SUCCESS 1
of
The Team of Wrestlers,
DIRECT FROM OSAKA, JAPAN.
ALL NEW THIS WEEK.
THE NEW CHANGE OF PROGRAMME A HUGE
SUCCESS.
CHEERED NIGHTLY BY THOUSANDS.
DOCTOR GORDON,
A LITTLE STRONG MAN-THE HUMAN ANVIL.
Blacksmiths at work every night.
H
The Splendid Band led by HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Paling & Co.’s.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, and ALL
HOLIDAYS.
FRANK JONES.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING TO-NIGHT,
BLAND HOLT
and his
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATION OF DRAMATIC
FAVORITES,
in the Mastodan Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
HAWTREY’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
the World-Famed Comedy Drama,
A fIESSAGE FROIT iTARS
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. ~»I (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
J. M. Barrie’s Bewitching Romance in 4 acts,
THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON,
Interpreted by the
WILLIAMSON DRAMATIC COMPANY, including
MR. CUYLER HASTINGS.
SAT. NEXT, APRIL 23, THE LIGHT THAT FAILED.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Paling’s.
-THE—
PIERROT ENTERTAINERS
WILL COMMENCE
ft
SEASON
in the
POPULAR AND PRETTY
QTTEBRT’S HALL,
SYDNEY,
On SATURDAY, 30th APRIL.
Plan and Tickets at Paling’s.
Under the Management of H. N. SOUTHWELL.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
«!..j OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels.
Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Magnificent Reception of the Very Latest,
MISS MAY MAUDE DUPREZ.
Great Success of Mr. FRED. RUSSELL & COSTER JOE.
A Success of Enthusiasm, THE TWO BELLS.
Also, THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS.
Mr. TOM DAWSON, Miss CECILE STEPHANO,
Miss FREDA MAHER, Mr. HARRY LEGGETT,
Miss RAY JONES, Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Mr. SAM WILSON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE MARVELLOUS UESSEMS
and
NAT CLIFFORD.
ERNEST SULLIVAN, MAGGIE FRASER, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Miss MAUD BEATTIE.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD FANING.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. G. Williamson.
H
EVERY EVENING at 8,
The Famous Japanese Play,
The Darling of the Gods,
will be presented by Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S
COMPANY, including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sub-Lessee William Anderson.
Business Manager Julius Grant.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 23,
MR. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO., in the
Great Melodramatic Success,
Her Second Time on Earth.
Also, re-appearance of Miss EUCENIE DUCGAN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee . .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee & Manager .. Mr. George Stephenson.
LAST NIGHTS of
Mr. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
COMEDY COMPANY
AMERICAN
Mama’s New Husband
PRICES AS USUAL. Day Sales Palmer’s. Box
Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
STEYNE COURT, MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES - TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
New THEATRE, “BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO.
Adjectives are dangerous things. Great Levia-
than, Maryborough, is a low-grade Victorian mine held by
Bull, and last quarter it milled 9999 tons. This is said to
be “ enormous.” It is a month’s work at one of the big
Kalgoorlie mines to put through 10,000 tons. Leviathan
dirt goes only a shade under 6dwt., but it pays because
the mine is well managed and local conditions are
favorable. Maryborough quartz mining, though, is
not a thing of beauty, and it does not seem likely
that Bull will ever make divs. out of the Leviathan unless
sinking is done sufficiently to allow present output to be
trebled. And even then the grade of ore must not drop.
» * * *
Junction dredge, Porepunkah (Vic.), is not keep-
ing up averages. Logs, too, are troublesome, but even
late low returns are more than payable. The co. had a
lot of hard luck in the early days, but reconstructed, and
is one of the straightest-run concerns in Victoria. As it
has big leases, two dredges ought to be at work.
* * » *
It has been found necessary to stir up holders of
Glenfine South, Pitfield (Vic.), shares to meet calls. This
in a co. which paid rattling divs. for over a couple of
years ! Management seems to have been bungled, or the
concern would not have got into Queer-street so soon.
The Board was made up of old-time alluvial men, and
development was never kept ahead far enough. The first
mistake was to have 80ft. levels ; the next, not to sink ;
the last, and most important, not to put a solid lump of
boodle by when g-old began to decrease, so as to go down
300 ft. or 400 ft. and see if the shoot made again.
* * * •
Ballarat gold returns for March quarter don’t
look much beside those of Bendigo; still they show
improvement. Crushed, 38,009 tons ; gold, 12,555J0z. ;
average, under 7dwt. Divs., £6150, against £2OOO for
corresponding term last year. Not much of a record, and
it explains the deadly state of the Ballarat stock ex-
change.
” * * •
Charters Towers (N.Q.) figures for March: —
Treated. Gold. Value#
Mills .. 22,396 tons 23,1990 z. £78,077
Cyanide .. 24,217 „ 11,359,, 21,776
Smelters.. 127 „ 1,097 „ 3,422
And the financial results :
Dividends. Calls. Surplus.
March, 1904 .. £30,100 £8,466 £21,634
Ist Quarter, 1903.. 98,902 33,888 65,014
Ist Quarter, 1904.. 102,992 26,519 76,473
The biggest contributor to the divs. was Queen Cross,
with £60,000 for the quarter; two-thirds of the March
divs. were from this mine. Only four paid anything in
March, but Ruby United on the strength of a 2oz. crush-
ing comes with 3d. for April. Divs. already declared for
April are Brilliant Central, Is. ; and Brilliant St. George,
9d., an increase of 3d., which is likely to be maintained.
Queen Cross is sure of 2s. (funds in hand warrant a bonus
of Is. in addition) ; and Band of Hope’s usual 6d. will put
up the total to £40,000
* * * *
Band of Hope (Charters Towers) has ceased
sinking the straight shaft, as it did not bottom at the
surveyed depth, and has opened out on an 8-inch vein,
cut at 1420 ft. Scrip has come from 30s. to 13s. 6d. ; fail-
ing new developments, divs. cannot be depended on for
long. Brilliant has abandoned its crosscut, and the mine
is to be let to tributors, after paying £700,000
in divs. and putting £22,000 into Plant’s Deep.
Bonnie Dundee reconstructs; it will probably form a
new co., the same as New Brdliant Freeholds, as a
fresh issue on top of present 120,000 would be too much
to carry. Mines most closely watched at present are
Kelly’s, which is expecting t to cut stone proved in
adjoining claim (work has been suspended till a survey
is made) ; and New Queen, a 160,000-share show, which
has had an oz. crushing of 402 tons. This mine has a
fair quantity of stone. Phoebe flatters holders, but it
has only about 6 acres. Marshall’s Queen and Papuan
are doing well enough to avoid calls. Clark’s Wor-
cester is a gamble. Brilliant Extended and Brilliant
Block are possible div.-payers.
* * * *
A lot of prospecting and development work is
being done just now at Charters Towers. Plant’s Deep
shaft is down close on 600 ft. A new boiler and air com-
pressor should hasten sinking. Ruby Extended straight
shaft is down 408 ft., and promises well. Queen Cross Ex-
tended is down 695 ft. Queen Central Block straight shaft
is at 850 ft. ; it has passed through a promising formation.
Victoria and Queen diamond drill, prospecting in virgin
ground, passed four formations in 1000 ft. A straight shaft
to test them is being discussed. Vesuvius is opening up
on stone in the lower level. Drill from No. 2 level passed
through four formations, and is now to be shifted to
surface to test the North end of the lease. At Millchester
the M. Gold Mines “ straight ”is down about 240 ft. Deep
Levels (on the north edge of the field), Elliott’s Queen,
Eclipse, Golden Alexandra, and Golden Peabody are all
following up small makes of stone. Queen Cross and Queen
Central (latter with a crushing close on 3oz. from 854 ft.,
which looks as though divs. may come) are encouraging
to prospectors of adjoining claims. Ruby and Ruby
United (whose latest crushing went over 20z.) may both
pay a possible div. or two out of ore in sight. Victory-
looks like fluttering among the fashionable stocks. Vic-
toria and Caledonia Block have a long spell of dead work
ahead. Generally the field is being well prospected, and
present output ought to be maintained. Scrip, however,
is in practically every case quite high enough, and any-
thing like even a mild boom would carry it beyond its ■
price.
• * * *
Etheridge (N.Q.), which appears at present to
be the last hope of the Chillagoe Co., is an old and tried
producer, with Georgetown as its capital. It has been
the despair of many good men. Production since 1878
(the datum peg of records), 550,0000 z. ; in round figures,
21,0000 z. annually. But the gold is poor ; average fine-
ness may be set down at 570 per 1000, or, say, £2 12s. per
oz. This fact must not be lost sight of when Etheridge is
mentioned. It reached its apex in ’93, when it produced
29,3850 z. ; humped on its base in 1902, when it turned out
13,6190 z., valued at £2 Bs. per oz. Things are a bit better
just now, with the gold value at about £3 per oz. The
best producers are Jubilee, Leichhardt (Cumberland),
International (at the Rocky), and Wexford, Victoria,
Better Luck (situated higher up on the field, near George-
town). The field is worked by a handful of men, is exten-
sive, and should be payable, even without rail communi-
cation. Recent crushings average loz. ; probably a
second oz. is lost in treatment every time. The
ore is very refractory—is not amenable, to any
extent worth mentioning, to amalgamation or cyanide.
Essentially it is a field for mechanical concentra-
tion and smelting. Hitherto owners have planked
down their “ tenners ” consistently for the promoters of
syndicates which have talked rail communication; butthey
are now investing spare “tenners” in improved methods
of dealing with their product. At last they are on the
right track; they realise that a railway won’t prevent
them losing an oz. in treatment. A recently-floated
Recovery Co. has taken the old tailings in hand, and
already has paid a 3d. dividend, and there must be more
to follow. With its little capital, its lots of pluck, and a
tough hide, Etheridge, even without rail, will yield its
brainy miner-metallurgists payable bullion. Of course, it
is different with the silver, lead and tin shows ; cartage
knocks them kite high.
• * • •
Mt. Lyell Co. (Tas.) intends to sell North Lyell
railway to the Tassy Govt., if possible. If a deal is con-
sidered it ought to be at a valuation, for the line is no
earthly use where it is. The yarn is that prospectors
and others working on the Jukes and Darwin field will,
if the line is open, have a chance of getting to the fields.
What have they got there to mine? With North Lyell
smelters out of the way, the last excuse for keeping the
line open disappeared, so it is sound economy on the
part of Mt. Lyell Co. to sell. This railway was the most
extravagant mistake of a wickedly extravagant and
stupidly jealous regime. Even Trent, Yank that he was,
could only gasp whenever the line was discussed. It is
well that such a monument of everything thfit people want
to forget should disappear. *
Herzig, Bewick-Moreing’s man' is over at Zeehan
looking at the Madden-Treviss-Moore tin mines. Irwin,
of Associated (W.A.) fame, was the last preceding out-
sider to try. the field. He did nothing, as the proposed
terms were extravagant. Lode tin shows are not popular,
for ore has an awkward knack of cutting out. The field
years ago had its little boom. Moore has since then done
a good deal of prospecting, but capital is wanted to prove
She formation farther. B.M. and Coj may supply it. If
they do they will probably want a big bite out of the
plum so as to have the dominating interest.
The Late W. H. BROWNE, Minister for Mines
and Public Works (Queenslawl).
Photo, by Foul C. Poulsen, Brisbane.
Sydney solicitor Thompson, who died the
other day—whether by accident or design a
coroner’s jury refused to say, returning an open
verdict —had put a good deal of color into
a short career. He was originally a sailor,
and kept a love of the open air life,
(which he showed in athletic and sporting
tastes) when he took to legal work. He married
a handsome lady who had been in the lion-taming
profession, and he died in a most sensational
fashion. Having bought a Mauser pistol, he was
trying to extract a jammed cartridge when it
exploded, and sent a heavy “dumdum”
bullet to tear through his heart. That was the
first story. Suicide was not hinted at until it
transpired that Thompson had heavily insured his
life—bringing the “cover” up to £25,000 within
the last few months—and that he had been lately
pressed for money. Then it was suggested that
the whole business, the jammed cartridge and the
efforts before his clerks to get the weapon right,
were so much deliberate acting to mask self-destruc-
tion. If that theory is accepted, the suicide must
rank as one of the most extraordinary and sen-
sational on record. The life offices holding the
policies were represented at the coronial inquiry,
and practically sought to prove suicide; such
proof would invalidate the major part of the de-
ceased’s insurances.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Rev. Father Robinson, who pulled the strings of
business management for Amy Castles, is now before the
Melbourne public as an admitted showman. For the past
week or two the amusements columns of Argus and Age
have displayed the reverend entrepreneur’s little ad.
Sandwiched between announcements of-“ The Marriage of
Kitty ” and “ The Darling of the Gods ” one finds “ Father
Robinson’s Record Bazaar, Melbourne Town Hall, 4th to
7th May.”
Arrived in Maoriland the other day Belle Napier with
three or four Grossmith sketches. Miss Napier (formerly
Hitchings, of Napier), returned to paralyse her friends
and relatives in her native town, after seven years on the
English stage. The English stage, by the way, is in the pro-
vinces, a pretty pinching business despite the “side ” the
average importation puts on. They don’t go to hotels in •
England—they “room” in boarding-houses, and go out
and buy their chop and loaf, and bit of tea, sugar and
salt, and cook for themselves.
Melbourne Age reports that, at the A.N.A. competition
at Kilmore(Vie.), a girl of five years “competed in the
vocal solo for girls under 12, and exhibited remarkable
ability and confidence.” Present writer, with memories
of other precocious vocalists, predicts that that plump
mite, if she goes on singing and competing at the dread-
ful A.N.A. shows, will in 12 months have no voice to sing
with ; also, that she will probably tear her tender little
throat about until she develops some serious affection;
and likewise that she will have her head so badly turned
by the silly compliments of fatuous neighbors that it will
take a lot of surreptitious hair-pulling and clandestine
pinching by her fellows at school to restore her to a
proper sense of equality, and even then she will probably
grow up with a lofty scorn for dish-washing and other
useful arts.
Judging from “The Darling- of the Gods” advt., a
theatrical manager cannot do better than play upon
public superstition. The Williamsonian ad. includes the
following as a quote:—“So supremely exquisite, the
River of Souls and the Celestial Heaven, where the lovers
meet after a thousand years of separation and purifica-
tion, that some women in the audience were filled with
mortal terror, some were weeping, some blanched, and all
were indescribably touched or exquisitely thrilled.” Roll
up, ladies, and be filled with Mortal Terror ! Walk in and
behold the beautiful realisation of a Church and Stage
Guild in the form of a drama, in' which two defunct
Pagans meet on a cloud.
There was a fire scene at Adelaide Tivoli t’other night.
Sheridan and,his New Slavey were playing. At first an
occasional spark dropped from behind one of the hanging
sheets on to the stage. No one appeared to notice it.
Then larger sparks commenced dropping at more frequent
intervals. Johnny S. observed it and gazed up at the sky,
and then made his exit. A couple of scene-shifters came
on and had a look, too. More sparks fell, and then a fool
in the gallery yelled “ Fire !’\ The orchestra conductor
jumped up in his chair and signified to the audience to
he seated, and then the finale to the first act
was given in double quick time. Sheridan beat time
for the chorus, and it was faster than an Adelaide horse-
car. The fire was a very minor affair, it turned out, but—
The Tivoli Theatre is lighted with gas ! People often
wonder why the cornermen and most of the others on
the stage perspire so much. In summer the heat from
the footlights is terrible. Most of the lights are netted
over with wire, still it is taking chances. Everything- on
a gas-lit stage becomes as dry and as combustible as
a wooden western town in the last year of a seven years’
drought.
Miss Ethel Abbott, of Otahuhu, Auckland (M.L.) who
rides astraddle, piloted Newhaven, Fitzgerald’s circus per-
former, over a 7ft. jump at a recent performance of the
co. in Auckland.
“ T.D.”: While travelling theatrical and concert com-
panies are constantly stranded, the proprietor of the
country hall reaps a substantial profit every time. On a
recent tour through Vic. country districts, found that the
hall owner, where there is no mechanics’ institute or
similar convenience, charges anything from £3 up to £5,
whereas one of the best halls in Melbourne can be obtained
for less than the first-mentioned amount. Also, in more
than one case, the hall was owned by the local newspaper
proprietor, who scored roundly on advertisements. And
. the other papers stipulated for a specially big whack of
advertising, because their hated rival benefited through
his hall. On the other hand, halls run by public institu-
tions range in price from a mere sovereign to 30s.
James M‘Culloch, of Victoria, whose last
Premiership ended in 1877, when the star of
Graham Berry rose on the horizon, seems very
ancient history now, and the news just to hand of
his widow’s death in England looks like a very
belated piece of intelligence. What with the loan
boom, the railway boom, the land boom, the great
Durst, the coming of Federation and so on, this
country has aged tremendously since 187 1 .
M'Culloch only died in ’93, but his political times
and his politics now seem as remote as those of
Walpole.
General (or is it Emperor) Jawbone Neild
has a question on the Senate business paper as to
what steps have been taken to carry out a resolu-
tion of the House in favor of old-age pensions.
And even with the amount of intelligence possessed
by Honorary Admiral Neild, it should be
obvious to him that no steps can be taken until
there is Federal direct taxation to provide the
money, and Federal direct taxation is a thing
which the alleged Freetrade party, to which
Generalissimo and partially-paid war-horse Neild
belongs, consistently denounces.


A BOOK for SICK HEN
m
\<&
\V
li
m
c$
m
mm
:
■ :
S»
t*
KSB
*r
HI
:
&
*
I
A *< y
MB
M
s
*
■
m
i
iiiirwi
THIS BOOK
SHOULD BE ON
EVERY MAN’S
BOOKSHELF IN
AUSTRALASIA. IT IS
AS GOOD AS A DOCTOR
IN THE HOUSE. ALL
SICK MEN SHOULD
READ AND MEMORIBE IT,
THIN LEND IT TO THEIR
FRIENDS.
A STANDARD MEDICAL WORK™ 1j-
ONLY.
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the reason for the Early
Decay of Manhood’s Strength, and how Perfect Vigor is restored. It tells how we have
cured thousands of Weak Men in Australasia during the past 20 years. It is a beauti-
fully-illustrated, 570-page book, and is full of those
CANDID, PLAIN-SPOKEN TRUTHS
which have always been the medium of communication between our patrons and our-
selves during the past 20 years. It tells about the cause and cure of “weakness” in
men as men like to read it—plain and honest, straight from the
shoulder. There are other troubles from -which men suffer, such as
Rheumatism, Lame Back, Varicocele, Weak Kidneys, Sciatica, ftc.
It tells about these also, and how we cure them. To any man who
suffers from an early breaking-down of the Vital Powers it is
worth JBIOO. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,”
570 Pages, 150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 Chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by
hundreds of Australian newspapers. It costs you Nothing, except
postage fee of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
SUBJECTS TREATED comprise Insomnia, Epilepsy, Fevers,
Sunstroke, Burns and Scalds, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite, Drowning
and Restoration, Bathing and Exercise, Treatment of Invalids>
Anatomy, Consumption, Rupture, Electro-Medication and cure of
Nerve Diseases, Diet, &c. A List of 50 Valuable Prescriptions are
also included, making the Book especially valuable to country resi-
dents, where medical men are few. Applicants should send in at once
for copies, as the edition of this work is fast being ordered. Here is
an Order Form to simplify your application.
ORDER FOIM.
The Specialists,
The FREEHAN & WALLACE fIEDICAL INSTITUTE
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Please send me one copy of your famous 570-page Medical Work,
,l CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150 Medical Plates, for which
I enclose One Shilling in Stamps.
My name is
Address
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
Sydney and
Melbourne
Warning Words to Weak Men !
If you want to be strong, you should read this book. Our colonial soldiers are splendid specimens of perfect
manhood. The authorities have decreed that the lame, the halt, and the blind shall be barred from military service.
Think of this and act. Why not be a leader among men yourself? Every young man should aspire to Perfect Manhood,
even if he does not wish to go to war. At school, at college, on the farm, m business, in politics, and in the professions
the leaders are, as a rule, men of robust health.
WHO HAVE NEVER VIOLATED NATURE’S PHYSICAL LAWS.
Should war again come, the leaders of our Federal army will be officers with sharp eyes, quick ears, clear heads,
an 1 the physical strength to endure hardships and privations of the field and camp. Is not the respect, admiration, and
honor of the world worth more than evils which may pave the way for Weakness, Nervousness, Despondency, Insanity
and early Death ? Young Men and Middle Aged Men, who know now that; they have made a serious mistake, and
want to recover the lost ground, should lose no time in consulting the Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Medical
Staff.
WE GUARANTEE A CURE IN EVERY CASE UNDERTAKEN.
Evils in the past years by young men, and irregularities and excesses in middle-aged life are the causes of poor
memory, lack of ambition and manhood so common to the men of to-day. You can be restored, but will you ? “ The
glory of young men is their strength.” Young man, would you win respect, love, fame and fortune? Start right, and
start at once. Husband your strength. Is there any drain upon the fountains of your vitality ? Stop it. Is some
disease undermining your constitution ? Get cured to-day. We will gladly aid you.
Have you a Trouble? Does it concern your health and all that depends upon health ? Does it trouble and
perplex you ?
IS YOUR MANHOOD TREMBLING IN THE BALANCE?
i Do you feel the need of sympathy, counsel, and aid ? Then come to us and tell us all. We will do more than
help you discard your trouble. We will help you to forget it. Diseases fully cured soon cease to be even matters of
memory. The safest, the surest, and the best place of all for you is our consultation rooms, for there
YOU WILL FIND RELIIF AND RESTORATION TO HEALTH
and strength and manliness. If you cannot call there, write us fully and freely. We will tell you candidly if you are
curable or not. We have thousands of testimonials from cured and now happy men.
, , Specialists of the Institute have been before the public of Australia for a quarter of a century, and are famous
for their speedy treatment and cure of ALL CLASSES OF MEN’S DISORDERS. No other firm of Medical
ppemalists practising in Australia have met with such singular success as they have. Had they not been pre-eminent
in Skill and Experience relative to those diseases, they would never have acquired the fame that is theirs to-day. Their
tehties are-VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, PROSTATIC TROUBLES, WEAKNESS, LOSS OF POWER,
-rU? E NERVES > PARALYSIS OF THE VITAL ORGANS, CONTAGIOUS BLOOD DISEASES
RESULTING FROM A SPECIFIC BLOOD POISON, STOMACH AND KIDNEY DISORDERS. Any man
wno teels that he is not strong, as he should be, who would like to regain the Health that was once his, may, by adopting
the Specialists systems of treatment, be cured when perhaps he thought himself '“INCURABLE.” All patients are
under the special care of Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., the Physician-in-Chief, who is
registered by Australian, English, and American Medical Boards. He is a Specialist of International reputation in the
treatment of MEN’S SERIOUS AILMENTS. Late of Hospital Staffs Melbourne and Imperial Army Medical Staff
Ail letters are punctually and privately attended to, and medicines, packed secure from breakage in postal transit.
A Few Valuable Press Reports.
“STAR,” Sydney: “ A book for the
people.”
“EVENING NEWS, "Sydney : “Are-
vised and enlarged edition.”
“TJWNAND COUNTRY JOURNAL,”
Sydney: “The Specialists find it ne-
cessary to supplement new literary
staffs.”
“ PUNCH,” Melbourne : “Anyonein-
terested in incurable diseases should
write to the Specialists.”
“ SUN,” Kalgoorlie : “ * CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES’ contains much valu-
able information written in a popular
manner.”
“ OBSERVER,” Adelaide: “ There has
never been published of its kind in
Australia a more worthy addition to
the literature of the colony.”
“MEBCURY,” Hobart: “It is an
elegantly-bound volume. Over 20,000
. . . copies are issued yearly.”
“ MINER,” Kalgoorlie : “ The postal
facilities of the Institute are unique.”
“ WORKER,” Brisbane : “ Almost
every disease which flesh is heir to
has been treated within the pages of
this work.”
“NEW ZEALAND MAIL”: “In this
book the authors give us much that is
instructive from a physical health
view-point.”
“ SUNDAY TIMES,” Perth, in " Bits
About Books,” on March 29, 1903,
says : “ ‘ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’
on General Diseases is splendidly com-
piled. It would be hard to overrate
its value, nor do we ever remember to
have seen a more creditable production
or one that merits a more appreciative
press notice.”
“ 0 ISERVER,” Auckland: " A highly
interesting volume. It deals with
nerve complaints and how to cure
them.”
“ SUN,” Kalgoorlie: “Striking cures
of many so-called ‘ INCURABLE ’ dis-
eases are effected daily.”
These are but a few from hundreds of others, all of
which are voluntary reviews of extreme
literary value and merit.
T FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO=MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Elizabeth $ Bathurst Sts., Sydney
and at Bourke & E izabetb Streets, Melbourne, opp. G.P.O.
Howard i reeman, Director. Diehard Wallace , M.D. , Pysician-in-Chief.
_ . • • .
Some promiscuous reminiscences .
On a grave stone in the parish church of Great Yar-
mouth (En<r.) is an illustrated inscription which recalls an
mouLii) ° ’,, th „ femhstone is
incident on the Yarra m 1855. On the to
sculptured a clown seated in a tub which is being drawn
down a river by two swans. The stone marks the grave
of one of 79 victims, mostly children, who met their deaths
by the collapse of the suspension bridge over the River
Bure in May, 1845. A crowd assembled on the bridge to
see the clown perforin the feat, and after he had passed
causing th e P cohapse. Sll In theelrly Barry! the
famous clown, was performing in Melbourne. Tom
successfully essayed the same feat with geese instead of
swans. His course was on the Yarra at Richmond,
opposite the old Sir Henry Barkly Hotel.
And apropos Tom Barry : When in Melbourne, he
lodged at Mrs. Flanner’s old White Horse Hotel, on the
S.E. corner of Spring and Bourke streets. Where Parlia-
ment Houses now stand was bush. Barry was seated, one
Sunday evening, on the verandah, playing a violin, when
Inspector Brannigan sent Policeman Rafferty to warn him
against disturbing people during church-time. Barry
promised to desist, meanwhile desiring Mrs. Flanner to
give Policeman Rafferty “something.” The policeman
had more than half-a-tumbler of brandy, and, while
wiping his mouth, Barry started another tune, and
Rafferty again implored, telling the violinist
that the inspector was “in the bushes beyant.”
Barry again enthusiastically commanded Mrs. Flanner to
give the officer “ something,” and he once more came out
wiping his mouth and found Barry disturbing the Sabbath
evening calm with his violin. He urged the clown, as
one addresses a well-beloved brother, to leave off, and
Barry peremptorily commanded Mrs. Flanner to give the
policeman “ something.” Mrs. Flanner had made the
something a trifle larger each time, and Policeman
Rafferty came out for the third time wiping the atmos-
phere which he mistook for his mouth. Then Barry
played a furious Irish jig, and Rafferty, carried away by
brandy and emotion, danced his national dance on the
pavement, and his “ whirroo ” could be heard as far off as
Richmond. He also called his inspector a “dirty
Sassenach.” But Barry explained things to the inspector,
an( j j, )e a ] so bad “ something.”
( ,
L.±>. writes..
The failure of freethinker Jos. Symes aggressively
atheistical organ, the Liberator, is due to arrested
development. Symes was unable to advance beyond the
radical ideas in religion and politics of the last generation,
He was originally a Wesley an parson m England. He
gradually came to doubt, and the most genuine of
believers grew to be the most strenuous of infidels. Symes
became a freethought lecturer, and after some time
landed in Melbourne, where for more than 20 years he
has fought for his particular dogmas. Symes never got
away from his early training. Though a freethinker, he
is the most rabid of bigots. His method of judging
human nature is essentially theological; he believes in the
inherent depravity of human nature. Symes’ addresses
and articles abound with the words “knave,” “ rascal,”
etc., etc. But it was Symes’inability to enlarge his political
conceptions that finally proved fatal. Just as his change
was not really from superstition to enlightenment, hut
from Wesleyan to Materialistic bigotry, so Symes has
remained all his life, a believer in the exploded ideas of a
narrow political individualism. His following was re-
cruifced mainty from Laborites, and many seceded when
he became too violent in his attacks on trades-unionism
and on socialism. Yet it is a pity that Symes has had
such hard luck. He is a man of greatly superior intellect,
with a gift for scholarship, and as a speaker is in the front
rank. But he has no ideal of beauty ; only a rather cir-
cumscribed idea of truth. A touch of the larger geniality,
a finer sense of the ridiculous, is all that is needed to have
made Symes a leader of men instead of an Ishmaelite.
Barrister Ferguson, the well-known col-
lector of valuable books and ancient prints, like
many other artistic Sydney-side Saxons, has French
blood in him Both his erandfithern frmahl- it
-tit , i ■ DOTn . “is grandfathers lought at
Waterloo. It was an interesting affair; Ferguson’s
paternal grand-dad fought under Wellington, and
chased his maternal progenitor through the moon-
light when the Old Guard crumpled up and
Napoleon remembered an important engagement
“ » somewhere else. Fortunately
tor Hamster Ferguson his paternal grandfather
did not catch his maternal splendid relative, the
maternal gent being apparently fleet of foot,
Supposing he had been slower, and had been over-
S7evrr k
would ever have been any Ferguson. That ques-
tion raises the most unanswerable conundrum on
earth, which may be expressed somewhat in this
fashion: If (say) Jones’s father and mother had
never met, would Jones have been born, though of
- ? i ie J OU w u’ W u at WOuld ,
nave become of Jones . And what has become of
the person who would have been born if Jones’s
mother had married somebody else ?
w j tv ~
V ictor Daley writes :
S.M. Herald (April 1) says of the author of its coming
new serial story : “ A Cornishman by birth, Mr. Hocking
L nndP^iApfhG 1 Hl in nniUrn f 10 fV 0f Sfcory W " fcin > ?-” 1
am quite sure that the author of this apparently bizarre
statement was quite unconscious -or, say, sub-conscious
—of the delightful truth it conveyed. I lived for some
years on the Devon side of the Tamar, and knew some
Cornishmen on that side. But they were strangers in a
strange land. In north-western Cornwall, the Tintagel
part, not far from Devonian Barnstaple and Bideford (it
seems inexpressibly quaint in this vast unfenced contin-
en P? distinguish by points of the compass a county that
f a , corner ° f a Queensland run),
5° r , sh of f . eatures mad e a compromise with
the thick-nosed Devonian. But down from Tintagel bv
Padstow, St. Ives, Land’s End, and around again up to
Fowey, and inside of these landmarks, you find a straight-
nosed, arched-eyebrowed Celtic-Punic' cast of counten-
anc?> the like of which is not to be found in any other
Kmgdom. 1 was staying for a few
£££ S, A tell
man with a grizzled beard came in and sat down,
“ Where'’ve ee bin all this time, Jack Penrose ?” said the
mistress of the house. Mr. Penrose waved a hand vaguely
»» hin ™ ¥ m anfl T replied, “ Away in the West Country,
S£'
“ And where’s Ned?” said Mr. Penrose,
“Oh, Ned—why Ned’s gone away over to England.”
Yet in the answers to correspondents in la London
weekly, famous for the information it purveys-1 find the
statera( mt-“ Cornwall became definitely English so long
is no more definitely English (meaning Anglo-
Saxon) now than it was more than a thousand years ago.
When Cornishmen leave their own country they fly far,
as a rule. Cousin Jacks are not scarce in Ballarat and
Bendigo. More interesting to me is the fact that Corn-
wall is now the chosen land of novelists—the Delectable
D uc hy> as Quiller-Couch calls it.
A correspondent of T.P.’s WEEKLY digs up
an old anecdote of Henry Parkes. At a time
t*
, when hls P?etical honors were thin upon him
he was addressing a political meeting. With a
fine burst of rhetoric lie exclaimed : “I had rather
be a third-rate poet than a first-rate politician.”
And a small, humble Uriah-Heep-like voice from
the audience inquired, “Well, aren’t you ? ”


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when yon
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue w ill deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, oi
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not flow being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lege
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores]
be Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per b x Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Fa rringdon-street, London, England.
Agents 1 KLI.IOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box, (Regd. copyright.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Bole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use.— Throw Ihe Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
to noun
Beware of Infringers of our Patents
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some- un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Ci.r')ide for any generator either direct', or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Models £2.10<0;£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
j nort In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , A ccessories , Sporting Goods &
Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using suflicii nt foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO, Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U.S.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND,
m
fj’j 1
V"
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down " or “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment aifords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
s v
3^
<#
<s^
<s• s#
V
m
SOME BOOKS T SIR ROBERT!
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■MBRAOm
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Page*.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and show* up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, East Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Fop, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is post*
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille Is*
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette Is
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River*
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is • post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d
Inquirer’s Oracle: What to do and How to do it
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, Gs 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don't be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pr Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE (JOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my......
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Cloo
Dancing Made East, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 3d. posted. Chevasse’s Advjceto a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. Tiib Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
It is about time the Australian Government began
to sniff suspiciously at Westralia’s immigration
returns—especially those relating to Italians. The
Belgian figures might also have a corner of Premier
Deakin’s eye— Lyne’s whole eye being apparently
otherwise engaged. Here are the immigration
returns for the last three months for which the
Westralian Statistical Abstract ” is available :
From Gt. Britain. Italy. Belgium*
November .. 74 74 39
December .. 62 65 22
January.. .. 43 97 13
1 his refers to males only. Are these foreigners,
very few of whom can speak English, coming here
under contract? It at any rate looks highly
suspicious that, whereas in three months the State
gets only 179 male immigrants from Great
Britain, it gets 236 from Italy and 74 from
How do these Italians and Belgians,
who don t speak the English language, come to
know of this country? How is it that the
desire to come to Australia attacks them and
not the Englishman ? Moreover, they come in
batches, as though they had been organised
somewhere. And almost always, when they reach
the State they go straight to one of half-a-dozen
mines which are now manned chiefly by non-
English-speaking foreigners. Once before there
was a scandal over this matter, and one of Big-
JOHN s old friends, appointed as a Commissioner,
wrote a one-eyed report on the subject. Will
jJeakin or Lyne or someone see that a strict
inquiry is made by an officer who has two eyes,
and botli of them open ?
♦
In future, it is understood, industrial agreements
brought before the N.S.W. Arbitration Court to
be registered or enforced as common rules will be
very closely scrutinised by the Court. That will
be a valuable precaution. The Court and the Act
under which it sits have, from the first, been
subjected to an organised hostility on the part of
the daily press; but that hostility has not been
able to expose any serious flaw in the Act; it has
merely shown up conspicuously its many good
points ; and, in triumphantly parading matters in
which the administration of the Act has been faulty,
the criticism of enemies has certainly not succeeded
in giving grounds for any lack of confidence in the
• J hero have been mistakes, but, compared
with the great mass of good work done, they have
been trifling. The worst mistake has been an
occasional failure s to examine severely industrial
agreements which it was sought to make common
rules. In some cases these agreements have been
allowed to go beyond the powers of the Arbitra-
tion Act. The Act, for instance, declares that
preference of employment must be given to union-
ists, other things being equal—that the skilled
and reputable unionist, if conveniently available,
shall be preferred to the no-more-skilled non-
unionist. One agreement registered as a common
r ™ practically provides that no non-unionist
shall be given employment whilst there is a union-
ist in the trade out of work—even though other
things may not be equal—an obviously untenable
position. Such an agreement should not be
registered as a common rule without some-
thing to safeguard it against an extreme
interpretation. That is plain now, though
at the time such agreements were being regis-
tered, it was natural enough for the court to
accept them without suspicion, since they had
been come to voluntarily by the associations of
employers and employees. The idea that
employers, in their ignorance, would come to
voluntary agreements which gave to unionism
concessions that it never asked, and which Parlia-
ment never dreamed of giving it, didn’t occur
to the court. It didn’t sufficiently recognise how
slipshod some people could Tie, and will have a
careful eye to future dangers of this kind.
“N.D.S.”, a well-known Sydney citizen, writes :
I left N.S.AV. for S’Africa some ten months ago rather
at loggerheads with Tub Bulletin over the stand it took
during the Boer war, but my ideas were changed ere I
had been many months in that country of cruel blood-
shed. A stay at Cape Town showed the bitter racial
feeling now existing. At Johannesburg awful distress
exists at the present time—people starving, retrench-
ment in every branch of trade, unemployed— Britishers in
the majority—hanging about every street corner. This
discontent and distress never existed before the war
Now the great mining houses—which rule the Transvaal
—not satisfied with a good percentage of profit, want an
abnormal one, and call for cheap Chinese labor. “ There
is not sufficient Kaffir labor available,” they tell you. To
such a statement there is only one reply—bunkum
There is any amount of Kaffir labor available. There was
before the war, and there is now. The mine-owners how-
ever, have been reducing the Kaffirs’ wages ever since the
termination of the war. It is their game to rouse Kaffir
discontent and give color to the false cry of “no labor.”
Would they have tried this game in Kruger’s time, and
so have caused the widespread discontent and terrible
distress existent at the present day ? They dared not
Kruger’s laws were firm, just and impartial. If
they had attempted such a game he would
have confiscated their properties after a few days’
notice. Well these foreign Jew capitalists knew it, too.
the result and true cause of the war is now brought home.
There is a very strong prejudice against Australians
throughout S. Africa, but in no place so much as Durban
where there have been “ Wanted ” advertisements with
the remark, “No Australians need apply.” This is what
Australians get for their share of the spoil. Had there
been no war, S’Africa would certainly have been in a pros-
perous state to-day. But the war 'has brought devasta-
tion and complete capitalistic control to the unhannv
country.
»
The recent attempt of a number of prisoners to
escape from gaol in South Australia has revived
the uneasy feeling which hundreds of Adelaide
people have regarding the conviction and 20
years sentence of Myles Flynn, one of the
men. Lawson, who was charged along with
Flynn with highway robbery, said, after his con-
viction, that Flynn wasn’t guilty, though he was
himself—that Flynn had nothing whatever to do
with the affair. Flynn’s defence was that he
was somewhere else at the time, and a constable,
it is alleged, was prepared to swear that he saw
him at the latter place. Justice Wat, who
tried the case, said to Lawson, in sentencing
him, that he had listened attentively to
his account of the affair; but “so far as the
prisoner Flynn is concerned it comes with no
weight whatever, because, as you have pointed out
yourself, you cannot expect us to believe you when
you were not manly enough to tell the story for
the purpose of freeing the man you say is inno-
cent.” Which was a stupid reason for discrediting
the story, seeing that Lawson couldn’t have told
the story without owning up to his own guilt.
However much Lawson didn’t want to see an
innocent man convicted, he was pretty sure to
want to see himself convicted even less; and,
further, there was a very good chance that if he
held his tongue both would be acquitted. Re-
peatedly since his conviction Flynn is alleged
to_ have told the gaol officers that he would
seize the first chance that came to get away,
and would give himself up at the nearest police-
station, as it was the only way he saw of having
his case reopened. The weakness of the evidence
against him, the alleged police testimony available
in favor of the alibi, Lawson’s declaration after
his conviction and the Judge’s weak and silly
reason for disbelieving it, and the man’s recent
actions —all point to the need of an inquiry.
«
George Reid has been talking to Joey Car-
RUThers’ Deform party again about the Govern-
ment’s “dreadful career of financial recklessness.”
There are only about half-a-dozen men who can’t
afford to throw stones at the Owe’See, and G.
Reid is one of them. Joey Carruthers, who
was for a while Reid’s Treasurer, is another. J.
H. Want, who was also in the crowd, is a third.
In four years and a half this crowd managed to
accumulate a deficiency of £779,247. In one
year, 1895-6, when there wasn’t any drought,
G. Reid spent £607,533 more than he col-
lected, while last year the dreadfully reckless
Owe’SEE was only £171,166 short. In the same
S years G. Reid borrowed £7,093,628, while
eorge Turner, in Victoria, working under the
same circumstances, had a total loan expenditure
of only £1,500,000. In the year when Reid had
the £607,533 deficit the net railway earnings were
£220,000 more than they were in the year when
the present Government pulled through with f a
deficit of £171,166. And this is the man, with
almost the worst financial history among living
Australian politicians, who talks about others*
“dreadful career of financial recklessness.”
This is the programme of the Nationalist Party
in Canada :
(1) Opposition to all participation by Canada in the
deliberations of the British Parliament, and in any Im-
perial Council.
(2) Consultation of Parliament by the Government when
invited to participate in any conference of countries hav-
ing allegiance to Britain, and the absolute publicity of
the deliberations and decisions of the conference.
(3) The production at each session of Parliament of all
correspondence or documents exchanged since the last
session between the Canadian Government and the
Colonial Office, or the Governments of other British
colonies.
(4) The right of representation at all international con.
ferences where the interests of Canadians are in question.
(5) The right to make and to abrogate commercial
treaties with all countries, including Great Britain and
her colonies ; liberty to name agents who will be able to
treat directly on commerciar questions with foreign
Governments.
(6) Abstention from all participation by Canada in
imperial wars outside Canadian territory ; resistance to
all attempts by England to recruit in Canada.
(7) Opposition to the establishment of a naval school in
Canada with the consent and for the benefit of the Im-
perial authorities.
(8) The direction of our militia in times of peace and
in times of war to the sole purpose of defending Canadian
territory.
(9) Absolute refusal of all leave asked for by any officer
of the militia to take part in an Imperial war.
(10) Command of the Canadian militia by a Canadian
officer, appointed by the Canadian Government.
♦
Joey Carruthers’ N.S.W. Deform party con-
ference has adopted what Sydney Telegraph calls
a “ vigorous closer settlement policy.” The plank
was proposed by a member who “ believed that the
residence clauses had done a great deal to hamper
settlement in this country,” and who therefore
moved :
That the restrictions and processes which now en-
cumber selectors should be abolished, retaining only the
principle of grantingan area sufficient for the maintenance
of a home, with the alternative of residence or labor
conditions.
And the great Liberal and Deform party agreed.
J OSEPH is therefore to appeal to the country to
adopt a policy to make dummying easy and
effective. Every city “agent” is to be entitled
to grab a selection—which means that every land
grabber on a large scale may employ as many
“ agents ” as he can get hold of to dummy as many
selections as there are available, and the real
selector will have to pay the grabber for permission
to work and live. This is the most stupid, most
retrogressive idea yet broached on the subject of
land settlement; and the Deform League appro-
priately collars it.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lookyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lockyer’s
the real English Hair Restorer. Large bottles Is.
everywhere.*
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
m
m
m
DAY
NIGHT
m
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The*Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
CHAMBEKLAIN’S PAIN BALM will
promptly relieve the severe pain of a burn or scald,
if applied as soon as the accident takes place.
Gives immediate relief.”
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, shoe-
lane, London, Ens-land.*
m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID J
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
m
URIC ACID POISONS THE BRAIN.
Tho MASTER REMEDY
TJric acid in excess poisons the
brain and upsets the mental
balance. It causes mental de-
pression, insomnia, nervous irri-
tability, fidgets, softening of the
brain, and general inanition often
terminating in death. Uric acid
upsets the digestive and excre-
tory functions and causes confu-
sion until the whole system is at
sixes and sevens. Uric acid is the
cause of rheumatism, gout, gouty
eczema, sciatica and lumbago.
Uric acid most seriously affects
the kidneys, and brings on
cloudy urine, gravel, stone, dia-
betes, and Bright’s disease. The
Master Remedy is KLutnow’s
Powder. The best time to take
it is about seven o’clock in the
morning before breakfast. It
gives the patient immediate
relief from all pain, and in time
absolutely eradicates the trouble.
SUBSTITUTION—A CRIME!
The popularity of Kutnow’s Powder has now
spread over the four quarters of the globe:
consequently, among the many medicine ven-
dors there are some who do not hesitate to palm
off closely imitated substitutes for the genuine
Kutaow’s .Powder. To palm off an article
which to the eye appears like the genuine, but
is devoid of those virtues on which the value
of Kutnow’s Powder depends, is an offence
which we denounce as criminal, and the vendors
of these substitutes are morally responsible for
the injury caused by the use of them. Be
careful, therefore, to accept only the
GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
L-—X-Z 3
I
CORRECT
0
TIME
At 7 a.m. Kutnow’s Powder is a most refreshing,
exhilarating morning draught. It flushes the
bowels, expels uric acid, disinfects the bladder,
and invigorates all the organs.
The late SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D., thoroughly tested the
merits of this infallible remedy and said : “I have tried Kutnow’s
Powder, and find that it answers particularly well.”
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. LTD.. 41
[s-llj
Farringdon Road, London, EX.
Th< REV. C. E. WINCOTT
Writes :
“14, Church Street, Adlington, Lancs.,
“ October 13th, 1903.
“Gentlemen, —About three years ago I
was confined to my bed for a short time
with a very acute attack of liver complaint.
After other medicines had failed to take any
effect, I was recommended by my doctor to
try your excellent preparation, and I am
glad to say that after taking two bottles I
was completely cured, and my health has
been better ever since. I have since recom-
mended your Powder to quite a number of
sufferers, who testify of similar results. I
shall be pleased to allow you to make what-
ever use you like of my testimony.
“ I beg to remain, sincerely yours,
“(Rev.)CHAS. E. WINCOTT.”
Dr. JOHN T. SIMPSON
Writes :
“Boston, Mass.,
“ Sept. 16th, 1903.
“I have suffered for the past two years
with gout in its most painful form, my body
being thoroughly charged with uric acid, and
hardly able to move. I used Kutnow’s
Powder, and in three days the morning tests
of urine showed less and less acid, until now
lam free from the dross. I have now taken
four bottles. I consider Kutnow’s Powder
the greatest uric acid solvent in the world.
I am using same throughout practice and
hospital.
“ Most thankfully yours,
“JOHN T. SIMPSON,
“A.M.M.D.C.M.”
PROPRIETORS IN US A.: KUTNOW EROS..
853, BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
The mystery of the conflicting evidence as
to “pinky” has been settled. Tort Adelaide
Board of Health sent a respectable citizen to buy
a bottle of somebody’s “Old Red” —a brand on
which aspersions of a “pinky” nature had been
cast. Then a toper of a doggy type was sent to
the same shop for a bottleof the same “ Old Red.”
The stuff got by the respectable citizen was good
enough ; the bottle the toper brought back had the
label all right but not the cork, ana the stuff inside
was “ pinky,” full of blue snake possibilities. It
seems that certain very unwise firms sell in bulk
to retailers and give them their labels to affix for
themselves. So a “ good brand ” may be anything
the retailer makes it.
“ Wallaroo ” : Is the age or our own Aus-
tralian climate to blame for the youthlessness of
the present day kid ? Little boys don’t want to be
Ned Kellys and Red Indians any longer, or pine
to fill the jungle with howls as they wind a flexible
toe about the topmost heights of perpendicular
vegetation. Little girls play only gammon-grown-
up games, and lisping babies simper precociously
about their “betht boy.” Again, while the old
time gossoon and girleen mistrustfully evaded
adult creation as a natural enemy, the modern
juvenile sedately teas out with its parents’
acquaintances, and discusses George Reid and
other horrors with awful self-possession. Is it age-
weariness or merely climate ?
“Hiphen”: There is a delightful atmo-
sphere of adventure and uncertainty in going for
a holiday excursion on a Bent train. On Easter
Sunday I went to inspect the camp at Lang-
warrin. Left camp by the 5.15 train in the
evening to reach town at 7.10 —just in nice time for
church. An asthmatical engine hauled us to half-
way between Aspendale Park and Mordialloc.
Then it got tired, or the water went off the boil,
and it stopped to rest. It rested quite a consider-
able time. Engine-drivers crawled underneath
and tied things up with rope, and stroked it, and
spoke kindly to it. Still it sulked. Then they
spoke unkindly; still no use. Then guards ran
forward to Mordialloc, and porters ran back to
Oarrum, and distracted firemen ran round aim-
lessly and gathered wild flowers. Yokels came
round and made unsympathetic remarks ; second
class passengers got down and danced to the
music of mouth-organs; two drunks had a fight,
and the first half-hour passed cheerfully. The
second half-hour was not so cheerful. The last
hour was given over to cursing Bent. At last we
were pushed painfully into Mordialloc by the
train behind. Then something that looked like
the ghost of a long-departed locomotive hauled us
into the city, with much groaning and grunting—
hours late.
A year or two ago, before the cold snap,
the returned cohentingenter was, for a few days, a
power in the land. He wandered round in his
mustard-colored suit, and filled himself with beer,
and told tales of how the veldt rushed at him
armed to the teeth, and uttering fearful threats,
and how, being otherwise unarmed at the
moment, he hit it with the kopje, and it fled in
the Dutch language, and was seen no more there-
abouts. In those garish times it was impossible'
to have a drink in any Sydney or Melbourne hotel
without hearing the word “kopje,” or to get one’s
hair cut without long stoppages through some one
insisting on telling the barber something about a
veldt. It was about that period that there was a
gaudy episode in a Sydney bar, and when it was
over a very small cohentingenter fled intp
the remote suburbs, and hardly mentioned a
kopje for three months. He was a highly-bounce-
able warrior, and had been relating his deeds of
bloodshed and combustion to all and sundry till
the barmaid was weary. At last her temper
snapped. /The cohentingenter was just then
standing with his back to the bar, gently waving
a glass of beer and some counter-lunch, and talk-
ing kopje to an interested audience. Suddenly a
painfully clear voice broke in: “Now, Mr. Smith,
what is the use of telling all these stories ? You
know perfectly well that when you got up to the
front with your sore feet, and Roberts saw you, he
just said, ‘Kitchener, get an envelope for the
little man to stand on, so that he can see over a
pebble or else he won’t be able to shoot.’ And
you know perfectly well that Kitchener answered
him, ‘Roberts, we’ve only one envelope left,
and we want it to send the account of our
next victory to Queen Victoria at the British
Museum; better make the little man a hos-
pital attendant, Roberts.’ And Roberts said,
‘Kitchener, you’re right, as usual; make the
little man a hospital attendant.’ And you
wouldn’t know a kopje if it barked at you in the
street, Mr. Smith.” Then the audience laughed
wildly, and the small cohentingenter ceased to
wave his beer and his counter-lunch, and fled
with curses into a back street.
From a Perth pressman :
Premier James, of VVestralia, has his general election on
May 30. He has thrown down the gauntlet to the Labor
party, which he declares is not a Labor party at all—but
merely an aggregration of trades-unionists dominated by
Paid, secretaries and other objectionable persons, who
ill-, wear dungarees and go to their daily toil with
clocklike regularity. Unionists, in the opinion of Walter
James, should leave the game of politics to lawyers, land
agents, newspaper bosses, and other divinely-gifted
sections of the community.
The James variety of man cordially approves of
.Labor representation in the abstract, but when-
ever anyone appears in the House to represent
Labor, he denounces that individual as bogus
because he is in the House instead of working in a
drain, as. a genuine Labor man should. The
probabilities are that the Labor party will capture
at least one-third of the seats, and that there will
be no more James Government.
Mr. Basil H. Chamberlain, an Englishman
who is Professor of Japanese and Philology at the
Tokio University, in an article on “English as
she is Japped,” gives this as the attempt of a
young Jap essayist to portray the national charac-
teristics of John Bull:
The Englishman works with a very powerful hands and
the long legs and even the eminenced mind, his chin is so
strong as deceived iron. He are not allowed it to escape
if he did siezed something. Being spread his dominion is
dreadfully extensive so that his countryman boastfully
say “the sun are never sets on our dominions.” The
Testamony of English said that he that lost the common
sense, he never any benefit though he had gained the
complete world. The English are cunning institutioned
to establish a great empire of the Paradise. The English-
man always said to the another nation “give me your
land and I will give you my Testamony.” So it is not a
robbed but exchanged as the Englishman always confide
the object to be pure and the order to be holy and they
reproach him if any them are killed to death with the
contention of the other man (I shall continue the other
time). ‘
Admiral Charles Hotham has just re-
tired from the command of Portsmouth, Eng.
land. Another admiral of that name was
Governor of Victoria half a century ago, and
mixed things up somewhat.
“F.C.” : I observe with pleasure that the
dairy inspector of Morwell shire (Vic.) is putting a
stop to the farmer’s pleasing habit of erecting liis
cream separator in his dwelling-house. The trouble
is that this is only one clean inspector among some
hundreds of dirty or careless ones. Within a 20-
mile radius of Melbourne I know of two separators
put up in the same room that the “man” sleeps
m ; three I know are erected in kitchens ; one ism
a stable with only a partition between the separa-
tor-room and the manger; in fact, the average
oow-keeper round Melbourne just bolts his machine
to the solidest bit of timber handy. I believe if he
could get a good foundation on his dung-hill some
of him would plant the weapon there. And all
the while he wonders why his butter brings less
than top price.
This atrocious libel conies from Maoriland,
of all places in the world :
In a Wellington paper the other day one of the answers
to correspondents was to this effect : “ Once again, and
we hope for the last time, Mr. Carnegie’s address is Skibo
Castle, North Britain.” This means that the Carnegie
cadge is a blight and a curse. Maoriland is now engaged
most of the time in writing to the Scotch plutocrat for
money to build free libraries, and the bawbees are nearly
always refused. The other day at Gisborne the usual
application was made to Carnegie, and the usual refusal
was recorded. The borough council simply said it would
do without the library. If a young community wants a
library it ought to be able to buy one of its own. But
the average Maoriland community, when it can’t find
a Scotch lunatic to drag it into the light of civilisa-
tion, merely hunts round for a tussock and
relapses into peaceful slumber in its night of ignor-
ance and error, and only awakes when it hears
that anybody is giving away anything. Maoriland
would appear to be the most ignorant country on earth,
but as a matter of fact it isn’t. It is merely afflicted to a
remarkable degree with the desire to get anything that is
being given away, hence its wild pursuit of Carnegie’s
address. As a general rule Maoriland is to be discovered
snoring under a tree, but even the most unreliable rumor
that someone is giving away keyholes or doorways or the
long orifices that you pour brass round to make cannon,
or other totally purposeless objects, is enough to set it
rushing violently round to get to the shop before the
doors open.


TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling 1 Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
xJanuary, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 11,50,000 at 5/1 each.
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients..
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DfIPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA w Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay
Por all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. B. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure,
XHH FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers ftoiia any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house Bhouid be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION 13 NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
COO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEDL
A COMPLETE CUBE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,— l ain writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your inedioine haa effected in
my caae. About three year* ago t began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ 0A8&
RELIEVED at once and completely cubed
BY HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonoe,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Uodewarre, Victoria. W. TREIIELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’3
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. (J. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it sinoe. It is a splendid medi-
an for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Ylotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured t>y One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunm, Via
"Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very muoh pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to ray mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
liUred by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cura.
WAB A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
•' S Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir,—
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a Utter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John 8. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HBARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of ths
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
fcave tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it ,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would nob try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Tears' Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedjq doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE!
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send ms on#
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CUREIA
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronohitl#
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. E'or a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relie’,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now’, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Baluiain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILEIX
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASS.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevllle,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne 3
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of til.*
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: —“I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
hwanoh office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 8562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally »


Ci? ' -OV:
m
"ft"
T
SEE
oo
Sunlight Soap
will not shrink or harden woollens or flannels, and this is the way to
wash them : shake the articles free from dust, cut a Tablet of
Sunlight Soap into shavings, pour into a gallon of boiling water and
whisk into a lather ; when water is lukewarm work the articles in the
lather very gently and carefully; rinse thoroughly in clear, tepid
water; squeeze out water without twisting and hang in the open air
to dry. You can wash out Art Muslins, Cretonnes, Lace Curtains
and delicate fabrics in this way.
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white and wvn't injure the hands.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY. s
SOME CURES.
Exemplifying the curative effects of Warner’s Safe Cure, a few letters from people who have been
cured are subjoined. As millions of bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, however, have been sold in Aus-
tralasia, it is easy for anyone, by making inquiry amongst personal friends, to hear of many siuiiuir
cases.
Kidney Complaint. Mr. John Lovell, of 45 Balmain Street, Richmond, Victoria, says :
“It is with pleasure that I write in regard to my recovery from a very bad attack of Kidney
Complaint. I was taken so ill that I had to be brought home and laid on the couch. I thoug.it that
I had a paralytic stroke, as I seemed to have lost all muscular motion in ray back. I had been ua'e
and hearty up till that time, and could only account for my attack as being caused by a Budc.en cmll
in the kidneys. I received advice, and was duly prescribed medicine, but I derived no benefit. 1 hen
a friend recommended me to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and the relief was speedy and wonder-
ful. In two weeks I was out and about my work again. Since that time I have had no return of the
complaint, and am now in the best of health.—l9th August, 1902.”
Stone in the Bladder. Mr. James Grant, Grocer, 126 Young Street, Annandale, N.S.W.,
says :
"Some ten years ago I was attacked by great pains in the back and groin, which at times were so
severe that I almost screamed with agony. I was treated by doctors for fully five years, and also
tried several patent medicines, but obtained no relief. I at last despaired of ever getting well again,
but was recommended by a friend to try Warner’s Safe Cure, as it had given him immense relief in a
similar case. I followed his advice, and, after taking the medicine for a while, I passed a stone about
three-quarters of an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide. I am pleased to say that, after this
stone had come away, my sufferings were at an end, and I have not suffered in the slightest degree
since. Many of my friends know of my case, and I always keep the stone I passed. I can confidently
recommend Warner’s Safa Cure in cases like mine, as I am thoroughly convinced that it saved mo
many years of agony, if not my very life itself.—l2th February, 19C3.'’
Bladder Disease. Captain W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg,
Victoria, says :
“It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of the great benefit I have derived from
taking Warner’s Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a chill, which turned to a verv
severe attack of Inflammation of the Bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examining me each
said it was a disease common to men of my age (I am over 60), and that I could only get relief by
using an instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I positively refused to let either of them
use an instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I conscientiously and
truthfully declare that before finishing the first bottle I got absolute relief, and began to feel better in
every respect. I have continued to take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully improved.
My previous troubles have entirely disappeared, and I am no longer disturbed during the night. I
am in as good health now as I can ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to Warner s
Safe Cure. I carefully observed the diet directions given in your book. I most strongly recommend
Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved in-
valuable.—6th April, 1903.”
Liver Disease. Miss lima Rchs, of 198 Archer St., North Adelaide, S.A., says :
“ Some four years ago my general good health failed me, and I suffered from severe headaohes at
least once a week, constant debility, and loss of vitality. At times I had pain and weakness in my
back. My appetite became poor and digestion bad. I consulted medical men, who pronounced the
cause of my illness to be Disease of the Liver, and gave me medicine to take, but, as weeks passed and
I was getting no better, I became alarmed, and decided finally to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I con-
tinued to take this medicine for three weeks, and felt better each day. My appetite returned, weak-
ness and pain left me, and in about a month I was as well as ever. Had I taken Warner’s Safe Cure
at the commencement of my illness, I feel sure I should have been cured sooner, and so have saved
doctors’ bills.—llth December, 1902.”
Dyspepsia.. Mr. T. H. Oook, Belleview Street, Parramatta, N.S.W., says :
“ I have been a great sufferer for about 20 years from Chronic Dyspepsia. During that time I can safely say that
I have spent £2OO on doctors, and the best of doctors, and only got at any time but slight relief from their medicines.
I suffered terribly with pains in the chest and stomach, and also across the shoulders and kidneys, besides suffering
from constipation. I always felt very drowsy, but could get but little sleep. I have lived for years on slop food ;
meat, cabbage, potatoes or pastry of any kind would almost kill me. I was recommended by a friend, about 12
months ago, to try what Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills would do for me. I took the advice, and can
truly say that since that time I have felt like a new man. —4th March, 1903."
Rheumatism. Mrs. Nellie Davidson, 32 Keig Street, Newtown, N.S.W., says :
“ When living in Boggabri, about 18 months ago, I was laid up for nearly the whole winter with Rheumatism’
and could not obtain any relief from any of the several medicines I took. One day I saw a pamphlet, issued by you,
in which was described a case similar to my own, and I decided to try whether Warner’s Safe Cure would also benefit
me. I took three bottles of the medicine, and am very glad to say that I was completely cured and could go about
my work cheerfully. I have not felt the slightest symptom of the return of any rheumatic pain since that time. —
16th February, 1903.”
Warner’s Safe Cure
Cures Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel and Stone, Bladder
Troubles, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Persistent Headache, Anaemia, General
Debility, Blood Disorders and Brijght’s Disease, simply because it restores the kidneys and liver to
health and vigor, when the urinary and biliary poisons, which cause the diseases, are expelled from the system
in a natural manner. Treatise, post free, on application to H. H. Warner aud Co., Limited, Australasian Branch,
Melbourne, Victoria.
The Ship Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITHOUT ’tis gold and azure;
Within ’tis grey and green—
The brave high headlands rearing
Their fortressed bulk between.
The gates stand ever opened,
And lo ! the ships go down,
Like black swans veering seaward
To ’scape the crowded town.
Like white swans faring homeward
The inward ships come o’er,
To fold their tired wings softly
A season by the shore.
Thy blue-eyed baby crooning
Its wonder and delight,
Shall ask thee—whither goeth
The black swans and the white ?
“The white swan-ships, beloved,
That through the morn have gone,
Sail out ” —so wilt thou whisper—
“To far-off Avalon.
“ Their good knights’ shining falchions,
With hilts of fairy gold,
In yonder sunburst gleaming
Thou mayest yet behold.
“ With red hearts fiercely burning
Beneath their breasts of steel,
The wicked, wanton mermen
Who slew the pure white seal,
“Those black sea-knights thou sawest
Ride nobly down the bay,
To-night have gone a-seelang
In lone seas far away.
“ Their ways, O heart’s delight, are
Most wondrous to pursue,
And val’rous, brave and splendid
With deeds of derring-do.
“ And they shall see the Rainbow
That rings the Midnight Sun,
A id hear the Phoenix singing
Before their task is done.”
What though that fabled Island
Lies deep beneath the Sea ?
What though that wicked Merman
A stout Ship-owner be ?
In dreams the Fleets of Childhood
Sail back a thousand years
To coasts of strange old fancies
And strangely sweet old fears ;
And, bound for fair Atlantis
From out the port of Chance—
For Poet, Child and Woman
Still sails the ship Romance,
n.s.w.
E. J. BEADY.
Tales of “The Rocks.”
THE ASPIRATIONS OF JINNY CLYBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AMONG the labyrinthine passages and con-
volutions of “The Rocks,” there was one
which, presenting at its outset all the
signs of continuity, suddenly, by an abrupt turn,
ended against a high wall. The houses thereabouts
were dilapidated and scattered ; the narrow roads
and pathways bristled with the outcrop of rock
boulders; a few goats browsed on patches of vacant
grass; and the outlook was one of depression,
poverty, and decay.
Parallel with the wall stood a small dwelling,
whose dingy look and broken plaster placed it in
close keeping with its surroundings. The dirty
and unkempt interior was almost bare of furni-
ture. In one of its few rooms a young woman
reclined on a ricketty couch. Her form was thin,
her face pale, and her eyes dull with despondency.
Upon a low chair near her sat a stout, bloated
woman of middle age, idly turning the pages of an
old fashion-journal. She was Mrs. Clyber, and
the young woman was her daughter-in-law,
“Jinny” Clyber.
“Well,” observed Mrs. Clyber, looking up en-
couragingly, “you must brace-up a bit. ’Ere’s
two days you ain’t been to the fact’ry, an’ ’ardly a
bite or sup in the ’ouse, an’ you wantin’ streng-
thenin’ things an’ med’cine, too. Come now, try
and feel more cheerful, so’s you can begin again
ter-morrer ! ”
Jinny shook her head impatiently. “It’s no
good talkin’ like that,” she said in a thin voice.
“’Ow can I feel cheerful with these pains in me
chest an’ nothin’ ter pass me lips ? I b’lieve I’m
done, if you arst me.”
“Now ! now !” checked Mrs. Clyber, severely,
“ you mustn’t go on like that! That won’t git yer
well! Besides, p’raps Rollo ’ll bring somethin’
’ome with ’im.”
The last suggestion appeared to make but a
shadowy impression on Jinny.
“I don’t mind workin’,” she said, in her dry
tones ; “but I don’t see’s I ought ter be the on’y
one. An’ another thing—now I’m sick, I wants
Rollo ter treat me like a woman.”
Jinny was apparently following a train of
reflection, and the bloated woman gathered up the
thread of it with difficulty.
“’Ere ’ave I bin married t’ ’im two years,” she
continued, rebelliously, “an’l’m the on’y one o’
the three on us what’s done a day’s work the ’ole
time. When I’m well I don’t seem ter mind, but
now I’m down no one can’t do nothin’ fer me.”
Mrs. Clyber bridled with sensitive indignation.
“ Why, you ungrateful thing ! ” she cried, her
face red with indignation—“ain’t you bin an’
married yerself into one o’ the oldest fam’lies in
the ‘ Rocks ’ ? Arst anybody, an’ they’ll tell yer.
An’ fine independent men they was, too. Wasn’t
my ’usband a bailiff under the ’lgh Court o’
Justice, an’ ’is father in the same line afore him ?
As ter Rollo—well, ain’t ’e bin lookin’ fer ’igh-
class work sooted to ’is fam’ly ever since ’e
married yer ? ”
Jinny’s face broke into a wan smile of con-
tempt.
“Oh, o’ course!” went on Mrs. Clyber, “I
know what you’d say ! But Rollo ’as sperit, an’
won’t work fer no low pay. Well, it is sperit,
ain’t it ? Ain’t ’e a-’owlin’ with the others outside
Parlyment this very mornin’ ? It’s a wonder
them men don’t pull the place down! They
would, too, only’t ain’t likely they’d do the work
fer nothin’.”
“ I wish,” faintly resumed her auditor,
unmoved, “I was single, or even ’ad kep’ with
Ben Issali. I got plenty o’ food with ’im, an’ ’e
wouldn’t ’a’ let me work if I’d wanted to. An’ ’e
treated me proper, well or sick, ’e did. I ain’t
jokin’.”
“What!” Doubtful if her ears had deceived
her, Mrs. Clyber rose and glared at Jinny in
amazement. “Look’ere, my lady, it’s lucky fer
you you ain’t said this afore Iloilo ! A low
Syrian ’awker what you wasn’t even married
to. Why, when Rollo took yer from that ’eathen,
an’ made yer a respec’ble married woman, ’e give
yer the lift o’ yer life-time—that’s what ’e done !
’E put yer in a fam’ly what can ’old their ’eads up,
anyway.”
Apparently unconcerned, Jinny went on with
•wistful reminiscence and persistence. “Issali
worked ’ard, an’ was proud o’ me an’ the kiddy,
an’ never gave me a rough word. An’ what d’yer
think?” (her mouth trembling with a smile)—
“ when I left ’im ’e kep’ one o’ my dresses an’ a
blouse as a keepsake.” . .
“Bah!” exclaimed Mrs. Olyber, in derision.
“Wasn’t yer baby a brown ’un? ’Ow d’ yer git
over that ?” .
“I dunno,” dejectedly responded Jinny; I
didn’t seem to be less fond of it. I’d ’ave liked to
’a’ kep’ ’im, too, but Issali wouldn’t part with it.”
“My troubles, Issali !” cried Mrs. Clyber, con-
temptuously. “ You mean me an’ Hollo wouldn’t
’a’ ’ad the disgrace in the ’ouse. Don’t Rollo ’ate
color, an’ didn’t ’e an’ ’is pore young brother Sam
nearly kill a Chinaman wot wouldn’t stand a bit
o’ play from ’em ? My boy Sam ! ” she muttered,
breaking into maudlin tears. “’E_ ain’t done ’is
time yet, not ’avin’ bin so clever with ’is swearin’
as what Rollo was.”
A heavy footstep asserted itself outside. In
another moment a dirty, unshaven, thick-set fel-
low, of about 30, entered the room, bringing with
him an odor of strong drink and tobacco.
“’Ere, wot’s this?” he demanded, aggressively,
turning towards Jinn;«
“ Rollo,” spoke up .. mny, with a weak attempt
at coquettishness, “ I’m sick, an’ you’ve got ter
treat me right ter-day. Ain’t ’e, mother ? ”
“ Now, Rollo, you leave ’er alone ! ” cried Mrs.
Clyber, who was a practised reader of the expres-
sions on her son’s uninviting countenance. Be-
sides, her unerring sense of smell had been
awakened, and was inclining her to the paths of
peace. “She’s restin’ ter-day, an’ ’ll go ter work
ter-morrer —won’t yer, my dear?”
“Restin’! Ter-morrer!” repeated Rollo, with
slow bitterness. “Gorblime!” he broke out,
with realisation of a doubtful bargain, “I didn’t
marry ’er fer restin’, did I ? Wot’s ter become o’
me ? Answer me that! ”
“There, there, give ’er time,” soothed his
mother, sidling up to him. “Can’t yer see she’s
ill ? Now tell us wot yer bin a-doin’ of. Did yer
take that Gov’ment relief job, an’ git an advance
on the money ? ”
“Wot! at five bob a day!” sneered Rollo.
“’Ere,” he burst out, clearing the ground of such
superfluities, “where’s dinner? Wot am I come
’ome fer ? ”
“There ain’t no dinner without money!”
angrily retorted Mrs. Clyber, upon whom the in-
herent independence of the house of Clyber ob-
truded itself at the moment a little awkwardly.
She eyed her son askance, and then, with a
quick, sudden step advanced upon him, gripped
his arms with her hands, and thrusting her face
into his, screamed: “You’ve ’ad money—you’ve
got money ! Don’t lie ter me—l say y’ ’ave ! ”
Certainly Rollo smelt of something which, as a
rule, can only be acquired on a cash basi:«
“Come, share it!” she demanded with tense
ferocity, shaking him roughly. “D’y’’ear me?
share it! share it! share it! ”
“Well, let me arm free ! ” shouted Rollo, fling-
ing her backwards. . . . “ There y’are!—take the
bleed’n’ money ! ” he cried, surlily, throwing a
shilling on the ground.
“ Where’d yer git it from?” inquired his mother
as she picked up the coin.
“I met Fan,” curtly vouchsafed Rollo.
“ Then yer sister give yer a lot more than this,”
cried Mrs. Clyber, looking up suspiciously.
“Shut up !” viciously uttered Rollo, turning on
her threateningly, “or I’ll slop yer ! Git some-
thin’ ter put ’er right,” he ordered, jerking his
thumb towards his wife.
“Not with Fan’s money,” said Jinny, with a
faint show of decision.
“ Then go an’ git some fer yerself,” laughed
Rollo, cynically. ‘ ‘My oath! I’ll take it from yer! ”
Jinny lay unresponsive, the only evidence that
she heard him being the sudden and painful flush-
ing of her face.
“’Ere, listen to me !” cried Rollo, his mood
changing to serious consideration of pressing neces-
sities: “you’ve got ter git money some’ow, d’ y’
’ear ? You’re the on’y one what can git work, an’
I’ll put a move on yer if y’ ain’t after it! See ?”
Jmny, with difficulty, half raised herself, and
then burst into tears. “I’m game ter see about
the work when I’m well!” she protested, “but
ter-day y’ ought ter treat me like ’s if I was a
woman ! Y’ ought ter say somethin’ what I’d
like to ’ave stop m me ’ead !”
There was something in the proposition which
struck Rollo with the force of a mysterious and
unsolvable problem. For a few seconds he re-
mained rigid—and then, unable still to see day-
light, flung his hat violently on the ground. This
change of aspect appearing to bring him no
nearer a solution, he picked the hat up, placed it on
his head, and with a muttered “Gawd’s truth !”
left the room and quitted the house.
Mrs. Clyber glanced warily at Jinny, and then
—without another word —followed.
* * * *
The days were short, and the darkness of
evening had set in before she returned. She
groped her way unsteadily about the cold room,
and lit a candle. She looked at Jinny, who was
lying with open eyes. An ashen tint had erect
into her cheeks.
“I’m glad you’re back,” whispered Jinny.
“An’ d’yer know what? —I want ter see my
kiddy.”
Mrs. Clyber’s face wore a ruddy, generous hue,
before which her eyes had retreated into a dull
haze. She suddenly broke out into a loud peal of
laughter, with difficulty balancing her stout body.
“ I—l bested Rollo ! ” she screamed in delight.
“ I went —Fan’s —an’ borrered Ha ! ha ! ha ! ”
she screeched, floundering about the room.
“Fan’s good girl!” she confided confidentially to
the apartment. ‘ ‘ ’Elps pore mother —keep fam’ly
—nice ’n’ ’spec’ble ! ”
Her eyes chancing to fall on Jinny, she abruptly
steadied herself, her expression changing to
malignancy.
“You—you’suited’er ! ” she uttered with con-
centrated spite; “my gal!—good’s you ! I ”
Harassed with difficulties both in her perpendi-
cular and her speech, Mrs. Clyber looked round
for some means of giving expression to her feel-
ings. Selecting the candle-stick, she threw it with
all her strength at Jinny. It missed its object,
but with the force of her momentum Mrs. Clyber
was propelled headlong upon the couch, her
heavy form rolling thence to the ground. The
room was again in darkness.
In a few minutes Jinny was faintly aware of
sounds of approaching slumber proceeding from
the floor. She raised herself with slow painful-
ness to her feet, and crept through the house to
the street.
• * * •
The lodging of Ben Issali, the Syrian, con-
sisted of an old log-built structure, originally de-
signed as a stable, and in the darkness a woman
crawled and stumbled slowly towards it. Hori-
zontal lines of light gleamed from interstices in
the walls, and an air of cheerfulness was afforded
by the illumined red blind which covered the one
small window. Avoiding the door, Jinny crept
round the building on her knees, finally placing
her eyes to a chink which gave a view of the in-
terior.
One end of it contained some simple domestic
furnishings. At the other a collection of empty
fruit cases was placed against the wall, and so
arranged as to form a rough semblance of a low
altar. Upon it, at the ends, were arrayed lighted
candles, held in the necks of bottles. On its
i!? 3 ’ contentedly eating a cake, squatted a
chubby child. Behind and above the child were
sk’ nec a §‘ ains t the wall a woman’s blouse and
On the floor before the child knelt Ben Issali.
* * * »
When the dead body of Jinny Clyber was
0U 711 a k Oa P the face wore an expression
as it it had been touched by some marvellous Ideal:
as it, indeed, she had realised, in a degree tran-
scending all she could have imagined, the joy of
being treated “like’s if she was a woman.”
GEORGE MARTIN.


6
:pg>
CONSTIPATION and HEADACHE.
“Bile Beans were recommended to me.”
THAT Bile Beans are an undoubted
cure for Indigestion and its
attendant evils is a now well-
proved fact throughout Australia.
Many past sufferers owe their present
freedom from this distressing complaint
to the curative properties of Bile Beans.
Just as one striking example take the
following case. Mr. J. A. Marsden, a
dentist, of High-street, W. Maitland,
writes About 2& yea-rs ago I first
felt the symptoms of Indigestion, which
was mainly brought about by irregular
diet and insufficient rest at night. I also
suffered with headaches, constipation,
and wind on the stomach. My ill-health
interfered with my business to no small
extent, and it was not an unusual thing
for me to stay away from the office for
two or three days together. Many were
the reputed cures recommended by dif-
ferent friends, which I tried, but without
any benefit. Some three months ago Bile Beans were recommended and tried. The first
few doses proved to my satisfaction that I had at last secured the remedy, and continuing
with them for a month, I noticed a marvellous change in my condition. My appetite _ was
improved, my rest undisturbed, and in every way I felt a new man. I never fail to
recommend your valuable Bile Beans to fellow sufferers.”
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK
NESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH, ANASMIA, DIS-
TURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM, and, in fact, all
ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation, and digestion. AT THIS
TRYING SEASON NO HOME SHOULD BE WITHOUT A BOX. BILE BEANS
are obtainable from all Chemists and Stores, price Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. large box, containing
three times the quantity, FOR GENERAL FAMILY USE.
o
One
Bean
One
Dose.
The Medicine for the Million
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels*
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
The Veil Between.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE stinging blast
Of the pain was past,
And I lay in perfect peace at last.
In peace, and still,
With surcease of will,
Nor desire for good nor fear of ill;
But just a Sense-
Remote, immense—
Of my anodyne and recompense.
I lay and dreamed—
For aeons it seemed—
Sun and star round the universe streamed;
System and star
Came rushing far,
And things long past were as things fsiat are ;
But will to grow,
And desire to know,
Had gone like a river that ceased to flow;
And then, my Sweet !
The sound of your feet
Came where I lay in my winding sheet.
My sleep was light
And faint that night ;
The snow o’er my head was ghostly white.
And then I heard—
As in dreams I stirred—
Falter and sobbing and sigh and word.
I broke the fold
Of the earth so cold,
And floated up through the clinging mould.
I saw you there,
0 ! my love, how fair !
And stretched my fingers to touch your hair ;
Wavy and gold
In its ringlets rolled ;
You shivered as touched with deathly cold.
I stood so near
I could see the tear
Form, like a mist, on the eyeball clear.
I felt the breath
Of your sigh of faith
Warm on my grave-grey cheek of death.
You looked at me,
But you could not see,
You saw the moon, the hill, the tree.
You saw the ray
Of the moon, though grey
On your dolorous eyes my shadow lay,
I spoke aloud,
As your head you bowed ;
My voice was prisoned within my shroud.
You could not hear,
Though I stood so near,
And I grew stone-stiff with a nameless fear.
For then I knew
It indeed was true
That Something stood betwixt me and you.
I sank below
My cover of snow
As you clasped your hands and turned to go,
And raised a cry
In my agony—
“My lost, lost darling, good-bye, good-bye !”
You felt no thrill,
It was deathly still,
And the moon was shining above the hill.
And now I stay
In my cell alway
And come not forth by night nor day.
And all things seem
Like a shadowed dream,
Millions of years down the backward stream.
Save you, my sweet!
Whom I may not greet,
Though I lie and wait for the sound of your feet.
And now I stay
In the secret clay
And come not forth by night nor day ;
But wait so still
Till the years fulfil
The Unknown Aim of the Unknown Will.
N.S.W.
T. J. HEBBLEWHITE.
The Curse of Phyllis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EIGHTEEN months have passed since am-
bition to become a lady journalist sent me
after copy in the realms of domestic
service. It is the same length of time
since an announcement of my purpose made an
indignant father say that I had better take to that
kind of work permanently.
My first place was on a station as house and
parlor maid to a couple without family. My bed-
room was in the house. As far as treatment went,
no mistress could have been more considerate.
There was no uncleanly work to do, although
the necessary household work made a lot of
running about. The mistress insisted on my lying
down for an hour every afternoon. She cleared
the supper things away and sent me to bed. She
got the afternoon tea on Sundays so as to give that
portion of the day entirely to the maids.
I found the ordeal of taking my food in a room
off the kitchen with the station hands rather try-
ing. The atmosphere was slightly mixed. The
flies, big and little, were worse. Still there was
no lack of food, and cream was plentiful. The
life was healthful, and I grew lusty and lively and
almost as high-spirited as a genuine maid servant.
There was, indeed, a danger of my taking too
kindly to it, and losing ambition for anything
above eating and drinking, early rising, and
necessary efforts at house-cleaning.
The station hands commenced love-making.
One in a suggestive strain; another in a bluff,
rough-and-ready way. The suggestive one set
my heart going like a hammer by his determined
assaults on my window at nights. The bluff one
sneaked after the other and there was villainous
jealousy. One warned me against the other—and
I was afraid of both.
It was no place for me, but I escaped with a
whole garment and half of my good name. The
other half was torn in speculation.
There was no mistress in the next mansion I
“took” in town. It was owned by a wealthy
widower, who lived there with his son. The
parlor maid and cook had been there many years.
I had a lively time between those women. They
abused me and told me I would not be so particu-
lar about the work if I had to stay for ever in
domestic service. I don’t know how they knew.
The cook threw insinuations on my good name.
She said dubious women often went to service for
a change. The old gentleman and the cook held
whispered conversation about me at the back door.
He had the plate basket put in his bedroom during
my stay.
It was all on account of the cook ; she pulled
my ear once and told me she’d see that I didn’t
get round the boss. I was in terror of my life,
especially when the cook threatened me with the
rolling pin and I had nothing heavier than a
duster.
I went into the library with afternoon tea
during the parlormaid’s day off, and saw my father
sitting in a negligent attitude smoking a cigar with
my boss. The reason I did not drop the tray was
because the boss caught it in time. My father is
evidently not a man for noticing maids. He took
the tea, and nobody was any the wiser but his
daughter. However the game was too risky. The
cook saw me off the premises with arms akimbo
and a wisp of straight yellow hair sticking over a
white eyelash.
• • * •
My worldly estate fell considerably in the
capacity of a lady-help at ss. ]aer week. My room
was dirty, damp, poky and poisonous. There was
washing, ironing, cooking, scrubbing, cursing,
swearing, beating of kids and carpets to under-
take for the honor and distinction of being Miss
instead of Mary.
There was no day off, not even a night off.
Being a lady-help I was not supposed to cheek the
butcher boy or let the baker tickle me under the
chin for fear of setting a bad example to the
children. Then the old lady got drunk one night,
and set up a gas explosion in the house, while she
bolted me in the yard till dawn.
I ruined my hands and let my hair go uncrimped.
I became an unwashed and cheerless object of
pity. My reigning idea was to finish the work.
It was never finished on account of the children.
No self-respecting maid-servant would stay in a
place like that. After being a lady-help there was
no need to test a general’s life.
So I tried one of those “comfortable homes in
lieu of light services.”
I never did so much work, apart from the lady-
help place, as I did in that ‘ ‘ no wages ” capacity.
It was a place of two houses in a terrace kept by
a ginger-haired virago. My sleeping quarters
were about the size of a decent grave; I had to
stand on the bed to dress. Cockroaches ran up
and down the walls at night. I ran 20 different
messages to 20 different shops in as many streets
and wore my boots out. When not prancing up
and down three flights of stairs in each house I
was sewing and mending rags.
I sat up to turn out the midnight lamp and lock
up the premises. Confined to my doss-house
alone, I sat there waiting for the week to wear
itself out.
The red-haired virago cursed her maids most of
the time. She turned two of them out, neck and
crop, for getting leg-weary on the stairs.
And by ill-luck it was a holiday when she pulled
my hair, and set her teeth in my arm, and kicked
me. A hot, dusty holiday, when accommodation
was hard to get. I swore I would never try
domestic service again for the rest of my natural
life.
* * * •
But I swore in vain. I was cajoled into taking
a situation as lady help on a Gippsland dairy
farm.
There were nine members and three visitors in
the family. I got up at dawn with the geese, and
lit the roaring log fire, and managed to wade
through the usual pile of domestic services for 12
people singlehanded. I had my tea taken to the
kitchen on visitors’ days. One day I sat between
two pig buckets .and considered the situation. I
decided to leave. While I was considering the
situation, my mistress came out and commented
on my general inefficiency, and I got “the run.”
My fare deducted from what I earned, there was
left only Is. 6d.
I reached the city, swearing more and more that
there was only one difference between good and
bad people, and that the Lord preferred the com-
pany of publicans and sinners—His broad judg-
ment scorned the hypocrisy of veneered respect-
ability. Yet I would give respectability another
chance.
A woman answered me, and listened to my
story, at the. Christian establishment where I made
nay application. She declined to admit me on tick
for the night, or lend me my fare out to a suburban
friend. I cried hysterically, and the Christian
lady told me Christ was not in my heart, and that
I was drunk.
I was tempted to throw in my lot with the
women who have repented of being good. But,
after all, I decided that perhaps imaginary
wickedness would serve as well.
So I tried another Christian establishment, and
told the Holjr Mothers, or the Helpful Sisters, or
whatever their correct name might be, that I was
more than I was. And I found them smiling like a
lot of repentant Magdalens, and I left them richer
in more \mys than one ; and domestic service saw
me no more. Neither did the temple of Venus. The
hell of its finality could be no worse than that of a
played-out domestic servant. Broken, worn—no
saner, no decenter than they who fall to beggary
and the selling of lucifers in draggled skirts.
ALBACUTYA.
Women out back make the old man’s shirts
act occasionally as blouses. That’s why they
always buy the old man pink shirts.
The latest Kaiser Bill story :
There was a conversation about the cares of monarchs
and somebody put in the inevitable quotation, “As the
immortal William says, ‘ Uneasy lies the head that wears
a crown.’ ” “ Dear me ! ” remarked the Kaiser, “ I don’t
remember saying- that ! ”
In one of Sydney’s Western suburbs is a
cottage called Rack-a-rock. Said that the place
once belonged to a widow whose husband had been
lulled in an explosion. With his insurance money
she built the cottage, and thinking to perpetuate
the memory of the dear deceased, named it
after the explosive that blew him hence.


Pains in the Back
Aches and Chills. Gives Thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A Medicine
which Does All that is Claimed for it.
f
m
m
'Mrs. A. Curtis, of 85 Charles
St., Horthcote, Victoria, sends
us her photograph, and says:
“Having used Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla and proved it to be what
is claimed for it, I am in a posi-
tion to say that no better medi-
cine could be found for severe
pains in the back, for which I
used it. I must have caught a
chill, as I was greatly troubled
with aching pains in the back.
I began to take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for it, and after a few weeks
I was a new woman. Am now
well, and in much better health
than I have been for a long time,
for which I have to thank Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
You may think sometimes that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla does too many things,
cures too many diseases. But if you will stop and reason a moment you will
see just why its power to cure is so great. It is because this medicine acts
so directly upon the blood. When the blood is -impure, then the whole body
suiters. You feel weak and exhausted,; you are nervous and discouraged ;
you'have aches and pains ; the head 'throbs and beats ; the skin breaks out
in rashes ; and even the kidneys may become seriously affected. All because
the blood is impure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla simply purifies and enriches the
blood; and by doing this one thing it removes a multitude of complaints and
diseases.
It was “Ayer’s ” Sarsaparilla that made Sarsaparilla famous. Be sure to
get the original, genuine kind. Accept no substitutes.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes the Cause of Disease.
Correct any Tendency to Constipation by Taking Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by SB. J. O. AYEE CO.. Sowell. Maas.. U. B. A.
FURNITURE
The Greatest Furniture Warehouse
in the Commonwealth.
We have without doubt the LARGEST and Most UP-
TO-DATE FURNITURE WAREHOUSE in AUSTRALASIA.
OUR TERMS are the LOWEST IN SYDNEY. At the
same time we guarantee all our Goods Perfectly NEW,
SOUND, and of the LATEST DESIGNS.
Every Household Requisite Kept.
All Goods Marked in PLAIN FIGUREB.
V.TERMS^
Weekly
Initalmenta.
2/6
4/-
<V-
-6/6
8/-
10/-
12/6
15?-
17/6
ao/-
22/6
. ; S/-
PIANOS, £2 DEPOSIT, and 5/- PER WEEK.
Should the above Terms not suit you. Special Arranae-
ments can be made at the Warehouse.
Marcus Clark & Co. 4?
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTORS,
p^tewtowist.
Branches: North Sydney, Waverley & Newcastle.
COOPOKJ-
CO-OPERATIVE COUPONS
GIVEN FREELY
On all CASH Purchases.
TIFUL COMPLEXION,
oline Lotion. It drives away
roughness, redness, and all dis-
lioline developes a lovely skin,
in London.*
) ADVICE.
In advising you to use CHAMBERLAIN’S
PAIN BALI M for rheumatism, we know it will
fiive you perfect satisfaction, as the first applica-
tion mil relieve the pain.*
Worth a Guinea a Box.
IIICUH’S
lUS
are composed of vegetable drugs of great purity and
medicinal value; have been in almost universal us e
for over half-a-century, and are without doubt an
EFFECTIVE CORRECTIVE in all cases where a
corrective is needed, as they act directly upon both the
Digestive and Nervous Systems.
BEECHAM’S PILLS assist Assimilation,
Banish Biliousness, Cure Consti-
pation, Develop Digestion, Liven the
Liver, Strengthen the Stomach,
Correct Unhealthy Conditions.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price Is. (56 Pills)
and 2s. Qd. (168 Pills).
ALTHAM
TCHES
Stem wmdini
in
ai
u
ai
.'5,
ai
-H O
ai >
f,
CJ ai
ui
01
•0
«
I— <
*
:s
b
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY .
A CARD
m
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P..E., L.R.0.5..E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ ELM LEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE bit Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN has with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafift-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and r'll
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR, MARTIN. M.D., “Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing
AT POVERTY POINT.
( (Mntinned.)
JIunsey’s for January contains an article on American
Matinee Idols 'Past and Present. The writer classes
George Rignold as one of the past idols, and speaking of
George and Harry Montague (an English actor of 20 or 30
years back, who died, after a short Career, at San
Francisco) says: “ Between Montague and George
Rignold, who was a contemporary aspirant for fame, there
was not much to choose in the matter of feminine idolatry.
Both men were raved about, written to, followed in the
street in a short-lived frenzy, which the women of to-day,
for all their broad-mindedness, would esteem unwomanly.
Of the two, Montague has left the most lasting impression.
His was a simple nature, Rignold’s complex, and while
Montague apparently found no pleasure in the adulation
of feminine strangers, Rignold is said to t have delighted in
it. Each has suffered from the transient worship of the
injudicious, for the theatrical historian classes them
together, and does not take the trouble to find out
whether either man was, or was not, an artist.”
It rarely happens that a wealthy newchum at theatrical
business gets the luck that George Stephenson has had
with his opening venture. G. S., last year, inherited
£60,000 (not to mention reversions) from his father, the
well-known stock and station agent (Wright and Stephen-
son), of Maoriland. He had the old, old human desire to
run a theatrical show, met Fred. Duval in Auckland, com-
missioned him to go to America and procure a “popular
attraction” for an Australasian tour, and the result is
Mr. George Stephenson’s American Comedy Co. in
“Mama’s New Husband." The capitalist is getting a
good run for his money.
“T.D.”: Discovered, when concert-giving at Sale,
Gippsland, recently, that the aborigines from Lake Tyers
station were the most enthusiastic patrons of musical art
m that district. First night, a dozen or so hung round
the doors for some time, probably to hear whether the
•how was one that caught on and was worthy of a call at
the ticket office. Satisfied on this point, three wandered
in, and at the interval reported in such terms to the
others that two more ventured. A week later, when
another concert was billed, over twenty blacks patronised
the show, and they were all present again at a perform-
ance of religious items on the night following (Sunday),
Also, they put shillings in the plate, whilst some of the
very best local people crowded in as many as five for
nmepence.
“ Zif ” : The Admirable Crichton may have been a
handy man, but he is not to be compared to. a showman I
know. This man runs a dramatic company which shows
in a tent. He writes his own dramas—he says so himself
—and after seeing them, I believe him. He can paint his
own scenery ; he plays the leads himself ; and makes his
own costumes —weird ones they are; too. He buys
broken-down omnibuses and converts them into living
caravans for his actors, of whom he is very careful, for he
extracts their aching teeth himself. He doesn’t actually
cook their meals, but he superintends. He also does his
best to provide his company with wives, and two
of his daughters have been joined to a similar number of
his actors to love arid cherish till death do them part.
Withal he is a white man in every sense of the word.
“ Petrainos ” : I hear on bad authority that veteran
Pete Hughes was born in New York, and joined the
theatrical profession as the hind legs of a pollywog in a
Xmas panto. He alleges he knew J. C. Williamson when
he was the handsomest man on Broadway, and managed
a tour for Rignold when the girls used to chase George
and kiss his kingly brow. Hughes arrived in Australia
with Johnny Sheridan and “ Fun on the Bristol ” on April
I.2th, 1881.
English papers report a quarrel between the Tivoli
music hall, Manchester, and the Regent Theatre, Salford,
over the services of ex-Australian Ada Colley, whose
salary, it was alleged in evidence, ranged from £6O to
£2OO a week.
Tom Fitzgerald told a Maoriland Graphic reporter the
other day that the original ambition of Dan and himself
was to start a bushranging business. In was then that
Tom first acquired the habit of a low-necked shirt,
probably. There is something wild and lawless about a
low-necked shirt.
The crack amateur actor of Goulburn (N.S.W.) is Mr.
W. Davis, J.P., who, at the age of 84 years, is still popular
on the local stage. Though his Romeo an Claude Mel-
notte days have vanished, he still makes a passably
vigorous heavy father.
“ Zoppa ” : Santle/s statement that Miss Linda O’Hara
will one day fill the “large six” shoes of Clara Butt,
must be taken with the usual pinch of salt. He made a
similar remark as to Kate Rooney and several other
aspirants for the large aijd lovely lady’s billet. Santley
shares a characteristic of Haydn, who told to each of the
ladies who sang for him that she was the best singer and
most handsome woman he ever met.
“ J.A.C.” : An actor in Australia cannot sue for wages
under the ordinary Masters and Servants law. If he washes
to recover money owing to him from any management he
has to take action in the District Court; a roundabout
and, more often than not for him, an impracticable way.
This is a survival of the old English “rogue-and-vagabond”
barbarism. In “effete” England a step in the right
direction has been taken, by the formation of an
actors’ protection society and, God know's, they
want it, for, take them all round, a more helpless
set in business matters never existed. This society
undertakes the safe-guarding of the actor’s interests
»nd prosecutes delinquent mushroom managers. Further,
by tt le exertions of leading members -of the theatrical
profession, such as Irving, Terry, Wyndham, Bancroft,
and others, a special Act has been passed com-
pelling anyone taking a company on tour to maintain a
reserve-’fund sufficient to pay three weeks’ salaries and
return fares. Any infringement involves “ quod, without
the option.” The result is that the theatrical shark is all
but defunct. Something like that is wanted here, where
the “snide” manager flourishes. I met, the other day,
a “ pro.” just returned from North Queensland. His
entrepreneur had not sufficient capital to pay first week’s
salaries. Still, the company stuck by him for some nine
months, until it found itself somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of the Gulf of Carpentaria—“ dead to the world.”
The company then revolted, sacked the management, and
went “on its own.” By dint of hard work and strict
economy, these people contrived to raise enough money
to bring them back to Sydney, where they arrived worse
off than when they started.
The purity of the Maorilander is a fearful thing, and
consists largely of thinking evil of the other fellow,
especially if the other fellow happens to be an Australian.
At Dunedin one night during the performance of a little
comedy called “Topsy-Turvey,” by the Willoughby-
Geach co., a lady in the d.c. was seen to turn her back on
the stage several times through the evening. She also
insisted on a gentleman dressed in kilts, who accom-
panied her, doing the same. He did it, but very shame-
facedly. The. cause of this violent eruption of prudery-
in kilt*—was the appearance of a Cupid on the boards.
The lady could not bear the brazen nudity of Cupid.
As Cupid was garbed like the singing boy in ‘Julius
Caisar,” and the back the lady turned on a shocked stage
wws bare to about three inches above the waist line, and
the knees that the lady’s escort displayed were
voluminous and knobby, ,the modesty of the shoeked
Dunedinites was a thing beyond comprehension.


Macintosh
Weather is coming S
And if you’re wise you’ll
prepare. No grettingr
wet with one of these
Macs. They’re abso-
lutely waterproof not
merely rainproof.
PRICES—in the Fashionable GREYS, eto.—
355, 425, 50Si
PERDRIAU & GO., Merchants,
ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
-270 George St., Sydney.
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
Tel. 1198.
r HE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for .falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Corapeund Jet Condensing Pumping Engine.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd. London.
Warren Webster & Co. NewJer,e y i
ENQUIRIES INVITED FOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
m
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
CqHf
or
ssf»«r
WOLF
I. & J. MAXFIELD Vroi’RS., SHEFFIELD.
At ths Showroom*—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“ THEE BLOCK:,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
m
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rolls and Crushers.
.
zmsszamm
Record SHAFT SINKING in Australia
The shaft of the Queen Central Block Co., Charters Towers, was sunk a distance 6i 336 feet in thirteen weeks ; or, at -the rate
of 26 feet per week. A depth of 140 feet (from 404 to 544 feet) was put down in four weeks and 31 feet timbered in
addition. The size of the shaft is 15 feet by 4 feet 6 inches, and the formation granite. This performance constitutes a lecor
shaft sinking in Australia.
FOUR INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILLS of the D 9 TYPE were used in sinking this shaft, and the men
worked three shifts, each shift doing 42 hours per week.
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT ROCK DRILLS AND AIR COMPRESSORS hold the highest average records throughout
the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition every machine brought against them, and have never tailed to susta n
their reputation for doing the most work at the least expense.
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILL CO., NEW YORK.
A.C3-E3VTTS-
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd., 60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Mining: and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
m
T. M. GOODALL & CO., ™ hay st., Sydney
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE- Portable. Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
m
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery aiways available.
</S x //tS x //Is azig
T-*
mm
m
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all size*
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Vue
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
S. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLA.RBKTCE STREET, SYDNEY. '
NOTHING EQUALS.
METAL SOLARINE POLISH
For GLEANING COLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL, TIN, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and LESS MATERIAL THAN ANY OTHER POLISH
ON THE MARKET. Tins on application.
HM
Sole Agents:
z. i
/? r & ■ ■
—
Si v'
71 Clarence Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
