

The Bulletin
Vol. 25.—N0. 1255.]
[Thursday, March 3, 1904.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
B. a. WA.TZSLXMS SSL, CO.,
107 JSCon. % Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES,' BUEDffia &m 4 3ENERAL IRONMONGER'! NEW &xa SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Rrtteo sm mi SMCtoISSAINS
MUMUbM
TttTl r
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUN& ){
wowareKUi. value.
A PACKET of Eignt Biffmnf; Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (eta be carried in vest pocket
end blown out to life-size—causes roars of ladghter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Pish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. t. HUTCHINSON, Box i, P. 0., Havciarket,
X
New Y©rk Novelty ©e> sS
710 George Street, Sydney,
GIBSON, BATTLE &
C°
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
!.* &GRNTS TOR
ELEVATORS
# CONVEYORS
JEFFREY
ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES
COAL CUTTERS 1
ROTARY DRILLS/
Electricity or
Compressed Air*
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1881. WHISKY.
COMMONWEALTH,
Prie© s 6d« r | Posted, Bc§ a
HIOBART.
—xsps;-
[jadley’s Orient Sotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. LudowicJ & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
0M 7% MW Wwéoﬂm‘m’g/
HIGHEST efficiency,
far c«p KnpiMer, Mf» & tL (.owe it now with Mosers. BrleoeOf 88 York Street, Sydney.
HIGHEST ECONOMY.
AR
COMPRESSOR
das. IBcEwan & Co,, Ltc!<
Mel bourne.
Briscoe & Co., 8.4 d» s
Sydney.
j Femood Down & C«». r fefcd.
| Adelaide-
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smellie & Co.
Brioba.no.
Th« National Mortgage & Agency Co., Ltd.,
Dunedin.
LINCOLN,
ENGLAND.
jALcouDEl
v Jfct JaiOlSsj'r J&R..K IX ,
TheQoidert Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
dreartft a i nses the s y ste “ in three weeks from the
weadfui curse of Alcoholism.
"Q RESTRAINT, no loss of work,
° expensive institute treatment
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strkjtlt Confidential.
jjC. LUiISDEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD,
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
‘ 'F' lg‘ :7 {5
42,4?sﬁlﬁ’ '
(RAMA ROCK)
,\§a% ‘ .
HERVEY’o
RfICKfIROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
tears dyeing
for the ladies.
c - ELDBIDGB & CO,
4.n -«*~J? YERS & CLEANERS,
u *O&K STREET, SYDNEY
Country , 0pp ‘ Centenary Hall).
y ureters by post f rom all the colonies promptly
attended, to.
* h rou z hout Great Britain and CtltnUs.
asthma
i taken from the System.
| Nothing remains which can
«tt 77 “ produce an attack. You can
“m stand exposure without slightest return of
construct 8 ' *° stay cured, by elimination ami re-
strcii Appetite improved; hiood enriched; nerves
belief. "'hole system built up; life made enjoyable,
treated’ rZ climate no longer needed. We have
tublished Asthma and Hay Fever patients. BJi*
n~ 3 'x> Explanatory BOOK 32c post FEEK.
®ofialoNY c Hayes'Asthmatic Ijjstitut*.
THE
‘PLUM’
,, w v .
'/ f ‘i ' _ I
. , mm,
.7“ Walnmwmw ' ‘5
:rlcﬁn' 7 5.3277. M‘i‘” ' "
‘4 ,7 ’..|‘r F, ' : _ J:",, “
4.5,”: . “3“»; r. "" ‘
THE
‘PLUM’
O.ENTLEMEN.—This razor ia superior ts any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required, to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7*. 6d.
RAZOLEGLIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
P BI 0»
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21®.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15*. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30«*
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part or the World.
(MB’"" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
ieiaAsentsi CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVBRYWHEItE.
BUSHMAN and
Price 1/1
Post Free.
HARRY MORANT:
His ’Ventures & Verses
BUGGANEER
D2NTVAH
F2RTHIS
m
Capilla
Hair
Tonic
is a medicinal—curative—refresh-
ing scalp treatment, and possesses
all the elements that go to produce
a good head of hair. Its powerful
stimulating qualities go straight
to the hair roots, giving them a
life and vigor they never knew
before—and life and vigor to the
hair roots mean more hair—
stronger hair—better hair. Re-
member, there is no “ fragrant
aroma” in Capilla: Perfumes
don’t make the hair grow—they
don’t even help.
Capilla Hair Tonic
will do for you what a perfumed
preparation will not do, it will
GIVE YOU BACK YOUR HAIR,
Sold by all Chemists and Stores—
-2/6 a Bottle; full course,
posted direct, 17/3.
W. O. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
164 Pitt Street, Sydney. Jk


THE RED PAGE.
I [ln the second number of Buddhism, the new Buddhist
quarterly published at Rangoon, Bhikku Ananda
Maitriya writes a remarkable article in explanation of the
Buddhist theory of “Transmigration.” Remarkable
chiefly in this : that he states his thesis not as a theo-
logian’s dogma, not as a metaphysician’s argument, but as
a doctrine of natural science—susceptible of physical justi-
fication. if not of physical proof. He reasons and writes
in English (though that, apparently, is not his mother
tongue), and he brings some of the most recent lessons
of science—short of those inspired within the last few
months by the discovery of radium—to enforce the reli-
gious lessons taught by 'Buddha or his adherents more
than two thousand years ago.
As a mere piece of reasoning the article is uncommonly
interesting. Here it is possible only to indicate the
writer’s argument, and to quote some leading passages.
Buddhism, explains Ananda, true to its doctrine of the
Middle Way, steers a course between the extremes of
Religion and Science. *“... the adherents of the various
religions other than Buddhism (are) fighting to the last
for the hope of a future life so dear to man ; whilst, step
by step, Science, by clear and irrefragable proofs, is
analysing this same ‘ Soul ’ into the various mental ele-
ments of which it consists, and seeking to prove that all
we know of man, character and mind as well as this cor-
poreal frame, ends with the life of the body that main-
tained it, and leaves behind, at death, only a few decaying
ounces of brain-stuff...” Buddhism (1) “denies the
existence of any Soul to pass”; yet (2) “ maintains that
the forces of a’life.. .hold together and persist as one,
when Death has broken up the mechanism that produced
them.” “‘lt is not he, and yet is not another ’ —this is
the Buddhist statement of the extent of the persistence
of identity between the man just dead and the being
who, according to Buddhist ideas, springs into life in
this world or another, at the very instant of the other’s
death.”
Ananda takes the illustration of a wave on a lake. An
untrained observer regards it as a mass of water that
moves over the surface. A trained observer knows that
.really there is no motion whatever of any mass of water
in his direction, that at each point upon the surface of
the lake the particles of water are only rising and then
falling in their places, and that each particle in turn is
passing on its motion to its next neighbour. There is no
translation of matter, only a translation of force.—Simi-
larly with existence.’ Cpnsider the surging sea of con-
scious life :]
The man of common sense will say of a certain
wave that it itself is one enduring and unchanging
thing, a separate portion of the waters of exist-
ence, retaining its identity, whilst its position and
its surroundings change with each moment of the
passing hours ; he will have the point of view of
the vitalist or of the Vedantist, and will believe in
the existence of a Soul, itself unchanging and
Unchangeable, passing through the universe from
place to place in time, yet never altering in its
changeless individuality. But the instructed man
vvill see only the translation of an individualised
I force ; he will know that of the life which sprung
into existence in the distant past, no element
remains the same for even a two succeeding
moments; and that the wave upon life’s ocean
which now mounts into being in one place is not
the same as that which but a moment previous
sank to apparent rest, inasmuch as it has no
particle in common with the previous life ; yet is
the same, inasmuch as it is the result of the
passing on of the Character, the Mental Forces,
the Doing or Energy of that other life. “It is
not he, nor is it yet another,” and, as we take it,
the precise difference between the founders of the
Vedanta and the Buddha was as that between
these two men in our simile, —both have been
been looking with the Higher Insight on the
same phenomenon,—the one has held that vision
I sufficing, proof of the Soul’s existence and im-
rtality ; the other, with clearer knowledge, has
rceived the actual truth, that nowhere is there
enduring Soul, but only a transference of
aracter, the fruit of mental Action in the past,
e Yedantist has seen Substance, an enduring
inciple, an Ens; the Buddhist only Qualities,
unselves in all their elements ever changing,
t the sum-total of their Doing passing steadily
till the wave breaks upon Nibbana’s shore,
I is no more a wave for ever.
But how explain the crux of persistence of individu-
;y after death ? Take another illustration from
dogy.]
[n the fierce radiance of a distant star a score of
ferent elements are flaming, each tiny molecule
each tilting and trembling in its own peculiar
,y; and each, as it swings to and fro under the
pact of the surging iEther, is sending forth a
fies of vibrations, the total of its Doing, the
ect of its work upon the universe. Can either
ne or space avail to quench the individuality of
e single wave, or take one flaming line from out
b spectrum of each element? Not even when the
r itself has faded into dissolution. But yester-
y we beheld, flaming with a new glory in the
ies, the light of Nova Persei, kindled anew by
me tremendous conflagration ; we read its mes-
ge from the gulfs of space, and identified many
Afferent element in its spectrum ; and yet that
tburst happened nigh u;jon three centuries ago,
d Nova Persei may now be dead and cold. And
uld we travel with a greater velocity than that
light away from that dead star, once again
ight we behold that strange upheaval, and yet
ain and again, far off and farther off, we might
irn the secret of that conflagration, learn the
entity, nowise unchanged by time or space, of
ch separate element that took part in that by-
ine cataclysm, The mechanism that gave rise
all that complex quivering of the iEther might
deed have ceased to operate ten million years,
st, were our velocity great enough, our instru-
ents perfect enough, our vision keen enough, we
iuld again and again read that message flung
ide into the abysses of the infinite, we would
iow that hydrogen had flamed out in that star,
beit it had died unnumbered centuries ago. A.nd
the story Nova Persei told us still is telling
jmewhere in the depths of space, and will be
filing for so long as time shall endure, or the
jean of the iEther extend ; if, centuries and
lillenniums after that conflagration is at end,
ie Doing of each element that took part in it
ill preserves and may record its individuality,
ow shall it seem strange that the vastly more
implex Doing of the life and thought of man
lould similarly survive; and still be able, given
le necessary mechanism, to reproduce, on earth
• elsewhere, the Character and the Nature of
hat had once been a man ?
J*
For what is it that we really mean when we
ieak of a particular man ? Surely not the mere
latter of his body,—that we know is changing
very minute as he lives and breathes. Not, also,
■uddhism says, any enduring Soul within him ;
ut the sum-total of his tendencies, his mental
nd other faculties; in a word, it is the Character
-e call John Smith. And, for us conscious
eings, that Character is made up for the most
art of certain energies, mental and other ; and,
rhen we analyse these energies further, we must
onclude that they affect the universe around him,
a a fashion altogether peculiar to himself, in
xactly the same way as the molecule of hydrogen
fleets it; i.e., we may suppose that the ultimate
f John Smith is a particular very highly Com-
dex vibration in the iEther. To put it more
rudely, the human body is a machine, and the
otal of its energies may be estimated, like that
f any other machine, by the fuel (in the form of
ood) needful to keep a man in health. When we
alculate this to heat-units, we find that the total
nergy may be set down as roughly half a horse-
iower. Where, in the body, does that energy go ?
jargely towards carrying on the vital functions,
,nd to doing any physical work in which the man
nay be employed. But there is one organ, the
nost important of all, namely the brain, which
loes no work that we can estimate directly, and
re t it absorbs a large amount of the whole energy
>f the man. We may fairly take the amount of
leoxidised blood that comes from any organ as a
•ough measure of the work that organ is doing.
3f the total blood-supply of the body, quite a
ifth is used up in the brain ; and, as the return-
ng blood is if anything more deoxidised than
lsual, it is certain that the brain has somehow
ibsorbed roughly a tenth-horse-power for its
functioning. Setting aside the very liberal allow-
ance of half of this for the control-centres of the
lower functions, we still have at least a twentieth
of a horse-power, expended on what we know as
thought, the perceptions and cognitions that make
the peculiar Character of the man.
Now a twentieth of a horse-power in a large
amount of energy. Still following purely physi-
cal lines, let us conceive that some part, perhaps
the most, of all this output of energy, finds its
expression in the man’s perceptions, in what we
call Thought in general, from the cognition of a
simple sensation up to the most complex act of
reasoning. Whatever Thought is, we must pre-
sume that it either results from, or is anyhow
accompanied by, molecular changes occurring in
the structure of the brain. This would follow
from the deoxidisation of the blood coming from
that organ, and from the fact that when a man is
doing hard mental work the cerebral blood supply
is much increased. But all molecular changes
with which we are acquainted impose strains upon
the .Ether, which result in setting up some sort
of vibration in that medium. So we may regard
thought as consisting in, or accompanied by,
certain characteristic vibrations in the Aether ;
which wa may conclude are vastly more complex
than those, for instance, which iron gives off when
it is intensely heated. On this view, even during
life, a man is, so long as he is thinking and per-
ceiving, constantly emanating a series of vibra-
tions peculiar to himself, —as characteristic of him
in their totality as the spectrum of iron is charac-
teristic of that metal ; and, had we a subtle vision
and a spectroscope capable of perceiving and
analysing those vibrations, we should be able to
identify our friend John Smith so long as he lived
and affected the Ether in his own peculiar way.
It may not even be many years before the sub-
stance is discovered which will react to these
thought-emanations, even as selenium reacts-to
particular waves of common light: and then, like
many another seeming far-fetched theory, the
dream of thought-transference may become an
actual faofc.
*
John Smith, then, in a sense is immortal; nay,
every thought he thinks is deathless, and will
persist, somewhere in the depths of infinity, ages
after his form has crumbled into dust. But it is
not this part of his energy that results in the
formation of a new being when he dies,—that is
another matter ; and, still further following this
simile, I shall endeavour to shew how it may
happen. At the same time it must of course be
understood that it is only a simile, —or rather one
way of putting things, looking at the universe as
composed of Substance, whether we call that
Substance matter or Ether ; whilst the actual
view of the Buddhist is that it is a mental state
that we call matter, and that apart from the con-
ception of it there is no form or matter or sub-
stance at all.
We may then consider the moment of John
Smith’s death. During his life he has not alone
been setting in vibration the great ocean of the
Ether, he has most of all been affecting, with
every changing thought and mood, his own mental
structure, as summed up in the fabric of his brain.
So that, at the moment before his death, all his
life, nay, all the life of all his ancestry, and, as we
Buddhists would say, also his own past lives, is as
it were existing pictured in a definite and
characteristic molecular structure, a tremendously
complicated representation of all that we have
meant by the term. John Smith; but which,
unknown to him and unperceived by all, is really
the outcome of the ages,—the ages when John
Smith was in the making, the record of the
thoughts and doings of unnumbered lives, Eacffl
tiny cell of all the millions which compose the
grey stuff of his brain may be likened to a charged
leyden-jar: the nerve paths radiating from it thrill
betimes with its discharges, carrying its meaning
and its message through the man’s whole body,
and, through the .Ether, even to the infinitudes
of space. Each cell is as it were provided with its
own laboratory of appliances, its resistances, insu-
lators, switches, and through these, when it is
functioning normally, its total discharge is pre-
I vented, so that never at any time can more than
a fraction of its stored-up energy be dissipated,—
no more than the busy blood-corpuscles can
repair at once. And every separate cell of all
those myriads has stored up in it a tremendous
energy, a portion of all the energies, the passions,
the desires, the hopes, the noble aspirations, that
together go to make the marvel that we name a
man.
&
And then Death comes ; and, in the moment of
its coming, all that locked-up energy flames on the
universe like a new-born star, for through the
wondrous laboratory that we call the brain a
sudden final cataclysm has shattered all the subtle
apparatus; and, the restraining and inhibiting
appliances having broken down, each little cell is
utterly discharged. Imagine a being whose eyes
were sensitive, to the range of vibration known as
thought, and he would see the man’s death as we
saw Nova Persei, —a sudden conflagration in the
galaxies of mind, revealing, could one but analyse
it in some psychic spectroscope, the mental
record of what was once a man; and, like the
story of the stellar cataclysm, speeding on and on
through space, so that the observer on a distant
star might now be watching at the death of
Newton or of Ramoses the Great.
Now, setting aside the question of the possible
existence of a substance opaque to our thought-
vibrations, there is but one way which we know
whereby the waves produced by a man’s death
might be arrested and their energy absorbed. If
we have a flame, giving off, let us say, the yellow
light of sodium,' that light will, barring the
presence of an opaque object, go on to all
I eternity, except and unless it comes to a layer
of sodium vapour, i.e., to the one substance in the
universe which is similar in structure to the
molecule which emitted it. Then a very strange
thing will happen, —a thing So strange that we
have no clear and simple explanation for it,
although we know that, it will always happen.
For the sodium vapour will absorb the sodiwm. light,
and probably every element in suitable physical
state will absorb the rays that element itself
gives off when heated to a higher temperature,—■
a phenomenon well manifested in stars of the
same type as our sun, where the elements in the
gaseous envelope about it all take up light of the
same order as that which they emit at higher
temperatures, giving a continuous spectrum
crossed by black absorption-lines.
, What has become of the energy they thus absorb
we do not know, —only that, as energy is inde-
structible, it must bh somehow still existent, pre-
sumably in the substance that has absorbed it,
locked up and latent, may be, yet still there. And
we may perhaps see in this absorption a type of
what occurs at a man’s death, and the secret of
the springing-up of a new life in dependence on
the first.
[Here Ananda leaves science for religious dogma.
What substance can present a structure so similar to the
dying brain as the brain of a child just born, fitted by
physical heredity to receive the kindred thought-wave ?
So Buddhists conceive transmigration of character. “ The
man dies, and his death perturbs the Aether in the very
complex way characteristic of that man ; —and, at the
same instant, almost, a new-born child, hovering then
very near to death, receives the impact of the death-
wave, and its brain thrills to a new life... or, as our
Buddhist Scriptures put it, ‘ the new lamp is lighted
from the dying flame.’ In further evidence, Ananda
quotes the Winzas— Buddhist children who claim to have
had such-and-such a name, and to have lived in such-and.
such a place, in previous lives. He urges the Moral Law
—the necessity of explaining why the chance of destiny
seems unfair, why one man is born into an environment
likely to do him good, and another into an environment
likely to do him evil. If a Moral Law exists, environment
is the effect of a cause—a moral condition in a
past existence. He argues that heredity alone cannot
account for the difference in children’s character and
mental abilities. He finds another argument in the
common sympathy between community birth-rate and
death-rate. He warns us that though he uses physical
illustrations, only mental phenomena are cognisable—
since we have no possible means of ascertaining that the
universe is a real universe, a Thing-in-itself outside of our
own minds. And he closes with an eloquent appeal for
Buddhisrft—for “ true Love and Wisdom and the Perfect
Peace.”]
s
Here quotation ends. There is space to refer
briefly to Ananda’s ehief physical illustration;
the rest is delightful moonshine. The point can
be made clearer by quoting Camille Flammarion,
who, with others, has put forward the bestworking
theory of thought-transference.
We get our knowledge of the outside world by o> >•
special senses, each of which is adapted to test a certai,
range of vibrations. Thus a vibration of 256 beats per
second is perceived by the ear as sound. If the vibration
is enormously increased it is perceived first by the sense
of touch as heat, then by the eye as light. But there arc-
vast gaps between these various vibrations which we are
unable to perceive. Thus there are electric vibrations,
X-rays, the Becquerel-rays, and probably many others!
It is not impossible that there may be a continuous range
of vibrations occurring in the ether from the lowest heat
ray to the highest X-ray, and much higher still, of most
of which we are entirely ignorant.
Now, suppose that the brain in its working sends out
radiations which are able to pierce the skull as the
radium rays and X-rays can. Suppose there is some-
where else another brain which in working throws out
the same series of vibrations. Might not this brain pick
up the vibrations thrown from the other, and turn them
into thought, just as one Marconi instrument can pick
up the ether waves from another, and one C string in a
piano sounds when another C string is struck ?
That will make Ananda’s meaning clearer. But
his ingenious argument from the conservation of
energy leaves out of account the dissipation of
energy. Nova Persei burst into flame three
hundred years ago, and light-vibrations were
sent travelling through the ether in all direc-
tions. Some of them met the earth —met human
eyes—instruments fitted to perceive them; and
our astronomers saw a new star. By-and-by—in
millions of years, perhaps—the new star’s sources of
light-energy will be exhausted ; no more light-
vibrations will be emitted ; and the s ar will
gradually fade out—to become dead, so far as
our earth is concerned. But the light-vibrations
will still be travelling on through space, and three
hundred years later astronomers on another planet
might see the new star. That would be
Nova Persei’s persistence of individuality after
death. But Ananda assumes that the light-
disturbance of the ether will continue to infinity
in that precise character, to that precise extent.
He has no warranty ; and the presumption is
against him. A light-strain upon the ether im-
plies a light-resistance of the ether ; and as the
strain here is assumed to be finite, and the resist-
ance infinite, it is only a matter of eternity till
Nova Persei is individually dead to the universe.
Drop a stone, into a pool. Where it falls you
may see a wave oscillating in all directions. A
little farther you may see ripples, i' art her on
you will see no change upon the surface. Why'!
Because the impulse has been dissipated (not lost),
Just so Nova Persei’s light will probably be
swallowed up in the expanse of ether.
J*
Again, you must consider the number of vibra-
tions. Nova Persei in conflagration makes so
many light-vibrations that the eye-receiver can
detect them. But if a penny candle bad (been lit
at the point in space occupied by Nova I’ersei,
our eyes would never have seen it. Simi-
larly, Marconi has to have “a current of
a certain strength ” — i.e., containing a cer-
tain number of Hertzian waves—before ms
coherer will react to them. Similarly, a thought
wave must have a certain energy before it can be
“ picked up” by a syntonised brain. And Ananoa
demands an., energy so great that it will make a
permanent impression upon nerve-cells at a dis-
tance—not only in exceptional cases, but in every
case of death and birth A This condition is not
probable.
& s
Finally, passing half-a-dozen minor objections,
Ananda’s analogy is false. He compares the bn 1
of a star with the death of a man. He should mo
compared death with death. He should
taken us forward a myriad years, t° tn
time when the last expiring rays of IN o '’
Persei will cease to be visible on ear •
The luminous waves that sped forth while
star was warm and living may still be Qereep i •
far away in ether ; but the orb itself will be co
and dead, with all its heat radiated in h£ llt
worn-out cinder. . , j
So with John Smith. While he lived, mdeem
his thought-vibrations had power to nmu
others? but if he died naturally there reman
only the husk of him—the salts and liquor
battery which has exhausted its electricity. I . g
was no cataclysm, no shock—since within
brain many of the cells had died
him. He had lost the power of spec >
his hearing had gone ; the casement to his .
eyes grew slowly into a glimmering square,
had expended all his life-force in. living• T
was left of him what there will be left ot
Persei—a cinder.
Or if he died by violence at the summit- o
powers, the shock of the discharging brain- ’
mighty to him, was minute indeed in °° m P. ar r . t
with the vast forces that dominate the univ
But over his grave the grass grew greenery
flowers took brighter colour and keener t j, e
as the bodily substance of him gave up t .
earth the chemical elements demanded in
growth. His energy was dissipated for
it was conserved for the universe. And tm
John Smith’s immortality.
[?]
TROVATO.
Is it but the idle fancy
Of a mocking necromancy
That together, leaf and blossom, by the Indus once we
grew,
And that Hafiz came, or Omar,
To imprison the aroma
In tome half-remembered measure which has rhythmed
me to you f
Is it false or is it real
That, in ages more ideal,
I teas song, and you were Sappho; you were sunbeam, 1
the dew;
For I long have felt the burgeon
Of a passion vague and virgin,
Which you quicken to remembrance of a former life We
knetv ?
Was I stream, when you were willow ?
Was I shell when you were billow ?
For your voice has ever echoed through the hushes of my
heart!
And it seems, as I behold you,
That the very air foretold you
By the fragrance which, in welcome, all the budding
boughs impart.
But at last I stand beside you,
And the Fate which long denied you
Yields, in recompense, a dearer incarnation than my
dream:
What 1 sought to what you are, love,
Was as twilight to the star, love,
Xs the languor is to summer, as the murmur to the
stream.
And since age on age has perished
But to bring the soul 1 cherished,
Wherein thought and feeling blended are as petal and
' perfume,
Let us Unger here forever
Where the pride,of alt endeavour
Is a fervour which to passion is as glamour unto gloom.
Yet, if Fate reserves its malice
But to break the lifted chalice,
Let me mingle with the elements where once 1 was a
part;
Then on some supernal morning
Which your beauty is adorning.
As a dewdrop in a lily, l may nestle in your heart.
[Reprint.]
O. J. BAYNE.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Foster, Elements of Minins and Quarrying, 9s, postage Bd.
Hayes (Captain), The Points of the Horse, 3rd edt., 345,
p. Is Bd. Sutcliffe, Through Sorrow’s Gates, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Le Oueux, The Idol of the Gown, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
James(Henry),The Ambassadors, 2s6d &3s6d,postage6d
Taylor, One of China’s Scholars, new edt., 3s 6d, p. sd.
Parkes, Cyanide Process (Enlarged Edt.)> 7s 6d, p. Bd.
Thoma* Hardy’s Drama, The Dynasts, Part I, 5s 6d, p. 6d.
fiend to us for any Jioolt or Magazine you Want.
* We are always pleased to answer inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) * at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
DON’T GET THE GLOOMS.
If you ever get “ On the Tank ” and need a Mental Bracer read
** MORE EX-TANK TALES" (First published in the New York Son).
Crisp, Inimitable, American. Make a Corpse Laugh. Gives the humourous side of the booze business.
Price 3s. 6d. post paid. American Book Agency, Box 457, G.P.0., Sydney, or Dymock’s Book Arcade, Sydney.
pr To Australian Writers, Artists in Black and White.
“ The Critic,” Adelaide
is prepared to consider CONTRIBUTIONS from Writers
of SHORT STORIES, SKETCHES, VERSE, &c., also
DRAWINGS IN BLACK AND WHITE.
Address—“THE CFITIC,” GRESHAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
I
it
&
m '&M *•
Ausn-aiaiiinMeclic&l Gazette
tsiiiiegieieJliimMmMmMk
a&ys
mm
m
»&&&of??**
of Gre&t Service in Affections
of the Voice & Throat’:
Sold by Chemists, tins, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hi'dson, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia
Stamps. Sydney Depot: 6& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States & N .Z.,.ana at S£ o
,j>ost
Rege
t free on
nt-st-.^*


‘>"lx l I
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and. Fat Stock Salesmen,
sYDixrEi'X'.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH,
PIGS and CALVES at- - - CITY YARDS.
iOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
ARE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale.
Offices: 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETONS EYE OINTM ENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, jT-ND
restores eyflashes-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
IN EVER RAIL.S.
Ask your Chemist fop the I Ittle Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
I Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER B ALLS—
-sj, 5s Gd, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WJSDEN’S LEATHER BALLS—
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- 6d, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \
BATS J
No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s Gd
BOYS’ BATS,
Cane —
No. 3 4 5 6
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \
All Cano— J
5s 6d, 6s fd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s Gd
MEN S GANE'j
and RUBBER /
BATS- J
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d, 16s 6d
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
Send for Catalogue, Poet Free—full
list of Bats, by all Beet Makers*
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS—
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is Gd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets*
Dek&y
8s 6d
eA
Handicap
5s
Standard
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure In
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, Sec.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation 4s 6d doz.
Covered Regulation 9s 6d „
SLAZENGER’S Grey Rpg. ... 10s
SLAZENGER’S Covered 16s
AYRES’ Grey Reg. 8s 6d ~
AYRES’ Covered 12s Gd, 15s ~
AYRES’ Champion 16s „
■C-
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias —
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped ly the
N.S.W. Bowling Association,
Remittance, including: payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
TAYLOR'S
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
•sSr
/
cs?-
i
*
DO YOU WANT HEALTH ?
Do you want Happiness? Would you like to feel Strong and Vigorous, to have the Vim and Vitality that will enable you to
enjoy life ; to get the Brain and Nerve Power increased ;to have a clear head and steady hand. Would you like to feel like
that ? and more—Would you like to be without the pains and aches of Bheuxnatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bad
Joints or Weak Back? To have no Indigestion or Dyspepsia, no Sluggish Liver or Constipation, to be
able to enjoy a good night’s rest and wake up refreshed, and to know that your strength is not slipping away ? In short,
do you want to be as strong and healthy as any other man, and to be confident that what others can do is not im-
possible for you ? By the aid of a gentle current of Electricity passing into the body for a few hours each night
you can be made so. You can obtain Health and Strength, and
Dr. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
will give it to you. It gives baok the Vital Spark and Vigor that makes a perfeot man. If you
want Strength and Vitality, it will give it to you; if you are seeking Health, you will find it
by using the Belt that cures thousands yearly. There is nothing so penetrating, nothing
that will relieve pain and weakness as speedily and surely. Electricity is a natural
element of the body that when lost causes weakness and disease. Everyone needs it,
for weakness attacks the strongest man.
OBTAIN OUR BOOKS.
To the man qr woman who seeks to obtain health, strength and
vitality we goffer a (>4 page Illustrated Book, which deals exhaustively
with Electricity as a cure for most ailments. It explains fully
the advantages of the Electric Treatment in all Nervous and
Functional.. Disorders and Chronic Ailments that Drugs have
failed to cure. It illustrates our Belt and attachments, and
how they are applied to any part of the body or limbs. In
addition our Testimonial Books contain many photos,
and names of people who have been cured in this
country. We will send these books Free, postage
paid, and in plain envelope, to any address on
receipt of a post card or letter. Write for
them; they will be found a guide to
perfect health.
HOURS —9 a.m.
to 8.30 p.m.
They have
all been Cured,
Read what they say,
Mr. HAY KIRKWOOD, J.P.,
M.L.A. for Eaglehawk, Vic., sa/s : “I
have pleasure in informing you that I wore
your Belt according to instructions and am
able to say that the Belt has entirely cured me,
and have not used it now for some time. I nearly
physicked myself out of existence, and thank God
your Belt has quite cured me of Sciatica, from which I
suffered the most excruciating pain. I can honestly and
fully recommend your Belt.”
• Mr. WILLIAM CLOUTEN, of Mountain Homestead,
Martin ville, Queensland, writes: “I am more than pleased for
the benefit I have received from your Belt. I suffered from my
kidneys and Sciatica, but am now thankful I am better in every way.
One thousand pounds couldn’t buy back the benefits I have received,
and I deem the money spent the best investment I ever made.”
Mr. JOHN NORTH, farmer, of Yendon, Vic., speaks: “I now write
to tell you that, after wearing your Belt, I feel wonderfully different. At my
age, it is surprising what benefit the Belt has done me, as I am 80 years of age.
I think it is the best cure in the world.”
Mr. A. JEWELL, of Illabo, N.S.W., states: “I have been wearing your Belt
and, thank God, 1 feel splendid. I feel a far different man, and never regret the money
spent on it. It was the best day’s work I ever did. It has also cured my son. I will do
all in my power for you. ’
Mr. WM. SHEPHERD of Kelly ville, N.S.W., writes: “Your Belt is the best friend I
iave in the house. My back that kept me from work for weeks at a time don’t bother me now. and
while l am an old man with grown grand-children, still I feel like the best of them. The Belt is won-
clerrul and 1 swear by it. I will go out of my way to induce any sick friends to try it.”
r ROBERT MoDOUGALL, of Parkes, N.S.W., who suffered from bad back and inactive liver, says :
iave had no occasion to use the Belt for some time now, for I feel as well as ever I did. I used to wake up
witti my back aching and a bad headache. Now I sleep well, wake up fresh, no headaches, and the bursting sen-
sation mmy head is gone. My work does not feel any trouble to me at all now. I firmly believe that the Belt is
the greatest remedy of the age.
i fi. r ‘ ODXiESBY, 14 Kegworth-street, Leichhardt, Sydney, states :“I am glad to say that the Sciatica has entirely
ett me. Ihe doctors told ine I would never get well or work again, but lam now working every day. After wearing your Belt
i°d d° m °t fll a> ’ We aS GVer * ree fr° m pain, in good health, and looking years younger, my friends say. lam
. , CHARLES SHEPHERD, of Jamieson Town, N.S.W., writes : “For 17 years I was a cripple. I tried a good many doctors,
, y ot no benefit. My boys got me to Sydney, where I got your Belt, and from that day to this I have not taken one dose of medicine,
and lam perfectly cured. 1 thank God my footsteps were directed to the Dr. McLaughlin Institute.”
The dr. McLaughlin co.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office~l67E. Swanston Street.


GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
gift’s
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English (Jure tor GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. XJd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT.^-
QN receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King) Colo’s
Book Arcade f Melbourne! Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
m
7
vs.
:
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELECTRO-GALVANIC
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and other
DISEASES in all STAGES,
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer through all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, wegive
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTlCE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
3.:-
xiv
‘1’
‘26..
‘ 3:“ 53‘“
1 .\'_‘.‘-.
ﬂ
'2
’i';
“ ACTS I,IKB A CHARM.**
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9 Ci . PER BOTTLE 1
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
Skin -Tortured Babies
UNO TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Guticura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap, and
gentle anointings with Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the blood.. This is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and economical treat-
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, irritations, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying
the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
Stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspira-
tion, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative,
antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. No other
medicated soap ever compounded is to be compared with it for preserving,
purifying, and beautifying the skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other
foreign or domestic toilet soap, however expensive, is to be compared with
It for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and. nursery. Thus it combines
In One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
BEST toilet and best baby soap in the world.
PHTIPIIDA DCCniVrWT Dll IC (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
uU I luUtlA IILdUL V Lll I rILLO odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticuka Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up In screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticura Remedies are eold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns k Co., Sydnay. British
Depot: 27-23, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 6 Rue de la Faix, Paris. Potter Dbuo AES Cam
Cobp., Sole Propß., Boston, U. S. A.
tiLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Originat
CELLULAR.
fk* fleallhleil tad moil Comtonabli Undsrwsar (or Hu, Vamto and
Chlldrea.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buytng bouillons when described
*s “just as good as Aertex.".
SOLE
AGENTSI
Illuttrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO
73 and. 75 King Street*
DINNEFORD’S
The Uniyersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Bour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician*!
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Grarel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
innefordU
MAGNESIA
m
WILL ANDRADE’S
LIST OF BOOKS
“N
JIM" F-
{i
W ‘Q.
\“ /I/\\-
t r I,"
BOOK OP NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. PiriNG Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s Cd. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and 6s; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc., Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
6s. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Mark Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancing, Is Odr New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 16s post
■Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANI» ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5: Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ...
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JAYNE'S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
RUN-AWAY PRICES
This Month
to Advertise
our
Ostrich
Tips
8 Tips with
Ospreys,
Black, Cream,
or Black tipped
with White.
if ‘31
'1 {Ag-g — \ 7"?“-
w
I“ J.‘ ' ‘lﬁ't 0-3. .‘~. : f: l’ ' ‘ '1 -1
13.9555“ «2" 3a
. 9 5 5 a,
V ..__®‘§E§§W' .
A MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS.
The Bunch
Post Free.
2/6
Postal Note.
Write To-Day.
New Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHERSHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
VANISHED VIGOR
From any cause Speedily
and Permanently
RESTORED.
YOU WRITE, ICDRE.
SURGEON LfPSTON’S
IMPROVED
‘rﬁi‘-‘-Ww é“ WWW/z}
iriﬂfﬁTlfb-RRGEQERATﬂ/Rg
. may; [Mm X“ W “\SQ‘Q‘VVNN
Has completely
Cured Thousands of
SUFFERING MEN.
IT IS NOT A BELT.
IT WILL NOT BURN YOU.
| Here is Nothing to Wear
it is Sure, Safe,
Speedy, Secret, and Simple.
For All Forms of
NERVE BLOOD, AND
SKIN DISEASES
Consult the Only Qualified
Specialist who has no Record
of Failure.
Let me give you back your
Manliness.
VARICOCELE CURED
Without Operation or Pain.
SURGEON KINGSTON,
M.R.C.S , ENG., 1
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
NERYOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free to Men.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and bodj' will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength ahd ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mons. Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St.,Melbourne.
. ,T HE-
,D [M .
"*“HEAR”
The New Patent ( ~
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears, as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
THAT REFRESHING FEELING
of thorough purification given by
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND


A great many
people want.
long,
heavy
hair, but
how to
get it,
that is
what puzzles
them. The
fact is, the
hair needs a
little help
now and then.
The roots re-
quire feeding.
4
WT.
s,
l
When the hair is starved, it stops
growing, loses its lustre, falls out,
turns gray. Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a
hair-help. It makes the hair grow,
stops it from falling, and completely
cures dandruff.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
If your hair is fading or turning
gray, begin at once with Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It will positively restore color
to your gray hair, all the full, rich
color it had in early life.
As a hair-dressing you will certainly
like it, for it keeps the hair soft and
glossy and prevents it from splitting
at the ends.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell. Mass., U.S.Ac
XJBE3
SPOONER’S
~, spooum‘s
I \‘cK Cir
My 94¢,
'0
f}
‘1)1w ““L.:: '0'..-
x mu LEATHER aunts
'cuzgp ms 3.;
' ll!
mum-d r... ”a“ ‘
53.53:;335‘3323': ‘
‘ i /: will
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERBAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots‘and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
Th# Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
m
We Send on Approval
k and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia .
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , A ccessories, Sporting Goods &
Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogs and Special Of*
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO . Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U. S.A. and UYEIirOOE. EKULASD,
EVERY WOMAN
m
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient,
it Cienses Instantly.
your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVLL,
accept no other, but write us for
il U i St 5 ate , d b° ok > sent free—
nttl- i l4 gives P rice by mail,
Particulars, and directions invalu-
eto ladies, endorsed by physiciang.
awarded-
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Ocl, 9,1902.
Xiv female Syringe in the world
wnich has ever received this honor.
THE 2HHRYEL CO.,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W
postal address.box 623, g.p.o , Sydney.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
Too Stout
reined ars ’ c hance I came across a simple
I will win;. > reduced me from 17sfc. to lOst. 121 b., and
sending „t ng y s . end Particulars FREE to any sufferer
M a rta Btam P fcd a «d addressed envelope to
m ° fwgene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
— pending, mention this paper.
F«TS CURED
Permanentl\ S tt^° Se 04 ® zer ' no fits cease. It has cured
other re ,i„ , v f r -y worst cases of Epilepsy when every
t housands t BB . fuded- English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
.... tostunonmls. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
S\Yrn° a Sale A^,lts :
Prepared \' ALLI>OKT & ROTTER, SYDNEY.
Nioholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
« High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His First.
“ She is my queen—her silken hair
The soft caress entices.”
So spoke the youth. *“ Her beauty rare
(The world beside) suffices.
She is my queen—her hair is gold,
Each strand a living glory,
Its touch the call of passion bold
To freedom transitory.”
“ Aye, transitory—like her hair—
The hand of Time is ruthless.”
Thus said the Cynic. “ Tresses fair
Grow not upon the toothless.
But scanty they, and grey and dyed,
And counterfeit to seeming.
Age apes its youth ; Time puts aside
Sweet silken locks and gleaming.’’
“My queen is she,” the youth replied ;
“ Her form is grace imprisoned.
Speak not to me of tresses dyed,
Nor heads with craft bedizened.
Her smile the glory of the day,
Beside is darkness dreary ;
Her eyes I worship—stars are they—
Nay, do not say I weary.”
“Yet eyes grow strained, and hard and red,
And hearts grow cold and bitter.
The years give”—so the Cynic said
“ Soft orbs a cruel glitter ;
The smile becomes a haggard grin ;
The graceful form is padded—
A frame whereon, with stay and pin,
Are hung the beauties added. ’
U.L.
MURU.
A Ballade of Babylon.
In old Chaldea’s.sun-swept land,
Where now the desert eagles scream,
Bel built thee by Euphrates strand,
And swore to make thee age supreme.
Bub Time has mocked his boastful scheme,
And all thy glories now are gone,
Swept down by Fate’s remorseless stream ;
Where are thy walls, O Babylon ?
Palmyra has been sown with sand,
And Carthage ploughed by Scipio’s team.
How now doth mighty Sidon stand—
Or “ hundred-gated ” Thebes, the theme
Of poesy, romance, and dream ?
Or Memphis, she whose waters shone
With gilded barge and swift trireme ?
Where are thy walls, O Babylon ?
The city of my life, I planned
With good content and pride extreme ;
I vowed to rule with haughty hand,
And roundly cried in self-esteem :
“ The fame of it afar shall gleam ! ”
But, ah ! ’twas sand I builded on ;
My city sank beyond redeem—
Where are thy walls, my Babylon ?
Envoi .-
Oh ! Time, thou tell’st us—mites, who deem
Ourselves full worth the pride we don :
“ The mote to-day is yester’s beam ”
Where are thy walls, 0 Babylon ?
N.s.w.
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
Awakening.
I read no more the musty books
O’er which I wasted half my youth ;
I seek no more in cobwebbed nooks
For words of philosophic truth.
No more I sit aloof and mope
By night, and burn the midnight oil
In morbidness, and blindly grope
For light by way of others’ toil.
The dry-as-dust philosophy
Of ancient spook is out of date,
And has no joy or charm for me,
No bearing on my future fate.
For me the early dusk-stars shine
O’er scented paths, and rivers white,
Where amorous flowers of longing twine
In wreaths about the brow of Night;
Where autumn leaves'a pathway make •
By ferny nook and red-brown loam,
For on© who bade my heart awake
To find its everlasting home.
She oomes what time the vermeil-rose
In gladness lays its warm heart bare,
And from its opening petals throws
A fragrance on the dusky air.
Proudly she cometh, and she brings
Glad me »iges from starry meres,
The sweetest song of vernal springs
That bloom in lovers’ hemispheres.
Her lilied ears might hear the tale
The river telleth at its bars,
Her love-soft eyes might pierce the veil
And know the mystery of the stars.
What mortal mind, or musty tome
Might teach the truths my lover knows,
Where bee and blossom have their home,
Where blooms unseen the sweetest rose?
And so I lay my books away,
And leave the teachings of the dead
On dusty shelf, to sure decay,
And ever in her footsteps tread.
Ere books were made and songs were sung,
The sweetest story ever told
Was woven by a lover’s tongue
To wake to life the hearts of old.
And aye, while love shall true remain,
Shall field, and flower, and star, and sea,
And all that is in Love’s domain,
Be Book and Counsellor to me.
TAS.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.
m
■
/IV
Su
a.
m
"•
v7^
m
m
m
o.
f.
>
/:
<\ *. *s
and so does
PEARS
/
H P. SMITH
■81SI&HB
*
e=3
-O'*
21/-
211
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wale*. /
Received Solid Silver Keyless
• Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it’keeps-perfect time and is
splendid value —best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading: Jeweller.
‘HJLIIAIS *d ‘H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
jjgll ■imi*»t:<«*~»
atar
m “NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges.
Good powder and shot, carefully ana
scientifically loaded in the best of cases,
make Winchester “New Rival Black
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
liable and satisfactory on the market.
A trial will convince you of their super-
iority. Be sure and get the Winchester
i “ New Rival ” brand next time you buy.
SHOOT THEM AND SHOOT WELL
A Policy for the Commonwealth
PRICE 6d.; POSTED, Bd.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
yood Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C.P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
uy of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by Instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine#


THE
COLINTOR ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane Biver, 6} hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
40,000 Acres
of Rich River Flats, and well-
grassed Ridges, out into Dairy
Farms,
In Areas of XOO to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the HEAD STATION BAIL*
AO On, on
EASTER MONDAY,
at 11 o'clock each day.
Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., of Kensington Downs, a Direotor of the Q.N. Bank
and of the Queensland Meat Export Co. reported on Colinton on 7th April, 1900:
“It is impossible to ride over the rich lands at Colinton without coming to the conclusion
that no just or accurate idea of their value can be arrived at by merely treating them as
grazing estates, as the large proportion of arable land embraced in them justifies the
belief that in the future a very rouoh enhanced value must attach to them fot cutting up
purposes.” /
COLINTON is composed of a variety of sloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid percentage of Lucerne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Buns, as well as one of the best fastening Runs in Southern Queensland.
COLINTON ia magnificently watered by 18 miles double frontage
to tbe Brisbane Xtlver, as well as by upwards of 88 miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
COLINTON has been kept free from pests suoh as lantana, thistle, and
burrs, and there is no nut grass and, above all, no ticks.
THE MAGNETIC TERMS S
One-Tenth Cash, no payments for 2 years, and the balanee
up to 20 years at per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
2PF* A profusely illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may be
obtained from the office of this paper, or from
ISLES, LOVE & Go., Auctioneers, Brisbane
ROBERTS' HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has solved the problem of how to LIVE LIKE A LORD on a SMALL INCOME.
This is how it is done—
First Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Bingle Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY POR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.-Thus you
will only be charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER from Is. per meal.
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying Tor a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Engage Rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
z
i
\
\
FREE!
Cut this out and send it
to us and we will send
you free, postage pre-
paid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the new edition of our splendid, invaluable
and standard illustrated Medical Work, which
acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
Is an up-to date appliance, whereby electricity in a gentle and
continuous current saturates every nerve, muscle, fibre and organ
of the human system. It absolutely cures all cases of Nervous
Disorders, weak back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney and
Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that tired feeling.
"We don t ask anyone to take chances on our in-
vention. If we fail the loss is ours, all you lose is your time ; all
we ask is, give us security that you will pay, and you can have our
appliances, and
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to you fairly, and carry it out fairly.
You don t have to pay till you are cured. We could not do this if
our Belt was not the very best. We warrant that it gives a strong
current and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from
patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delav no
Write at once. We can help you. J
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DEPT. M.,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Maur Zealand Branch; 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
grateful
longer.
PURE LIME-FRUIT JUICE
DO you DRINK LIME JUICE ?
ff
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agents— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell *. Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen tc Co., Newcastle.
.A-f A 1% R
\‘i- ' '5‘ V v
ml: _5 u
0“: 1“ :gLHJ-w’
“1'1“ ' -' ‘(kt
wh‘ -" ., f
; 32“», 3. «%¢9W*‘-A
r (‘3, $5?
I - ,{J' '3,"/|{.I’(// 1\\
"07,, ' ‘8‘ 7/}; 9,3} “cm
‘1. “HA/'7' ‘¢
U; 3; Maw/L (W
‘ ﬁwﬁ50;\‘fﬁ‘;y. \'
.’ (”Via/1‘." ’.- JIM/)2!" }
u. ”.15. (
AN I “03"” ,.\
..L (2V5 L):}H‘A!R 4"
""r"""3"~y" ,. ‘>‘ 1
, I1:22.154.,.:'K.m.m$..z;§:
DROFE.SSOR /V\U D D*S
FOR y
-cosmos’-
/i AI R FALLING bu T-
J Prevents Baldness
PRICE £/$ 1- POSTED 3/3-
Kr oaao
Give's l.fl £ col 9hto grey hair
/f Contains no acips -
4w*'Vi3l7
►Jim-w
'T
*
s
vtEfVtysisey
7Sw\
//
AND
S4X
r>X
fri»
DAYLICSiT
mmti/ojue 1 I
/Ms paper
MELBOURNE
iSSte'ife:
&!35
HOJ HTVH aOOQ
m
All Obeuibts.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., s*. Postage, 9<L extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage. 9d, extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
tar For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.-
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9a. extra.
-A T iT« £
35
of
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEA3EB OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street. Brisbane ; Mr.. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
m
C k There’s SECURITY In
ARTERS
ITTLIE
IVER
PI LLS
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the
Be
Small Pill, Small Dost. 6mall Price.
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
SEND NO MONEY.
TXTE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
*' Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STEELING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**B T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address
m
» * ''
IK
vn.
.••Va»a \
\
trim
mm
•7/S
WX
*;wj
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt .tt„ Sydney.
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Veises.
Price 1/1
J'Obt
Free
By FRANK RENAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney


A Champion Athlete
PAYS THE
Penalty for Continuous Training:
And Finds a Welcome Antidote.
The Case of Mr. S. MAHALM.
(FOR THE LEICHHARDT “ STAHPARD.”)
To judge from the numerous successes i >
all kinds of sport which have been placed
to the credit of Australians it appears that,
as a people, we possess the necessary
stamina and skill required to excel in various
departments of athletics; but, as Mr.
Samuel Mahalm, of Augustus street, Leich-
hardt, told our reporter, it is quite possible
to overtax one’s constitution, and then
trouble ensues.
“In your palmy days as an athlete you
did not think that so much training and
racing was likely to do you harm, I
suppose ? ” remarked a Standard reporter.
I did not give it a thought, to tell you
the truth,” replied Mr. Mahalm. “I was
too enthusiastic in matters of sport to
trouble about the future, but now that I am
all right again I do not regret having in-
dulged in exercise so heavily.”
“ It was in rowing that you principally
excelled, was it not ? ”
“ Well, yes; I did meet with a fair
amount of success in that line, as I won the
champion sculls for youths under 21 three
years in succession, and was pitted against
some of the old-time champions besides. In
running, rowing, and sailing I won twenty
races out of twenty-seven starts, so I have
not much to complain about in that respect,
although, when my health broke down, I
thought the game was not worth the candle,
as the saying goes. It is an awful strain on
one’s system to keep at such heavy work
conti moiisly, and when I got very ill I
considered that my success was dearly
bong t.”
“ What was the first sign you had that
your heal h was breaking down ? ”
“ Nervousness. The frequent strains
upon my system had a bad effect on my
nerv s, for they became so unstrung that I
could not keep them steady, and the most
simple thing in the world could give me a
start a.id make me excited. I went on like
this fora little while, thinking that I would
soon be all right again, when I was greatly
surprised to find that I was suffering from
indigestion. That was an every-day sort of
complaint. I thought, from which some
people suffered severely through not treat-
ing it promptly, and, making up my mind
that I would not make the same mistake, I
started taking medicine for it.”
“A very sensible procedure,” ejaculated
the scr.be.
“It would have been had I known the
proper medicine to take, but I had had no
precious experience, so I took whatever I
saw advertised, and when one thing did me
no g <od I tried another, thinking that I
would sure to strike the right one in the
end. Sure enough I did, but it was not till
a tcr enduring several years'intense torture
that a friend advised me to give a trial to
Cements Tonic, but by that time my health
was completely wrecked. The food I per-
suaded myself to take was harder to digest
than ever, and the after effects were much
more trying. A heavy pain settled on my
chest, which gave me great trouble in
getting my breath, especially at night time,
w ht 11 1 often had to sit up in bed, because
I felt as if I would smother if I lay there
any longer, and paroxysms of pain were
caused in my stomach through wind arising
from the decayed foo l. By these and other
means I was prevented from obtaining any-
thing like a requisite amount of sleep, the
consequence being that when I ought to have
been leaving my bed I was too dead tired to
do so. I got so miserably weak and low-
spirited that I felt as if I could not speak to
any ody, whilst the mere thought of doing
a little work seemed preposterous, because I
bad no vitality in me to do it. For another
reason I did not like e * erting myself. That
was because my heart palpitated and pained
me when I put my body in motion, and I
grew so anxious on that score that I resolved
to take the greatest care of myself and not
throw any chances away. But at last I got
so disheartened that I thought I would never
be well again, a sharp pain catching me
between the shoulders and across the lower
part of my back, while sometimes I could
scarcely see out of my eyes for the terrible
headaches I had. My tongue was in a dis-
agreeable state, being almost white, and
everything I tasted seemed bitter ; not that
I tasted much, as I had no appetite at all.
I could not have sat in a wager boat for the
life of me, as I had turns of giddiness,
which inconvenienced me even when stand-
ing on my feet. What had once been hard,
solid flesh became nearly all skin and bone,
so that there was no light task in front of
Clements Tonic when I started taking it.
Another circumstance which I should not
overlook was that I used to have very un-
pleasant dreams on any of those rare
occasions when exhausted nature claimed a
couple of hours’ sleep, so you see what a
perpetual drain there was on my system
through want of proper rest ; and nothing
could ease my pains sufficiently to allow me
to sleep, save Clements Tonic, which gave
me a new feeling of content before the first
week was out. It seemed a marvellous
thing that Clements Tonic could have such
a desirable effect upon me so quickly, con-
sidering that I had been suffering so long ;
and further use of that medicine showed
that all others were outclassed. The lazy
sense of drowsiness which had made my life
bo dreary was given place to a feeling of
exhilaration and activity as a result of using
Clements Tonic, whilst that medicine’s
action on my nervous system was more
beneficial than I had ever deemed possible to
be obtained. My nerves became toned to the
state of perfection they were in when I
could go over a three-mile course at a ding-
dong pace ; and I have such a high opinion
of the strengthening qualities of Clements
Tonic that if I were young enough to start
racing again I would take that medicine for
the purpose of supplying the vitality which
is lost whilst training. For putting my in-
ternal organs into a healthy and machine-
like condition, and driving away headaches,
giddiness and chest pains my acknowledge-
ments go to Clements Tonic, which also
claimed my gratitude for remedying the
palpitations and heart pains. With each
bottle of Clements Tonic I came nearer the
end of my afflictions, for I was eating well
and could digest all manner of food. Windy
spasms and back pains were done away
with by the same medicine, and there was
not an ache left in me. I can frankly
admit that my liver and nerve troubles
were quite cured by Clements Tonic, and
you can publish all I have said in any way
you think advisable.”
“ Thank you,” replied our representative,
« but it is pro' able some of your old friends
already know this experience of yours.”
“ Some do, I know; but I can’t tell all of
them, as I know so many through living in
this suburb twenty years, while for the last
five years I have been proprietor of the
Leichhardt Swimming Baths.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Samurl Mahalm, of Augustus-street, Leich-
hardb, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios, and
consecutively numbered from one to four,. and
that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by. Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, nnd by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Aot, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Leichhardt, this twenty*
fourth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
W. B. WRAGGE, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO IDBFY OOMPETITIOKr.
WINES The Best Brands OiUy of SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS. CORDIALS. Jw.
Kent Brewery! SYDNEY,
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
Fonted. gd.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
FtEJAD it.
JOHN DICKS Strand, London, W.C.
JJOTICH TO MBMiBOTJRNB VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Tram 9. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF (or
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
t elephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
(elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIN3 FCOORB
of various sizes supplied.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRIBCIJIT ,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, Jtc., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit withmilk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, Helbourne.
tfor&liti&t Hcghife
TRY ' &
RI DOES
FOOD
Refuse a// //n/fat/ons
SatjsJyuig, Strengthening. Soothing for Infanti
Agreeable. Digestibls,Hoi)ri3/uflg
AGFA/rS FOR SYDNFY.
SAYFRS AUPORr & POTTFR
RIDGE’S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Eng.
ZrtUi
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
▲ few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav*
lag for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STKEET, Melbourne.
WHS-
DEBILITATED.
Aiv NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Vlotorla Chambers, Elizabeth-etreet, Sydney.
Eureema Ointment.
A Bpecial Cura for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEABES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d4 for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
0
■/. Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
:—Formont & Co., 5i Queen Street, Melbourne.
( Beddome & Co,,Btmrke Street, Melbourne.
1 Paulding * Co., Sydaay, Adalaida, Forth.
Sub*Ag*ats
A's‘l «ﬁst-:9, Wm
35$}ng JP}:
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE'S, Mel*
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and ail Booksellers.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Noa-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs*
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their owrt Gas*
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion*
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Oiderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Boot. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Btreet* Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
ril Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
mL\m
'l'h4 Jltiuit.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust ; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Olreatlons for Use.— Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
nbMtta
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withou
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Ci rbide for any generator either direct, o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our Neiv Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS. '
Prepared by Poingdkstuk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials troinall
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By on* application only, effectually destroys 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. 1
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrh & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


"BNNHSSY’S x
i VI“BRANnY,
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
A Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers.
The *—— !
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved from the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food no. 1. Milk Food no. 2. Malted Food n 0.3.
From birth to three months.
From three to six months.
From six months and upwards.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TSlalaEN & HWNbURYS latch, IaONIDON
g; 45%;“:
A.r_ away .¥3-_-;i. _‘:
71:; quﬁfﬂﬁ ﬁgE
“233%" ﬁg
:3 mlhﬁaﬁhrm ‘ ‘Sh‘ig
l
I
__ .__-'-_—'_‘_
I.» —
Km",
‘1' w‘
. A! 7 I‘ ‘ ‘ ‘
\TTWT ' "7'
.-',= u , .U .'
. - ‘1‘»{1il‘éahr‘
‘32:?"
“ :1»: 17,5"
- gunk
97:} , .5 . ‘..
i K ‘->‘.‘-. ,‘ ,
Acetylene
Gas
TABLE LAMPS.
OUR ADVANCE id
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
ACETYLENE QAB
INSTALLATIONS for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings,
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
“ Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO
161 Clarence Bt.,
BYONEY.
There are other “ scores ” besides Cricket scores:—
And scores of smokers prefer “ Cameos ” to any other cigarettes.
TO BE OBTAINED FROM
Anthony Hordern & Sons | Holdsworth Macpherson & Co. | F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
IN SUMMER-
Cool as an Ocean Breeze
RUBEROII
A riodern Roofing for
a flodern Nation.
SEE^THAT
. J
,yOUCET'TME<K
m
/ X
w
Pi
GENUINE
m
\W
/i
< . \
RUBEROID
i
v.»
I \ iXX
XFORTHERE^
Limitations^
x ;
v.:
II
m
m
MARKET
IN WINTER-
Warm as Toast
ROOFIhG
A Roofing that always
Gives Satisfaction.
RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE
GIVES ABSOLUTE SESU3ITV AGA:NST DAMP.
Melbourne;
Brooks Robinson & Co.
Adelaide:
A. W. Sandford & Co.
Fremantle:
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
GIANT BUILDING
PAPERS
A PAPER THROUGH WHICH NEITHER MOISTURE
WIND, VERMIN, NOR DUJT CAN PENETRATE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vojv. 25. —No, 1255.
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1004.
Pbiok 6n.
THE GOLD BRICK.
POLIYICAL CONFIDENCE MAN : “LET ME SELL YOU A GOLD BRICK. IT’S QUITE GENUINE-GOLD ALL THROUGH. IT’S
WORTH £1000, BUT I’M OFFERING IT FOR 9d. BECAUSE I'M GETTING OLD AND WANT TO RETIRE FROM BUSINESS.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Aiiati'alla for the AnBtralia.no.”
Printed and Published by Willi Air Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
914 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
Published once a week.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 0
Quarterly ... ... ...' 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to Williah Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable.). Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
mer.it and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture tohich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Liulgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo Newt Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
ffte Z&'alZeZztfi.
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1904.
Australia’s Future, as Fainted by
Attorney-General Wise.
Speaking of the advantages of preference to Australia,
Mr. Wise pointed out that if Australia got no more than
a one-fifth share of the trade now done’ by England with
foreign countries in dairy produce and cereals, she would
be able to give employment to more than 200,000 persons
additional upon the land, and he quoted figures, supplied
by Mr. Coghlan, in support of his contention. Foreigners
were ousting British merchants from their trade within
the Commonwealth, and, if the Commonwealth gave a
preference to British trade, he anticipated that within
the next year there would be an immediate gain to
British traders of between seven and eight million
pounds, represented by increased freight earnings and
increased sales of British produce. —Daily paper.
Every day, and almost every hour, there falls
upon Australia some sorrowful information as to
how it may be saved—generally by “going on the
land,” and getting itself into a position to load
an extra quantity of corn and pumpkins on board
a British ship manned by Carlo from Italy, and
Antonio from Portugal, and Hans from Scan-
dinavia. In the above pronouncement Attorney-
General Wise of N.S.W. adds another Bhred or
two to the melancholy bulk and vastness of the
literature. Australia is to grow
more corn and pumpkins. It is to export them at
great cost in freight and middlemen’s charges to
pay for the boots that are made at Northampton
and the cottons that come from Manchester—in
fact, to. feed the people who make these boots and
cottons. It is to bring back the boots and cottons
at great expense in freight and charges, so that, it
is to get less for its grain, which will sell here
minus the freight and charges; and pay more for
its boots and cottons, which will arrive
here plus freight and charges. It is
to depend entirely for a market on the
chance or hope that Britain will continue
to buy Australia’s corn and pumpkins, and that
they won’t be ousted from the British market by
the produce of Canada or South Africa. Incase
of war and interruption of commerce it is.to take
the chance of having its corn and pumpkins rpt
on its hands while its people go shoeless and half-
naked. That is the prospect which the Frceteader
—Attorney-General Wise is still more than %alf
a Freetrader—holds out to Australia. The Free-
trader regards it as a pleasing prospect; The
Bulletin doesn’t. p
* • * #
Commerce is, on the whole, a vastly over-rated
institution. It may be a great thing for Britain,
which owns so vast a proportion of the world’s
shipping, and is paid for carrying other nations’
goods ; it is a very poor thing for countries like
Australia, which own practically no oversea
shipping, and have to pay vast sums for having
their goods carried. There is a false glamor about
marine enterprise, which really consists largely
of damp forecastles, ill-paid sailors—about the
most ignorant, unprogressivo and unimaginative
class on earth, cockroaches, grease and badly-
cooked food. The ship has a certain prestige of
its own because it carries a flag, and the flag has
been babbled about by poets and sundries till it
has become an institution, but if a flag was tied
to the funnel of a locomotive the latter would be
just a 9 romantic. Looked at froin a purely busi-
ness aspect commerce., may be a blessing, or a
curse—the Chances are about equal. When it
consists in exporting the things of which we have
necessarily a superfluity, and importing in return
the things we can’t possibly produce on a
profitable basis ourselves, it is a blessing.
When it consists in sending away faw material
at great expense because we are too lazy or.
incompetent to make it up ourselves, and in
importing at great expense the finished goods
which we are too indolent to manufacture for
ourselves, and in sending away food to feed the
artisans who make our goods in foreign countries
because we are too neglectful of our own interests
to see that these artisans are domiciled here
instead, and in having a large proportion of our
own people unemployed or maintained on loan
works because the industries that should support
them are located in America, Belgium or Ger-
many, and in keeping our country poor and
empty because we import the bulk of our finished
goods, and consequently have hardly any local
industries to supply work for immigrants—under
these circumstances commerce is a curse. The
hum of busy seaports and the bristling of forests
of masts may be a credit to a country, or a
disgrace—it depends entirely on circumstances.
* * • •
Australia has a great commerce in proportion
to its population. Its harbors are full of the
ships which it doesn’t own, because it hasn’t
enough enterprise or enough real prosperity to
acquire them. They are tied to the wharves that
Australia doesn’t own either, for the wharves were
built out of British loans. These ships are carrying
away the wool that we haven’t energy enough to
manufacture, and the wheat and butter that
ought to supply the wants of our large manu-
facturing population—if we possessed one. The
ships are also unloading the dry goods, the iron
ware, and a thousand other things which we
ought to make but don’t. They are putting
ashore bundles of British newspapers telling us
how our last loan—floated to help to pay for these
things— went off. Some of the men who ought
to be employed making the things that the
ships. unload are loafing on the wharf
that isn’t paid for. More of them are away on
more or less useless public works paid for out of
the loan that is disparagingly alluded to in the
papers that the ship we don’t own has just
deposited on the wharf we don’t own either.
Some of them are away interviewing Owe’Sulli-
van. Most of them—about 4,000,000 of them—
are quite invisible because they are away in Eng-
land or Germany or the United States making
'for us the things that should be made here. This
is commerce. In a more healthy state of things
we would have, in proportion to population, far
less commerce—but we would also have more
people, more prosperity, and fewer loans.
• • * *
Attorney-General Wise sees a future before
Australia. He sees a faint, dim possibility that
Britain may make an agreement whereby we will
buy more hardware and clothes from the Cold
Country, and it will buy more corn and pumpkins
from us. The Bulletin hopes for a much larger
future, than that. Even if Britain made a pre-
ferential treaty with us we would still have to
compete for its trade with other sections of the
empire that are more fertile than Australia, and
which are not handicapped by such vast sea-
distances., so we would still get the lowest prices
in the British market and have the most precarious
hold on British trade. We know that we could
Srofitably supply produce to the bootmaker in
ydney, and the ironworker at Lithgow, and the
cotton-spinner in Brisbane, and that we could
retain their trade ; but we don’t know with any
certainty that we could make much money supply-
ing these same people at the other end of the globe,
or that we could retain their trade at the other end
of the globe. And we certainly know, by bitter ex-
perience, that the agricultural industry at present,
when it .depends to a great extent on exporting
to theßritish market, is only able to live by being a
sweating industry—an industry of child labor and
long hours and miserably low wages. No man
should know that better than Attorney-General
Wise. He is the author of the N.S.W. Arbitra-
tion Act, which has done so much to provide fair
wages and fair conditions for the N.S.W. artisan,
and the Act is the brightest feature in his honor-
able public career. But even he dare not attempt
to apply any such Act to the agricultural laborer.
Agriculture is the one branch of industry which
the reformer, under present conditions, gives up
as a bad job—where the right to exact the longest
possible hours for the poorest possible pay is
tacitly conceded all round. Over a great part
of Australia.it is certain that agricultural produce
—the quantity of it that can be got out of each
acre of this barren land in ordinary seasons—can’t
pay railway freights to the sea-board, and ship
freights to far-off England, and middlemen’s
charges, and fair wages on top of all. Therefore,
Australia hopes to have some better future than
one. which depends on the indefinite enlargement
of its worst-paid industry under the conditions
whioh seem to fix it as a badly-paid industry for
all time. It doesn’t want to be .the world’s boss
agricultural sweater.
• * * *
In N.S.W., according to Coghlan’s latest esti-
mates, agriculture and manufactures pay in these
respective proportions:—
Annual
Persons Value of Amount
Employed. Production. per head.
Agriculture .. 77,619 £6,563,000 £7l 13 6
Manufactures .. 66,269 11,452,000 172 16 2
There have been better years than that for agri-
culture, but there hasn’t been one in all the period
covered by reliable statistics in which N.S.W.
agriculture was capable of paying more than half
the wages which tne State’s manufacturing indus-
tries can pay. Yet agriculture is a petted and
pampered industry in N.S.W. The agriculturist
is free from all local taxation; the city worker
pays for his own roads, etc., and i 3 also taxed to
pay for those of the agriculturist. The latest rail-
way returns show the amazing result that, where
the manufacturer’s goods were charged as much as
£llls. 3d. per ton for a 100-mile railway journey,
the farmer’s hay, straw and chaff paid the hope-
lessly unprofitable rate of fourpence per ton for 100
miles. An industry whiclv requires so much
assistance, and yet yields sudli poor returns, looks
more like a parasite than a backbone. Certainly
agriculture, if it has to depend largely, as a regular
thing, on a far-off market, and a great portion of
its miserable earnings have to be spent in getting
its goods to that market, will be a parasite. If
the agricultural population of N.S.W. were
doubled or trebled, without any corresponding
increase in manufacturing and other more solvent
industries, it is very questionable if the non-
agrioultural population could pay sufficient in the
present form of indirect subsidies to keep agri-
culture out of the benevolent asylum.
* * • <K
Attorney-General Wise and every other man
ip his position has the choice of turning Protec-
tionist or sweater. Protection can give the
greatest possible support to an industry so long
as it is an industry supplying goods for local
consumption; it can’t do much for an industry
which supplies goods for foreign consumption—
when it is also an industry which is pursued under
such disadvantages as agriculture is in Australia.
When Australia throws overboard the fetish of
“commerce,” and puts prohibitive duties on
finished goods which can be manufactured here,
and gives the manufacturer the same assistance
that it has showered on the agriculturist, then
there will soon be 4,000,000 more people in Aus-
tralia because we will have work to offer to
immigrants. Then, also, there will be a local
market for our produce, and the 200,000 new
settlers of whom Mr. Wise speaks may be realised
twice over. And as these settlers will save the
sea freights and middlemen’s charges on their
produce, it will be possible for Mr. Wise to devise
an Act which will call upon them to pay fair
wages—to do that now, when the industry gives
a gross return of less than 30s. a week for
every person employed in it, and all charges
have to come out of that, would be asking for
blood from a stone. Then Australia may have %
chance to raise an agricultural population that is
better worth having. Furthermore, the public
debt, under such conditions, would be virtually
reduced one-half, for a debt which represents £6O
per head on 4,000,000 people would be only £3O per
head on 8,000,000 ; there would be a vast diminu-
tion in the outflow of money, and this country
wouldn’t be constantly floating new loans to pay
for its imports ; and it wouldn’t be liable to im-
mediate ruin if its sea communication happened
to be cut off in war time. Also a whole lot of its
beautiful commerce would disappear, and Aus-
tralia would be better without it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Prospects of Shem.
One A. J. Vogan has let off a long, strong whoop
in the Times (Wellington, Maoriland) against the
White Australia idea. Even in these days of
remarkable Tory whoop it is something unusual.
A few samples of Vogan follow
We have seen the opening up of British New Guinea
prevented by the dog-iu-the-manager tactics and opposi-
tion of the Trades Hall-cwm-BuLLBTiN section of Austra-
lasian society. We have seen (in Westralia) Indian
soldiers, bearing the scars and medals of the various ware
in which white and black have fought side by side the
battles of the Empire, mobbed and driven off the wharf
into the sea. We have had the still more disgusting spec-
tacle of Englishmen of various trades (notably the hatters)
treated with ignominy on reaching this part of what is,
but really seems hardly to be now, part of the British
Empire. Do the Labor party really believe that the
whole of this part of the world is for ever to be in the
hands of the over-paid white laborer ? If so, they make
a great mistake. The white laborer of to-day, with his
short hours, his earning of more than intellect can
obtain, his drunkenness, and his unfaithful work,
cannot in the near future compete with the
frugal, careful, abstemious Oriental worker. The white
man should be an employer of the black. If he tries to
compete against them as laborers, it will, in the near
future, be a case of Mrs. Partington over again. It has
long been the opinion of many Australians that the
northern parts of Australia can only be opened up by the
use of black labor ; and owing to the Labor party it is to-
day mainly a series of goldfields, from whence the
“ Chows ” smuggle the precious metal to their father-
land. The East is waking up, and these vacant spots on
God’s earth will not long be left untilled in order to raise
the price of white labor to an unnatural value. The
short-sighted policy of selfishness and the fall of the
birthrate are only two of the many signs that this our
race has pretty well run its course, unless it has virility
enough left to amend its ways.
Thus it seems that the stalwart, intelligent, cap-
able nigger is the remedy for all evils, the source
of all true greatness and wealth, and the be-
ginning, middle and end of things in general.
And it sets The Bulletin wondering. For
India, with an immensity of nigger labor, is
stone-broke, and its people try to live on an average
income of about £2 per head per annum ; and
China, with hundreds of millions of the frugal,
careful, abstemious Oriental, is steeped in poverty;
and Persia and Arabia and Egypt don’t seem to
have money to lend to the extravagant and
incapable European. All over the world the
beautiful, wonderful, capable nigger seems to be
poor and incompetent, and so the white man owns
or controls his country. If Shem is so capable of
regenerating Australia why doesn’t he regenerate
his own country a little more ? Asia isn’t half as
thickly peopled as Europe, and Africa is about one-
seventh as thickly peopled ; Shem and Ham have
as good a soil as J aphet and vastly more elbow-
room, and the extra advantages of being “ frugal,
careful, abstemious,” and possessed of all the
other virtues mentioned by people like Yogan.
Yet the incompetent, useless and slumir.ocky
J aphet bosses the earth. The places where Japhet
is a failure are such places as Turkey, where he is
adulterated with the Asiatic ; Portugal, where he
is adulterated with the negro (the downfall of
Portugal dated from the time it imported a preat
mass of African blacks and followed the advice of
people like Vogan) ; Spain, where he is streaked
with the Moor; South and Central America,
where he is streaked with the Indian and the
negro ; and the Southern States of U.S., where
he is considerably mulatto, and where the presence
and example of Ham seem to have corrupted him.
Also the white Russian, who has in him a small
Tartar element, lags behind to some extent. All
the assurances about how these stupendously
brilliant and capable characters, Ham and Shem,
would regenerate Australia bump up against the
failure of Ham and Shem to regenerate their
own countries, and their failure to regenerate
Japhet when he was fool enough to give them
the chance. Wherever there is a sign of progress
it is Japhet who is shoving Shem along—mostly
with a bayonet. And yeLwe have the constant
assertion of strange Tory characters that Shem—
Shem the failure, the poverty-stricken, the con-
quered, the undrained —is the only person that
can save us, just as he saved Portugal and Turkey,
and just as he has been saving China till the
beginning of the day when he saved it is lost in
antiquity. And if we import Shem he is to make
us .rich, just like China; and a great centre of the
World’s industry, just likeßurmah; and we will
ascend to greatness after the manner of Siam and
Cochin-China—where the three-foot-high fowl is
supposed to come from. Australia will sit down
and consider the matter. The very day that a
British Joan is floated at Chang-foo, or
a Persian army is sighted from Vienna, or
Chicago begins to import its tinned meats from
Bagdad, Australia will sit down and consider the
matter very hard indeed. Just as soon as Shem
seriously lifts himself we will think over the
possibility of him lifting us; and when cheap
black labor makes the black man rich we will
begin to see the probability of it making us rich
also. Meanwhile it seems, according to Vogan,
that we are played out unless wo “nave virility
enough ” to leave off working ourselves and let a
nigger work for us, and when a white man becomes
too tired to leave off work he is plainly in a bad
way.
The Polite Federal Government*
The second Australian Parliament is due for its>
first meeting, and the Most Intensely Polite-
Government in Australia has prepared a courteous’
and, as far as possible, inoffensive programme. A.
Government led by Alfred Deakin is bound to’
be Intensely Polite, and already we hear of,
various things that the Deakin Ministry, in its-
excess of courtesy, won’t do, lest it should offend!i
somebody. It won’t, at present, establish the-
much-needed Federal Statistical Department ton
begin with. That is a matter which the Constitu-
tion expressly hands over to the Australian!
Government, and, in a democratic sense, it is a.
much more important matter than it seems..
Every effectual system of reform must start with,
an accurate knowledge of what things need re-
forming, and statistics supply that knowledge..
They tell of the growth of bloated estates, of the •
increase of lunacy, of the rise or fall of wages, the •
increase or decrease of crime and illegitimacy,,
of loans, deficits, immigration—in fact an ■
accurate system of all-Australian statistics is a*
record of all that wants repairing in the body,
politic. But though the keeping of this record is*
made, by the Constitution, a Federal matter, th©:
States are, it seems, reluctant to hand over their:-
six scattered statistical departments. And instead i
of doing its duty, and creating its own depart-
ment, and telling the State Governments that if f
they like, in their arrogant bumptiousness, to*
waste their money in running a duplicate busi-
ness which is no longer any affair of theirs, they,
must answer to their own constituents for theirr
extravagance, the Intensely Polite Australians
Government has decided to abdicate its functions*
for an indefinite period. It is afraid of offending,;
the inferior State Governments by doing its duty..
The Awfully Polite Government has also .re-
solved to partly surrender its right, and: too
partly crawl out of its duty, to provide am
Arbitration Court that shall deal with disputes*
extending to more than one State, because, by*
doing its duty it might make Bent and See angry:.
Lest these persons, also Jenkins Iscariot and!
others, should utter a yell of rage, it has been
decided that all State employees shall be excluded
from the scope of the Act; in other words, a law,
which the Government holds to be a just law,
shall most unjustly ba made not to apply to a
large section of the people, lest by doing justice
Bent and Jenkins should be offended. In this
matter it is understood that Lyne disagrees with
his chief, and it isn’t certain that Turner doesn’t
also disagree, but the Dreadfully Polite section of
the Cabinet, led by Premier Deakin, is solid on
the fact that it is better to do wrong than to rouse
Jenkins. Furthermore, the Desperately Polite
Government seems still a long, long way from
that graduated land-tax which is so urgently
required. Premier Deakin fully realises that
Australia could get a multitude more agricultural
settlers if land were made available, and he knows
that much land would be available if the bigestatW
were broken up, and that a heavy, graduated
land-tax would break them up, and, in addition,
the proceeds of such a tax are badly wanted, and
the Australian Parliament has every power under
the Constitution to impose it, and an absentee-tax
also. But it is generally understood that if the
right were exercised, it would embitter Bent and
make See furious, and what it would do to Jen-
kins heaven only knows. The present Australian
Government is a pretty good one, on the whole,
but it would be much better if it were less polite,
and less anxious not to aggravate Jenkins.
• ♦
Federal Quarantine.
Of course the Australian Parliament could not
have done everything in its first term of existence
—especially as the rabid efforts ot thle foreign-
traders to damage as much as possible local
industries hampered its work seriously—but there
is reason for the suspicion that it neglected
Federal quarantine more for lack of willingness .
to undertake the work than lack of time. There ■
is, at any rate, no prominent mention of such a
Bill during the forthcoming session. Yet the •
machinery of Federal Government cannot
be said to be complete until the bul- •
warks against the importation of foreign:
disease have been raised right around the •
Commonwealth. At present, under divergent
States’ control, the system of quarantine is in i
many respects defective. There is neither con-
sistency in the measures of precaution set down:
nor consistency in the methods of administra-
tion. So a “ suspect ” who would be blocked at
one port is often allowed to land at another, andl
in some instances during the recent Tasmanian:
and Maoriland outbreaks of smallpox, persons
who might have spread infection were actually
admitted at Melbourne after being refused at
Hobart. A traveller from Maoriland returning
to the Commonwealth who “knew the ropes” and
wished to avoid quarantine, would return via
Hobart, and thus have two chances of escaping
detention. Persons coming from Europe on the
same principle can make several tries to avoid
quarantine law—at Fremantle, Adelaide:, Mel-,
bourne and Sydney, and failure at one centre does
The Invalid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Times ... regards the supremacy of the Labor party
as rather a doubtful boon to the Commonwealth, because
that party’s immigration legislation is of a markedly
exclusive character, and because the party seems
inadequately to appreciate the numberless little ways
in which it jars .Imperial patriotism.”— Cablegram in
S.M. Herald.
Oh, go and spread the tan upon the street,
And muffle up the knocker on the door,
And walk a little lighter on your feet,
And, if you must be talking—do not roar.
Imperial patriotism is, alas,
Not just what you would well and hearty call;:
The slightest shock would shatter her like glass—
She’s only glued together, after all.
They say she symbolises British Blood,
This Image to automata akin;
She is an Idol made of wires and mud,
And painted white outside—but drab within:.
Yet in some ghastly way she is alive,
And may, with tender care, live so awhile—
And ever and anon her priests contrive
That she shall smile a weird galvanic smile..
But little for her trouble cares the crowd,
She may be dead or dying any day;
And yet, with pick and shovel clashing loud,'.
The Labor Party marches on its way.
Then go and spread the tan upon the street,
And, workers, do not speak above your breath.
Or else the English papers will repeat
That you have jarred the Invalid to death..
N.S.W.
REEVE ROE.


not seriously prejudice the chance of success at
another. Such a system is obviously absurd. If
John Smith is a dangerous person from a small-
pox point of view at Hobart, he is just as dan-
gerous, practically, at Melbourne. Existing
quarantine methods have other disadvantages;
one State, in a spirit of parsimony or careless-
ness, may relax its vigilance and thus expose
the whole continent to contagion; and a State
may “ pass on ” an infected ship to the
terminal port and thus cast the major portion of
quarantine expense on to one State. It is more
or less truly stated that the Federation is re-
luctant to take over the quarantine services be-
cause the work will cost money, and the expendi-
ture is already close up to the one-quarter of the
Customs and Excise revenue allowed by the
Constitution. But the Commonwealth has limit-
less resources of direct taxation. It can impose a
Federal land or income tax, or both. Lack of
funds is no adequate excuse for neglect of one of
the elementary duties of the union.
4
Tasmania’s Starved Service.
In Tasmania, as elsewhere, the Reform League,
clamoring for retrenchment, made its bitterest
attack on the Civil Service. The demand that
the Service should be retrenched was general and
insistent. Premier Propsting promised retrench-
ment with this curious proviso, that he would
neither dismiss men now in the Service nor reduce
the salaries already paid. Propsting’s scheme in
these circumstances remains a mystery. Every
really virtuous Vandemonian holds fast to an un-
expressed theory that Government should cost
nothing, except by way of direct expenditure on
public works. When Premier Braddon desired
to retrench some years ago he struck the Service
with a swinging percentage all round, and few
persons were humane enough to make any serious
objection. If Braddon had attempted to frame
any sound scheme of taxation such as would
touch the pockets of land-shark monopolists and
absentees, or if he had declared that not a cent of
loan money should be spent except on absolutely
necessary reproductive public works, he would
have met with abuse from all quarters;
and Braddon (whatever his virtues) was
always desperately tender of his own com-
fort and security. Braddon’s percentage re-
duction of Civil Service salaries was a grossly
inhuman and mischievous stroke of policy.
It brought a first taste of destitution to
decent homes and put a crushing weight on the
shoulders of already overburdened people. The
prevalent idea that Tasmania is an exceptionally
cheap place to live in is altogether mistaken.
A man of moderate means can bring up
his family much more cheaply in Melbourne
than he can in Hobart or in Launceston. When
Braddon bled the service, Tasmania had passed
through bitter years of struggle and depression,
and the cost of living was higher than it is now.
In any case, it is a thing against reason that, in
times of national stress, civil servants should be
made disproportionately the scapegoats of legis-
lative ineptitude and extravagance. Braddon
made the civil servants pay, in addition to other
ordinary and special taxation, what was practic-
ally an enormous special income tax of 10
per cent, on their gross income. It was
a great move. And the thing was worse
than it looks on a first glance, for
Tasmanian civil servants are at all times
wretchedly underpaid. The pay is the worst in
Australia—probably, other things being viewed in
proportion, the worst in the civilised world. In
Tasmania a puLlio servant with £3OO a year is a
magnate, an ornament of society, the cynosure of
the envious. ‘Descending to the level of the rank
and file of the clerks and laborers, the pay
becomes so poor that it is a standing marvel how
the men manage to exist with decency. There
are heads of departments in Tasmania drawing
such salaries as shopwalkers of the mainland
would scoff at. There are men daily handling
considerable sums of money, men trusted and bur-
dened with grave responsibilities, whose pay barely
suffices—and sometimes does not suffice—to keep
the wolf from the door of a cheap little suburban
house. Young men, who have spent the best years
of their youth in Government offices, can only
bring themselves to marry by an absolute act of
recklessness, and to these the prospect of a family
must be a haunting terror. Chances of promotion
are fevv. Men in approximately comfortable
billets live to a preposterous age, and die in har-
ness ; and extraordinary vacancies are still occa-
sionally filled by the appointment of men from
outside the service. And it is in these
circumstances that the base horde of Van-
demonian tax-dodgers arises as one vampire
to demand that the Civil Service shall be
retrenched. What Tasmania needs now is
a Premier game to hit straight from the
shoulder at these tax-dodgers—a Premier who
will insist on the duty of the Government to pay
honest wages for honest work, and on the duty of
every citizen to pay in full his fair share of taxa-
tion according to his means. Propsting has not,
as yet, proved himself to be that sort of Premier.
The Fall of V Australia. -
or , acobs 9 president of the S. Australian
Chamber of Commerce, went down the other day
to the Adelaide Central Market—the counterpart
°t Sydney’s Domain and Melbourne’s Yarra Bank
—and addressed a meeting of unemployed. He
gave them £10; and having thus proved what a
f i ,g°°d man he is, told them that all their
troubles sprang from socialism, and that if they
would only take less wages and kick Labor can-
didates harder, they would all be jolly and fat
and would probably be able to give “tenners”
away themselves. Just how low Jacobs thought
ißbi to be in order to make the men rich
16 d'dn’t mention. Already you can get laborers
pundl Adelaide for 4s. 6d. a day (several municipali-
J/n offer °nly that much), and plenty of workshops
1 1 no *) pay more than half-a-crown a week for
e ns. If that is not low enough, how low does
- acobs expect wages to go before the people have
enners” a-piece to throw about? As for
cialism, Bent’s State is nowadays far more
rink 11Stlc lan Australia, which has not so
A < U f \ aS a . wa^es board. Even its Early Closing
has been so whittled away that it is now
. .. 0 For years past the State’s
fnJi - anc * government have drifted further and
‘® r mto the hands of Jacobs and Co., until
v, instead of having almost a solid majority of
on ] or men in the Legislative Council, it has
p.!, . one solitary Laborite there, while, as
l e fi Cockburn and Kingston have been suc-
(, 3y 3knk!ns Iscariot. If it is blessed for
to go back on socialistic legislation and
v .1' ,S j ra *'i°, 11 . then S. Australia ought suiely to
start- 1 ? 1 «P j n blessedness. And if capital will
the t - , f ) vv ' n when a country turns its back on
*1 and embraces the syndicate instead
its ~ •. Australia ought to be now climbing up
weilir gums to escape from the flood of
l ‘ , Jacobs, Cohen and Co. have, in fact,
1-ttf.l aB e ,i'°do what they please with the State
terro ’ , y have been offered the freehold of
°ry the size of several kingdoms to build the
transcontinental railway, they have been offered
the city and suburban tramway rights gratis,
they have been offered as much northern lands
as they care to lay their hands on, they
have been offered the London Produce De-
pot, built lip in the socialistic days; and
of these and a score of other things all they
have taken is the Produce Depot, which is in
London and not in S. Australia at all. The
influx of capital hasn’t amounted to a cent, nor
has the influx of population either. On the con-
trary, people have been quitting, instead of
arriving to share the blessings of the rule of
.Jacobs ; so that now, in proportion to popula“
tion, South Australia is losing more peop’e than
any other Australian State, and this in spite of a
couple of seasons far more prolific than the aver-
age. The Bulletin therefore appeals to S. J.
Jacobs to be a little more definite. It urges him
to say precisely how much deader socialism must
be in South Australia, and how much lower must
wages go, before everybody’s pockets will be full,
and there won’t be any unemployed for gentle-
men in tall hats to talk to in the Central Market.
♦
The Beastly Suddenness of Naval War.
Judging by some recent specimens, modern naval
warfare, as practised by the big ironclad which
floats on top of the water, is a wretchedly unsatis-
factory business. It is too brief and unexpected.
A century or two ago a very ordinary naval State
could raise a couple of hundred fighting ships.
They were cheap ; they could be built quickly;
they, could sail round the world without any coal-
ing stations; it probably took a dozen losing
battles spread over a couple of years to wipe them
out, and by that time another fleet had probably
been built. Nowadays there is hardly any fun for
the money. It is a big country that owns 12 first-
class battleships—in fact, no country save Britain
possesses such a fleet. They cost £1,000,000
or £1,500,000 each. If the scene of war is
a long way off, and the country that owns
the 12 big ships has no coaling stations
on the way, its fleet simply can’t get there.
And battles are about as sudden now as the jump
of a grasshopper. One commander is a shade less
vigilant than the other; after 27 years careful
watching he turns aside for a minute to get a bit
of grit out of his eye, and while he is doing it the
other man’s torpedo boats turn his country’s naval
power into scrap iron. One moment it is, and the
next it isn’t. Or if it comes to a deliberate sea-
fight, and the guns and marksmanship on fleet
No. 1 are just a little better than on fleet No. 2,
the result is that fleet No. 2 goes to the bottom,
and No. 1 is hardly damaged. If No. 1 fleet hits
regularly in the first five minutes while No. 2
misses through not finding the range in time. No.
2 is mostly a row of floating volcanoes, and hasn’t
the ghost of a chance to recover. No individual bra-
very seems to count for very much after these first
few minutes. The big gun appears to be so much
more powerful for attack than the big ship is for
resistance that it is very much like striking an
egg-shell with a cricket-bat. The country whose
bat strikes the other fellow’s egg first wins. It is
a frightfully large gamble in which a country’s
naval power, built up by 30 years of effort, may
go under in a few minutes because one admiral
was away lighting a cigar at a certain psychological
moment, and the other wasn’t. France, for one,
has decided that the gamble is too big, and puts
its strength mostly into a multitude of torpedo
boats and submarines instead of into huge vessels
—it has probably more submarine vessels than all
the other great Powers put together, and more
torpedo boats than any other two Powers.
How its scheme will pan out in actual war
remains to be seen, but it should have a
longer run for its money than most of its
neighbors. One thing is certain —there is
no visible chance of any Boer tactics, any long-
drawn-out resistance by a weak State against a
strong one, at sea. On land a De Wet or a
Benito Juarez may still pit a handful of ill-
trained men against myriads, and wear his enemy
down in years of monotonous conflict; at sea, a De
Wet or a Juarez wouldn’t last a month. He
would peg out for want of coal. One moral of
which is that it is advisable to have a good citizen
defence force and a country that can grow every-
thing and manufacture everything it needs, and
which can’t be starved out, or even very badly
inconvenienced, by any amount of blockade. That
sort of country has always an immensely strong
second line of resistance to fall back upon.
If it is beaten at sea and the sea now-
adays seems to be a worse gamble than
Monte Carlo—it can, at the worst, just let its
enemy keep the sea till he is dead tired of buying
coal for his battleships, and maintain a good
guard on land—the land can’t be torpedoed—and
go on with its business. Australia had better try
to be that kind of country, and, as part of the
scheme, it should build its Federal capital well
inland. A country which has no navy and no
command of the sea, and which yet depends on
the sea to bring it its clothes and boots and iron-
ware and almost everything else, and which plants
all its big cities on the coast so that they may be
handy for the delivery of clothes and boots and
ironware from foreign parts, takes absurd risks.
»
The Bent Policy.
Victorian Premier Bent’s announced programme
is a roar—but what exactly the roar means to say
is not clear. Like the cry of the vegetable-man
in the suburbs, it is loud but not intelligible.
There is to be “ economy and efficiency,” which
are promised by everybody and mean everything
or nothing, as the circumstances dictate. Also,
there is to be “ enterprising, energetic and wakeful
administration generally,” which is just the loud
cry of Thomas Bent, assuring Victoria that no
person shall sleep whilst Bent is alive to holler
in his ear. Somewhat more definite, though not
at all clear, is a statement that Bent favors
Local borrowings for public works of a character likely
to pay interest and sinking fund.
This would seem to infer that ho is against borrow-
ing for works not likely to pay interest and sink-
ing fund, and against foreign borrowing at all; it
might mean that (which would be a considerable
step forward in financial reform), or it might mean
nothing of the sort. On the question of closer
settlement the Bent policy is almost as vague:
“ steps are to be taken ” to make it possible to con-
clude purchases of large estates more promptly ;
and when the owner is reluctant to sell he may be
compelled to do so by a vote of both Houses of
Parliament (one of those Houses being the House
of Landlords). This plank in the Bent platform
may be summed up as making much noise without
suggesting any progress. It is, however, definitely
promised that the income-tax is to be reduced (a
bad step whilst the State cannot pay its way);
that a referendum will be taken of the people
of the State to settle the question ot Bible-
reading in State sohools ; and that legislation will
be introduced to prevent adulteration of foods
(which, considering the failure of this Adminis-
tration to enforce the Health Acts now on the
statute-book against the unclean Kyabrammers,
does not mean much). Stripped of its evasions,
its vague promises, and its elusive hints of reform,
the Bent programme yields as a residue the single
proposal that a referendum should be taken to
definitely settle the agitation for a change in the
secular education system. That ;ind the large
inchoate roar of Bent is not enough policy to run
an election on. What .Victoria, in its present
condition, needs is an embargo against all borrow-
ing, except for conversion purposes; a progressive
unimproved land values tax, and a heavy absentee
tax to provide the nucleus of a public works fund ;
and administrative honesty. The Bent programme
gives no hope of any of these. There is thus a
glorious opportunity for a combined Labor and
.Radical campaign against a Government which is
personally contemptible and politically colorless.
The lesson of the Federal elections is that, with a
very little help from Progressives who aie not
ready to accept all its programme, the Labor
party could win Victoria. It should put itself in
the position of attracting that help and drawing
to its side all who favor any progress, as well as
the large class to which the presence of Bent in
the Premiership must be a scandal and an offence.
♦
Concerning' Butter.
When Premier Bent—the name doesn’t run very
well off the pen—paid a visit to Warrnambool,
a few days after his promotion, a local councillor,
in a welcome address, stated that the only two
blots on the Government programme were dairy
legislation and compulsory land purchase. And
yet, for weeks previous, the Victorian press had
been full of complaints from London concerning
the Victorian butter. Last summer some enter-
prising agents bought hundreds of tons of butter,
and stored it for the anticipated winter rise.
Owing to the mild weather, the rise didn’t occur,
and the stored butter was—early this season—
shipped to London. The boxes, of course, carried
their factories’ brands, and the butter was sold, in
many instances, as this season’s make. Later on,
when the real new season’s butter came along,
it _ struck a coldly-suspicious market, and
prices flopped badly. Possibly the English
buyers have worked this gag for more
than it was really worth; but, all the
same, the net result has been a loss of many
thousand pounds to the dairymen. In addition
to this trouble, there is being exported a steadily-
increasing quantity of Melbourne-made butter,
churned from odd lots of cream picked up all over
the 9State. The butter made in this way is sent
away with bogus factory brands on the boxes, to
be sold as “choicest Victorian.” In hot weather
the cans that bring this cream to the Melbourne
“ factories ” have their lids often blown off by the
fermenting mixture inside, but it all goes into the
churn. Cream over a week old is often used, and
the complaint that the resultant butter has a
“ fishy flavor ” is—unless old fish is meant —a very
mild way of stating the case. It has been
proved time and again that the only safe pro-
cess of butter-making for export is by using
pasteurised cream. Then the butter, with
reasonable care, will keep for weeks. When it is
remembered that Denmark—our strongest compe-
titor —regulates its dairies so carefully as, for
example, to prohibit the use of turnip leaves as
fodder (while allowing the use of the roots), it will
surely be admitted that what the Australian
dairying industry requires is more—and more
drastic—legislation. But every time a move is
made in this direction, fat-headed men like the
Warrnambool person alluded to get up and
scream about “freedom of action ” and “Govern-
ment interference,” and ask, tearfully, to be
allowed to continue to cut their own throats. If
only their own throats were damaged it mightn’t
matter much, but, unfortunately, the trouble
doesn’t stop there.
4
“ Desirable Immigrants.”
Unper the heading, “Desirable Immigrants;
the Sort of Thing We Want,” S.M. Herald
recently published this: —
The Prime Minister to-day received the following
interesting communication from London “ Seldom has
a finer body of men and women set out to seek their for-
tunes in a new land than 2000 emigrants who have just
left the Mersey, bound for the fertile plains of the north-
west of Canada. Each had survived a rigorous examina-
tion as to fitness. All classes of society were represented,
and the total cash value in the possession of the party
was about £500,000. The poorest individual amongst
them was a man with £5O and the physique of a wrestler.
There were 100 agriculturists, nearly all young men.
There were clerks, lawyers, engineers, doctors, 80 domes-
tic servants, a hospital matron, and seven trained nurses.
A grant of all the land required has been obtained
by the Rev. J. M. Barr, organiser of the move-
ment, who intends to plant a community of 15,C00
people. Upon reaching Saskatoon they will trek 310
miles along the old Hudson Bay trail to a district that is
described by Mr. Barr as a veritable Promised Land,
where the soil will speedily yield enough to support all
the colonists, and thousands more who are to follow in
the summer and during next year. Three towns will be
founded, and the land will be provided free of charge.”
“ That’s the sort of thing we want in Australia,” remarked
Mr. Deakin.
We do want that sort of thing badly in Australia,
but if 2000 British immigrants went inland here
to a place like Saskatoon, and then trekked 500
miles, they would strike Sheol instead of the
Promised Land. If Premier Deakin had the
courage to put on a heavy graduated land-tax and
burst up the big estates, he could make room for
500,000 settlers in Western Victoria alone ; but if
he hasn’t the necessary courage then the subject
is better dropped. In one ysar recently 13,000
people left Victoria because all the good land
remaining is owned by h'qge land-grabbers, who
insist on keeping it an empty wilderness, unless
they can let it at rents which make the tenantry
their slaves for life. The State Government won’t
compel these big monopolists to make room ; in
fact, it can’t do much in that way, for its House
of Landlords blocks the way. The Federal
Government, which has no such obstruction to
deal with, attempts nothing. And while it does
nothing to retain the agricultural population we
have, it moans because we don’t get more agri-
cultural immigrants. The 2000 settlers who are
going to a Promised Land via the Hudson’s Bay
trail are to get land of their own there. If they
came to Australia they would get no land of their
own—they would be asked £2 or £3 per acre per
annum rent by the land-sharks of Western Vic-
toria, or the A. A. Go. of N.S.W., or the V.D.L.
Co. of Tasmania. Until Premier Deakin alters
that state of things, no 2000 agricultural settlers
are likely to rush in this direction.
-
Life Sentences.
N.S.W. Executive, acting on the recommenda-
tion of Attorney-General Wise, has made some
important changes in the conditions surrounding
life sentences, and sentences of death that have
been commuted to life imprisonment. Hitherto a
life sentence in N.S.W. has been an indetermi-
nate one, and its length depended principally on
the activity and influence of the prisoner’s friends
outside. If he had, no friends, his release was
often brought about bv the dislike of the prison
department to have the oldest inhabitant die on
its hands, in which case the department gave him
a few pounds gratuity, and let him quietly out at
the front gate. The new regulations are based on
the rules that govern such matters in England,
the life sentence now being fixed in the
case of young convicts at 20 years, provided the
conduct of the prisoner is good. As regards,old
and middle-aged prisoners, the twenty-year rule is
modified by a right of petition—which petition
may lead to release —at the end of a term of years’
which varies from ten up to nineteen, according
to the age of ti e prisoner, and not by any means
according to the heinousness of his crime. The
right of petition is based on the number of years
which the life insurance tables show a prisoner
may reasonably expect to live, and it reads thus :
When the expectation of life is Right to petition.
Between 22 and 21 years .. After 19 years from date of
sentence.
». 21 .. 20 „ .. „ 18 „ „ „
„ 20 „ 19 17 „
» 99 99 •• 19 16 ~ ,9 99
„ is ~ 17 15
99 17 ~ 16 ~ .. ~ 14 ~ •,, ~
.. 16 „ 15 13 „ „ „
.. 14 „ 13 „ .. „ 11 „ „
.. 13 „ 12 „ .. „ 10 ,/ „
This opens up much room for thought. Taking
Dr. Ogle’s (English) life tables, it would mean
that the man who gets a life sentence when he is
aged 46 has a right to ask for his release in 19
years (when he is 65), while a man who gets a
similar sentence at 60 may ask for his release in
10 years (when he is 70). As for the man who is
sentenced at 45, he must put in his whole 20 years,
and then his release depends on his good conduct.
The reason of this age limit isn’t very clear. If a
man commits a serious offence at 20 there should
be some chance of bringing about his reformation,
but the one who earns a life sentence at 50 or 60 is
generally irreclaimable. And this haste to turn
loose the prisoner of 70 looks more like a hap-
hazard attempt to save burial expenses than
part of a definite system. In fact, the whole
scheme looks like an attempt to save burial
expenses and wear and tear of the gaol hospital.
What good end is served by this hurry to release
aged wrecks who are past work, mostly past
reformation, and in some cases past even a
satisfying drunk, and who ought to finish their
life sentences under mild restraint in an Old
Criminals’ Home? The system is English, but
that appears to be its chief recommendation.
«
A letter from Westraha :
Politics in Westralia are stagnant, notwithstanding the
near approach of general elections. The James Govern-
ment is letting things slide. All the Ministers save one
are on tour. The Premier and Treasurer are in Victoria
with their latest catch—slippery Nanson. Nanson’s
career has been curious. Originally a bank clerk, he
married a lady of literary bent, and she induced him to
leave ledgers and go in for newspaper work. He joined
the West Australian—a paper of monumental dullness,
compared with which the S.M. Herald is a giddy, whirl-
ing production ; and his style suiting the proprietary, he
advanced rapidly and amassed wealth. His wife, a clever
and ambitious woman, insisted on his entering Parlia-
ment, and he just managed to win an obscure country
seat by one vote. Then he sat behind the
Leake Government for a few days, but he
was regarded as a traitor in the camp and
received his congC in the open House. Some especi-
ally nasty recriminations ensued, and then Nanson
assumed the leadership of the Opposition—such as it
was. The Leake Government went under, and A. E.
Morgans formed a team, in which Nanson was included,
but the country wasn’t taking any Morgans, and he met
with a cold rebuff. Then James got a crowd together,
and it has held on tenaciously ever since—Nanson’s influ-
ence, such asit was,being always “agin” the Government.
Hardly had the last session of the present Parliament
closed before James took Nanson to his bosom, and made
him an honorary Minister, with the promise of the
Treasurership, shortly to be vacated by Gardiner. There
has been a howl of indignation from one end of Jarrah-
land to the other, and knives are being sharpened-'-they
all want a piece of James or Nanson.
That wordy person with the large moustache,
Chief Justice Madden of Victoria, commenced
the other day giving copious off-hand readings of
the Federal law which is designed to shut out un-
desirable immigrants. The case was that of a
Chinaman named Ah Foo, but Ah Foo and his
special grievances were presently snowed up
under the blizzard of his Honor’s verbiage. The
Act says distinctly that the undesirable, in the
absence of any direct means of keeping him out,
may be required to write 50 words in some
European language, which is, of course, a mere
device whereby the foreign criminal or other ob-
jectionable may be politely shunted. The British
Government refused to allow Australia to exclude
him honestly and openly, so by an affable
hypocrisy he is shut out for not knowing
some impossible European language, and the
test is only applied to those whom it is considered
advisable to shut out. Justice Madden, in his
excitement, went outside the Act, and declared
that the foreign criminal or other bad character
must be allowed to select his own language, that
the section must be “liberally interpreted” with
a special view to letting the foreign criminal come
in ; and that “no Parliament ever intended ” that
the authorities should select the language to be
used as a test. If his Honor knew half as much
about politics as he does about cosmetics he would
be aware that that was exactly what Parliament
did intend —that, in deference to British preju-
dice, the undesirable was to be politely shut out
because he didn’t know Greek or Portuguese,
instead of being plainly and rudely shut out
because of his bad character or general objection-
ableness. Parliament made so little disguise of
its views that Mr. Madden’s ignorance on the
point is an amazing example of how a man may
have more brilliantine than information.
» ■
Not often, even from the sink of a great city,
sordid a tale as that of Josephine
Hunter, sentenced at Sydney for manslaughter
the other day. Originally a country girl, she was
seduced and came to Sydney to give birth to her
child. Whilst it was yet a puling infant in arms
she became enciente again—associating with a man
of the criminal class. Then homeless, foodless, with
the thought of the birth to come goading her to
madness, after a day’s tramping through the
streets, she strangled her child in a public park.
In evidence she said that she was instigated to
the murder by the man she was then associating
with. This statement cannot be investi-
gated, as, in pity, the jury found her
guilty of manslaughter only. That crime is essen-
tially an umpremeditated one ; so, as the verdict
says the woman did not premeditate the killing,
it is not possible to accuse the man of suggest-
ing it to her. It would have been better to
have convicted her formally of the crime
which she had certainly committed, whilst for the
time being mad, and thrown on the Grown the
responsibility of sending her to the hospital instead
of to the gaol or the scaffold. But the jury hesi-
tated to take that risk; the Crown has hanged
maniacs before now in N.S.W.
4
Marvellous how completely Ghambers of Com-
merce can forget their Private Enterprise creed
sometimes. The fire insurance companies have
been making the Westralian goldfields traders sit)
up lately on account of their extremely high pra-


mium charges; whereupon the Kalgoorlie Cham-
ber, instead of passing a resolution congratulating
the companies upon their success, decided that, if
the companies wouldn’t do the work for less, “Go-
vernment be urged to institute a system of fire
insurance.” Here, too, you get a fair idea of what is
generally expected of the State—to do something
for less than Private Enterprise will charge.
Whenever there is anything to be done that it
won’t pay Private Enterprise to do, the State is
cordially invited to take it up. Afterwards, when
it doesn’t pay, the results are pointed to as proof
of the superiority of Private Enterprise, and of
the inherent viciousness of socialistic theories.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “San Toy.”
Her Majesty’s “Resurrection."
Lyceum “ The Best Must Win."
Criterion “ Lady of Ostend.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Steyxe Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s , “ A Stranger in a Strange Land.”
Tlf.r Majesty’s. ....... “A Country Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ The Flood Tide.”
Opera House.. Rickards’Variety Co.
♦
“ Ran Toy,” revived last Saturday at
Sydney Royal, suited the Musical Comedy Co.
better than “Florodora,” and the east was open
to little criticism. Miss May Beattie, in the
name part, made a picturesque figure, sang tune-
fully (her voice seems to be recovering from the
strain imposed on it by work of the “Fortune
Teller ” type), and acted brightly. “ San Toy ”is
one of her most successful appearances in Sydney.
Miss Olive Lenton, as the maid Dudley, also
makes an attractive figure, with clever
dancing and acting. Miss Elsie Moore is a
beauteous Poppy, and Miss Minnie Hooper a
stalwart colonel of the Chinese Amazons. The
success of “ San Toy,” apart from its bright and
chippy music, depends on the gladsome fooling
of the Chinese servant Li (Fred Graham), the
Emperor (Fred Leslie) and the mandarin Yen
How (Fred Rivenhall), but most of all on
Li, and Li puts considerable mirth into his
drunk and his imitations of British johnny-
dom. In characters which do not give much
scope, Arthur Crane and Frank Crossley
do as well as can be expected, and the
chorus is the same reliable and tuneful chorus,
excellent in throat and limb. There seems to be
an unlimited growth of good chorus girls in Aus-
tralia. This country exports chorus largely, for
positions in effete Europe, and still has an
abounding supply for local demands. The
crop of chorus, indeed, deserves to be ranked as
one of our great national industries, and it can
claim never to have publicly asked for a subsidy
from the Owe’Sullivan or from Acting-Premier
Wise. On Monday, by the way, Fred Graham
is to have a complimentary benefit at the Royal.
#* * *
“The Best Must Win” still pursues its
slaughterous course at Sydney Lyceum, and the
Kiss of Death, with groan and shriek accom-
paniments, keeps the gallery-eye glued to the
stage at 9.30 p.m. or thereabouts.
** * *
Audiences that have rolled up to “ Resur-
rection,” at Her Majesty’s, during the past week,
have had a different and unusual bloom upon
them—not a Sydney bloom by any means.
Farmers, graziers (the grazier is supposed to be a
cut above the farmer; in breach-of-promise
cases the girl mostly gets heavier damages from
him than from the farmer), horse-breakers,
miners, and the fine-looking boundary-riders (the
last might say, with Kipling’s Mulvaney, “ Begad
I tuk a woman’s eye, I did ”) are in town for the
cricket. They asked for cricket and they got
rain, so they go to “Resurrection” and listen
to the Easter hymn (it doesn't whistle well,
they find) and watch the hairy, beery peasants
kissing the young prince on both cheeks. And
thej T think that those two maiden aunts of his
were too green to burn for sending a pretty girl
like Katusha Jeffries into his room to put
quilts or pillow-frills or something on nis
regal shake-down. The opportunity to flirt
is too tempting, and youth and maid
gaze out. on the snowy, moonlit landscape, and
give sighs like gales of wind. From that little
indiscretion come all the misery, and music, and
preaching, and Siberian travel of the drama.
Maud Jeffries, Julius Knight, Olive Noble, E. A.
Warburton and Eardley Turner deserve a mention.
** m #
Madamoiselle Yvonne Leverrier, whose
photo smiles on the public in this issue, will play
at the Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night
(sth March). The young pianist, if she is
within cannon shot of certain reports that
have travelled ahead of her, is a remarkable
player. Herr Gerard Vollmar will ’cello as his
contribution to the performance; also a young
country contralto, Miss Neville Vane, will debut,
and Mr. H. N. Southwell will manage, and the
public will applaud--at least it is hoped they will.
*- * * *
Renewing acquaintance with the “ Lady
of Ostend ” at Sydney Criterion, the quality of
the work in one or two of the smaller parts strikes
you hard. There is G. W. Elton’s John Humbert,
the manager of the Cinematograph which causes
all the trouble—the man who drives a bargain
with the people who have been making fools of
themselves with the decoy duck, and now want
their pictures taken off. It isn’t a nice character,
this of the Yankee showman, but Elton makes it
lifelike. And the Lady of Ostend, too, is
only “on” for a very few minutes, yet fills those
few minutes with as much laughter as any in the
whole two hours and.forty minutes of fun. Note-
worthy, also, is the excellence of the make-up of
the dragon mother-in-law and her daughter. You
could swear to the relationship. Business con-
tinues good, so there is no change of bill in sight
yet; when there is, it will probably be “The
Two Mr. Witherbys.”
•■* * * *
Philip Lytton’s well-trained team of
amateurs, and Mrs. Lytton, who hasn’t a trace of
the amateur about her, bad a crowded house and
scored quite a triumph at Sydney Palace on
Saturday night in “ Captain Swift.” The Captain
is a four act improbability by Haddon Chambers.
The male portion of the Players is strengthening
visibly, but the ladies, with the exception of Mrs.
Lytton, are only ordinary mummers so far. The
reason for this is that the local professional
managers have an ever open eye for stars of the
female persuasion, and when Mr. Lytton dis-
covers, or creates or polishes a gem of unusual
brilliancy it is promptly stolen from him. Mrs.
Lytton made quite a bit in the part of Mrs. Sea-
brook ; her representation of the broken-hearted
and repentant mother moved the audience with an
unaccustomed thrill. Still, it is to be regretted that
she disfigured her own shapely head with the blonde
tousled wig which looked more like a door-mat than
the top-knot of a charming matron. Miss Eadith
Shepherd took the part of Stella Derbyshire (the
heroine), and a gorgeous gold and black and red
hammock of seductive curves and Oriental luxuri-
ousness showed off her desirable figure to every
possible advantage. When not in the hammock,
her fine chest and arms were frankly displayed in
several nice chiffony costumes. Miss Beatrice
Dive skipped about in white muslin and other
dainty dresses. Mr. Lincoln Jones, as the
hero, acted well; but his atrocious boxer hit
people in the eye and obsessed them. He clung
to it persistently, and wore it even while pro-
posing. Halwyn Tait, who did Mr. Seabrook
convincingly, is making quite an impression with
his old men parts ; only he makes them a shade
too tottery. It makes the audience nervous to
■ae such shaky old gentlemen badly worried.
Mr. Melville Adams acted priggish Harry
Seabrook, and Mr. Leonard Dale as Mr. Gar-
diner, squatter, friend to the bushranger and
lover to the ingenue, wore, as his one and only
make up, a sinister pointed beard and badly
fitting wig, which gave an erroneous idea of
villainy. The “Captain” was preceded by the
balcony scene from “Romeo and Juliet,” spoken
by two small girls. This part of the entertain-
ment seemed to bore the gods, who made remarks
which, applied to their own donah, would have
caused a riot. What irritated them was not
plain, as the children spoke their lines very
clearly, and were word perfect.
* # * *
Gregan M‘Mahon, of the Hawtrey Comedy
Co. (now appearing at Sydney Criterion) is,
besides being a promising “ character ” comedian,
a graduate and honor man of Sydney University,
who threw up a prospective legal career for the
stage, and was fortunate enough to receive his
earliest training at the hands of Robert Brough.
Returning to Sydney from a foreign tour with
the Broughs, M‘Mahon was re-engaged by the
same management, but subsequently was passed
over to William E. Hawtrey. He had his first
large opportunity as Horace Parker in “A Mes-
sage from Mars”; made a success of it, and has
since been busy establishing himself as a cultured
and versatile comedian. Pictured on another
page.
* * * *
Pete Hughes, who has for 20 years been a
theatrical manager in Australia, and whose head
has shone like a radiance in front of many suc-
cessful shows, is to be tendered a benefit at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) next Saturday. All the com-
panies in Sydney intend lending a hand to make
it a memorable success.
* * * *
Still more comedy music at Sydney Tivoli,
“Johnny” Johnson being the new star. This
makes tne third turn of the kind on the bill; and
yet they don’t overlap. Clarke and Hamilton
rely mainly upon the weird things they do with a
piano; Clarke’s simple little imitation of a
musical box reveals the artist —the artist who
doesn’t have to put frills on his picture to make
people look at it. The Dumonds twang their
strings with the same success as hitherto; and
Johnson, the newest-comer, relies on minstrelsy.
Harvey, too, has been doing a capital .turn, quite
up to the imported ones. Dropping the uncon-
nected snatches of imitations, he puts on a
melodrama, with Wilson Barrett, Dampier, and
the Widow Sheridan in the cast —his best down
to date.
• * » «
Melbourne treated Preacher Dowie’s show
with a shriek of derision that broke up the
performance in one act. Still the shriek was a
matter for which the cantankerous seer was
mainly responsible. A good many circumstances
tended to rouse the dander of Bent’s city. It
had already heard deputy-prophet Voliva, and
didn’t like his accent. It had heard of the pro-
{ihet’s wings, and his reincarnation, and his faith-
lealing, and his violent temper, and it had also
heard the rumor that he denied being the son of
old Dowie and claimed to be the offspring of a
duke or something of the sort. It was only ad-
mitted by ticket and got its clothes (Mel-
bourne is a whale for clothes) crumpled a
good deal at the narrow turnstiles. Also, it
was probably riled at the supremely insolent
cablegram which Dowie had despatched to Zion,
in which he virtually said that he had this country
by the wool, and that it had fallen prostrate
before him and his wings. Still the audience
apparently intended to be peaceful, but there was
a small noise near the door, and the inflammable
prophet blazed up and began dashing adjectives
about in heaps, and then a section of the crowd
whistled and cat-called and urged the prophet to
flap his pinions, and otherwise broke loose. When
once chaos began the crowd yearned for the
pleasure of seeing the prophet get really mad, and
when Elijah danced like a spring lamb on a moun-
tain top it felt amply repaid. The meeting was
very brief, and the latter part of it consisted in
some ardent Zionists singing the doxology, while a
considerable portion of the audience mafficked
gaily, and Elijah whirled on the platform like
a convulsed hippopotamus. The prophet declared
afterwards that the row was conducted by men of
high standing and bell-topper, and repeated his
former denunciation of the Masons as the source
of trouble. Apparently the Masons did some-
thing to Elijah in his previous incarnation. Per-
haps when the walls of Samaria were being built
Ahab’s hod-carrier got to words with him.
** # *
The Princess’s opens its doors again on
Saturday (sth) at the instance of Willoughby and
Geach, whose return to the birthplace of their
management has been heralded by a lavish display
of poster-pictures and an ad., which vaguely
suggests that they are about to pitch an Indian
Encampment at the top of Spring-street. “ A
Stranger in a Strange Land ” appears to be the
official title of thisforthcomingproduction. Charles
Arnold is mentioned as the original selector of the
show, and the word “Laughter” looms large in
the announcements. Also New York is alleged
to have a craze for “A Stranger in a Strange
Land,” but the fact that strikes deepest into Mel-
bourne’s understanding is the name of the man
who picked the comedy. If Arnold reckoned that
George Willoughby and co. can make it gee in
Australia, it probably will start geeing on Satur-
day. Anyway, Melbourne is glad to hear of the
Princess’s being open to business once more.
#* * *
At Her Majesty s (Melb.) the declining
weeks of “A Country Girl” are to be brightened,
it is said, by a new baritone, who will take over
from Reginald Roberts the part formerly played
by Harold Thorley. Concerning which rumor
the present scribe will firstly remark “Amen” in
a metallic, tremulous tone of voice, and a unique
Wesleyan accent —the same tone and accent
that Roberts employs when paying his super-
fervid addresses to the heroine. A dashing
nautical character in musical comedy should
always be filled by a baritone or a basso—never by
a tenor. The roar of the rolling deep and the voice
of the tempest are not tenor in their sympathies,
and although “Tom Bowling” is usually sung by
a ladylike vocalist with a high C in his upper
register, the ballad, under those conditions, fails
to bring a briny tear to a meditative eye. This
is the tenth week of “A Country Girl.” The
remaining weeks of the season are only two in
number, therefore the management exhorts Mel-
bourne to book its seats earlier than usual and
avoid the crush at the doors. A long run for a
theatrical show is seemingly expected to ensure a
crushing success for its tail end. If the weeks of
“ A Country Girl ” had been months, it would be
dangerous to attempt to enter the theatre through
an early door unless one’s life were insured.
#* * *
At the Royal, the last chapter of Bland
Holt’s present season will begin on Saturday
next. “The Flood Tide,” as The Bulletin
stated recently, is not a commonplace drama,
loaded up with impossible situations and shocking
dialogue. It is a huge spectacular melo-farce
from Drury-lane, full brother to “The Great
Millionaire,” and closely related to half-a-dozen
of the most distinguished literary dramas in Bland
Holt’s stable. Bland has had “Flood Tide” in
training for some time, and if it gets a good start
on Saturday it will cut out a merry three weeks,
so to speak.
** # #
At Melbourne Opera House the programme
is pretty much what it was last week. Russell
ventriloquises even better than at first, and the
effigy of Joe improves on acquaintance. The
educated dogs do the bidding of Dewar as though
they liked it, and the Empire Girls, likewise the
Two Bells, continue to be nice above the average.
And six nicely artistic dancers all in a row are a
matter for rejoicing at any time.
** * *
The Permans’ pantomime at Adelaide
Royal has entered on a third week (not contem-
plated in the original plan), in deference to a
public desire, firm though not frenzied, that Shine
should continue to nurse the inhuman baby, and
the six States of the Commonwealth should go on
presenting themselves in light costume at the
footlights. The lady representing Yictoria, by
the way, has, of course, become only a detail since
the show left Melbourne; and now it is S. A. that
marches in last and gets all the applause. Harry
Rickards has re-opened the Tivoli, and himself
appears there every evening. Vulcana’s back,
however, being more startling, and incomparably
more novel, must be regarded as the backbone, so
to speak, of the programme.
The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOB YEAR ENDED gist DECEMBER, 1902.
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 8Y... _ £5,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, eto.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman; Hon. 0. K. MACK ELL AR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
The Wild Cat Column.
The Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Deficit Deficit re-
(£150,000 maining if
Profits. Dividend ■. goodwill not capital
reckoned an were wholly
Dec., asset). written off.
1896.. £411,302
1897.. £3,550 407,752 £381,211
1898.. 5,647 402,105 375,286
1899.. 15,524 386,581 359,509
1900.. 15,533 371,048 343,441
1901.. 26,712 344,336 316,728
190?.. 21.413 322,893 295,189
1903.. 11,374 8 p.c. =£B32 312,351 284,613
The co. ceienrates the smallest profit for five years by a
3 per cent, dividend. It is such a little one, for the capi-
tal. is down, now to £27,738, that the amount will hardly
be noticed ; still a company which has a deficit of
£284,613, even if the whole of the capital were written off,
hasn’t any business to have even a small sin of this sort.
Of course, in calculating this deficit, goodwill is not
regarded as an asset, even though it is down in the
balance sheet for £150,000. The idea of supposing that
a business which can make losses of the size disclosed
here is worth £150,000 is a joke. If the business is worth
anything now it isn’t the part of the business that is
represented by the £150,000; it is the new part—the
intelligence and skill shown during the last few years,
and which have resulted in a remarkable reduction of
the dead-horse left by the old boom concern. But the
reduction of the deficit has resulted from an increase in
stock-in-trade, plant, and new real estate, rather than
from a reduction of.mortgages and debenture-debt. The
total of this nurtgage and debenture debt has, for a
few years past, been :
1897 ... £792,920 1901 .. £773,401
1898 .. 787,044 1902 .. 760,408
1899 .. 786,389 1903 .. 750,200
1900 .. 785,453
This isn’t as satisfactory as it might be. The mort-
gages and debenture debt are a dead certainty ; while, as
the co. has found out before this, real estate and lease-
holds, and even stock, &c., are not. They shrink, but
the mortgage does not. An improvement which results
from a considerable increase of the shrinkable assets
while the unshrinkable debts show an inconsiderable
reduction isn’t, generally speaking, as good an improve-
ment as if the position of the shrinkables and unshrink-
ables were reversed.
The Victorian brewers’ battle grows hotter.
When most of the old breweries formed a pool to put up
prices, the Bung trade which was free to look anywhere
looked two ways—towards co-operation and across the
Straits. Tasmanian brewers jumped in and pushed trade
hard ; and business, as shown by import figures, moved
up from 34 hogsheads in the four’weeks Sept. 7 to Oct. 3
to 522 hogsheads in the four weeks ending Jan. 24. Th e
reply to that has been an application by the Melb. com-
bine for a license in Tasmania, where a retaliatory cam-
paign is being organised. Meantime, the co-operative
co. has abandoned its original intention of re-opening
Wood and Sons’ brewery at Oollingwood, and has taken
premises out Abbotsford way ; Oollins-street offices have
been engaged, and the plant is now being got ready.
* * * *
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Melbourne)-
Added
Written to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit
1892.. £1597 2p.c.= £BOO £1272 £7j
Reserves.
1893.. 1034 637 £397 826
1894.. 988 1272 42
1895.. 1080 636 444 486
1896.. 655 1000 Hi
(£20,000, being one-half paid-up capital, written off.)
1897.. 690 690 881
Loss.
1898.. 284 647
Profits.
1899.. 1176 4 p.c.- 800 876 923
1900.. 1926 4} „ „ 900 457 669 1492
1901.. 1905 6 ~,, 1000 905 2397
1902.. 1818 5 „ „ 1000 715 103 2500
1903.. 1464 4 „ „ 800 664 3164
An interim dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, was paid
six months ago, but only 3 per cent, is available for the
second half, business having latterly fallen away. The
undivided profit is being used to further reduce the
mortgage, which, by a payment of £9OO during this term,
has been brought down to £22,130. In four years £3620
has been wiped out, which is respectable progress.
• * • •
The Silverton Tramway Co., the mainly-
Victorian concern which makes a fine thing out of the 33
miles of railway connecting Broken Hill with the S. Aus-
tralian system at the border :
Dividends on Real
Profits. Actual Capital Written Re-
Dec., of £122,105. Off. serves.
1891. .£128,690 67} per cent. =£82,419 £73,341
1892.. 80,515 48} „ „ 59,341 £Bl4 93,701
1893.. 116,529 57} ~ „ 70,000 47,051 93,179
1894.. 108,363 32$ „ „ 40,000 63,000 98,542
1895.. 113,835 69 „ „ 84,067 6,881 121,429
1896.. 111,896 81 „ „ 98,903 134,422
1897.. 88,246 77 „ „ 93.958 128,710
1898.. 86,574 64f „ ~ 79,122 136,162
1899.. 95,592 64f „ „ 79,122 152,632
1900.. 89,472 64} „ „ 79,122 8,809 154,173
1901.. 78,946 60$ „ „ 74,177 7,600 151,342
1902.. 55,462 36} „ ~ 44,507 23,370 138,927
1903.. 60,579 32} „ „ 39,561 159.945
The reserves are made up in this way :—£75,701 capita-
lised (making the capital £197,806); £50,000 reserve fund
(of which £20,000 is in the co.’s business and the rest in
State securities); and £34,244 undivided profit. The
dividend is the smallest in 14 years ; nevertheless, it still
represents 20 per cent, on even the capital swollen as
first mentioned, while the profits were at the rate of 23}
per cent, on shareholders’ total funds as at the com-
mencement of the year (£261,032) ; it does not make any
difference to that calculation whether part of the funds
is called capital or reserves. That 23} per cent,
shows what Private Enterprise can do when it gets a
corpulent monopoly. Under threat of competition the
co. has just agreed to reduce its best customer’s
rates to a point which will, it is calculated, make
a difference of £13,000 a year in net earnings;
but it hopes to recover some of this—already it has
sacked a few hands. The chances are that it will not be
able to recover anything like the full £13,000; but it
gains through being established in its monopoly- for seven
years. There would have been a State line years ago
but for a few difficulties. First, there isn’t enough busi-
ness for two railways between Broken Hill and the
border ; and, under the company’s Act, the Stale cannot
take over the line except at a price based upon the co.’s
profit during the preceding three years. If, then, the
State did take over the line, it would have to still charge
absurdly high rates in order to pay interest on the
absurdly- high capitalisation, so the public would gain
very little. It was a very effective noose that the N.S.W.
Parliament dropped over the district’s head in 1886.
* * * *
The Yic. Government ought to read up the
history of the Silverton Tramway 00. before it considers
the proposals which have been made to it by the Victorian
Power Distribution 00. for the supply of powe ■ to work
the suburban railways at Id. per unit. When, a few
years ago, the promoters of this Silverton Tramway
went to the N.S.W. Government with their proposals,
they did not seem particularly out of the way— at the
time. But, once having bound itself down, the State
was shut out from benefiting by the progress of events.
Whatever improvements were made during the life of
the concession were so much clear profit to the
syndicate or the co. The result in the Silverton Broken
Hill case has been that the co. has been able to
pay dividends running up to over 80 per cent, per
annum on its capital, and its profits have passed 60 per
cent, even at a time when some of the mines which it is
supposed to serve have not been able to work at any
profit at all. The penny per unit which the Victorian 00.
asks now is not, even at this moment, particularly low;
power for traction purposes is being supplied elsewhere
for as little as }d. per unit. But even if Id. were a fair
thing now, it is practically certain that something will be
developed during the next few years to make it an out-
of-the-way price, so rapid and continuous are the im-
provements in electrical engineering. If a contract
had been made for the supply of power 10 years
ago it is exceedingly doubtful whether anything
less than 2d. or Bd. would have been quoted.
Now it is down to Id., the difference representing the
scientific and industrial progress of the past 10 jyars.
For the Victorian Government to enter into a 10 years
contract now for the supply of power at a price which
will probably, long before the term is expired, be six
times a fair figure, means making a present to the syndi-
cate of the fruits of the next 10 years’ progress. Also, it
means the risk of subjecting Melbourne industry to a
crushing handicap.
• • • •
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia)
Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Paid. Contributing. Off. serves
Nor., *Ol.. £9,730
May, '02.. £7,669 £1361 U > o3B
N0v.,'02.. 12,000 j 3 £2500" 1 2109 16 ’ 929
May, '03.. 10.1111746 14,294
N0v.,'03.. 11,812{ 1 £2500 = } 1953 19 ’ 153
During the six months Is. 4d. per share has been called
up on the 50,000 contributing shares, which now stand at
Bs. paid, with a further liability of 12s. As usual, how-
ever, the dividend (Is.) is the same on paid as on contri-
buting shares. As with a few other co.’s elsewhere,
this one makes little of its profit out of the thing which
gives it its name ; of its net profit (£9858), gas gave only
£2666, the other £7192 coming from the electric depart-
ment. The latter is, moreover, making most progress.
Compared with the same part of the previous year, 20 per
cent, more current was sold and only 14 per cent, more
gas, though even a 14 per cent, increase in output inside
12 months is not to be despised. A recent reduction in
the price of current probably made some difference.
The co. is still pretty heavily burdened with over-
draft (£17,790) and mortgage (£1500), while £1125 is
held on deposit; the increase in subscribed
capital and undivided profit has not kept pace
with the development of the business. In view
of this, the co. has done right to reduce the div.,
which never ought to have been jumped up as it
was. On the average of the paid capital (£66,006 when
the half-year started ; £70,000 when it ended) the net
profits were at the handsome rate of £2B 11s. per cent,
per annum as against £25 2s. the previous half-year.
# » * •
The Brighton Gas 00. (Victoria)
Carried
Written to Re- Re-
Profits Dividends off serves serves
June, 1901.. £1729 5 p.c. = £lll7 £378 £234 £2523
Dec., 1901.. 1086 5„ „ 1117 391 178 2700
June, 1902.. 1462 6„ ~ 1117 465 2586
Dec., 1902.. 1524 5„ „ 1117 324 83 2669
June, 19C3.. 1525 6„ ~ 1117 407 1 2670
Dec., 1903.. 1769 5„ „ 1117 242 410 3080


Somebody has been owing; this co. something-half-penny
for a long while. At last it is written off as a bad debt,
and the annoying half-penny will now happily disappear
from the accounts. The reserves are all in the business,
which returned £6 Bs. per cent, per annum on share-
holders funds—the best yield for some time past.
* * * *
“F.C.”: Another syndicate (said to include Davy
Mitchell) is nibbling at the Yarra tunnel scheme for
generating electricity for Melbourne, or at least its
Northern suburbs. About a score of years ago a mining
co. tunnelled under the neck of a balloon-shaped
peninsula on the Yarra, about a mile below Anderson’s
Creek. Tunnel was 12ft. by 12ft.., roughly blasted out,
300 ft. long, and with a fall of 16ft. from inlet to outflow.
In an ordinary summer a dam built just below the inlet
sent the whole Yarra through the gap, leaving 1J miles
of alluvial bed to be washed. Company is said to have
barely cleared expenses. Now, the syndicate reckons to
rebuild the long-3ince-washed-away dam, clean out the
tunnels, and put turbines at the outflow, thence
transmitting the current to the city for lighting
and power purposes I inspected the tunnel just
after recent rains, when, to all appearances, the
whole Yarra was still flowing round the balloon-shaped
bend, but on reaching the outlet I found a torrent coming
through with a deafening roar, and power to the extent
of over 400 millions of foot*pounds going to waste hourly.
If a syndicate can harness that tunnel-water, it should
be able to knock the stuffing out of any coal-generated
electricity company going. To any man watching the
power wasted at this tunnel-mouth, the wonder is that
the municipal authorities of such a city as Melbourne
should have allowed it to waste so long. There is force
enough in the different bends of the Yarra, within
20 miles of the city—force easily harnessed and trans-
mitted—to light the city, work all its factories, and drivs
every engine on the Victorian lines without going to ths
trouble and expense of digging an ounce of coal from a
single mine.
* * * •
The Northern Tasmanian Permanent Build-
ins Society (Launceston, Tas.)
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- R»-
Dec., serves. serves.
1898 .. £13,596
1899 .. £lBO2 About 7 p.c.= £1347 £455 14 051
1900 .. 1782 „ „ „ 1335 447 14,498
1901 .. 1595 „ „ „ 1462 133 14,631
1902 .. 1745 „ „ „ 1633 112 14,743
1903 .. 1733 „ „ „ 1613 120 14,863
Deposits have been further reduced ; two years ago they
were £45,302 ; a year ago, £32,598 ; now, £23,535. Nor
has there been any increase of shareholders’ funds to
counterbalance this. It isn’t certain that this means
diminishing profits ; but the chances are that it does. On
total shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
year (capital £23,627 and reserves £14,743) profits were
equal to £4 10s. 4d. per cent.
* * * *
Fifty thousand cactle are estimated to have left
the Gulf country for the South during last year. This
represents considerably over £250,000. It means that
Gulf stations are being depleted to stock more highly
improved properties “further in.” It also means that
the Q. Lands Department will shortly have a lot of Gulf
station property left on its hands.
* * ♦ *
The Equitable Building Society (Launceston.
Tas.):— v ’
Added fco Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900 •• £12,539'
1901 .. £3Bll 7p.c. =£3282 £529 13,068
1902 .. 3630 7 „ ~ 3342 288 13,356
1903 .. 3674 7 „ „ 3363 311 13,667
This old and prosperous society continues to do well.
The year’s changes, though they indicate a contraction of
business, are not important. Deposits stand at £63,419
as against £75,760; on the other side, balances due on
mortgage have been reduced from £128,267 to £117,742
while in cash and credit balances there has been a slight
reduction from £8829 to £8782. Shareholders’ funds as
at the commencement of the year (£51,910 capital and
£13,356 reserves) earned £5 12s. 7d. per cent, during the
year. 6
* * * *
The Owe’See hasn’t exhausted all the possible
ways of raising the wind even now. There’s a suggestion,
for instance, from Berlin. As millions will gamble, the
idea is to provide them with a State lottery ; but, as it is
also the business of the State to encourage thrift, the
idea further is only to sell tickets in the lottery to those
who have savings bank deposits ; a man lodges a deposit,
in weekly instalments or otherwise, and instead of get-
ting interest in cash, he gets it in sweep tickets. No
saving, no gambling ; and the bigger the save, the bigger
the gamble. It is a beautiful idea for a composite Minis-
try. Crick could keep his eye on the lottery part of the
business. Kidd could fasten his on the encouragemerit-of-
thnft aspect. The Owe’See himself would, of course,
be most interested in the deposits. This is a time when
the Owe See can’t get loans even to pay for resumed pro-
perties without putting frills on his proposals ; and this
nu has more points about it than any suggested for a
long while,
* * • •
The Sydney Freehold Land, Building and
Investment Co. :
Profit
(including Taken from
profit on Distribution of Re- Re-
property Assets. serves, serves.
. sales).
June, 1901.. _ _ - £7415
Jnno io/v>* * About 26} p.o. ■ £2500 £2500 4915
Dec ’ on, 2 ’ >• 9 .. » 833 576 4339
June 5" 105 •* 20 » » 1875 1770 2569
Dee ’lhm" 00! ** 13 $ *> ” 1250 1188 1381
1903.. 228 „ 6J „ „ 625 397 984
he society’s lands are sold on the instalment plan, and
anm M lnst . alment9 come in they are distributed. Pre-
»umab y it is intended to continue this process until the
nrnfw- G oSes U ,P‘ The c - A as very little income apart from
viel f L°2oo Sales ’ fo , r the pasfc year interest and rents
tn -Pier* ?? sa e P r °fik s £495 ; expenses amounted
if; I* claimed that the unsold lands are still
£16,079. Unfortunately, the only way to make
ahniif ou * them >8 to sell them ; rents only bring in
valni 1^u per c ®nt. per annum on the alleged capital
h*. ' The capital is £13,750 ; what is not supposed to
of t sentefi by lands is chiefly represented by balances
owing (£3508).
(Westralia), centre of the Nor’-West
ar« m g lnduBt ry, has now a fleet of 430 luggers, and all
nieo-i? ann m d by Malays. Japs, and other forms of
shinn l vveri ty-two schooners cruise about as store-
dlovo’h. altogether there are about 2600 hands em-
itself v,’ °* vvbo,u l ess than 200 are white men. Broome
portion. a , c ? lored population of over 2000, and the pro-
entiio-°j blteB is about one in thirteen. Nearly the
Peariflvi n .u Stry * 8 * n th« hands of a score or less of old
RorW; ’ tbe most opuient of whom—Captain Biddles, F.
,li B ( ri 3 l ‘ e n z .(a Portuguese), S. Piggott, M.L.A. for the
tendß ’ an . Captain Parkes—view with indignation the
Ausfmu? of t he Federal Parliament to adopt a White
stakes A a j P ° .‘, cy ; , They are threatening to pull up their
foreiDrn « Ba , d tbeir boats under the Dutch or anv other
Pearler „ that .will let them ; but the Thursday Island
nothing to d ° fchat * year or two ag0 > and
thlS' : The y aren’t likfely to improve by keep-
-- B But /u W nionths Mortal: Generally, 2,4, 1 and 5,
ease whir.h may be s P ecia l circumstances in any man’s
office W? may make a Particular table in a second-rate
• • Gvm • thatl any table available in a first-rate one.
largely f 16 : The fact that an insurance office caters
i Pvestm O ne Wo^ ln{ i' man s u PP or t doesn’t improve it as an
much pa. • Mostly the contrary, in fact; there is too
such a rno lng and too little insurance J.R.T. :• It isn’t
which h, b concern as that; the circumstances under
s on-enrioß , hl ?tory” was printed discount its value,
business 1 V -A e 18 80 small that it would hardly be good
10 withdraw now Deniliquin: In view of zinc
developments, looks good enough.... Yongala: Prospects
discussed elsewhere.
* * * *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melbourne):
Added to
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1891 .. £26,244 6 p.C. = £17,520 £8,724 £28,444
Loss.
1892 .. 11,206 3 „ „ 8,760 8,478
Deficit.
1893 .. 9,232 Nil 764
Profit. Reserves.
1894 .. 774 Nil 774 20
1895 .. 22,001 Nil 22,001 22,021
1896 .. 7,793 Nil 7,793 29,814
1897 .. 12,131 Nil 12,131 41,945
1898 .. 39,624 2$ p.o. - 7,300 82,324 74,269
Loss.
1899 .. 38,092 24 „ „ 7,300 *8,877
1900 .. 27,060 Nil 1,817
Deficit.
1901 11,967 Nil 10,150
Profit.
1902 .. 3,847 Nil 3,847 6,303
Reserves.
1903 .. 15,023 2| „ „ 7,800 7,723 1,420
The paid capital is £292,005. In the past 12 years the net
profits have been £29,880, which is just about 10 per cent,
forthe whole period. A return of J per cent, per annum
isn’t much of a character to give to a country’s “great
foundational industry."
• • • *
Toohey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney, which took over the business two years ago,
commencing with a deficit of £90,605 (preliminary ex-
penses £5605 and a goodwill item of £85,000):
.. In Reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
July, 1902 £11,416 £11,416 £79,189
Jan., 1903 25,606 6 p.c. =£16,500 9,106 70,083
July, 1903 18,603 6 „ „ 16,500 2,103 67,980
Jan., 1904 17,233 5 „ „ 13,750 3,483 64,497
The dividend has been reduced ; though the gross profits
were ahead of those of the preceding half-year, they
fell a good deal short of those of the corresponding
half—the dry summer half—of 1902-3. The dividend re-
duction seems thus to have plenty of justification;
even as it is, the amount carried to reserve is not by any
means large, considering the size of the deficit. The
published accounts give no more information than usual.
The principal asset is “ Standard Brewery, plant,
machinery, goodwill, rolling stock, ,'reehold and leasehold
properties, £442,108”—a sample of that habit of lumping
items together which is not commendable, assuming, of
course, that the idea of issuing a balance-sheet is to let
shareholders, investors and others know the real position
of a concern. All the undivided profits and more are
going into this item, which has grown as follows :—July,
1902, £398,956; January, 1903, £423,404; July, 1903,
£437,863 ; January, 1904, £442,108. The profit and, loss
account gives almost as little information as the balance
sheet; what details have been furnished are as follow:
July, ■ Jan., July, Jan.,
1902. 1903. 1903 1904.
£ £ £ £
Profits on brewing and
sales 47,107 58,176 44,993 45,723
Interest received .. 3,745 2,761 2,594 2,360
Rent received .. .-. 5,027 5,174 5,243 5,453
Management, salaries,
taxes, fees, &c. .. 34,807 36,997 31,726 33,803
The net profits on capital (£550,000) and undivided pro-
fits, which were equal to £6 11s. 9d. per cent, in the pre-
vious half-year, were at the rate of £6 18s. 9d. per cent,
for the past half-year; though that is a pretty fair
return, it is a long way behind the £9 3s. which was
shown in the previous summer half-year.
* * * *
It’s quite charming to hear, through the Age,
that leading members of Melbourne Stock Exchange are
averse to a mine manager holding a hoard of gold and
amalgam for averaging purposes. There is a little
bit too much profession about Melbourne brokers
of late. Is it done to cover up the tracks of
the late conference of inter-State Exchanges? That
precious gathering was for one purpose—to pro-
mote stock exchange interests—and it has yet to be
shown that those interests are in accord with those of
the public. What the conference was at would have been
seen if the whole of its decisions had been given to the
world. All that went out was a carefully sub-edited
report dealing with subjects respecting which there could
be no conflict as to what was good for all. The cloven
hoof was shown, however, when chairman Roberts, a few
days back, announced that a boycott was sought to be
established in all the Exchanges against those who might
decide to sell shares by auction. To do this means loss
of com. to the broker, as the buyer can purchase direct.
Hence Roberts’ snufle. But as he has sought to interfere
with the liberty of the subject in this direction, perhaps
less of that “liberty” wheeze may be heard in Stock
Exchange circles in the future whenever the worker
tries to wring a crumb from the Fat Man.
* * * ‘ kt
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne):
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves
July 1900..£1967 3| p.c.=£1875 £6844
Jan. 1901.. 2448 34 „ „ 1875 £573 7417
July 1901.. 2062 34 „ „ 1875 187 7604
Jan. 1902.. 2083 34 „ „ 1875 208 7812
£12,500 capital written off.
July 1902.. 2583 5 p.c.=£2500 £5054 2841
Jan. 1903.. 3214 5 „ „ 2500 147 667 3408
July 1903.. 2584 5 ~ ~ 2500 84 3492
Jan. 1904.. 2604 5 „ „ 2500 104 3590
The profits move steadily upwards ; the £3214 for the
half-year ending Jan., 1903, was swollen to that figure by
the inclusion of a premium of £650 received on the
renewal of a lease. No progress is, however, to be noted
in regard to the reduction of the heavy debt on mortgage
and overdraft. The recent record in this respect has
been :
Owing on Mort- Interest paid
gage and Overdraft, during half-year.
July, 1900 .. .. £64,713 .. £1872
Jan., 1901 .. .. 69,046 .. 1925
July, 1901 .. .. 73,101 .. 1924
Jan., 1902 .. .. 72,853 .. 1707
July, 1902 .. .. 72,445 .. 1679
Jan., 1903 .. .. 69,371 .. 1681
July, 1903 .. .. 69,920 .. 1636
Jan., 1904 .. .. 70,184 .. 1606
The only thing at all satisfactory about this situation
appears to be that the terms are much easier than they
were a few years ago ; but still the year’s interest has
amounted to about 34 per cent, of the co’s. whole capital.
The half-year’s profits were at the rate of £5 os. Bd. per
cent, per annum on capital and reserves, as against
£4 19s. lOd. in the half-year before.
* * * *
The Sandhurst and Northern District
Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Vic.)
Dec. rX. «>“>*»-*•
1895. . £950 6 per cent. = £l2OO £2414
1896.. 1112 6 „ „ 1200 2326
1897.. 1110 5 „ „ „ 1000 £llO 2436
1898.. 624 5 „ „ „ 1000 2060
1899.. 1174 5 „ „ „ 1000 174 2234
1900.. 1273 5 „ „ „ 1000 273 2507
1901.. 2365 54,, „ „ 1100 1265 3772
1902.. 1452 6 „ „ „ 1200 252 4024
1903.. 2386 7 „ „ „ 1400 988 6010
The reserves consist of £3OOO reserve fund and the
balance undivided profit. The paid capital is £20,000 ;
the assets include Government stock, £16,000 ; freehold;
property, £6OOO, and mortgages and other advances,
£7595. On shareholders’ funds as at the commencement
of the year the earnings were at the rate of £9 18s. Bd.:
per cent., which is a very fine improvement upon the
£6 2s. 2d. per cent earned in 1902.
* * * *
“Elijah” Dowie now holds the whip over us.
In older to obtain a hearing in Melbourne he called first
on his own attendants, then on the police, later on he
prayed for the help of God, and, as absolutely the final
resort, he threatened, if the audience didn’t behave
itself, to tell Bull-Cohen. “ Supposing,” he said in an
awesome whisper in Melbourne—“supposing I go away
and describe what has happened ; it will injure Aus-
tralia’s credit with its bondholders.” After a month in
Australia, Dowie evidently sizes it up that this great
country fears the frown of its money-lender more than
it does anything else in this world or the next.
* ♦ * *
The N.S.W. Attorney-General has filed a writ
of nolle prosequi in the action for criminal libel, George
Crowley of the City Mutual Life against James Glissan,
an ex-official of that organisation. This leaves the City
Mutual, so far as The Bulletin knows, without a single
law action on hand just now
* » » *
The Hobabt Gas Co. (Tasmania): —
Added
Dividends and to Be- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
June, 1899..£4349 £8 17 9 p.c. =£4620 £3455
Dec., 1899.. 4743 817 9 „ „ 4620 £123 3578
June, 1900.. 4542 8179 ~ „ 4620 3500
Dec., 1900.. 4901 8179 ~ „ 4620 281 3781
June, 1901.. 4627 817 9 „ „ 4620 7 3788
Dec., 1901.. 5171 817 9 „ „ 4620 551 4339
June, 1902.. 5062 817 9 „ 4620 442 4781
Dec., 1902.. 5081 817 9 „ „ 4620 461 5242
June, 1903.. 5133 817 9 „ „ 4620 513 5755
Dec., 1903.. 5132 §l7 9,, „ 4620 512 6267;
The co.’s electric-iight business continues unprofitable
the working account in that department, including wear
and tear, shows a deficit of £673 on a turn-over of £2120.
Whether, however, the co. is anxious to make a better
showing in the matter of electric-lighting results is very
doubtful. The profits of the whole undertaking remain
steady at the rate of about £lO 7s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on the capital (£99,000). A very .good feature of
this co. is that it is one of a very few Australian gas co’s
which are not working more or less on borrowed money,
although it has all its small reserves in the business.
* * * *
A dozen “ import ” items from the N.S.W.
Statistical Register for 1900 (the year before N.S.W.
industries were given a little Protection) and 1902 (the
year after):
Imports op Foreign Goods to N.S.W.
1900. 1902.
Apparel .. .. £1,261,256 £975,073
Baskets .. .. 11,025 8,820
Bedsteads .. .. , 53,000 28,677
Blankets .. .. 63,556 53,895
Boots and Shoes .. 464,691 260,436
Candles .. .. 88,379 33,805
Fruit (dried).. ... 159,746 122,625
Hats and Caps .. 218,978 196,195 . **-
Machinery .. .. 867,166 607,573
Pickles and Sauces.. 57,761 28,103
Saddles and Harness 28,428 17 420
Soaps 76,829 40,950
On these dozen items alone a difference of £977,243 is
shown. Presuming the requirements of the State were
the same in both years—and, with increased population,
the chances are that they were greater in 1902—this
means that, where N.S.W. formerly sent £3,350,815 out
of the country to the foreign workman, it sends now only
£2,373,572, the local workman getting the other £977,243.
•** ' *
The Ballabat Gas Co. (Ballarat, Vic.):
Added
to Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, 1899.. - £62,865
Jan., 1900.. £4384 14 per cent. = £4725 62,524
July, 1900.. 5731 .14 ~ „ 4725 £lOO6 63,530
Jan., 1901.. 4821 14 „ „ 4725 96 63,626
July, 1901.. 5355 14 „ „ 4725 630 64,256
Jan., 1902.. 4476 14 „ „ 4725 64,007
July, 1902.. 5588 14 „ „ 4725 863 64,870
Jan., 1903.. 4214 14 „ „ 4725 64,359
July, 1903.. 5044 14 „ „ 4725 319 64,678
Jan., 1904.. 4554 14 ~ ~ 4725 64,507
Reserves are almost as much as the paid capital (£67,500);
therefore, though the dividend is as high as 14 per cent.,
the profit reaches only £6 18s. per cent, per annum on
total shareholders’ funds. The assets include £14,589
“bank deposit receipts at face value ;” and when it is
necessary to mention “face value,” as if it were an
apology or a reservation, it doesn’t look well. The rest of
the reserves are used in the business.
* * » *
The managers of some of the Broken Hill
mines don’t exactly love one another in their official
capacities. Most of the trouble has been caused by
breakaways near the borders of the mines, every
manager blaming his neighbor for whatever troubles
of that sort have come his way. These “strained
relations” as between the South and the Central
(Sulphide Corporation) led to a Commission being
appointed early last year to inquire into the cause of
a creep which smothered some workmen in the Central,
the latter having blamed the South for it. The papers
printed the Commission’s report early in June; yet,
in his annual report to his English directors and share-
holders dated September 15—three months later—the
Sulphide manager reported that the Commission had sat
for a month taking evidence, but that, though the report
had been furnished to the Government, “ it is not as yet
published." As the report, which had been made avail-
able to the press and published three months previously,
had completely exonerated the South Co. and officials,
the Sulphide manager’s report to his co. is amazing ; and
neighborly feeling down that end of the field hasn’t been
promoted to any great extent.
* » * »
Broken Hill South is working three levels—
-600ft., 700 ft., and 800 ft. A little ore comes from the
500 ft., but only l-500th part of the whole, A satisfactory
feature is that, with depth, the metallic contents of the
ore increases ; it always does in prospectuses, but rarely
so elsewhere, and this is one of the rare cases. Recent
figures have given these averages :
Lead, p.c. Silver, oz. Zinc, p.c.
600 ft. .. 15-6 6 14 1
700 ft. .. 16'6 7'2 16
800 ft. .. 16’6 10 6 196
• But what can’t be so pointedly expressed in figures is the
increase in the refractory character of the ore with depth.
The Broken Hill metallurgist’s life is a constant struggle
to keep the extractions up to the old standard ; and,
with all the improvements he can make in machinery, he
can barely do it. As for what metal is being recovered
and what isn’t, these figures are compiled from the same
co.’s half-yearly report (one of the best issued by the
B.H. co.’s)
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
tons. oz. tons.
Contents of ore .. .. 11,907 584,989 12,528
Recovered in concentrates 7,961 294,612 ' 927
Unreoovered .. .. 3,946 290,377 11,601
Put into money this would show approximately :
Lead. Silver. Zinc. Total.
Contents of ore .. £132,961 £68,248 £263,088 £464 297
Recovered.. .. 88,898 34,371 123 269
Unrecovered .. 44,063 33,877 263,088 341,028
None of the zinc contents is reckoned as recovered
because, although the concentrates contain 7J per cent!
of the zinc, it is not paid for; in fact, the concentrates
would be worth more without it. This means, then, that
of the total value of the metallic contents of its ore the
well-managed and equipped B.H. South is getting out
only 26£ per cent. Most of the other 73£ per cent, is con-
tained in slime, tailings and other dumps on the mine-
piles of stuff weighing over 570,000 tons, averaging about
9 per cent, lead, soz. silver, and 19 per cent. zinc. There
is close upon £2,000,000 worth of metal in those waste-
heaps on this mine alone. The stuff is already hauled
crushed, and alongside a railway ; and still at present it
is not worth putting in a balance-sheet—and it’s a pretty
poor asset that is not good enough to go in a balance-
sheet.
“ A Brisbane Mn ” assures The Bulletin that
“ Tartana is all that it is painted; probably a bit
better. He says : “ The writer of the par. on the deben-
ture issue manifestly formed an evanescent impression
from the perusal of the prospectus, and overlooked the
fact that, from the amount of £5OOO shown as liability,
the 5 per cent, commission on the debenture issue would
be paid. As a matter of fact, this £5000" covers all costs
in connection with the formation and registration of the
co., a definite sum being stated in preference to paying
an indefinite amount under the usual clause—' less
brokerage and expenses, &c.’ Another item over-
looked is the fact that debenture-holders are secured,
not only by a lien on the company’s leases
and plant, but also on the net profits, which
will be placed to the credit of a sinking fund until the
amount is sufficient to cover the debenture issue and
interest. Thus the shares already issued are subordina-
ted to the debentures. Unless the holders of shares had
fairly positive knowledge that profits would quickly wipe
off the loan, they would not have consented to take a
back seat. Moreover, the financially sound holders of
shares will provide most of the debenture money. There-
fore, why should the reserve shares be sold at Is. 6d. as
suggested, when it is more than probable the co. will get
nearly £1 Is. 6d. for them before half the debenture
money is used up in reproductive work T The mine is
good enough, and the financial proposals, innocent
as they may be, are likewise good enough." But
if the show is such a marvellous one— it it is a cer-
tainty that before half the debenture money (£10,000) is
spent, the shares (600,000 odd) will be worth £1 Is. fid.
each—what fools shareholders must be not to take up the
reserve lot at Is. fid., and thus save exorbitant interest
and bag a big profit 1 Either they must be as poor as
Job, or as foolish as Bent.
* * • *
Another North Queensland syndicate scheme,
which was going to develop the resources of that country
with a rush, has fizzled out—all the Etheridge leases
taken up a couple of years ago by the Express Syndicate
have been forfeited. Not a foot of the railway whioh the
syndicate was to build was ever laid, not a foot of
development work was ever dope in the mines which it
took up. Queensland talked about this syndicate and its
vast resources in the same sort of voice with which a
cockroach might be expected to talk of the Creator ; the
socialists were warned not to alarm it: and now it turns
out that it only had enough capital to pay a year’s rent.
(Continued on page SO.)
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903 :
“ When it is considered that the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is under virile, bold, but prudent
management, these results, while not surprising, must be
highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no hesita-
tion in congratulating the management on the excellent
results of the year’s work.”*
* “ * •
The McDermott Sizer now on the market is
rapidly coming into favor with mining men. Useful as
this machine is, there is no intention of claiming that by
the use of it, it becomes possible to save by concentration
all of the mineral values of ore. Some loss is bound to
occur no matter what mechanical methods are employed,
but what is claimed is that by the use of the Sizer, the
pulp can be prepared in a manner more suitable and in
such a way as to materially increase the efficiency of the
concentrating plant. Nor must it be conjectured that
the McDermott Sizer is only for use in conjunction with
Wilfley Tables; although it acts admirably with those
machines, it is of such general application as to enable it
to be used with equal advantage with whatever type of
dressing machine happens to be employed. Those wish-
ing for more information in regard to this useful machine
can obtain catalogues and full particulars from the
Austral Otis Engineering Company of South Melbourne,
who are the Agents and Sole Manufacturers of the
machine.*
* • • *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
* * » *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streeb, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 489
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply *
* * » *
Georgs Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 877 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* • * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
* • • •
Bewick, and Co., of London, hava
now theisdinger deep in the Berry United, Smeaton, Vic.
There were 19,830 forfeited shares, which the Bull-
Westralian firm took up at 2s. each ; there is Is. 9d. call-
able on these and on the rest of the 60,000 shares. The
report to Jan. 31st shows acash balance of £1064 ; pump-
plant has been put in, and the continuation of the Berry
gutter has been proved by bores, the wash lying on clean
pipeclay bottom.
CYANIDE GUA 9B/100% ED
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGEB.
Hy. Markwald
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-sfc., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z,
I«
k . !
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock tor manual, horse or loco, traction
ia still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
Itocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &o
INDENTS. -Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHIN*.;.
£3T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., to Hunter Sr., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPL/.STRIER, Manager,
Brand, . Representing Orbnstbin and Kopi'jhl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
vs—Melbcurne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
Schweppes Soda.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.


SOCIETY
On leaving the dock in Adelaide Criminal
Court, after being found guilty of assault in a
THE WEIGHT OF YEARS.
“ He looks a lot shorter than when I knew him.”
“ Oh, he is! He's married and settled down note.”
railway carriage (verdict given on the unsupported
evidence of a female), prisoner said : “ I hope this
will be a warning to men not to travel in a railway
carriage with one woman.”
Testitnonialising in
regard to public officials
should b e suppressed
by Act of Parliament.
Blind work-people in
an institution were, the
other day, levied on
for a watch-chain for &
paunchy dignitary, and
a movement is afoot to
recognise in May or
June next the 'high
services” of each and
every member of the pre-
sent N.S.W. Govern-
ment. Testimonialising
was one time a disease;
now it is a crafty con-
fidence trick. Jobson or ,
Jobdaughter or Jobfather
or Jobmother has filled
some office, in the majority
of cases longer than
wanted, and a Taylor-Mac*
farlane race among crawlers
sets in as to which will raise
the testimonial. Generally it
is a matter of commission, and,
as recent experiences show,
the fatty beneficiary relinquish-
ing office sometimes drives a
hard bargain. It is the 2s. 6d.,
the ss. and 10s. donors who are
the victims; the fellows who
collect, pocket commissions
and, in some cases, are simply
raising money to buy J obson
out so that they may inherit
Jobson’s job.
f* * •
“B. Bill.”: Re the ap-
plication of Nosey Bob for a
patent for certain improvements
in the machinery for carrying
on the hanging industry (8.,
18/2/'O4). A foreman of labor in
Goulburn Gaol once devised an im-
provement that kept the hangee from
wobbling at the end of the rope, and
thus giving an air of uncalled-for levity
to the proceedings. It was used when
Sleigh was hanged. The foreman got no-
thing for the improvement.
Trial Bay (N.S.W.) prison, which, with its
breakwater, has been a sink for public money for
some years, and which has recently been closed,
will be regretted by long-sentence men. There
they finished the last years of their service, earn-
ing good wages and enjoying comparative liberty.
A portion of the wages earned could be spent in
present luxuries, the balance was kept in hand until
diicharge-tiine arrived. So easy was the govern-
ment of the prison, that many of its inmates have
been known to visit the neighboring town of
Kempsey, and, after having a high old time,
return (drunk) for roll-call and work. Some
noted robberies in the district were the work of
one of the prisoners, and the stolen property was
found within the gaol precincts. That matter
was, of course, hushed up.
-*» * »
A certain Sydney man has learned the truth
of the old saying about things coming to him
who waits
loug euough.
Thirty years
ago, when a
young man, he
was in the Cus-
toms House,
and one day
dropped a
sovereign
down a crack,
lie was a poor
Govern ment
clerk then, and
a pound meant
a great deal to
him ; but all
efforts to re-
cover it failed.
The only way
to reach it was
to take up that
part of the
floor, a job
worth con-
siderably more
than twenty
shillings. So
there the gold
piece lay year
after year, while
the man grew rich
and gathered many
, other gold pieces. But he
never forgot that strayed gold
coin, and always kept his eye on
the Customs House in case they
should be making alterations. A little while
ago his patience was rewarded. One morning he
saw some men at work on his particular spot.
He hurried over, told his story to the man in
charge, was allowed to dive down into the
mysteries beneath the floor, and there, hidden in
the dust, was the sovereign. But though the
dust was turned over vigorously, the 20 years’
interest couldn’t be found ; so that rich man went
away and wept bitterly.
WHERE HE WAS SAFE.
LAEGE CITIZEN: “ You young scoundrel, you've
broken my window. If I were near you I'd
wring your neck."
SMALL CITIZEN : “ Oh, yes, yer very plucky behind
yer fence."
It has often
been remarked
that a person
never knows
what he isdrilik-
ing out - back.
The occupants
of an hotel at
Broken Hill had
an unpleasant
experience the
other day that
should cause
them to keep
a sharper eye
on tlieir pre-
carious reser-
voir in the
future. The
latter is a small,
excavated tank
close to the pre-
mises, and con-
tained three
feet of water.
Supplies had
been drawn
from this for
tea, and when
tea was over a
dead man was
discovered i n
the water. A
good many people
felt worse than bilious just then, and said
“whisky” with great emphasis. It was evi-
dently "a case of suicide, as the man had
undressed and left bis clothes in the hotel garden.
No gentleman would drown himself in another
gentleman’s drinking water —but so many people
pass as gentlemen while they are alive and in
death prove to be only blokes.
Judge Chomley, who practically stage-
managed Melbourne breach of promise attraction
last week, was lucky that he didn’t depend.on
the takings for his salary. Actors and actresses
were uninteresting even to weariness, and the
star was afflicted with that “soft, low voice”
that is such an attraction in a home, but such
a drawback on the stage or the witness-box.
Low comedy man, Purves, got off his old, worn
gags amid the oppressive silence of the mostly
male audience. Purves has got to the stage when
he mistakes innuendo for wit, and a snarling,
sneering tone for sarcasm ; and he spoilt bis case
(it was a poor one at best) by indulging a vile ten-
dency to mimic witnesses. The little amuse-
ment the audience got was from Maxwell's
sarcastic references to the “leader of the
bar’s masterly cross - examination.” Purves
squirmed visibly, for the said cross-exam, mostly
consisted of a futile attempt to drag in the O’Malley
as a gay and festive lover of the plaintiff, Amy
Horton. Defendant Keenan—this “poor old
gentleman,” as Purves called him —owned up to
45, but looked 56, and was a well-set-up, square
faced Irishman, with greying moustache and hair.
The 28-year-old plaintiff was a thin, pale-faced,
fine-featured, young woman, in dark-brown hair
and saucer-shaped bat. The .£4OO verdict which
the jury gave her was probably based on the in-
juries and insults she had received, less a liberal
deduction for her good luck in not marrying
Purves’ client.
• * * *
The Bulletin’s surmise that if the dead
cat of opprobrium had not been thrown at Dowie
in Sydney, he would have boasted of his splendid
reception here, is more than borne out by Elijah’s
cable to his American dupes. It shows the pro-
phetic howler at his best:
Christ is conqueror. Sydney week - day meetings
attended by vast multitudes eager to hear. A Masonic
mob of a few hundred stirred up a riotous rabble, and
there was much disorder. Police action was paralysed
by the Masonic authorities. The press denounced the
riots in Sydney as a disgrace. Voliva and all the Zion
people acted heroically. God gave deliverance. Many
are going to Zion City. Australia is everywhere aroused.
Begin Melbourne visitation on the 28th, at Exhibition
Building, seating many thousands. Intense interest and
expectation. The Overseer and Jane Dowie well, latter
taking part. “ The battle is Jehovah’s.” Psalm 46th.
Dowie is the only prophet who ever came to Aus
tralia with a suite of holy rowdies and deputy
prophets, who went round the hall before service
insulting women and barking generally at the
public. Sydney made only one bad mistake in
the matter. It should have given some of
Dowie’s satellites three months for abusive
language.
• • • . »
Cables to the Australian papers in regard
to the Bear-and-Monkey war are just as mis
leading as if the monkey were a definitely Union-
Jack animal, instead of playing the Asiatic game
first and the British game afterwards, if at all.
For instance, it was cabled that the Nakanour i, a
Japanese merchant vessel, was attacked and bar-
barously sunk by Russian warships, the pas-
sengers and crew being allowed to drown. Con-
sequently there were loud shrieks at Russian
brutality. A few days later appeared a cable that
the Nakanoura people had been landed safely in
Japan, having been rescued and humanely treated
by the Russians. No apology for previous shrieks.
Another example, the Chemulpo fight: first
cables told of the absolute destruction of two
Russian warships; they were polished off in a
casual way by the Japanese as they were running
away. Later news points to a gallant fight by the
Russians against an overwhelming force to which
they did serious damage before succumbing.
THE ELOPEMENT.
PORTER : “ What did you hunt ’em so hard for
if you didn't want to catch 'em?’
COCKY JONES : “I wanted to make certain sure
they wouldn't miss the train.”
FETTERED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elma chides because she says
That my love has faded ;
And her bodice heaves with sighs
And she sadly pouts and cries,
Looks on ine with tear-dimmed eyes
By long lashes shaded.
Thinks that if she threatens thus
I will grow the fonder
Of the lips that call for kisses,
Ar.ns that offer all the blisses,
(What a wealth of true love this is
For a man to squander !)
Elma vows I am forsworn
Fondling her no longer ;
Sweetheart, if you only knew
More than half your words are true.
For I do not think of you—
Other loves are stronger.
But ’tis not for other faces
That my love grows colder,
I am false for far grey skies,
Where blue peaks of mountains rise,
And forget the girl who lies
Warm against my shoulder.
I forget her in the dreaming
Of a man’s life only,
Where no woman hands are clinging,
And no syren voices singine,
Hoofs upon a hard road ringing,
And a bush track lonely 1
Clear horizons clipped in morning,
Mists about the valley ;
Strike the tent and up! away 1
In the warm, delicious day,
Men together, strong and gay,
Tracking through the mallee.
There’s the rival if you will,
Girl so full of scorning;
Not another womaa’s gaze,
Wandering in forbidden ways,
J ast the dear, lost boyish days,
And my life’s lost morning.
9.
M. FORREST.
BEAUTY ADORNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beauty unadorned, ’tis oft professed,
Is most adorned ; but still I shall not waste
Your precious time, but ramble on in haste ;
For I would sing-of beauty when she’s dressed —
Of round soft limbs by clinging garments pressed,
A foot or so of petticoat deep-laced,
And dainty silken hose displayed with taste
Methinks enrich the charms by them caressed.
And when I see my Phoebe cross the street--
Her dainty gown raised well above her shoes—
I feel I could not find a sight more s veet
Had I the universe from which to choose.
I can but stand and gaze with dazzled eyes—
A Peri at the gates of Paradise.
W.J.S.
PAVIP JONES ANP COMPANY,
m
The “DJ. Orient ” Boot
BLACK OK TAN
CALF,
16/6
NARROW
OB
ROUND TOES.
Special |
Value.. J
16/6
Carriage Free to any P.O. in the States.
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney.
t/
(?!£s°r/s
Beware
of Imitations*
(«7‘06
' n
(8“
‘3
t.
U3 ‘ ID
’ j 35% \
o 3.2%. §
AAARk


The war naturally brought George Pile
to the front with a letter to S.M. Herald about a
wonderful Jap who took a billet as cook with a
view to learning English. The letter concluded:
The members of the elect among us—the so-called
Labor party—are in the habit of speaking of the Eastern
races as inferior people. It would be well, I think, for
Australia to have among its inhabitants many such in-
ferior people as the gentleman indicated above. A little
more of self help would be an improvement after reading
about the deputations of the “ unemployed ’’ ever hanging
on the skirts of the Government.
Thus do we acquire knowledge in unexpected
places. The Bulletin never guessed before that
the Labor people (who probably do regard the
Asiatics as inferior) were the “elect.” It thought
that distinction was claimed by the unproductive
army of house agents and land jobbers who used
to use such appallingly violent language about the
“ inferiority ” of the Boers.
• * * •
It is cabled all the way from London that
new State Governor Talbot has licked a portion of
the King’s person on his formal appointment to
his new billet—has “kissed hands,” as the cable
nuts it.
c • • • *
Something about the fleet that Australasia
pays for—being extracts from an interview with an
officer thereof, about what would happen if
Britain took a hand in the Bear-and-Monkey war :
It is probable the Australasian Squadron would be
ordered to the East ; the survey vessels would be laid up,
and their officers and crews sent to vessels likely to be
engaged in the conflict. The Australasian colonies
would not be defenceless if the ships left. Their geo-
graphical position is peculiar. There is no ground for
fear so far as they are concerned. No European navy in
the event of war with Britain could spare a vessel to
come here. Furthermore, if they did, they could get no
coal. Again, they would find a hostile people to receive
them on shore. Supposing, for example, a foreign war
vessel bombarded Auckland, &c., &c.
“Supposing, for example, a foreign war vessel
bombarded Auckland ! ” There, is something
wonderfully affable about the British officer when
he proposes to take away the fleet we pay for and
mildly “ supposes ” that we may be bombarded in
its absence. How would it be if Britain’s own
defence fleet were sent away? And “suppos-
ing” an enemy bombarded Liverpool ?
Melbourne just now has no two-and-
sixpenny resort where its fat and greasy citizens
can grunt and sweat under the burden of a weary
life. The sole remaining Turkish bath-house (at
the Royal Arcade) is in a state of reconstruction.
There’s a beadle attached to the Arcade, and this
decorated personage relieves the monotony of his
existence by explaining matters to the stout old
warriors who come along for a “Turkish” and
can’t get it. The ladies are likewise a source
of innocent merriment for the beadle. Friday
is their day, and they mostly exclaim “Dear me!”
on discovering that the scene of their periodical
perspiration is in the builder’s hands.
* * * •
What skimpy
quiverfulls most Aus-
tralian Governorsand
Governors-Genera 1
have. There’s seldom
a large, rollicking
crew of boys and
girls to make things
lively, but most times
the family which oc-
cupies the huge barn
o’er which floats the
blessed Flag consists
of a lonely couple,
with perhaps a sole
daughter for com*
pany, or a niece, or a
young girl friend bor-
rowed from some-
where to prevent
complete stagnation
111 the birthrate.
Victoria’s Sir Reggie
and Lady Talbot will
be accompanied by a
niece ; the Clarkes
had only one cher-
ished blossom ; the
Northobtes are kept
in countenance by a
young friend, and
Ropey had two quiet,
suppressed -looking
youngsters. Perhaps
the selection is done
with theidea of saving
the carpets and furni-
ture, but Australia
should strike, and de-
mand a Gov.-General
with 10 children in-
cluding an infant,
which latter Mrs.
Governor should carry under her arm when she is
opening dandelion shows and exhibitions of thistles
nd celery. That would make large families
popular among the classes which can best afford
to have them.
* * * *
' ?' Sydney, head of an Army
psi vr i Got'ps as well as of a large wine-making
abhshment, shows with pride a present he
i y received from admirers. Vine leaves and
win**!?* gra P es suggest luscious Australian
Va „ e the top of the picture, while an ambulance
anH * 3 °?. bottom. Thus poetic sentiment
rw! touching allusion to a great Australian in-
tirra"? are ) col . ll binod with a business-like in-
-102 that if some fellow is hit by a torpedo
y etiort will be made to extract the missile.
In a general way it may be assumed that
when a Judge is sentencing a girl to seven years’
al Berv itude the case is bad enough without
£ • , , , , . TT , ~ .
bein S aggravated by his Honor’s needless elo-
quence. At Sydney recently, when Acting Chief
Justice Stephen sent up Josephine Hunter for the
, , f ... ... , . , ,
slaying of her illegitimate infant—now, presum-
ably, in Heaven—he told her, in his deepest dog-
voice, that sbe seemed to have been “broughVup
without regard to the fear of God or man
which may b have been true, but seeing that it was
ber misfortune, and not her fault, it should rather
have counted in her favor tha ’ otherw i se . It
W ould have been quite as relevant, and not a whit
less bruta] if Honor had told her, in his
most terrible b that ghe seemed t ’ Q haye
been born in a slum and brought
up on insufficient
provender. Then he told her that the jury
should have brought in a verdict that
wou id have allowed him to order a hanging, which
may also have been true, but which was certainly
none of his Honor’s business. He added that she
was a bad girl, which was quite needless; a seven
years sentence sufficiently expressed his Honor’s
views on that matter. There is such a thing as
jumping on the worm when it is down, and a
more manly variety of judge than Australia is
usually blessed with would realise the fact. A
Judge’s business, after the verdict is given, is to
pass sentence, and when he amuses himself and
abuses his position by throwing verbal mud at the
prisoner in addition, he is going out of his sphere,
, ’ • *
_ ,
The proceedings of the annual Methodist
“conferences,” just now in full whirl, set one
reflecting upon what a fine piece of inconsistency
• p ® "FitoheH- th« hipest of all the Aim
A. 1 j- i ’ j 0 01^est °/, al Au . h
tralian Methodists, and many another of them in
their front rank. Fitchett’s greatest bogey is
Socialism ; he glorifies Bleeds and Private Enter-
prise indiscriminately. Having written a Bleeds
article, he produces a sermon concerning the
Prince of Peace; and, having boosted Private
Enterprise, he wades in to glorify Methodism,
which is chock-a-block with the principles of
Socialism. In the matter of salaries, for instance,
Fitchett’s Methodists go further than the ordinary
Socialist thinks of. They have a minimum wage
law ; there is a grading of parsons and preaching
places ; there is a children’s fund (the larger the
family the larger the pay, the extra money being
pa id out of the common fund); there are old age
pensions. Fitchett himself is the manager of the
sect’s Ladies’ College, which is a socialistic insti-
tufcion and an answer to nis own private enter-
prise arguments; and it also runs papers,
i nd in Sydney a printing office. And yet
Fitchett, and scores of other leading parsons
0 f the church, reckon that Socialism is a horrible
thing, and preach that private enterprise is a
people’s only salvation.
™ / u** , , * . .
The dear old Argus seems to have ur
socialist and republican in its Saturday supple-
ra®nG which is devoted mainly to chronicling the
off-moments, scandals and gay doings of Royalties
a ?. d so*) I ®*'-'’* tb e skeletons in poor old Queen
Victoria s cupboard, formerly only known to
tbe sympathetic B ro wn, are being dragged out
the vulgar gaze, together with spicy gossip
of . the for6l !P courts Biographies of the English
a nstocracy in the jolly old days are frequent, and
other things not at all calculated to keep
!?P the tradition of the Divine right of kings,
Next s,ll - v season subject may be : Are kings
necessary ?
THE CHICKS.
“ Good day, Mrs. Webster. How are all your folks? ”
“Oh! mother’s very poorly—keeps very feeble—very feeble. Holds your
father keeping?”
“ F. 0.”: Curious how a sort of centrifugal
force will suddenly scatter a family circle to the
ends of the earth. In boom time a Melbourne
family, all grown up, filled a big home, with
never a break. Then the smash came and the
mother died. The father married again—married
a much-needed bank account, with an elderly
lady attached. This is but four years ago, and
now one son is in Mexico ; another in Montreal;
a third is buried in Chili; a fourth is in a Sydney
asylum, insane ; a daughter teaches languages in
"Vienna; another is companion to a wealthy lady
who travels eternally ; and the baby of the family
is a governess in “ the West,” studying for a
nurse meanwhile. The old house is deserted, and
fast going: to ruin.
TWO MISSING.
HE: “The Englishmen won
by one wicket.”
SHE: “Ah! 1 always keep posted
in the crickel; but, tell me, what
did they do with the other two wickets?"
The big Melbourne hospitals are so over-
crowded that, last week, the Alfred had 18,
the Melbourne 20, and the Homoeopathic three
patients sleeping on the floor, and the chil-
dren’s ward in the Alfred contained 30
little sufferers in place of the 22 it is in-
tended for. And while dozens of applicants are
turned away daily, the Infectious Diseases Hospi-
tal still stands silent and empty, the committee
which, three months ago, confidently promised to
open it in a month having gone to sleep again or
succumbed to pain in the back. Also, while the
expenses are naturally increasing the donations
have fallen off all round —in the case of the Alfred
from £l3O per week last year to .£BO this year.
Much of the glut is caused by typhoid patients,
and here Dr. Maekeddie, of the Alfred, has done
good service. He inquires of every patient the
name of his milk supplier and has discovered that
there are groups of cases, four or five at a time,
who obtain their milk from the same dairyman—
often from the same cart. Yet the dirty cow-
owners of Victoria say that the only blot on
Bent’s programme is the proposal to keep milk
and butter clean.
* » * *
Justice Pring, of N.S.W., repelled a base
attack which was made upon the rights and privi-
leges of the Bar in Sydney, a few days ago. A
man, who had lost a civil action and had to pay
the other side’s costs, was kicking against there
being included in those costs “ refreshers ” for two
days at £2O a day for counsel who wasn’t even in
Sydney when the case was heard. Justice Pring,
who has said some very severe things about work-
men and their ways hitherto, didn’t say anything
very severe about the legal workman who kept a
hundred miles or so away from his job—he simply
ordered the man to pay the workman (who did no
work) the £4O. It often happened, he remarked,
that one side engaged eminent counsel without
any intention of asking them to do anything, but
in order to prevent the other side having the
benefit of their services. That is to say, it is
quite a common thing for one party to “corner”
the market in eminent counsel; and if that party
wins his suit (possibly on account of that
“corner”), then he can ask his opponent to pay
for the whole trick. No doubt this is all good
law, but there doesn’t seem to be much fair play
about it, and it doesn’t seem to be the sort of
thing that the courts should encourage. But
lawyers have a lot to be thankful for in the fact
that the benches are occupied solely by members
of their profession. If the Hebrew Hod Carriers’
Association had a representati\ e or two there,
the chances are that hod-carrying would be a deal
more popular as a calling. As it is the hod-
carrier has mighty little chance of getting paid
for carrying one lot of bricks in Sydney what time
he is away carrying another lot of bricks at
Newcastle.
* • *' *
According to Maoriland official records a
boy, aged 14, was married to a wc man of 3P, last
year, in the New Plymouth district. Presumably
his relatives had carelessly left him on the pave-
ment in his perambulator, and he was abdi cted
before they got back.
The girl shark is evidently about to
predate universally. One of
her, Miss Gil more, has lately
been appointed Assistant-
Attorney-General of the
United States in the
Philippines, perhaps the
highest legal position
attained by a woman
since the case of a
certain Professoress
of Law at Bologna,
somewhere in the
Middle Ages. In
Prance the at-
tempt of Mdlle
Chauvin has
been followed
by legislation
enabling
women to don
the French
equivalent for
horsehair. In
Holland
women were
always eligi-
ble, but they
waited longfor
someone to
lead the way.
A Miss Kok now
practises at Rot-
terdam. Sweden
legalised the law-
yeress in November,
1897, and Miss Es-
chelson of Upsala re-
sponded to the
invitation in
December of
the same year.
Frau lein
Mackenroth
represents
Swiss female
advocacy in
Zurich. Maori -
land has a
legalising Act,
and already
one lady bar-
rister at least
is in active
practice, while
Victoria,
which recently
passed an en-
abling Act, has
one lady, Miss
Greig, just about
to qualify. Eng-
land and Scotland
have both, however,
refused to be cajoled up
to the present.
A lineal descendant of the Admirable
Crichton offers himself on the Age bargain
counter: — . r-»:
TjiARMER, 30, R. 0., good looking, tall, sociable,
-*• affectionate, highly respectable, trustee’ and
treasurer several local affairs; doesn’t gamble, drink,
smoke, or swear; mail contractor, splendid income,
exchange photos., lady, under 25, sweet, affectionate,
and good worker. A.R., Ruffy.
Who wants to marry an angel ?
* • * •
A Sydney spieler, representing himself as
a health officer, recently inspected the hutches on
a suburban Chinese vegetable garden. He found
smells by the million, and opined, as he made
entries in a huge betting book, that the head
cabbage-grower would get ten years for keeping a
typhoid germ factory on the premises. The boss
Chow was frantic, and after a consultation with
two others who were brought over from the
tomato beds, he took the inspector into a back
room and spread out 3s. 6d., a rock melon, and
eight apples on a table. “ Make it a dollar,” said
the spieler, “ and keep the vegetables.” John
did, and three joyful Chinamen burnt the pages
whioh recorded the different odors that lived on
the premises.
• • * »
Rottnest Island, 12 miles from Fremantle
(W.A.), although abandoned as a penal establish-
ment and pilot station, still provides some billets
for venerable Gropers. It has a superintendent at
£3OO a year with an allowance of £7O extra for
“entertaining visitors,” and there is a pretty big
staff of warders and other officials whose sole
employment seems to be catching fish and swap-
ping yarns. The State Governor has a marine
lodge on the island, and lives there for a couple of
months in the year. Nigger prisoners from the
Nor’-West, run in for three or four years on
charges of sheep or cattle stealing, were formerly
sent to Rottnest, but now they are chained' up in
the nearest gaol to the scene of their offence, and
Rottnest is practically deserted save by the ancient
Gropers who draw salaries.
* * * *
Many years ago two Frenchmen, named
Gasparini and Oury, were arrested at Wellington
(M.L.) as being escapees from New Caledonia.
They were brought before the court again and
again, and remanded, Cury being eventually
released. The public took a hot interest im Gas-
parini, who strongly resisted extradition, and a
racehorse named after him commenced to pay
dividends, and the name became popular. On an
order being made for the prisoner’s extradition,
he was shipped to Sydney, but he disappeared en
route and the police averred that he must have
jumped overboard. It was generally known after-
wards, however, that some sympathisers on board
had stowed him away and secured his liberty.
Now comes the news that Gasparini has got into
trouble again in Paris, and been given a sentence
of 20 years. ,'?
* * * *
At the request of numerous customers I' have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-st.*
WAITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many hundreds of medals and clasps, gained by
N.S.W. men who served in the Boer war, have been lying
at the office ot the Staff Officer awaiting applications for
delivery. —News Item.
He had fought for the Empire in the Boer war.—
Common plea lately in the Police Courts.
Have patience still, good officer 1
Of waiting do not tire ;
They can’t come yet—they’re waiting till
Their sentences expire!
ULOOLA.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
.qUSNESS
“aiJ' 1 J. . u n A*’-
and Troubles


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ . Sydney, March 1, 1904.
Mt Dkab Abini,—
Cricket tried hard to put a bright spark into the
ashes of this ashen season of Lent, and probably
would if it hadn’t been such a dismal brand of
cricket. And, anyhow, it has crowded our
best hotels and paying-guest houses. At the
Australia visitors are sleeping in the winter
garden, and one fashionable boarding house
turned away 100 prospective “guests” in one
week. And all the week the dense, damp heat
hung over the face of the land like the ghost
of a dead Turkish bath. I once heard Miss Rose
Scott express a wish for an invention “ to take the
moisture out of the air.” It is a great idea, and
if realised with, say, huge windmills with blotting-
paper fans, Sydney’s climate would be much more
braoing.
Saturday saw 35,000 disgusted and bitterly dis-
appointed people at the Sydney Cricket Ground,
where they witnessed what is generally conceded
to be the slowest and dreariest exhibition of
cricket ever seen on the ground. The ball might
have been chloroformed, and the bat might have
been dead. From a spectacular point of view,
things were disastrously dull intermittent
showers from murky skies, dismal snatches of
music from a band, dingy frocking in the grand-
stand, and the shilling section covered with
umbrellas which looked like a forest of toad-stools
in a pantomime. Nobody had ventured to don a
single rag that expressed gladness; and if there
were any notables present they were lost in the
desert of dingy drapery and shabby hats. In the
vice-regal box the Excellent Rawsons and Mr.
C.-J* and Mrs. Darley, all in black and gray,
completed a symphony in half tones ; the one
bright spot in the spectacle was the cheerful
visage of Viking Rawson, which glowed from its
sombre surroundings like a good deed in a naughty
world. Afternoon tea was served in the box, but
the Viking didn’t take any and gazed with a re-
proachful glance at the attendant who brought
him a cup containing about as much as would fill
a thimble. To offer a gallant old sea-dog a
thimbleful of tea on such an afternoon was an
insult.
When the players left the ground, owing to a
slight fall of rain, the spectators sat on awaiting
their return. _ The umpires wandered in and out,
lost-dog fashion, and gazed at the sky imploringly,
and the crowd on the hill looked out from under
its toadstool umbrella and made remarks that
were more witty than polite, and more forcible
than facetious. The hum became a roar. One
awful bass was lifted clear over all, “ Come out,
yer cows ! ” Then the members’ stand joined in,
and the umpires ventured forth once more and
examined the bails minutely, stared at the sky,
folded their hands behind them, and stood their
ground resolutely in the face of the single drop
that splashed on a coat collar. Then the players
trooped forth, the batsmen last. They came out
wearily as though driven to it, and they played as
though they were merely knocking the ball about
to give the inconsiderate mob something for its
money. In the stand, fat, red-faced men were
furious, and looked as though they would
like to ask . all the ladies to retire while they
relieved their feelings in slanguage. The cricketers
took three minutes to change positions for each
over. The Australians seemed tired and dis-
pirited, the Englishmen appeared thoughtful;
probably they were mentally putting together
their articles for the London newspapers which
pay them by space, and trying to think of some-
thing withering to say of the people who threw
empty bottles into the ground.
The day previous to the celebration of a fashion-
able wedding in an Australian capital the bride’s
favorite and most important' prospective brides-
maid had to drop out of the wedding march on
account of a death in her family. Bride was so
mad that she all but jumped on her wreath and
The deserted gown must, she declared, be
pled. 1* cost 14 guineas, and she didn’t
intend that it should be wasted. At three
o clock on the day before the wedding there were
alarums and excursions to the telephone and tele-
graph office, and by five o’clock eight girl friends
of the bride, all about the figure and height of
the defaulter, gathered in the biggest bedroom,
and one after another “ tried on ” the gown. It
fitted seven “pretty well.” One of the seven
offered to wear heel-less shoes, which would make
it “ just the thing.” Another protested that she
would squeeze her 27 inch waist to 24 inches
when the £own would be just “It.” Yet another]
a black-haired girl, whom the color of the gown
(it was of a most delicate shade of green) made an
awful fright, but whom it fitted well enough,
entreated to be allowed to fill it, and she would,
by ten o’clock, have red hair. There was, how-
ever, no more to be said after the eighth had been
seen in it. Fate had clearly intended it for her,
and the disappointed seven and the bride and the
successful eighth sat down to afternoon tea.
One of the squatting family of Osborne, stage-
stricken by the .methods of Julius Knight, has
the boards, and now as Head W arder in
“ Resurrection ” cracks a whip and speaks gruffly
to the convicts, “Carrots,” “Beauty,” and the
rest. A stage-struck man will often suffer more
than a stage-struck woman to obtain a hearing for
Ins Hamlet. Some time ago a young bank clerk
after vainly trying to get on the stage in another
State, came to Sydney to interview a theatrical
manager. He came without leave from the boss
banker and was told he need not return. The
theatre man would have none of the clerk—he
didn’t want any banner-bearers or supers, let alone
Ciaude Melnottes, just then. When the clerk’s
friends found him six weeks later he was washer-
up at 12s. a week in a restaurant, and at night he
used to stand from 8 o’clock to 10 outside the stage
entrance hoping there would be a sudden demand
for Melnottes or rabble from an embarrassed
management.
A sparklet from the Creevy papers concerning
the late Queen Victoria on her accession ;
Now for her appearance—but all in the strictest confl»
dence. A more homely little being you never beheld,
when she is at her ease, and she is evidently dying to be
always more so. She laughs ia real earnest, opening her
mouth as wide as it can go, showing not very pretty
gums. . . . She eats quite as heartily as she laughs ; I
think I may say she gobbles. ... She blushes and laughs
every instant in so natural a way as to disarm anybody.
Her voice is perfect, and so is the expression of her face,
when she means to say or do a pretty thing.
The old, old comedy of the broken-up widower
and the sympathetic spinster was re-enacted very
lately in a Sydney suburb. It isn’t an unusual
circumstance either. Many a man is moved to
marry his second wife because she wept so
beautifully at the tomb of his first. A stained-glass
memorial had been fixed up in the church in
memory of the lady who would have been the
widower’s widow if he had died first, which he
didn’t; and, in due time, it was ceremoniously
uncovered by one of the “influential,” middle-
aged ladies of the parish. Not long afterwards
the 70-year-old mourner took oumfort and married
the unveiler.
Darley, C.J., who returned last week after a
holiday of nearly two years, does not look half
the man lie did before his severe illness. Miss
Darley returned with her father and mother. The
second unmarried Miss Darley is travelling on the
Continent with her sister, the widowed Lady
Anstruther. Another Sydney Somebody who
returned by the Orontes is Mrs. Forbes-Angus.
Mr. Fosbery, ex-Inspector-General of Police,
who has retired on his pension of £lOOO a year,
may take to that solace of gilded pensioners,
rose-growing, for he is a good amateur florist, or
he may by-and-bye drop into the chairman habit.
Such men as he are valuable on Boards and
Royal Commissions. Mrs. Fosbery, who par-
ticipates in her husband’s testimonial to the ex-
tent of a solid silver tea and coffee service, has
for long been a semi-invalid through rheuma-
tism. At one time she and her Muscovite-
looking chief went a good deal to Govern-
ment House gaieties together, but of late
years he escorts his two unmarried daughters
to the mansion that flies the viceregal flag. Miss
Fosbery, of the good figure and fine evening-dress
shoulders, is the eldest ; the youngest is a quiet-
looking, sweet-faced little girl. Another daughter
is married to a bank stock-and-station inspector—
one of those men who used to go round in the
drought years and look at the bones of the mort-
gage.
Mr. Garvin, who succeeds Mr. Fosbery, had
been a constable all his life, and rose from the
ranks ; now at 61 years of age he arrives. He has
some clever daughters, who have achieved giddilv-
high degrees at Sydney University.
Ethelberta, eldest daughter of Mr. Justice
Edwards,.senior puisne Judge, Auckland, M.L.,
was married last month to Mr. C. A. Loney, an
Americanised Englishman who isin Sydney as head
of the Ammonia Co. of Australia. Mr. and Mrs.
are now on their way back by sounds and geysers
and Mount Cooks to Sydney, where they will live
at the Australia. Bride, though not so long out
of her teens, holds the degree of LL.B. Instead
of practising (women are admitted in M.L.), she
went a-travelling. The Women’s Progressive
Association, which waited on Attbrnev-General
Wise the other day and found him '“sympa-
thetic ” (and that’s all!) on legal questions affect-
ing women, really must try to catch Mrs. Loney
for their threatened next visit to the usually
unsympathetic Wise man.
In the course of her arguments on the right of
women to sit on juries and to practise in court,
Miss Golding, who lei the deputation, told Mr!
Wise that if women were allowed to plead, men
would be more careful how they worded ques-
tions. If only Mr. Purves could have heard her !
Imagine the brassy-fronted leader of the Vic-
torian Bar draping his question because the
opposing counsel was a woman or out of courtesy
to the jurywomen’s blushes. He would, through
his perverted sense of humor, probably make the
queries more direct. Miss Evans, our only local
woman barrister, is still waiting to be admitted.
From the A.-G.’s demeanor, she may wait.
Meanwhile, she has done some good journalistic
work on economic questions for the Sunday Sun.
A ? ne P°* nt > l eas t» the deputation had the
A.-G. s sympathy, and that was on the injustice
of men willing their property away from good,
deserving wives. One of the leading family
solicitors of Sydney says he is sick of men who,
in making their wills, give but a pittance to the
wife or sometimes ignore her altogether. Others,
who have in their wills amply provided for her,'
rush round to the solicitor after every tiff with the
lady and demand to have her struck out of the
deed. By the frequency of their rushings he
gathers that their tiffs are numerous.
The noble art of music has received a bad set-
back in Sydney, a brass band having been fined
for playing m front of Truth office, because John
Norton was quite unable to write while the
alleged melody was going on. This is the
second time the band lias run against
the local press and been damaged by the
collision. Its first mishap was opposite
the office of The Bulletin. A poet, who
chanced to be composing an immortal work on the
premises when the music commenced, ran out
distractedly, with his long hair flying in the wind,
and lured an organ-grinder for eighteenpence to
play a rival melody, and the organ-grinder entered
into the proceedings with enthusiasm. Then the
poet stood on the office doorstep and howled after
the manner of a.i agonised dog, and real dogs,
hearing the disturbance, gathered from all
quarters, till the street was full of music and dog.
The band was routed with great slaughter inside
of three minutes.
. Thomas James Whelan, one time a mounted
trooper in this State, who is being “ writted ” by
a Sydney girl for alleged breach of promise,
damages claimed £5OOO, is married to a widowed
step-daughter of President Kruger. She is
reputed to be a rich woman. Whelan married
towards the close of the late Boer disturbance,
and the pair came to Sydney, stopped here awhile
very quietly, and then went on to England.
When in a former letter I said that a grass-
widow was so called because she was at grass
whilst her trainer was away, I intended it
as a little joke. I was trying to brighten up a
dull-grey community until Mr. O’Sullivan’s next
loan came along But quite a number of obtuse
or literal folk have written to illumine my dark-
ness. By one lam informed that “every school-
boy” knows that the phrase is derived from the
French 1 grace”—a widow by courtesy. But
there are far more picturesque, if less correct,
explanations than that. In the old days
in England, it is said, a man whose
wife had left for a visit to her relations
would hang out a broom from his window as
a sign to his friends to come in and help him to
have a pink time. Sometimes there was no
broom available (liis wife, knowing of the custom,
would lock up every one), so he exhibited a bunch
of grass. Thus he was known as a grass widower,
she as a grass widow. Again, a bundle of grass is
used as a danger signal in London to-day ; when
the road is “up” the workmen tie a bunch of dry
grass to the lamp-posts. So you can take it, if
you like, that a grass-widow is a lady with the
danger signal showing. An American theory is
that a grass-widow is so called because she makes
hav while the sun shines. The term is also said
to be based on the scriptural statement that all
flesh is grass—either in allusion to the passing
away of the husband or to the widow’s frequent
habit of wearing her evening dress cut low.
From a local correspondent I learn that an
epidemic of red has broken out in Sydney. Hats,
frocks, brollies, shoe-heels, and etceteras have
suddenly burst into flame, despite the high register
of the thermometer. A lot of women look like
discordant trumpet blasts. I haven’t met the
epidemic myself. Beyond the wearing of red
ties by many men, and red belts by divers women,
local dress doesn’t seem generally of the color of
Macbeth’s hand. All the same, I should not be
surprised to see our girls put on more red after
they’ve seen that scarlet girl in “The Lady of
Ostend.”
A more or less reliable friend writes me that
most of the grandmothers at the Fleet ball,
Hobart, t’other evening, wore white, and hopped
round with the teeny midshipmen and sub-lieu-
tenants. There’s nothing remarkable in that;
Sydneyites know those bright, young grand-
mothers well. But a still more remote generation
of real genuine old ladies hobble up the stairways
to the Hobart ball-rooms—the kind of dames you
read of in books written middle of last century.
I had an idea once that sort didn’t now exist, but
I didn’t know Hobart then. It is, in the first
place, a city of dodderers towards the cemeteries
which spike, as with almonds, every hill-side,
and a city of those who have doddered.
Leave them and you come to the next generation
the wonderful old ladies that you meet at balls
with their obsolete jewellery and their old recol-
lections. Next come their children —the grand-
mothers who dance. After them you meet a
generation of ordinary married people, and then
the young folks. You may number the genera-
tions thus : (1) cemetery ; (2) Legislative Council;
(3) great-grandmothers who go to balls but don’t
dance ; (4) grandmothers who dance; (5) middle-
aged ladies ; (6) nice girls.
Edward Brook, sewing cotton manufacturer,
who died last month in England leaving property
valued at £2,000,000, years ago spent some months
with his wife at a beauty spot in M.L. He
used to wear a bottle-green coat and looked like
an English footman, and was known as “The
Reel of Cotton Man.” The pair spent all the
day time in a boat on a river, fishing, with some-
thing to eat and drink in the locker. When
they left they carried with them quite four or
five stone more adipose than when they arrived.
Mr. Matthew Henry Stephen, who retired from
the N.S.W. Bench last month, is a very Dream-
of-Gerontius-looking man. Perhaps if he had
not gone to Law he would have run to the ecclesi-
astical line of business and become a Higli Church
prelate.-*He was first married in ’54 to Miss Shad-
forth, daughter of an Usher of as much Black
Rod as we have in N.S.W. His second wife,
whom lie married lately, was Miss Huth waite, a
connection of the Stephen family. His Hon. was
the eldest child of his pater, Chief Justice Alfred
Stephen, and Mrs. Monty Severn is the youngest
of some seventeen or so. The Stephens will go a
trip to England by-and-bye.
Half-a-yard of photographic letter-card is a late
novelty. It folds to ordinary letter-size, and your
correspondence is on the back of the Waimangu
Geyser or some such natural phenomenon. It was
made for tired tourists who explain the shortness
of their letters on the ground that there wasn’t
room for more—the geyser took up all the space.
One of the cards “ On the Road to Market ” gives
you a long strip of road by which travel three
wool-carts drawn by 12 horses apiece. Thirty-six
horses and two more pulling the boss’s buggy.
From Collins Bros, and Co. (When you have a
headache you damp this letter card and wrap it
round your aching dome of thought.)
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Some years ago there was an absent-bride-
groom affair in Melb., the disappointed bride-
elect being now a staid but charming lady. One
might think that the long arm of coincidence
would have to stretch so far to bring about another
such event in the same family that it would be
liable to break the collar-bone of coincidence, but
a precisely similar fate has met the younger sister.
The faint-hearted substitute for a man whom she
was about to marry did not even send a wire to
say that he was detained at a dog-fight.
“ A recent bride’s parent took a novel view of
knot-tying jubilations by giving a grand feed and
treat to several asylums. Incongruous, perhaps.
But better surely to give the lean pig a share
occasionally, instead of piling supererogatory
grease on the porker which is, metaphorically, as
fat as Bent.
“Widows are still the rage. One of the
smartest out Toorak way is being assiduously
sought in marriage by three willin’ Barkises, and
dallies exultingly with the trio. Meanwhile unso-
phisticated girleens are given in marriage below
the match level, or fade away in single helpless
ness.
‘ 1 At last the picturesque and neglected Alex-
andra Avenue is to have its use made manifest.
Lady Northcote goes driving thereon sunny after-
noons, so the horsey women and toney dames are
certain to follow suit. Heretofore the tan-track
for equestriennes has been deserted and the drive
looked as unnecessary as a State Governor.
“ Mr. Tom Keenan, the wealthy old bachelor
who has been let in for £4OO damages and costs in
a jilt case, is the other type of Irishman. U e
lacks enthusiasm of any kind, is slow, wary, and
careful with the bawbees. R.C. inarms in Mel-
bourne have long despaired of drawing him into
matrimonial meshes or into any charitable schemes
which insolved large contributions. For the last
score of years he has been an identity of Oollins-
street. He does the walk from the Grand to the
Exchange in a slow, measured, mechanical fashion
—as if wound up at the hotel, so as not to run
down till the centre of speculation is reached.
“The Keenan wealth grew out of lucky
mining speculations, in which two brothers shared.
One of the twain met with a sudden death by
falling out of a window or off a verandah, or some-
thing of the sort, and then brother Thomas was
left with the joint winnings.
“The frills of Lady Northcote and her English
widow chum were a bright break in the gloomy
lines of aides on the Flemington terrace last
Saturday. She wore a dress in tones of cloud
grey and coral pink, the latter hue just
flushing, in the manner of a sunset glow
the exquisite grey over-dress. In hats, how'-
ever, the vivacious Ex. falls short of the mark.
Lady Margaret Knowles has finally aban-
doned the weeds. Her race frock on Saturday
was a blue canvas, not very far removed from
mourning mauve. Still it was a remove. What
was very nearly akin to a Dresden figure effect
was supplied by Mrs. Ernest Raleigh in an ivory-
tinted serge frock hanging smoothly to the heels,
and a flat, circular hat, also in the ivory tone,
with an aureole of tiny pink roses.
“The latest complexion ‘food ’ costs a guinea a-
jar, and the jar is not anything like as large as an
ordinary jam-pot. The treatment, too, exacts
some sacrifice. After the first grand daub and
massage the face must not be given an outing for
38 hours. One actress tried it, and found herself,
’tis said, with the complexion of a child. But
that’s hardly specific enough. Some children I
know have complexions as bad as their manners.
“There is a whole world of pathos and a long,
tearful essay on the birth-rate question in this
Argus advertisement:—
•WANTED, by family, BOARD RESIDENCE, St.
* ' Hilda, where baby can cry occasionally without
disturbing household. Merchant, Gordon and Gotch.
“ News comes that Miss Mignonette Clarke will
not pursue her singing studies to the professional
point now. Evidently little Sydenham’s financial
affairs have improved since he won the big mili-
tary berth.
“ A girl tourist writes from Colombo :
It is disgusting to find that the bloom I used with such
success on land doesn’t become me at sea. The ocean
induces a motley shade, something between Stilton cheese
and verdigris. How can one apply bloom on that surface?
I tried it, and looked like a wax figure that had been left
out to get the rusty rain drippings off an old shed. So
I’ve gone back to my putty and drab state, and can no
longer sip the nectar with a rosy lip If you hear of a
good marine cast-iron make-up, cable at once.
“ Stencilling is the latest fad. The industrious
of the sex set to work with the stencil plate on
sack-cloth for wall-decorations. The more frivo-
lous trifle with finnicky little designs for the;ir
dresses. Silk is a good groundwork for stencil
effects, and a border done in some floral pattern is
a capital embellishment.
“The latest in millinery from the attics of
authority is a torpedo hat. What next? Hats
of Russian Panic or Yellow Peril? Or the War-
Cloud toque ?
“Some Melbourne play-goers saw Irene Frank-
lin doing a turn recently in one of the New York
halls. They were amazed to find her grown tall
and thin, and rather slick in her style.
“An obdurate set of bachelors infest a leading
St. Kilda hotel. With the idea that united they
may withstand the attacks of the enemy, these
unsociables dine at a large table by themselves,
descend on the smoking-room in the one flank
movement, and outwit the skirted infantry at
every point. The smart girl has been foiled so
often that now she abandons the field, and only
frisky' dames and hardened spinsters can be found
to lodge in the place.
“ One of the funniest features of a confectionery
case before the Court lately was counsel I. Isaacs
discussing with the smileless face of the Sphinx
and the inflexible manner of a poker machine, the
constitutional points and dictionary equivalents
of ‘kisses.’ The dispute was-about the naming by
a firm of certain stick-jaw morsels as ‘milk kisses,’
which name another firm claimed. As the lawyers
wrangled about the kissy matter the audience wore
a permanent grin, and even the presiding Justice
let off jocular wheezes. But I. Isaacs makes up
in the concentrative faculty what he loses by his
absolutely humorless condition of mind. When
he holds forth in either Parliament or Court he
talks right on, and no distraction can draw him a
shadow of an inch from his intent and rasping line
of argument.
“Blondes just now are rushing Into all the
tones of Autumn green, from the emerald tint to
verdigris. When no green is at all possible in
the dress, it is brought forward in a veil, which
gives a mal-de-mer hue to the face. The blue-bag
gossamer was bad enough, the green veil is
outrageous.
“Mrs. J. W. Taverner looks with glee on the
time ahead when her burly lord is Agent-General.
About the announced absence of all frill from the
post, let us wait a while ! J. W. Taverner is not
the sort to refrain from encasing his fatted calf in
silk hose, if there’s a chance of a strut; and the
wife of his bosom is not the sort to let him extin-
guish himself socially.
“ Mrs. Doubleday, who helped Amy Castles,
Alice Crawford, ana Lili Sharp forward on Mel-
bourne platforms, is giving attention now to her
own daughter—a mite who is scoring at all the
musical contests in this State and securing Con-
servatorium honors.
“Melbourne is threatened with a plague of
women physical culturists seeking to acquire the
Vulcana back. A doctor’s daughter, an elocu-
tionist, a widow, and an ex-thatch decorator are
all on the job, while more of the order are coming-
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
CHERRY BRANDY
Miss Nellie Stewart writes: “ ‘ Valaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
Elexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “ Valaze,” P r -
tykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price Bs. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D.,243 Oollins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamp 3
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
| facile PRIIMCEPS. I
|~ SEMPER iPEM.I
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
e)V RAINCOATS.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
FOR


PERSONAL ITEMS.
A statement that Baden-Powell is on his
way to Australia suggests the query: Who is
Baden Powell ?
Obit: Dick Whittington, well-known Ade-
laide theatrical identity and agent. Treasurer of
Theatre Royal years ago.
Kingston says that he has greatly benefited
in health by his Maoriland trip, but his Ade-
laide friends were far from satisfied with his looks
when he visited that city last week.
The estate of the late E. S. Dawes, con-
nected with Australian shipping, has been proved
for probate purposes at £241,000. Dawes was a
name well-known in Sydney commercial life half
a century ago.
Recently-deceased Ballarat mining pioneer,
Jas. Moran, was the man who gave the alarm to
Peter Lalor of the advance of the troops to storm
the Eureka Stockade on that historic Sunday
morning in ’54.
Higgs, the mild-mannered, melancholy
Queensland Senator, has shaved off his black
beard. He used to look like Mephistopheles
(“ after using ”); now he is a model of what an
Italian Count ought to be.
Died at Walmer, near Bathurst (N.S.W.),
Thomas Henry Eitzherbert Hawkins, native of
the “ Plains,” son of Gold Commissioner Hawkins
of the roaring days of the Turon, and afterwards
of Blacktown. Mrs. “President” F. B. Suttor
is now the sole survivor of the Hawkins family.
David Syme, now 77 years old, gives
pretty well as much time to his farms and his
cows as he does to the Age. He has been wander-
ing in South Australia lately, picking up any
beast that took his fancy if the price suited.
David has already imported from Europe Hol-
steins, Kerries, and other varieties of cow. He
works his farms mostly on the shares system.
Jack Want, who is suspected of designs
on little Joey Carruthers’ bit of bird-seed, is over
six feet of rough tweed suiting, with a rusty face,
a voice which clangs, an iron jaw which deceives
few nowadays, and the political heart of a chicken.
Democrats once thought him a rugged, bluff, and
independent thinker, and a sincere talker. _ They
have got over that now. His bluff ness is just
bluff.
Carruthers’ policy is to butter all men ;
he is greasing his way to the Premiership. At
a Mayor’s picnic the other day :
The success of my life can be traced to the good influ-
ence of my mother first, and to the wise teachings of my
old Mentor, Alderman S. E. Lees, second.
It’s meant to be flattery, but it is of a dubious
sort. What is the “success ” of Joseph’s life, any-
how?
THAT DEAR MR. DOWIE.
The dad of N.S.W. Legislative Council
is Dr. James Norton, appointed by Henry Parkes
in 1879. Mr. Norton is a Sydney native, born at
the corner of King and Elizabeth streets, the
house afterwards known as the Three Tuns Inn,
kept by Richard Driver. With two exceptions,
Mr. Norton, admitted 1848, is the oldest solicitor
on the rolls in New South Wales. The exceptions
are A. H. M'Culloeh (1844) and William Russell
(1846).
The N.S.W. Council has five members of
over 20 years standing—Jantes Norton (1879), P.
G. King (1880), Geo. Lee (1881), J. M‘ln tosh
(1881), and H. C. Dangar (1883). The two latter
have held seats in the Assembly. Lee
essayed to get there once, but was defeated;
King and Norton have never tried. King is 87
years of age, MTntosh 83, Norton is in his 80th
year, and Dangar and Lee have passed the
allotted span. Captain Charles, who became a
Leg. Councillor in 1885, is said to be close up to
90 years of age.
A recently-printed legal notice calls upon
anyone having claims upon the estate of the late
Thomas McMaster, who died on the 10th March,
1884, to send same at once to certain solicitors.
The name recalls early trades-unionism. The old
Swan-With-Two-Necks, at the corner of George
and Park streets, Sydney, was in the McMaster
family for a quarter of a century. The father,
John, a keen Scotsman, who always wore a bonnet,
gave the business to the above-named Thomas.
The inn was the house of call and of meeting for
all trade societies before the Trades Hall was
founded, and from the Swan-With-Two-Necks
every Eight-hour procession started. At the
Swan, then kept by the late Steve Punch, John
Norton was given a send-off when leaving to
represent Australian labor at the Paris Conference
in 1887. ;
Saunders, newest of N. S. W. police superin-
tendents, gets up to that grade in a district in
which he served as a constable only 20 years ago
—promotion which has few parallels in tne history
of this service. When the Mt. Browne diggings
“broke out” in the far north-west he acted as
gold escort; then, having made a small reputa
tion for successfully handling diggers, he was
shifted to the Barrier when that rush started.
There were Saunders and another to handle
several thousands of mostly-excited men,
and they did it somehow. The statutes
hadn’t got out as far as that, but the
sense of natural justice is strong in
a diggers’ camp, and Saunders called
it to his help. Also, in order to estab-
lish himself in the personal respect
of the crowd, he trained hard as
an athlete, and was ready to “ put
them on ” in any boxing tourna-
ment. The Inspector-General
might have shuddered if he had
seen the representative of the
Law in a circus tent trying
to knock out “Bendigo Bill”
or “Long Charley but
the crowd reckoned him
all right and took his
word for a lot. And
then he was always very
polite to the Judges on
circuit ; and the country
“copper” who isn’t has
not learned the first begin-
nings of the art of how to get
promoted.
Perhaps the only Austra-
lasian Supreme Court Judge
who was ever “up” for
assault was Stephen, a
Maoriland Judge of the
fifties. He was a lively
old fellow, the “ hero ”
of many escapades, one
of which led up to a
Dunedin man waiting
on him in his office.
In there something
happened which ended
in a police-court sum-
mons for assault. The
bench was divided; and
though a majority was for
acquittal, the spokesman of ■' -
the minority gave his Honor a
dressing down, which he cut short by clearing out
of the court.
The Fyshes of Tasmania have become Pro-
tectionists by a practical process. When P. O.
Fysh, the knight, went to Hobart 40 years ago to
represent Stevenson and Son, of Melbourne, the
Flinders-lane soft-goods people, he was a Free-
trader, as every man in “ the Lane ” was in those
days, and is to-day. But when a man makes
things in Australia himself, and wants to be
protected against the products of outside sweat-
labor, it doesn’t need much wordy argument to
make him a Protectionist. Now, the name of
“P. O. Fysh” can be seen over factories in
Launceston where shirts, boots, hats and clothing
are made. This Fysh is son of Knight Fysh.
The Fysh interests now lie in helping instead
of destroying Australian industries, and the old
Fysh gods rust in the Fysh back yard.
Word comes across from Africa of the
death there of “old Reison,” as picturesque an
ancient party as ever wandered Australia, blazing
the track to new goldfields. He and his son
pegged out the Reward claim at Broad Arrow
(W.A.), and had pounds of the stuff stored away
in jam tins under their bunks before the crowd
got on to it. The Standard Exploration Co. took
over their claim afterwards for £6OOO cash. The
son, a cripple, died of thirst a little later;
strangely ‘enough, it was a jam tin, with a few
words scribbled upon it, that told who he was.
What time the old man wasn’t nosing round for
gold he was nosing through the Bible to find out
new absurdities, and he put his views into writ-
ings which would fill 19 volumes or so. He was
always going to startle the world by publishing
the lot, but, as far as present scribe knows, he
never did.
“ X.X.X.” writes :
Dowie is mostly South Australian, having- arrived in
that State when a child. His father was a bootmaker
Dowie crammed for the Congregational Church and had
the reputation of being a real devil at Greek. He came
to Sydney 30 years ago, and was given the charge of a
church at Newtown. In the fever of his ambition he r n
for the presidentship, but Dr. Jefferis beat him badly
and he resigned in a huff. Afterwards he started a
church on his own, something after the tactics of
Parson George Hay. His biggest crowds were on Hyde
Park and the Domain. His notoriety was increased by
novel tracts and vigorous denunciations of the press.
Finally, he ran as a Parliamentary candidate against
Toohey and Renwick in the old South Sydney electorate,
and was badly licked. He still plodded with his church.
One old dame secured him an annuity for several years
and then withdrew the prop. At this time he was neatly
taken down hy a new chum who announced that under his
mother’s will he was entitled to £20,000, the whole of
which he was prepared to donate to Dovvie’s church.
For months the prophet was in ecstacies, and financed
the new chum to the extent of some hundreds and a
saloon trip to England to collect the money and “sign
all formalities.” The new chum never came back, and
was lost in oblivion.
OBVIOUS.
BILL (to friend who has just come in): “ Hullo
Tom! what are yer 'avi n?”
TOM: “ A dashed good time.”
It was in keeping with the traditions of
the Stephen family that the last criminal case tried
by the late Acting-Chief-Justice Stephen was a
capital one, and Mr. Stephen’s indignant remarks
when the jury didn’t bring in a hanging verdict to
round off his judicial career were in keeping also.
As a commentary on the statement of
Elijah Dowie that he is not the son of J. M. Dowie
but of some English duke or other high-placed
insect, the Adelaide Chronicle (February 20)
published photographs of the old man and the
prophet. The resemblance is so great that it
would be accepted in any court of law as a proof
of paternity.
Concerning an Australian author :
G. W. Eusden, recently died, was one of a remarkable
“booky” clan which settled in Australia in the early
days. His father, George Eusden, was a clergyman and
a teacher, of Surrey, who was familiar with the best
literary men of his day. In 1834 he came out to Aus-
tralia, hiring a sailing vessel to transport his family, his
servants, and his ox. The ox was intended to supply
milk to the infants among the voyagers, but was of a per-
verse generation and “ went dry ” the first day out. The
little Rusdens had accordingly something like a starvation
diet between England and the Cape and again between
the Cape and Hobart; whether from that, or in spite of
that, they have mostly lived, or are living, to be 80 or 90
or so. Dr. Charles Nicholson was the only passenger not
of the Rusden household by the little vessel that carried
the dry ox. When this patriarchal group of colonists
reached Hobart they saw there the first hop-vine planted
—the foundation of a great industry. George W. Rusden
settled in Victoria, took an interest in the education of
white children and the preservation of black ones, fol-
lowed the literary bent of his father, and wrote several
books, best known of which is the “ History of Australia.”
After a lengthy term of civil service, he retired on a
pension and went to London. There as a member
of the Athenaeum he became friendly with Herbert
Spencer and was the other party to a much misquoted
dialogue. Spencer and Rusden had played a game of
billiards, and Spencer had been beaten handsomely. The
two friends, following the custom of old men—especially
of old men who are bachelors and philosophers—used to
wrangle a bit. “ When I see an old man play as well as
you ” said Spencer, “ I always think of a misspent
youth.” “ And when I see an old man play as badly as
you ” retorted Rusden, “I think of an incapable old
ko-e G. W. Rusden left much of his property to Mel-
bourne University and for church and charity purposes.
Relations (among whom is Miss Rose Scott, of Sydney, a
niece) received bequests also. Unlike a brother still
living (Henry Rusden), G.W.R. was a very enthusiastic
churchman. The Anglican church, the Australian blacks
and Shakspeare were his three hobbies. His last work,
now in the press, is designed to show the religious
teaching of Shakspeare.
Jameson, the miserably incompetent
brigand who went killing Boers in time of peaoe,
and whom old Paul Kruger, in misplaced kind-
ness, neglected to hang, is now Premier of Cape
Colony.
A. N. Barnett has been appointed Sydney
City Coroner, Dr. Todd, for the last five years
Deputy Coroner, being passed over on the
ground that he is not a member of the oivil
service. The question whether he was not
induced to become deputy by the promise
of promotion later on apparently wasn’t
considered. Further, if he is not a public
servant, then his name ought not to be
included in the official Public Service
List ; and it is—he is therein alleged to
be “an officer employed by the Govern-
ment under the provisions of the Public
Service Act, 1002.” And even if he
isn’t a public servant, but is the best
man for the important billet, he ought
to have been appointed. Few men
are, as he is, both lawyer and doctor
of medicine. The officer who is ap-
pointed is neither. The nearest
he gets to law is through having
been a mining warden and
police-magistrate ; the nearest
to medicine through being a
doctor’s son-in-law. He is
keen, however, and energetic
(his appointment indicates
that), and may be relied up-
on not to make a mess of
things.
The champion loafer has
been discovered in Melbourne.
His name is Rhodes, and
from his habits he is known
as “ Dusty ” Rhodes. When
not in gaol his residence is
Royal Park, in which enclo-
sure are cattle “ rugged ” at
night. “Dusty” appro-
priates a rug each night,
wraps himself up in it, and
sleeps the sleep of the mean,
while a cold cow shivers
in the open. He has been
ordered to “ rug ” in Melbourne
gaol for six months. In Sydney
Domain the dossers’ dodge is to shift
the cow and lie down on the spot she has
' warmed!
On June 16, 1902, Chief Justice Darley
boarded the Moana for England on full pay
(£3500 a year) He was seen off by the Governor,
the Admiral, the General, the Premier, the leader of
the Opposition, and all the Supreme Court Judges,
from Justice Stephen to the then Acting Justice
Pring. He returned by the Orontes on February
26 last (a record judicial leave on full pay), and,
through one cause or another, not one of the
eminent persons who saw him off was present to
receive him. Some were away, some were busy,
and a good proportion were laid up.
THE LITTLE DOCTOR, BILL MALONEY ,
M‘EACHARNS FRIEND.
In the old days Tommy Bent’s picture,
robed as Victorian Speaker, was painted in a
profusion of oils. Just at the time Melbourne
was suffering from a sense of right appreciation
of its Bent, and the picture was not allowed to go
to the National Gallery, but found a home in the
aquarium, a place which suggests the four-legged
boy, the two-faced calf and other interesting
freaks. Now that Tommy is Premier, surely
Victoria will fish that lost work of art out of the
place where the vulgar go to look at the tittlebat
in the tank, and hang it on a gallows or a nail, or
somewhere in a place of honor.
ONE THING-WELL DONE.
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills do one thing well—they actually make new blood. They don’t merely
artificially stimulate the kidneys, liver, heart or bowels. They cure in %> only really scientific way—and
that is through the blood. They contain the very ingredients that make new blood They fill.every artery
with pure red blood that permanently strengthens every organ of the body. This new blood sweeps
impurities and weakness from the system. Most diseases have their origin m disordered blood. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills put disordered blood in order-they make new blood. In this true scientific way they
root out the very foundation of a dozen different diseases. They do one thing-They do it well-They
make new blood. Read how they do it:
„ BhPnmatie fever closed my veins with impurities, and left me weak and sickly,” says Mr Wm. Connolly, of March,
» I was onW fleven when I had my first attack. It took me without a moment’s notice. I went to bed feeling
near Orange. l was oniy eleven wnc . • • „ nrt lia , ns r was in a hiirh fever, and inv loints, arms, leys and
all right, b “ t .S ef R <^®,^° r ”‘d g red W looking I was inched for six months, and suffered the greatest pain and misery. When I
body were stiff, swollen ; r ® l l0 T hat)t) etite and looked as if I were dviny. I took all kinds of m dicines and tonics,
got up I was weak and helpless. r 1 Th ’ l , ro t another attack of the fever, and I was worse than ever. My people
but they didn't give me an atom < of*»trength m feet And when I did I could only just crawl about,
thought I was done for, and it was a y turned rae sick,"and I got worse and worse until I started Dr. Williams’
like t»n. d how they cured many different diseases by actually making new, pure, rich, red
Pmk p dls for Mymoher readl no WW the fOLU . th f 3OX l could act u;dly feel the new blood tingling in my veins
szl -“*»• •« »'• *-'»
Medical Advice given Free. Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, N.S.W. Get the Genuine, 2s. 9d. a box.
Dr Williams Pink pills for pale people


Aboriginalities.
“ Thurla ” : Record load of wheat (B.
4/2/’O4) has since been beaten by a Narromine
QUICKEST AND BEST.
THE REV. BIGBY: “ Can you tell me the best way to get to Wingbingce, my
dear friend?”
THE BATTLER: “ Certainly , Mister. Get off’n walk.”
carrier, Geo. Harden, who recently took in 202
bags—about 23 tons gross weight, or including
waggon about 27 tons. He had 17 horses.
“ Bob R.” writes in a fine strain of old
conservatism :
Can recall agriculture of 25 years ago—a single-furrow
plough did the work, seed sown by hand and a bush
dragged over it served for a harrow. Result: anything
over 40 bushels to the acre. Now the cocky has Govern-
ment instructors to teach him analysis of soils, the best
varieties of 600 kinds of wheat to sow, up-to-date
machinery which does almost everything but make
a crop grow, and manure. Result: About 10 bushels to
the acre. The ancient cocky was prosperous; the
modern variety has to lean up against the Government or
starve What is the difference ? This education reminds
me of the London blacksmith who earned celebrity by
his successful operations for cataract on the eye. At last
several London opthalmic surgeons had him carefully
trained in the profession, with the result that his first
operation afterwards was an ignominious failure.
The Bulletin would like to know the date of
those 40-bushel harvests. For instance, in the
’GO’s, wheat-growing was mostly confined to the
well-watered parts of N.S.W., and yet the crops
in ’63, ’64, ’66, ’6B and ’7l were worse than those
of the droughbyear 1901. There is only one 17-
bushel wheat-harvest on record since ’62 (writer
has no figures further back), and that was in 1887 ;
and nothing above 17 bushels was ever heard of.
When were those legendary 40-bushel harvests ?
“ Wilmot W.” : Here are a few more
strange names, all, save one, names of places
quite close to Bill Lyne’s Federal electorate of
the Hume (N.S. W.): —Bull and Damper, Paddy’s
River, No Place, Happy Jack, Black Jack,
Yellow Boy, Snow Ball, Sugar Loaf, Dickie
Cooper, Killamycut, Lobb’s Hole, Garryowen,
American Yards, Scotchman’s Creek, Dora Dora,
Abraham’s Bosom, Green’s Gunya, New Chum
Hill, The Pocket, Horse Shoe, Jaekalass, Gallop-
ing Dick, Pepper Corn, Broken Cart, Stag Horn,
The Toll Bar, Lankey’s Creek, The Pound, Square
Nob, Dead Bull, Mount Horeb, Pullietop, Dead
Man’s Flat, Native Dog, Billy’s Lookout, Four
Corners, Come-a-long, Toolong, Possum Point,
Tom Groglin, The Light House, War Brook
Dough Boy Hollow. Above are but half the
queer names of places in that one small corner of
Australia.
* • • •
“ J.L.” : Was about to boil my billy near
Deception Bay (Q.) and left it full of water whilst
I turned round to
get the lid. I put
the latter on the
billy vvhilstlkept
an eye on a mo-
poke which was
performing on a
neighboring tree.
Bird flew away,
and I returned to
business and put
the billy on the
fire. In a little
while a mysteri-
ous splashing
sound from the
billy attracted
my attention.
Then the lid
burst off indig-
nantly and a
very hurried
snake emerged.
He was brown,
angry, and about
two feet long.
Must have
slipped into billy
while my back
was turned to
get the lid, and
when the water
warmed up the
reptile thought it
time to leap off
the premises.
* *
“ W.D. B.” :
Can any Bulle-
tin reader say
how a swag came to be known as “Matilda?”
Prof. Morris supplies no information on the
point in his “ Austral English.”
PURE AND UNDEFILED.
BAGMAN: “Pardon me, madame, but there's a
soft insidious aromatic flavor about this
water. May I ask if there's anything WRONG
with the well."
Mrs. O’Dowd: “ Sure there ought not to be;
there's close on two feet o' warther in it, an’
nothin's fallen in since Fogarty's billy goat,
an' that was a wake ago."
“Little Mary” : That part of the Lower
Darling that lies beyond Menindie is having one
of the best seasons known since white men settled
in the district. ' Grass and herbage are still green
in places. Stock is selling at record prices. One
homestead lessee received £1 a head all round for
his wethers. Oh, for a cycle of successful seasons !
Still there are drawbacks. For instance, the
fine season has caused a marvellous and madden-
ing growth of wild tobacco bush round about
Wentworth and Euston. This bush is good for
neither fuel nor fodder, nor fencing, nor fun. It’s
one of Nature’s misfits, or bad jokes. Nature is a
humorless female—a sort of dreary mother- in-law.
* * * m
“C.C.” : Those “travellers ” whose
beat is along the N.S.W. southern railway
line are a curious lot—more akin to the
Sydney bushmen who camp in tiie Domain
than to the adventurous swaggie one meets
out back. Thtir swags are m all shapes,
and range from a bundle under the arm
to a derelict carpet-bag slung on a stick.
Most of them carry something ostensibly
for sale—polished bullock horns, paper
flowers, crucifixion implements in pickle
bottles, etc. —things one is not really ex-
pected to buy, but which serve as an
introduction to a feed, or a shilling as
consolation stakes. Some, as a matter of
form, ask for work, and if, say, ringbark-
ing is offered, the chances are that tie
applicant happens to be a piano tuner who
has lost his tools, a chiropodist, parasol
mender, or some trade equally impossible.
But the most original fakir to date glided
gently into my premises, and silently
handed me a grimy - looking document
badly in need of fumigation. Asked what
he wanted, he replied, “Read it, please.”
The document informed all “ kind friends
and benevolent strangers” that “ John
Blank, a respectable, hard-working young
man, solicited a small subscription towards
the purchase of a horse, on which he could
ride in search of employment.” He didn’t
ask for work, just wanted to prance around
looking for it. I gazed at him, thought
fully debating whether he didn’t deserve
a bob for his originality, not to mention
his “hide.” “Are you John Blank? ” He
nodded. “Wouldn’t a light sulky do you
as well?” He shook his head. “Think
you’d have a better chance of escaping
from a job if you were mounted ? ”
The corners of John’s mouth crept slowly
towards his ears in a tired grin. “Well, when
you’ve raised the horse, come back to me and
I’ll give you sixpence towards the saddle and
bridle.” He folded up his tattered “petition”
and left, without having said a word except
“Read it, please.” He shut the back gate most
carefully.
♦ » * »
“ Bunny ” : An Outback suicide. The
Louth police have found the body of a man who
had hanged himself by a fishing-line to a tree.
Papers in the dead man’s swag indicated that the
body had been hanging since February last year.
The look of lonely, lazy Louth is enough to pro-
duce melancholia. A letter in the swag contained
£lO to be sent to “ Mother.”
“ Werrimee ” :
Some Queensland
drovers are experi-
menting with a
novel method of
keeping rowdy
cattle on camps
at night. Lamps
are hung in
trees at inter-
vals round the
mob, and are
alleged to have
a quieting
effect on cattle
noted for rush-
ing. Drovers
generally will
scout the idea
I have travelled
with all sorts and
conditions of
cattle, on many
tracks, and in
many parts; also
I have had exper-
ience with many
drovers who be-
lieved in fires, and
can emphatically
say that cattle
are more restless
and harder to
hold on fire-liglit-
ed camps than on
dark camps. The
fact of the man on
watch flitting from light
to shade while riding round is sufficient
in itself to startle cattle. Also, as showing
the mistaken idea of the fire, a man some
years ago dismounted at one to light - his
pipe, and just then the cattle rushed. He
had no time to mount, and both man and horse
were trampled to death. Have seen cattle myself
sweep over many a fire; saw one mob go over a
tent and nearly carry the cook’s waggonette away.
Same mob put us up trees about three nights a
week. How lamps would keep those kind of
brutes on camp I don’t know, and would like to
hear from someone who has tried the experiment.
• *
“ Bull’s Hide ” writes in answer to
“ Prospect Good ” (15/10/’03):
Was not surprised, as “Prospect Good” imagines, at
two distinct varieties of ants living in the one ant hill,
but at two tribes of ants living as one family. Sugar ants,
in case I alluded to (B. 20,8/’O3), had entirely forsaken
the customs and traditions of their fathers. That’s where
surprise came in. Know quite well ’tis a common occur-
rence for two or more tribes of ants to dwell in one ant
hill, each tribe on its own. Have seen bulldogs (black
and red) and jumpers in one hill, and different varieties of
small ants with nestsin meat-ant and other ant hills. There
is a small black nettle-rumped ant, name unknown to me ;
he stings in forty thousand places in less than a second.
Have seen this little hot humorist build a nest fair in the
centre of a large meat-ant hill, and on his trips to and fro
the meat-ants would never cross his trail, but would treat
him with great respect. He returned the compliment,
but they draw the line at living together.
MR. GREGAN McMAHON, of the Hawtrey Co.,
as Cavendish Howley in “A Highland Legacy."
Photo, by Sarony Studio, Auckland (M.L.).
The Australian boy is an inventive and
enterprising little beast. An Argus par:—
A goods train, while proceeding up country from Ben-
digo on Saturday afternoon, passed over a stringy-bark
fencing rail near California Gully. Soon afterwards
another rail was discovered across the line in the same
locality. The police arrested William and John Speechley
13 and 14 years old respectively, who stated that they
had placed the rails across the line in order that the train
might cut them up for firewood.
* * * *
“ Bathurst Burr ” : To your list of strange
names of places, not far from Bathurst, you might
add The Frying Pan, The Sodwalls, Monkey Hill
(where there never was, and never will be, a
monkey), Quart Pot Creek, Murdering Swamp,
Doughboy Hollow, and Pigsface Plains.
BACK TO THE BUSH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A bushman’s son, I despised the life, and, yearning for
other things,
With hopes set high, to the city came—but the hopes
have taken wings !
There was nought the city could offer me, in place of the
things I left,
To make me feel as I used to feel—and life was of zest
bereft !
And then I fell upon evil times, and yearned for the days
of yore,
And wished with a heart-consuming wish, to be back in
the Bush once more !
Back to the Bush ! Back to the Bush ! Oh ! the weary
load I bore !
And the heart-sick hope for a chance to get back to the
well-loved Bush once more !
There’s heat in the Bush and dust on its roads, but the
country dust is sweet,
Compared to the filth that blows down the sordid
city street!
Oh 1 I’ve tramped those streets in the morning gloom, in
the glare, and the ev’ning murk,
With fading hopes and departing boots in a fruitless
search for work !
And I’ve cursed the city, and cursed its streets, till my
throat was cracked and sore—
But the balm has come to my life again, for I’m back in
the Bush once more 1
Back to the Bush ! Back to the Bush 1 Yes ! down in my
heart’s deep core
Is a sense of exquisite pleasure now I’m back to the Bush
once more !
I’ve known some days of the bitterest gloom when Death
seemed the nearest friend,
And living a curse that would only lift when Life itself
should end !
But it’s over now, and the gloom has gone, and with it
the dull, dumb pain
And free to breathe in the open bush, my heart sings
once again l
It sings again in the lust of life—for there’s something
worth living for—
The voices that called in my boyhood days are calling to
me once more !
Back to the Bush 1 Back to the Bush 1 And no longer
bruised and sore,
My heart keeps tune to the song of old, for I’m back to
the Bush once more 1
Though, maybe, it isn’t all pleasure here, and there
comes a share of pain ;
And the Bush is scourged with the drought sometimes—
yet seasons there are of rain !
(Old sayings are turned, for with too much sun you can’t
make any hay—
And here you “put by” for a droughty time, and pray
for a “ rainy day" 1)
But the whispering gums stand straight and tall, and
I’m learning again the lore
Of the myriad life of my native Bush—for it’s part of my
life once more !
Back to the Bush ! Back to the Bush ! Yes, m* heart,
in its utmost core,
Thanks the gods on high, who are sometimes good, that
I’m back to the Bush once more !
ULOOLA.
The snake yarn of Frank Drum:
While inspecting the Blind Creek mines the other day
was fortunate enough to witness a unique spectacle.
Looking down a shaft seven or eight feet deep saw two
brown snakes therein and by their strange behavior it
was apparent they were endeavoring to get out. First
they reared on their tails in an upright position and
strove to spring to the surface. This was repeated for a
considerable number of times, but they failed to get with-
in two feet of the top. At length, evidently wearied by
their exertions, they coiled up together and with
heads almost touching appeared to be cogitating
as to future plans. Suddenly the larger one stood
upright again, placing its two ends well into the wall
in order I suppose to get a better balance. Then
the other commenced crawling up its companion until
the head was reached. Here, by a wonderful feat of
dexterity, it half raised itself and, turning a complete
somersault, landed high and dry on top. It lay for
a minute where it had fallen, as if thinking out the
situation. Meanwhile, the one below never altered its
position. Then, gliding over to a small piece of timber,
the liberated reptile coiled itself around it and rolled
over to the edge of the shaft. Disentangling, it took
a firm grip of the thin end of the wood with its tail,
lowering the rest of its long body into the hole. The
other seized it, and then the pair glided quietly away.
Yet they ask, “ How does a snake climb ?”
The Bulletin, at all events, never asked that
last question. The snake would climb every
week all over the “ Aboriginalities ” page if it
were allowed.
m
teapJietosy
Limited
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
photographic Supply
1 . . . Stores
Catalogues mailed on application.
375 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BY APPOINTMENT.
Marjdy S^oTAeßs,
GEM MERCHANTS, JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS.
Silver Cigar and Cigarette Boxes
(CEDAR-LINED)
As Illustrated:
Binxsin £l2 lOs
x3£ -£4 4s
4J x 3} - £3 12s
Others from 50/-
m
Large, Handsome
Double Cigar Cabinet,
with handle, including
removable Cigar Cutter
and Match Box (size
9in x 7in)
£l7 lOs.
Others, about the same
size, £l4, £ll ss.
Write for HARDY BROTHERS’ Complete 1904 C ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
13HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY,&AT BRISBANE 810ND0N


Huge sums of money are being spent by
the Westralian Government in boosting up its so-
called agricultural areas—mostly one acre of soil
and 99 of pure, unadulterated sand. Liberal
terms are offered, it is true, but as the eyes have
been pretty well gouged out of the country by the
first arrivals, there is little left worth selecting.
The other day a Ministerial party went for a
picnic down in the south-west district, where
there are limestone caves that Gropers declare can
knock spots out of Jenolan. Of course the osten-
sible object was to inspect the country and to see
how the selectors were getting on. This is how
one part of the journey through the alleged agri-
cultural country (open for selection, of course) is
described by the reporter of a Perth daily paper :
Entering upon the last seven miles, the party ran into
sand, after which the scenery didn’t matter. This is a
district where sand does well, and the sample shown
between Ludlow and Capel was a little above the aver-
age. The sand did not merely rise in the air and prove
irritating by drifting into corners of eyes and mouth ;
it sprang up solidly and, falling into the drag, threatened
the springs. It seemed as though the worn-out road,
exhausting its patience in waiting for repairs, had, in its
desperation, determined to have at least one ride on the
coaches that had ground its life out under their merciless
wheels.
* * * *
“Jim Pan”: Saw a string of 46 camels
to-day in Broken Hill, all carrying wood. There’s
little else for the ship of the desert to carry on the
Barrier just now, because the good season has
enabled the horse teams and bullock teams to
take the road. Beyond Back-o’-Sunset the camel
is still the carry-all. Drought is the camel’s
friend—then Abdul Soojee Bag waxes fat and
cheeky. _
“F.H.R.”: Be animal suicide. I
travelled from Walhalla to Aberfeldy (on
a 3ft. track cut round the Gippsland moun-
tains) with a packer and 13 pack-horses.
One old horse was in a terrible state after
the heavy, cold winter, and vvhen we got
to the half-way house he, with the rest,
laid down for a spell and couldn’t get up
again without help. He lagged much
behind during the afternoon and had
several whip-thrashings (in spite of my in-
tercessions). At last about sunset he
stopped short, looked back towards the
dreaded whip, then wheeled suddenly
across the track, and, with a horrible
scream, threw himself over the side of the
mountain. We found him at the butt of a,
big gum with hardly an unbroken bone in
his body. The packer told me that was
jthe third horse he had seen suicide thus in
two years’ packing. I have seen horses go
out of Walhalla with their tails a’most cut
through by cruppers, holes on their backs
stuffed up with wool or hair, and a raw
half circle in front of them from the
shoulder-straps; but the police only see
them with their harness on. Harness
Covers a multitude of sores.
* » * *
“Ex-Q.”: Learnt to throw a boo-
merang some years ago from an old black-
fellow, in a quarter of an hour. Few
white men can throw the implement pro-
perly, doubtless because the blacks will
not impart the whole of the requisite know-
ledge. Take the commonest type—the
boomerang curved like a banana, and about
22in. from tip to tip in straight line. The
lighter the breeze the more effective the
throw, although a dead calm is unsuitable.
With a northerly wind and a right-handed
boomerang, one must face the east, with a
left-hander the west. The “boo” should be
held almost perpendicularly, with the flatter
side facing the south and the curve
pointed forward as with a sickle. The
aim should be at a point about 50 de-
grees above the ground. The arm should be
brought well back, the boo. being kept almost
vertical, and the throwing movement should be
rapid and straight. As the wood leaves the hand
a very slight jerk should be given—imparting a
swift, spinning motion to the weapon. The boo.,
on reaching the point aimed at, ducks straight
into the wind (northward), flies round slightly to
the west, passes down southwards, and then tacks
up through the wind to the northwards, narrow-
ing its circle, and finally drops close to the
thrower.
A DRAFTING PROPHECY.
KING OF THE NARRAN : “You won’t give this feller rations? All right, Missa Jones, dertfs
black men and dertfs white men, dertfs good men and mean men, but dertfs a Cove up
dere and htfs cornin' down some day, and he’ll blanky well draft yers.”
A Bendigo Independent correspondent
tells this
A rather remarkable incident happened in one of the
local gardens. A sparrow was seen hanging as if in
space. But on closer observation it was found to be held
by a spider’s web. The bird was struggling to free itself,
but in spite of its efforts it only got worse entangled in
the web. The spider is one of a species that has never
been seen round these parts before. It has a large gray
body, with red and black legs about 3in. long. Its web,
which is a bright yellow, and almost as strong as cotton,
is woven differently from the ordinary spider’s web. The
web covers an area of about 4ft. square. _ I think all
endeavors should be used to protect these spiders, »3 the
sparrow is a pest in the gardens.
“Incubator”: I have a three-year-old
turkey which sat for nine months, without a spell,
on fowl, duck, turkey and goose eggs, and only
two of the eggs failed. The bird seemed to like
the game, and, on being repeatedly turned off the
nest, disappeared. I found her, two days later,
amongst some weeds in the garden, still sitting—
this time on a door-knob and half-a-dozen onions,
collected from a patch near by. Is this a common
happening'
MADEMOISELLE YVONNE LEVERRIER
(Pianiste), Sydney Town Hall, Sat., March 5.
Photo, by The Falk Studios, Sydney.
“ Marque Reel ” : Be discovery of ants in
solid rock 30ft. from surface at White Cliffs
(Bulletin, l/10/’O3). Was once sinking prospect-
ing shaft for alluvial gold in a dry district in
northern Victoria. Bottomed at 13ft. Sinking
was mostly cemented gravel, and very hard and
dry. While squaring the bottom unearthed three
large live frogs. Have often wondered how they
came there. Have read of frogs being buried in
sealed bottle, and when dug up 20 years later
being found in good order ; but if frogs men-
tioned above had been where found before the
rock was covered with alluvial they must have
lain there for many thousands of years. When
discovered they were as fat as George Reid and as
cold as Irvine.
ON A WET NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grouched by the fire in the grate,
Cooped in the prison of Home to-night,
Everything ordered with air sedate,
Chair and books and a shaded light.
Dreaming, reflectively, chin in hand,
Swirling of wind and of rain outside,
Back I am swagging it, out to the land
Where the sky is clear and the plains are wide.
Long grey slopes to the purple rise,
Winding tracks through the mulga scrub,
Station roofs gleaming their long good-byes,
Welcoming light in a wayside pub.
My lamp I’d give for the rushlight dip
That shook like a drunk just off the bend ;
My home for the chance of a westward trip
With the drunken mate who called me friend.
The books I read for the books I made
(In fancy only) I’d freely give,
The cosy room for the boulder shade,
The Government “ screw ” for the gambling “ div.”
Freedom to do as you d—n well please,
Go to the dogs with a fizz and a hiss,
Drink up the flagon of life to the lees —
That is the star on a night like this.
yiC,
L.M.D.
mm
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY
ADAMS’ HOTEL
PITT STREET.
JIEET HE AT THE HARBEE BAR.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any ease re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Way back: Bulletin doesn’t pose as a theo-
logical authority, but believes that the R.O. people
refrain from meat, to some extent, in Lent as a com-
memoration of Christ’s 40 days’ fast in the desert, which
the Bible records ; and that the Anglicans follow their
example to some extent, partly in imitation, partly
because early English church authorities thought it a
good thing “to encourage the fisheries." This paper
doesn’t know of any sect that goes out into the wilder-
ness and does a genuine fast; they mostly humble their
worldly pride and do penance by substituting oysters on
shell and curried prawns for steak.. ..H.S.R. : Thanks;
but it’s not worth while pursuing the matter further
A.B.M. : Not enough skill yet ; and by the way, learn to
distinguish between a metaphor and a simile... .W.: Too
small a peg on which to hang a story... A.Z. A.: Variant of
a well-known j0ke....G.8.N.: Allegations you make are
libellous. Why should we print them on an unsup-
ported say-so? Gib: Not a glimmer of promise
Babe : As a verse-writer you are not out of the wood yet,
not by a long way... .X.Y.Z. Love’s A.8.C.” goes too
much on whole hog lines ; whole hog is all right in poli-
tics, but doesn’t do in love yarns J. Balton : Bowled
out first glance Martian: “War Notes” not in our
line; try elsewhere W.J.C. : Versed request to the
old man to say why the tear-drop quivers in his eye
refused, with a sigh. Old age has been asked that ques-
tion in verse seventy times seven Phormi : Not for us.
Cosmos: Statement that Henry George’s nostrum
would cure all ills, is a statement and nothing more
Sydney M. : Tamely told. A ghost yarn should have a
creep in every line... .J.S.: Lines follow a well-trodden
path D.R.S. : Not exactly correct. The ordinary
police constable has not power of demanding entry to a
pub. at any time, which is, however, given to any super-
intendent, inspector, sub-inspector, orsergeant of police ;
any senior constable, duly authorised by any general
authority under the seal of the Licensing Court; any
inspector appointed under the Liquor Act; or any
constable authorised in writing by the licens-
ing magistrate, justice, or superintendent of police....
J.W.8.: We could never give all that space to the matter.
....G.H. : You announce your rebellion with the fine
vigor of a circus advt.; will print said advt. (and pay for
it) when you fix the date of revolt definitely Kappa :
Very inferior cuss-verse... .B.: If certain donkeys choose
to make it their claim to recognition that they were born
in Devon, that’s their look-out. The Englishman is gene-
rally above that sort of folly Broomite : Par not of
much interest; would be glad to get bright stuff from
Thirsty 151and....E.W.8. : Typical verse of very poor
quality Violante : It’s pretty album verse ; when to
graceful treatment you can add some originality of
thought, try again John B. S.: First proposal for Aus-
tralian Federation was made in 1847 (July 31) by Earl
Grey. First Federal Convention (leaving out sundry
abortive proceedings) met Nov. 28,1883, at Sydney ; the
Federal Council met at Hobart Jan. 25, 1886 ; next im-
portant gathering was the Conference at Melbourne Feb.
6,1890; then the 1891 Convention at Sydney, March 2,
which drew up the ’9l Bill ; the final Convention opened
at Adelaide March 22, 1897, then met at Sydney Sept. 2
of the same year, finally at Melbourne Jan. 20,1898 ; the
Premiers’ Conference, opening Jan. 29, 1899, completed
the discussions. As to question No. 6, look up
the files of any Sydney paper and a map
The Violet Blue (Boulder): Who is this “Nanc O’Neill*
anyhow? You say she is “ not too Bad in tradedy.” We
never saw her in “tradedy.”. . John Miller: Sorry to
8 >y, have no idea of the lady’s address. She has
vanished off The Bulletin’s horizon Wawonaissa :
“ Derelict” has sprung a leak in the metre, and the mast
of rhythm has gone overboard Orlina H. : End rather
good ; rest feeble.... Unafilia : Lacks firmness of touch...
Pippa: Not enough in it.... Wallace Mac: Too conven-
tional A.A.C.: Wobbles violently through five verses,
and comes down with a crash in the last—Mole: An
insignificant subject Brenda: Couldn’t use without
confirmatory cuttings....S.T.S. : “Alex. M.” made no
slip. The name of the Cambridge college you mention
ends with an “ e,” and is pronounced as spelt. Also, the
story does not purport to be a life-transcript. It is a
burlesque, and only a painfully literal person could
suppose it was otherwise intended....Ku-Klux: 100
slight....K.K.X.: Rambling and incoherent....M.E.:
Spoilt by the clumsy finish.. ..Rory B.: Not ill-written,
but over-complicated in plot. ..F.D.V.: Hopelessly
ungrammatical.. ..Fred M. : Can’t say till we’ve seen it.
....Beachcomber: Too rugged and fragmentary.....
Ruby King : Not enough in it.... E.M‘O. : Can’t identify
it without the title.... Brummy : Shouldn’t like to advise
you one way or the other. At present you are mediocre.
....A.V.: Completely out of our line....Salva: It will
reaoh you in due course.. ..E.M.N.: Too girly-girly as
yet F.H.C. : Crudely melodramatic Swankey :
You are absurdly unequal to the theme....W. Mac : A
very ancient and threadbare literary device.... Beera, :
You’ve “ a good mind not to send us any more.” Remain
of that mind.. ..E.P.P.: There’s stuff in you, if you
wouldn’t go out of your way to be grandiloquent... .One-
Time : Ponderous and inaccurate... .Will S.: Well meant,
but it wouldn’t do for us to butter our own tail in that
way 0.W.J.: Still not up to the mark Will L. :
Best to “ print in ” such technical phrases ; a reader is
not exactly omniscient.... Geo. B.: Evidently there is a
billet waiting for you up above putting Providence right
in little matters of detail San Remo: Probably the
public takes its war news in the daily papers with a large
salt-cellar handy.. ..HoldarM.: None suitable.... Earnest:
Can’t say as to terms. Write to British Dental Association,
32 Leicester Square, London, W.C.; but you can be just
as well trained for dentistry at Sydney University....
Falder : Sorry must return them. The best of the three
is too long for its interest....Jaybell: Laboriously
funny....C.L.O. : Weak and wordy Petramos : Good
idea, presented in painful doggerel W.N.T. :No merit
of style to redeem its gruesomeness.. . .Babs : Couldn t
disentangle any meaning from it.... Win: Glad to hear
from the field ; but election sketch records a very stale
bit of leg-pulling... .Kallachere: None quite up to pub-
lication level, though all show some promise.. ..Nick
Bill: As you suggest, the snake story in Genesis takes
some beating; gags all stale....D.J.M. Tired of the
iguana’s appetite. It seems to be established that the
reptile eats something like Bent Wattle : It
says nothing in particular somewhat pompously....
Oliver : Don’t write on both sides of the paper, and don t
forget to number the pages, and don’t mix up six
different poems in inextricable hash Dugmore : A
hospital scandal from Rhodesia is far off our beat—even
when it includes an attempt to make a corpse drunk by
candle-light.. ..Cosmo : The daily press in Australia is
run chiefly by the importing gang, and there you have
the trouble in a nut-shell... .F.S.E. : Parodies are gene-
rally detestable E.E.S.: Meredith is about the greatest
romance-writer of his generation. ..Napper Tandy:
Dowie poems too weak for so strong a subject P.M. :
Some skill, but idea too familiar Unsuitable: D.8.G.,
S.W.L., Q.E.D., Warramunga, Charlie A.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.T.: Don’t amount to anything A.E.R. : Don’t
think you’ll ever get a gag that will carry that picture of
the drunk under the barbed-wire fence N.O.R. : One
retained; three returned G. Brandt: Drawing too
crude and scratchy.. ..L.T. : “Man, mansion” joke as
old as Adye Douglas.... Ron. B. : Drawing shows some
promise, but is a long way below publication level.
“Promise” is a slippery thing, anyhow Allan M. :
Same answer as “ Ron. B.” Unsuitable : J.H.0., James
M., W. Yorke, J.F.R.B.
“ Bandar ” : A fencer in this (Coonamble,
N.S.W.) district recently witnessed a rather un-
usual occurrence. A carpet snake about 7ft. long
was noticed trying to swallow a rabbit. Bunny
was too big an order, and in about 10 minutes the
skin on each side of the snake’s jaws tore back
for about 6in. I have never before known this to
occur, but the fact may have been observed by
some “ Abos.”
A MATTER OF PAPAL ETIQUETTE.
“Biddy Riley, I’m surprised at yer , after what
the Pope said ’bout wearing low-neck
dresses, too.”
Our representative names. From Mel-
bourne Akgus :
A largely attended meeting of settlers, representing
Jumbuk, Jeeraling, and Budgeree, was held in the
Jumbuk State School to consider the advisableness of
forming a farmers’ association to protect their rights and
interests. The association was formed.
Jumbuk, Budgeree, and Jeeraling !
Modern American Dentistry. Right up to the
minute. Painless extraction by new anaesthetic. Plates
perfected by new patent suction. Dr. Thomas, 67 and 69
Swanston-street, Melbourne. Unsurpassed in the world
for painless, skilful and moderate priced dentistry.*
AUSTRALIAN DIAMONDS
and GEMS
WE BUY IN THE ROUGH, AND CUT.
Many of the Australian Diamonds are Gems of won-
drous beauty, whiteness and brilliancy, far and away
ahead of the majority of Diamonds sold in quantities in
Australasia—rejects of ether countries.
Specially Selected
Australian Diamond
and Sapphire,
£9 9s
The PRICE, too, we can safely say, is only half of what similar stones are
obtainable at from other mines.
We carry a very large stock of the Diamonds of other lands— but just here
we want to say that in Australian Gems we can give you a Ring at ONE-HALF
the Price of other Diamonds, and with a rather better effect and quality.
Choice
Australian Diamond
Crescent Brooch,
£l7 17a
Half London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
Hisrhfield Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
Newly erected ; Commodious;
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
HOBART.


J\ Mixed fuTylft . 7
facted. UP w Miwhr,
■j: m m s|yfy
.
Mh y if u iff <
- x. * ft - I /gf i
jvj l :tt [
M <s>He mumwety of
Vh Wflulcbtob
antor|wne '*
■■■■ -
p’i ry/jj/fJ
fe , , UU
{ f/iiU
h S
to}/*,, 1
e h
/• / •
(ffluMiijj didijotajh
jjiif. tfotijM sfjoi ilibb
elmhifbfy terfj---
A / g
tyareorfesi
VasMof Women
should be admit-
'tylfjekgcd po-
fessiorj
Woman weald not
tfmimth longer on
me mshoUof'ui) y
lolimVoniati- Vhli,
t, Ik clmcjtU
ftsutfrf ife (wlicfi-,
>T\igMfcfln>fapbnirtsr,
' fearin'njefr'flclt-'I
ctneT satjitr sicli tilings fo mo
as rpo lady Mind Say fo an-
after" (Peeb s Y'm-
fito jmuk filter orfolt smX-
k ” Wbf) fteT baby doiuy itv fc Jury .-
tex?"
l fury Woiim - lm 'is
CowUtvf Ime-im of time- ["■
Jparmfms Well, Seemsi tdnje-
lr njiqhrfjaife
Jury
%s %$ < eOi's dta^e-d
V jutti . He stfyup kte- doing Sole kml
fatag on ife logic, of evegijj*
MIXED JURIES.


*L SlteM OVer
. gisl/op CkrKes't?jingloJown Itfe Kid
fv K S frying down CfoKt
yellowJtoj» down for
H'Benf intenJ>lo be ftplS"
bur bis lifu'Tewijs fill /
\ do Hfeir ov/r»
% kh y Kr / )
One • \l ? K-*
r V- v * r.r’s^l,,?
own chvnmo up , '
;W" ?.« lo « e J
■there very Js*
tr|2W Qfounas for •• ij- wj |t J|
fir M til') be
It is 170 W found
|)OunK*7e W
ha?l cvr/wip) »*
fe't'.'TiiS
' X \ u&\ ygrvicc w»C
j/ J v/iltfout tli9otl
Y J/ c,e 2> 3
Li
IS "*'
~i; > | ci»s^ o, *>
Ixii QoWrk-tri'tiS ,
h*S keen sb*>~
lr% lb W ,Ws |
""U »j.-r UfiWsf-*/ ,
no-r U« a dii-eF- s h v
Vme «[ 3«»-+i '6"s'"\,
IT (pivtocK \t\Ai
Conflict's rotti<*‘'»'S »('
illness Iw 1^1^1
Kg'f'irgmfc'it.
M r Bent" (>t %t C^t^) : -~
will donn jV /?
ve cvi on vL
" floral h^ru l
v»ori s[)oK?« m earnest"
Jus'T W2vlt
M)u.<a .
liie
L DotiNou
i'rJ !s**%
jg~ Y\V Wine a&>isT^r,ce~
'brt in my bower U it will <*° m si
proud -fo "iTrVr you 15« So*me " *"
•• pv" V- i ™/t r h tT |b?en
C&.rr'jmf yo «• 2$ ,s
tfcfontt tie**
•
v &> Ije will f>tyl7cjlf
\\ aj>l>€\r -i\CCOtJinf»
~Xb*r> r Q&n\*
IN BENT’S STATE.


A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver
WATCH, Full Jewelled, f-plate,
80s, £2, £2 10s, £4, £4 10s ; Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS in
Every Style and Pattern Made,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £slos,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
15ct. Gold, Opal, Half-hoop BRACELET, 13 Opals, £l2 10s; with
Diamonds, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £2O ; 9ct. Gold, 11 Opals, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver Eirst-class HAIRBRUSH, Beautiful White
Bristles in Silk-lined Cases, 30s ; Other Styles, 15s 6d, 21s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold. Diamond Cluster and Pearls, £5
Diamond and Rubies, £3 10s.
pet
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Red or Blue Stone
Centre, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-bar BROOCH, with Double-cut
Diamond Centre, £2 10s ; Larger Diamonds,
£4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Floral Forget Me Not BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Opal and 4 Diamond BROOCH
£2 10s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Choice Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
22s 6d ; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 255, 80s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted, Polished Crocodile Skin
. PURSE, 30s ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
In Morocco, same mounts, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE DIET and HOOK, in Silk-
lined Case, 7s 6d ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN, CHAIN,
and Photo. CHARM,
8s 6d. To hold Midget
Photos.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Very Neat, £3.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell, Chased, 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 22s 6d.
9ot. Gold LINKS, 12s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 235.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
Solid Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CBOCK, Splendid
Timekeepers, 15s; Other Styles, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 20s, 255.
10/6
Pure Silver, large, size, HAIR BRUSH,
extra long hand-drawn bristles, beauti-
10/6
fully chased and embossed, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 303. Post free.
8/6
l‘ ' _ .J ~
‘3': ‘~ ‘_ . _ _L j;
, ' ‘ .51
12 - - ' ' ‘ > i. K
g.— ' '. ' ~ 1‘ ' A
h)! ’ A c“ ‘ '~ I" F \' 1' ‘ it.”
L‘s .2}?! ’l
n.-.- u i!) i “- ‘,:_ 'IA_IE?§$:J);J j“?
8/6
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted Morocco Leather PURSE and CARD
CASE combined, 8s 6d ; other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
• 15s, 20s, to £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS, all the Latest Styles and Fashions,
Prices According to Width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; Isct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, 3 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE HOOK,
GLOVE HOOK, and SHOE LIFT, in Nice Leather Roll, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s WALLET and POCKETBOOK, All Improvements,
Silver-mounted, as above, 12s 6d ;
Witbout Shield, 10s 6d.
Initials Nicely Chased, Is Extra.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Bushman’s and Miner’s Pocket Compass,
a Boon to Tourists, 10s 6d ; Similar,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
m
.y
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Polished Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE. Pure Silver
Mounts, 17s 6d; Other Styles, 5s
6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BOOT,
CHAIN, and PIN,
6s 6d.
Metal Pin, os 6d.
Latest Fashion Fearl, Red, or
Blue Stone Set PHOTO. PEN-
DANTS. 15s 6d, 17s 6d ; Extra
Large, 20s ; Other Styles. 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s, 255.
15ct. Gold HEART.
Double-cut Diamond,
30s, 40s;
Ruby or Sapphire, 255.
18ct. Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2 10s ;
Size Larger, £3103
Nickel
20s.
Silyer,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable Knockabout WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s>
17s (id, 20s, 255, 27s (id, 30s ; First-class Silver
Hunter English Lever, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4los, £5,
£6 ; Gold, £8 10s to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s ; 15ct.
Gold, 35s ; 18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAINS, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5 ; loot. Gold, £5 10s, £6, £f> 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
1
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, Pearls, 3 Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds,
£l2 10s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Pearl-set Buckle BROOCH, 355.
□
ay
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl BROOCH,
£5 10s. Very Neat and Attractive.
A. SAUNDERS. , .
2-bar Floral BROOCH, with Diamond and
Blue or Red Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. , ,_ „
Forget-me-not Floral Design Heart ana Ben
Gold Brooch, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
CHARM.
Extra Large, 8s 6d ;
Smaller, 4s 6d, 5s 6d.
6s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buttercup Pure
Diamond BING,
£B, £4, £5.
Gent.’B 9ct. Gold
Amethyst RING, 255;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2los.
Plain Signet BINGS,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 85s ;
18ot. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
18ct. Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Bubies,
or Sapphires, £3los, £4,
£4los; 5 Diamonds, £5.
15ct. Gold, Diamond
and 2 Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2 10s ; 8 Dia-
monds, £3.
18c.t. Gold Half-hoop.
5 Double-cut Diamond
RING, £5 ; Larger Dia-
monds, £6, £7 10s, £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
Band BING, with.
Name, 9ct. Solid Gold.
12a 6d, 15s; 15ct. Gold,
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold,
255, 30s. £2.
18ct. Gold Buckle, Dia-
mond and 2 Kubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s;
3 Diamonds, £A.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Oct-
Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s ; Extra
Heavy, 255; 18ct. Gold, 20s; Extra Heavy, 80s, .»s,
40s, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller & Optician,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-oTREET, OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


The Right Track to Temperance.
Australia shows signs of renewed agitation on
the eternal “ liquor ” subject. The usages of the
language give a hint as to the power of alcohol
which the prohibitionists refuse to take. By
common consent the word “liquor” excludes all
beverages but such as have an alcoholio bite in
them j and one does not “ drink ” unless it is beer,
wine, and spirits. All other potables are, with
fine scorn, condemned by the language to remain
outside the domain of “ drinks,” and have to put
up with being characterised as “mucks,” or some
such more or less opprobrious term. But the
prohibitionist refuses to take a hint, even so
strong a one as that, and believes, with a pitiful
sort of persistence, in the possibility of banishing
from human life a substance which Nature is
always distilling ; which man always uses, in one
form or another, as soon as the first dawn of civili-
sation comes to him ; and which has so strong a
hold on the public imagination that it has, in
English-speaking countries, usurped for its own
exclusive use several words of the language.
There are, admittedly, many strong arguments
for the prohibition campaign, which is in itself so
essentially unreasonable. The misuse of alcohol
is one of the great curses of society, and from
drunkenness, and from an unwise use of liquor
which stops short of drunkenness, arise some of
the most serious moral and physical ills of hu-
manity. The mistake creeps into the logio of the
prohibitionist when he argues that, because
the unwise use of alcoholic liquor is bad,
therefore all use of alcoholic liquor should
be prohibited. That is a non sequitur of a foolish
kind. Following it the temperance reformers
are just now cordially abusing the N.S.W.
Labor party because, m taking up a definite
attitude for the first time on the liquor question,
it has followed the sensible course of favoring
Statecontrol, which would abolish the abuses of the
traffic, instead of favoring the impossible method of
prohibition which would seek to abolish alcoholio
liquor altogether. Yet the only way to temper-
ance reform is by wise regulation of the sale of
alcohol. The prohibition path to national sobriety
is a hopeless one for two reasons—the inherent
stupidity of seeking to establish the principle that
a thing capable of being used evilly should not be
used at all; and the impossibility of pushing the
rule of a majority beyond a certain point in the
ooercion of a minority.
* * * •
If it were a valid argument that, because a
thing can be used unwisely and immoderately
for a bad purpose, therefore that thing should be
extirpated, prohibition would not be able to
stop at alcohol. It would need to stretch out its
arm also against a thousand and one other pro-
ducts of civilisation. Almost everything can be
used to wicked and destructive ends. Religious
observances and creeds, which have their value
in keeping certain people to a standard of
ethics which they would not otherwise observe,
are capable of being degraded to the most mis-
chievous and brutal ends. In the past, they have
caused more bloodshed than any questions of
dynasty or racial jealousy. In the present, they
often disturb the family and civil peace, promoting
riots, and sending to the lunatic asylums unhappy
victims of a dementia which is specifically classed
as “ religious,” and to Parliament worthless fools
to misgovern the country. Yet no sensible person
suggests the prohibition of all religion. The love
of finery is probably the most fruitful cause of
vice and misery among women. It fills the streets
witli “ unfortunates,” the gaols with thieves,
and poisons the happiness of millions of homes.
Yet a Drapery Prohibition movement would
never be suggested other than jocosely. Simi-
larly, if abuse of a thing is an argument for its
abolition by Act of Parliament, there is good
reason to do away with butter, ink, hair-dye,
newspapers, gunpowder, tea, knives, the power
of soeech—in fact, with almost everything on
earth.
* » * *
There is the additional reason against the pro-
hibition of drink as soon as a m ijo ity can be got
to favor such a course, that the efforts of the law
in that direction would be certain to fail. There
is a point beyond which the rule of the majority
cannot go in trespass on the views of a minority ;
that is the “natural limitation of law.” An
enactment that everybody should be a Presby-
terian, or should marry at 21, or should wear
green trousers, even though carried by a majority
vote, would breakdown, because its purposeless
tyranny would inspire revolt. The prohibition of
alcoholic drink, or of tea, or of drapery would
come into somewhat the same category. A
minority, even though small, would agree that
the limitation of its liberty in this regard was
indefensible, that the public voice had no
right to condemn all to a beerless life, and
it would have its beer in defiance of the
law. That has been the experience of every
prohibition movement to date, and will be the
experience of every future trial. The liquor
traffic may be banished into secrecy ; it cannot be
abolished. The wilful blindness of some temper-
ance reformers to this fact gives color to the sus-
picion that their antagonism to “the demon
drink ” is purposely directed towards impossible
lines, lest by a genuine temperance reform they
should in a short time find their occupations gone.
* * * *
The State hotel now being conducted by the
Westralian Government at Gwalia, points to the
path of true temperance effort. There a public-
house is conducted by a highly-qualified man who
is paid a good salary but has no direct interest in
the sale of the liquor. He is forbidden to
serve drunken or semi-drunken men, and having
no profit to make out of so doing, but rather
the fear of losing his position, he is not tempted
to break the regulation. The liquor sold is all of
good quality, and, in practical working, this State
hofel has tended to do away with drunkenness,
and to encourage thrift. There is no reason why
that small local experiment should not be extended
all over the continent, and the sale of alcoholic
liquor be so regulated as to check, if not abso-
lutely abolish, abuse, whilst at the same time
earning a generous profit for the State. That
would kill two birds with one stone. Australia
can do without the abuses, and can do with the
revenue.
The S.M. Herald pretty well keeps a standing
heading now, suggesting that industrial arbitra-
tion has broken down because of “the
congested state of the court.” On the same prin-
ciple the Herald ought to conclude that a railway
is a failure when there is a great rush of traffic to
it, and that a theatrical show is a frost because
People have to be turned away from the bulging
doors every night. Also, it ought to do the fair
tiling and announce that the Kookaburra
Lhronicle is a far better advertising medium
than it is itself, because the Kookaburra
Lhronicue only has two “ wanteds ” and a lost-
cow notice, whereas there is such a congestion of
advertisements to the S.M. Herald that they
slop over about 15 pages.
The Westrahan farmer is just as dead-certain as
the Eastralian farmer that Socialism is a
monster that would ruin him ; and he is also in
the same front row as the Eastralian farmer
when it comes to applying for a little of the
ruinous substance. Five years ago, when an
attempt was made to establish a local Westralian
butter trade, the State was asked to “do some-
thing ” in the way of a factory ; so £lOOO was put
into a concern in the Northam district, the
farmers and others putting up £l5OO more. The
State was to get 4 per cent, interest and be repaid
in a season or two. Since then, however,
the State hasn’t had a penny of interest
and, on top of an application that the arrears
should be wiped out, the request has just been
made for another loan and free railway carriage
of milk ! These people (who, by the way, have got
most of what they asked for) will probably vote
next time, as hitherto, for any candidate who will
tell them what a fine thing Private Enterprise is,
and what a sinful thing it would be for the world
at large, and what a disastrous thing it would be
for themselves in particular, if State Socialism
got a footing in the land.
. ♦
“O’B.” offers a suggestion :
As the Referendum is likely to play an important part
In State and Federal politics, its defects, as well as its
merits, should be kept steadily in view. Its merits, in
many recognisable cases, are beyond controversy. It
speaks definitely, and in hosts of cases thereby puts an end
to vacillation, facing two ways, yes-no, and other evils.
But it is fetish-worship to assume that it acts that way
always. It is a mechanical instrument, a thing without
a conscience ; it can’t read or write ; it doesn't even know
the alphabet, and has no manners or religion. Every-
thing that makes it effective conies from the intelligence
and honesty of those who use it. The Yes of an unintelligent
crowd, like its No, will be unintelligent, and the result
wrong however big the majority. That should be
evident, and if evident should be provided for. With
the Referendum should be joined a term of years over
which the Referendum decision should'prevail, and no
longer. The present view is to accept a Referendum as
a complete settlement, and man is so prone to lazy
acquiescence, that what may be only a passing fancy,
a delusion, or a drummed-up acclamation becomes a
orystalli'sed law, and stays on top of the race until some
violent uprising throws it off. A press conspiracy of a
few proprietaries can deluge a country with falsehoods
for a month or so before a Referendum vote, and
sit back for years enjoying the fruits of the
imposture. With a Referendum covering an un-
limited period an expenditure of thousands in a
propaganda of imposture may come back in hundreds of
thousands, and can be looked on therefore as legitimate
commercial enterprise. The prospective gain, if the
period were limited, would not so dazzle or affure. Most
legal enactments should be passed with time limits, and
it has been argued that each generation should re-enact
whatever laws it approves.
*
The N.S.W. Arbitration Court has been success-
ful in putting an end to a wholly foolish strike of
a section of the Shipwrights’ Union, a little
straight talk from the Court —in which the
“ Labor representative ” joined—sending the men
back to work. By the way, if the Arbitration
Court aimed more at unanimous verdicts it would
strengthen its influence. When in a decision
against the employers Mr. Ckuickshank often
dissents, and in a decision against the workers
Mr. Smith often dissents, the effect is bad. The
Court’s verdicts are generally something in the
nature of compromises, and the lay members who
assist to make those compromises should make it
a rule to back up (with, of course, some necessary
exceptions) the President—even when it goes
somewhat against the grain.
♦
“ Mots ” on a political matter: —
Your correspondent “ F.S.S.” (11/2/’O4), in his diatribe
against the Victorian Labor party for opposing such un-
doubted democrats as Oman (Hampden) and Mackinnon
(Prahran), overlooks the party’s raison d’etre. The
Laborites of Victoria (and of Australia), like those of
other countries, have awakened to the old, old truism,
“if you want a thing done you must do it yourself.”
They recognise that they have been “done” pretty
thoroughly and consistently for quite a long time. The
principal factors in their doing (or undoing) are un-
attached and irresponsible (except to their own handfnl
of constituents) individuals who have started with the
best intentions imaginable. But, alas ! man is frail and
office is sweet, so on the platform they promise and pro-
mise, and in Parliament they plot and plot. Not all
politicians have the virile honesty of a Higinbotiiam or a
Kingston. By a natural process of reasoning the Laborite
is forced to the conclusion that if he wants to do,
instead of being done, he himself must be the
doer. As, obviously, every Laborite cannot become
an M.P., the only way to secure the greater part of the
legislation he requires is to combine with his fellows who
have similar requirements, and place in Parliament men
bound to such combination by a signed pledge. Thus it
follows, break pledge, break politician. The wisdom of
this method may be debatable, but will “F.S.S.” suggest
a better from the Labor standpoint ? Assuming that
“F.S.S.” is a democrat, what does he think of the posi-
tion of John Murray, democrat? Murray, after fear-
lessly facing an almost unanimous public opinion, and
opposing what he considered the wrong and needless
opprtsiion of the Boers, associates in Cabinet with
Ministers who deprive a large class of our citizens of the
right to freely exercise their political opinions ; Ministers
who were largely responsible for that intended outrage on
liberty, the Strike Suppression Bill. And does “ F.S.S.”
propose to displace Irvink to set up Peacock ? Appar-
ently the only effective method by which the Labor
parly can make progress with its policy is to go “the
whoie hog” and return to Parliament pledged represen-
tatives whom it can, if need be, pull down as quickly as
it sets them up.
*
The frequency with which barristers turn
solicitors under the N.S.W. law of five years’
qualification has inspired a limb to fashion the
following declension :
Nominative .. .. Barrister
Genitive .. .. Banister sanguine
Dative Barrister expectant
Accusative .. .. Barrister tired
Vocative .. .. Harassed Barrister
Ablative .. .. solicitor.
The most persistent of all the people with
imaginary grievances against the Victorian
Government is an Italian settler up in the back-
blocks of Gippsland, who never lets a week pass
without communicating to one or other of the
public departments to demand compensation for
some injury that he alleges he has sustained.
Sample of his communications :
To the minister land. Dier sir, Last Sunday, 31
January, Me goo off in see to Denny M . Me Wanted
for him few shillings give to ’im few bottle wines in
December 1902. ’im not paid me. Me go see to him
many times ; ’im old faithfully (unfaithful) to my ; Last
Sunday M—- keek me many times, ’im gimi pleanty
pugnch to stomac, and one pugnch of my faccia, beet me
pleanty. George P gimi testimonial M beet me.
M—-toold Giorge P to goo to cueina, M wanted
beet me pleanty. Denny M oollfaithfully too many
times. One times anoder M wanted keell me. Denny
keel me. Minister of Land, ’im have to paid my life.
Me send many letter to Minister land by every possible
lake away Denny M of this places. M keel me,
Minister land have to paid my life. Me send off letter to
Ita inn consolato, Minister land have to paid my life.
Denny M more strong as Governament of Victoria,
govertiament cant take ’im away of this places. Minister
Tand have to paid my life. Last Sunday me send of letter
to policemen to come off in see to me. police naver come
heny sort quested. Very obstinate police, You very
recspetfull.v, Mr. .
Minister Taverner handed in his resignation after
this, and fled from his incoherent correspondent to
the safe refuge of the Agent-General’s billet in
London.
N.S.W. State registry for female servants,
designed to save girls from the harpies who take
their last shilling and then usually leave them
without employment, is getting on. Last year
1357 employers’ applications for servants are
reported “ suitably filled.” The next move will
be to provide a temporary shelter-home for the
out-of-work Mary Anne while a new place is
being found for her. Incidentally, perhaps, a
shed might be put up where the distracted
“ missus ” could “ doss ” while waiting for a suit-
able Mary Anne. Very often she is a great deal
more distracted than the Mary Anne.
Little bits of truth about the late Queen
Victoria and her ungovernable temper as a young
woman, are now being printed; formerly they
were suppressed. V.R. was undoubtedly a “ cat ”
as queens go.
A banker tells the World’s Work that
holidays are the best safeguard against fraud
by bank officials. A man who has tampered with
the books needs to be'always on the spot, so that
be can cover his tracks by further false entries.
So beware of the man who doesn’t want a holiday.
At least one large Australian bank compels its
staff to go off once a year.
BABY SMILES
when washed with
WRIGHT’St.‘.'SOAP
“Skin soft and comfy, and
no Measles,” he chuckles.
THE NURSERY SOAP
THE GRAND
ELIXIR OF LIFE.
-Vvr^A
30=
ft
Li
i k .11 4 i
'ftAftnFISHERS
tfi
Aching
Kidney
Rills
Sft
4*
FISHEBS
HOSPHERINE
r'
Ji-JI
A
IP
GJ
(fiß
9)
INTELLIGENT CUSTOMER: “A large Bottle of Fisher’s Phospherine;
but be sure it is ‘ Fisher’s,’ if you please.”
RESPECTFUL CHEMIST; “Certainly; we keep no other. ‘Fisher’s’ is
always so fresh and potent. For over 20 years we have sold Fisher’s
famous preparation, and recommend it in preference to all other
Tonics.”
MR. THOMAS FORSYTH, of Ashfield, writes, and declares on oath, the following:
I suffered from acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue got a thick
coating over it, and I constantly suffered from nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly vomiting.
I consulted two doctors in Ashfleld for years without getting relief. But in three weeks FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble Grand of the Loyal Ashfleld M.U.0.0.F. I have
been in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of my illness. Five to ten drops of
FISHER’S PHOSPERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and keeps my stomach in
regular order. Let everyone know of my case.
INDIGESTION
Eght Drops in Water Haif-
an-Hour After Each Meal
is an Absolute and Marvel-
lous Curs for Indigestion,
Headaches, Neuralgic Pains, Gastritis, Liver Troubles & Rheumatism.
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/-. FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
Ask for Fisher’s. Take no Imitation.
If you cannot get it in one shop go to another. It is sent Post Free from Headquarters
WHEN PROSTRATED by the HEAT, “ Fisher’s Phospherine” will easily Pick«You=Up.
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS.
The Famous Tonic for Delicate Gentlemen, Ladies ar.d Children. A Great Blood Builder and Nerve
Tonlo during the Hot Weather. FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE makes you eat and makes you sleep.
FISHER & CO
•> 337
CHEHISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY


POLITICAL
POINTS
A candidate for a Vic. State electorate
said lately that he favored a tax on unimproved
land values, fatmen and liars.
Apparently the old foolishness of an
Address-in-Reply, which simply means an oppor-
tunity for wasting a week, or two or three weeks,
in general conversation, is still to be maintained
in the Federal Parliament.
The Cape Colony election seems to have
placed that country absolutely at the mercy of
the capitalist party Not only is Raider Jameson
Brenner, but the De Beers directorate has two
other members in the new ‘ ‘ Progressive ” Ministry
B. R. Wise, Acting Premier of N.S.W.,
aitting in the Legislative Council, reproduces the
constitutional position of twenty years ago, when
during the illness of Alexander Stuart, W. B.'
Premier * n t * le Council, became Acting
House ot Commons negatived a second
amendment on the Address-in-Reply condemning
the introduction of Chinese to the Transvaal by
ordy 44 votes, the voting being 256 to 212. The
Pro-Gore Government totters on a very unstable
basis these times.
Melbourne Argus babbles of the “further
cost of the White Australia policy ” because a few
inspectors are to be appointed "to see that its
swindling friends, the black-labor sugar-growers,
don’t bilk the Commonwealth by claiming bonuses
on nigger-grown sugar. It does cost a good deal
to keep the Argds party reasonably honest.
Japan is peremptorily demanding that the
Canadian Government shall veto the anti-Jap
legislation of British Columbia. Something simi-
lar will probably be heard of here when the war is
over —if the bumptious man with the tussock-
oolored face wins. Japan isn’t nearly so thickly
peopled as Belgium, Saxony, Holland or Britain -
it is about on a level with Germany or Italy, and"
a little ahead of Switzerland. But the Jap hasn’t
made very much of a success of his country, and
his desire to get away from it is tremendous.
THE FEDERAL MUSEUM.
. The motto of the Vic. Bent Government
is stated by Thomas himself to be “Economy,
Progress, and Enterprise.” “Economy” pre-
sumably consists as before in cutting down the
hospital vote, and as for progress and enterprise,
anybody can recognise them. They mean build-
ing more big railway stations in Bent’s electorate.
Glasgow Evening News about John Burns,
the British Labor-man (who recently visited Glas-
gow as a Freetrade propagandist):
Burns is a clever and, at times, amusing tub-thumper,
but he is not to be taken seriously as a guide where fiscal
problems are concerned. He is really wasting his valu-
able time by coming to Scotland, where we have a way
of doing our thinking for ourselves.
The Teralba (N.S.W.) strikers have gone
back to work in obedience to the decision of the
Arbitration Court. They stood out in revolt for
some time, but the opinion of their fellow-workers
was so strongly against them that they were
forced to obedience. There have been no Tory
daily paper leaders congratulating the Arbitra-
tion Act on this victory.
If Russia has so far gone down before the
Japs, its collapse hasn’t been nearly so igno-
minious as that of Britain in the early days of the
Boer war. Russia faces 45,000,000 enemies;
Britain, with greater resources, had 300,000 to
face. Apparently both giants are more ®r less
hollow, but the hollowness of Russia isn’t so dis-
tinctly proved yet as was that of Britain. In any
case, one tube can’t throw stones at the other.
At Woodford* Jsland, Clarence River
(N.S.W.), the other day, three applications were
received for the lease of a strip of land (good cane
land, worth about £2O per acre) at a nominal
rental. Two were from whites, the other a
Kanaka. The lease fell to the Kanaka. Why?
Again, whites employing black labor on sugar
plantations are not entitled to bounty, which is
as it should be. But blacks employing whites are
entitled to the bounty. Again—why ?
Queensland Minister for Lands has re-
ceived a letter from Vienna on behalf of 500
Austrians who wish to acquire land and settle in
the northern sugar districts. The intending
immigrants are prepared to build their own mill,
construct a tramway to the nearest port; and
their combined capital amounts to about £lOO,OOO.
And yet Q., after a long course of Tory rule, has
just got a socialistic-legislation Government,
which, by all the rules, should frighten people
away from the country !
Victorian ex-Railways Minister Shiels, in
his retiring address, told the people of his State
that under his management the working expenses
of the lines have been reduced by .£175,000 a year,
and that soon the deficit will almost disappear,
provided the railway accounts are judiciously
faked by not charging to them pensions, gratui-
ties, compensation for accidents, and a large
proportion of the repairs. This sort of thing
is painfully silly. If the railways were run by a
private co. it would have to charge itself with
every penny of its expenditure because there
would be no one else to charge its expenditure to,
and the State must do likewise if its accounts are
to be honest. Under the Irvine-Shiels manage-
ment the Victorian railway expenditure was
considerably reduced, and the revenue promptly
fell to a still larger extent, and the shortage
increased; and now Shiels departs with an
assurance that if the accounts are carefully
cooked they won’t look quite so dreadful after all.
Defence Minister Chapman, in fine auc-
tioneer manner, declared that “the Federal forces
are ready for any emergency,” whereupon a mili-
tary official of high standing promptly revealed
that the forces are without clothing or boots;
that there is no ammunition, no suitable field
guns and only antiquated machine guns; finally,
that there are no ambulance appliances. And he
might have added that there are practically no
forces.
Editor Fitchett, discoursing on old age
pensions in Life, says, concerning the Labor
memberHe represents the policy by which
the State is clothed with the functions of a human
Providence.” Parson Fitchett apparently thinks
that Providence is a bad example and not a thing
to be imitated. Yet the Labor party with its old
age pensions is a very good imitation. It is cer-
tainly a vast amount more regular in its bene-
factions to the poor and aged than Providence is.
An indignant Singleton (N.S.W.) man
writes:—
I sat down to dinner to-day with about seven stock and
dairy inspectors, all getting good salaries. A week or so
ago something like half-a-dozen plump politicians put up
at the best hotels here for three or four days, on their way
to inspect the proposed railway line from Singleton to
Oassilis. They had a few meetings, and made a few
inquiries while here, at £2 2s. each per sitting. But there
is no chance whatever of the railway for the next 100
years. I think I see some of the leaks a Whole Hog
party could plug up.
The ideas of the Daily Bonython and
Jenkins Iscariot as to what constitutes nationalisa-
tion of the Adelaide trams are curious. The
latest scheme with which Iscariot is accredited by
that great liberal organ is to take over the trams
from the present companies, and present them to
some other company, yet to be formed, for 25 or
45 years—or perhaps for ever. And it really
looks at present as if he will succeed in giving
away the people’s rights in their streets gratis for
a few generations.
The S.M. Herald published a dirge in its
issue of 22/2/’O4 about “unparalleled depression”
in the iron trade of N.S.W. It discovered almost
every imaginable bogus reason for this, but dodged
the real reason with the swiftness of a “ gohanna ”
getting round a corner—that most branches of the
iron industry are not protected under the tariff,
and the Herald’s accursed nostrum of Freetrade
is performing as usual. Thus in the manifest of
a German steamer (published in same issue as the
dirge) we find these imports, all from protected
Germany:—
132 ingots zinc, 1444 steel rails, 380 wheels, 38 bundles
fishplates, 147 boxes horse-nails, 220 bundles iron, 31 cases
metal ware, 455 boxes nails, 26 packages stoves, 145 cases
steel, 140 steel channels, 295 steel plates, 132 bundles
hoop-iron, 514 iron pipes, 1220 zinc plates, 965 steel bars,
540 boxes wire nails, 549 reels wire, 1197 round bars, 1132
bundles steel hoops, 318 packages s’eel sheets, 24 cases
mangles, 10 boxes tinplates, 582 tubes, 225 cases plates.
Yes, while Australia believes in the S.M. Herald’s
importing gospel the metal manufacturing indus-
tries are likely to be depressed.
UNPREMEDITATED ELOQUENCE.
M AN: "What would you say if I were
to Mss you? ”
M AID: “ I don't know; that sort of
speech should always be extem-
poraneous."
The anti-Federal papers are bitterly
mortified that Postmaster-General Fysh didn’t
fall in over his new mail arrangements. It being
decided to give no more mail subsidies to nigger-
manned boats, Fysh wisely resolved to go a step
further and pay no subsidies at all. There is an
immense number of swift steamers now running
to England—steamers which, in many cases, beat
the old mail-contract time. They are all bound
to carry mails by weight, if required, and Aus-
tralia oan get two or three English mails per week
and save £50,000 subsidy money.
Said that Defence Minister Chapman “has
been repeatedly urged to send an Australian officer
of high rank to Japan, so that he might watch
developments on behalf of the Federal military
forces.” It would be interesting to know who it
is that wants a trip to Japan at the expense of
the Commonwealth. One thing may be relied on
—that if anyone is sent, the Japs will not allow
him to follow the operations of their armies in the
field, or let him see anything that is not known to
all the world. They are keeping all the press
correspondents, it is said, at Tokio.
When the long, lank Swinburne returns
to Victoria, the Bent Ministry will have to be
again re-arranged. Old Cameron, who is very
sore at having been relieved of the Mines and
Water Supply, has point blank refused to take
the portfolio of Minister for Railways in the
current Government. It is unlikely that Swin-
burne will accept Cameron’s left over, and the
idea is to give him Water Supply and Railways.
That supreme Tory, M‘Leod, is at present keeping
the former job warm for Swinburne. MLeod
will then be left with the Mines alone, and he
will probably be as angry as Cameron.
Calico M’Millan, when he was interviewed
recently in Brisbane by the local Telegraph,
passed off on an unsuspecting public the worn-
out wheeze that what we need is “a broader
national spirit.” These good old wheezes that
mean nothing or anything—these unsaleable grey
remarks that go wandering over the blank deserts
of mental mediocrity—what a weariness they are !
The “broader national spirit” is the natural
platitude of a yardstick mind. One can almost
see MMillan getting out his draper’s wand to
measure the spirit and see if it is three feet
across, and can be sold profitably at llfd. a yard.
One of the suggestions made by Vic.
Premier Bent to his party was that members
should be allowed “ a free hand ” to advocate the
repeal of the Public Service separate representa-
tion sections of the Reform Act. If the fallen
Iceberg had not been present at the caucus, and
had he not pleaded with the party not to cast
such a reflection upon his “ fair fame,” the sugges-
tion would have been adopted. The separate
representation clause of the Reform Act was put
in by Bent’s party behind the backs of the elec-
tors ; and even before the idea has been brought
into operation, the members of that party want
to crawl out of their responsibility for it.
“B. ”: Apropos of The Bulletin’s long-felt
desire to see a Whole Hog party in the matter of
financial reform. That section of the British
unionists which desires a revision of the tariff on
National and Protectionist lines, is now known as
the “Whole Hoggers.” The “Whole Hogs’*
would have been shorter and simpler.
Joseph, the leader of N.S.W. Deform
Party, told a public meeting, the other day,
that—
One of our tasks must be to let our construction policy
be so designed that it will act as a tonic, as it were, to-
the State while it is suffering a recovery. There is no
reason why we should lose our heads and send the pen-
dulum swinging back to the other extreme of reactionary
legislation.
Thus speaks Carruthers in the spirit of an Owe’-
Sullivan. But the trouble is in getting the tonic.
The chemists on the other side of the world have
just about decided to stop making up the prescrip-
tion, and let the patient recover as best he cam
without his physic ; and Mr. Carruthers proposes
no revenue provision for the difficulty.
A valuable State paper issued from N.S.W.
Government Printing Office the other day :
1904.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Legislative Council.
REPORT OF DIVISIONS
in
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE COUNCIL
During the Session of 1904.
NIL.
32805 c 14
Cost only a few shillings probably. Certainly not
many pounds ; but idiotcies of the sort are nume-
rous, and the accumulated loss thereby must be
considerable.
WHAT WE MAY
YET LIVE TO
SEE.
“The Jews at
Atlanta, in
Georgia, U.S.A.,
have initiated
a fund to pro-
vide Japan
with a warship.”
A Japanese flag
with three balls in
place of one.
The so-called National Memorial in Ade-
laide is sharing the fate of most such movements.
The equestrian statue, by Adrian Jones, is nearly
ready in London, but the fit of enthusiasm in
which it was ordered has absolutely died out.
The fund is £3OO short, and to find anybody
willing to subscribe further “to commemorate
the valor of those who fought in South Africa ”
seems as hopeless as a search for the Lost Tribes.
OUR VIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So it’s Russ versus Jap,
And it’s Jap versus Russ,
And the question is—Why
Should we fret us and fuss ?
Let the Bear, who’s a robber, go worry his foe, •
Let the Jap, who’s a thief, lay his enemy low,
And we —we’ll look on as they wallow in woe.
For we know how they both
Put their claws on the Chow,
Just because he was meek
As a bog-buried cow :
We know how they ravaged and murdered and stole,
And left poor Wun Lung just as bare as his poll
(And we gave them a hand--for the sake of his soul).
Who would sigh for the loss
Of the wolves of the Czar ?
Who would cry if the Jap
Got a spill from his car?
If the savages tear in the wild battle-din,
If they get themselves drunken on blood as on gin,
Shall we weep if they lose, shall we shout if they win?
And if asses depart
In a fierce lion’s skin,
To take part in the fray—
Let them go—to their kin.
If the Russ send them home with a loading of lead,
If the Jap give them steel when his powder is sped,
Shall we weep if they bleed- -in the land they’d have bled ?
q.
PHILANDER FLAM.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
Iu the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cahinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on Condon.
R. GENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
SPECTACLES
4 ,;;v-.‘.~;;\_" 3;;
.A’ Z’ﬁa‘\\\ 7%.":
‘\ ﬂ ‘ . . N
W 72%
7 ,“ 77—”! V- y
Kafs‘.‘ . . > “:35?
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellonsly-acrurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 fleorge=st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
m
Before booking: your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing: List, with map.
THOS, COOK & SON,
268 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
imf:
«3,. _ {(1159:
u -:. #3,) ‘1
'u- ;_ '4
EEK-3&4;
GrO TO HCBLiL-
IGOLAN It for Pretty Stamps, but
if yon want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought Price-Lists gratia.
During the progress of the fourth test
match the War slumped in public interest. But
of the greatest interest to everyone is the ever
patent fact that D.C.L. Whisky is the greatest of'
all aids to success. Victories of battle ships,
armies, cricket teams, industrial or political com-
binations are achieved by brains, and brains of
the highest order are nourished by D.C.L. The
Whusky of the Wise.*
Messrs. Swift and Co., the well-known,
agents for the famous Charles Heidsieck cham-
pagne, have removed to 32 O’Connell-street,.
Sydney.*
By advertisement on our back cover Bennie
Teare and Co. the up-to-date mining and general
engineers notify that they are carrying immense stocks
of wire ropes.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


N.S.W. Cabinet is scattering over the
Slanet just now. Premier John See is off to
laoriland to recruit his shattered nerves ; his
very remarkable outbursts during last session are
now officially attributed to nerves. Works
Minister Owe’Sullivan, his speech still showing
the effects of the recent operation for a growth on
the tongue, has gone to Tumut. Lands Minister
Crick, who injured his leg the other day in the
Coogee Baths, has also gone to Maoriland, but
not in company with the Premier. Attorney-
General Wise is acting as Premier —which fact is
said to account for one or two colleagues being
“ out of town.”
The Victorian railway men have drafted
their political programme for the coming election.
There are 21 planks in it, among them being
included —
The early Federalisation of the Railways.
No further alienation of Crown Land.
State Bank.
State Life Insurance Office.
Restriction of Public Borrowing.
A Progressive Tax on Land Values, town and country,
without exemption.
Free primary, secondary, and university Education.
The Initiative and Referendum.
Nationalisation of Monopolies.
The public servants, when they were merged in
the great body of electors, might not have
succeeded in returning even one member pledged
to this programme. Now Kyabram lias made it
dead certain that the programme will be repre-
sented in Parliament, and if it is represented by
the right sort of man or men, Kyabram may yet
decide that it wasn’t quite so clever as it imagined.
The Australian slanguage again. David
Chenhall, the once well-known Sydney solicitor,
being sentenced to two years in gaol, remarked :
“I’m satisfied with the justice of N.S. Wales.”
Thereby he meant that he was so badly dissatisfied
that words failed to expound his feelings, and
not that he was glad at getting two years. In the
slanguage the Australian who is ‘‘satisfied ” with
(say) Bill Howell, means that his scornful con-
tempt for Bill’s performance in some test match is
beyond expression.
A correspondent writes :
The statement continually made by the Sydney
morning papers, that the slump in Australian stock
is due to excessive borrowing, and is exceptional, puts
the case unfairly, if not untruthfully. Money is much
higher in America. Says a financial paper of that
country: “Money-lenders are entirely willing to let us
have more money if we will pay extravagantly for it.
The Great Northern railway had to pay 5 per cent, for
a two-year loan of 7,500,000d01., and had to secure this
by the deposit of more than twice that amount of stock.
Other American railway loans are being negotiated by
companies of high standing, which are offering as high
as 7 per cent, for temporary' assistance.”
Which brings us right back to the fact that our
slump is caused by excessive borrowing. We
have an excessive amount of new loans to float
and old loans to renew. The loans are not only
in excess of our credit, but they are in excess of
the amount the other fellow can well spare. So a
3 per cent, loan now would only fetch about 80,
and the old 3 per cent, stocks go down to
correspond.
THE CALLAGHAN
1
SHOE
eor
LADIES
13/6
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
EXCEPT
TO W.A.
W:
STYLE
COMFORT
WEAR
w
LADIES’ FINE AMERICAN GLACE
KID SHOE, to either Lace or Button, with
Stylish Patent Leather Caps and the NEW-
FASHIONED COLLARETTE, Shown in engraving.
Price, 12/11. Post and Duty Free, 13/6, except W.A.
Ladies’ Chrome-tanned Black Vici Kid
Boots, stylish caps, 14/9, 17/6, 21/-
Ladies’ French Calf Goloshed Lace
Boots, calf-kid legs, straight toe-
caps, 16/6, 17/6
Ladies’ Black Glace-kid Pump Shoes,
silk ribbon bow, London hand-
made, in narrow, medium or broad
toes, 8/9, 10/11
We are confident in our ability to EXACTLY
FIT ANY FEET : but, nevertheless, should
a distant customer, on trying on a pair of
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES, find
them too tight or too large, we are always
glad to change them, or, if desired, return the
MONEY paid for them, so that
YOU RUN NO RISK!
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., sydmey.
STOP DRAGGING ALONG.
If your household or business cares
exact so much energy that some-
times you feel run down, it is wise
to at once take. . .
VITADATIO.
It may be that your weakened state
is a warning of coming illness and. . .
VITADATIO
will thus save you weeks of unneces-
sary suffering, and pounds in doctors’
bills.
Begin taking this Remedy to-day,
for though. . .
VITADATIO
has cured and will cure disease in its
advanced forms, it cures the earlier
stages quicker.
INDIGESTION # DEBILITY
CURED BY
VITAOAT
New Plymouth.
Sir, —Being a sufferer from Indigestion and Debility, I
was recommended to try VITADATIO. Since taking a
few bottles I have thoroughly regained my strength, and
have much pleasure in forwarding you this Testimonial.
C. BENNETT.
Leech-street,
New Plymouth.
iFor further particulars,
S. A. PALM Eli,
Head Office: Clarendon Street A r . t
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.SAY.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
m
m
m
Elastic
j Truss—
f Single, 15/-
j Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of spring's.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
t Lord Monk Bretton fell like a whole
Picturesque! Atlas on Premier Jenkins at a
Mayoral reception in Adelaide, recently. Jenkins
had remarked that Monk 8., as a late secretary
of Mr. Chamberlain, would be able to give some
clear idea of that eminent screw-maker’s inten-
tions. In his reply, the brief nobleman said, in
effect, that piivate secretaries didn’t give away
the official secrets of the boss in England, and
wanted to know if they did such things in Aus-
tralia. Which was an unkind cut. The Aus-
tralian private secretary, when sober, is as reliable
as the British ditto when not drunk.
London Daily Mail of the 7th January
has this announcement wired from Tokio :
Malcolm M'Eacharn, the honorary consul for Japan in
Melbourne, has written to the president of the Japanese-
Australian line of steamers stating that, in the event of
war, he will come over and fight, and bring with him 1000
Australian trained nurses.
Did Smalkum so act the goat, or are the Japs
lying? Certainly Melbourne still has its Gaud
Mayor, the Scottish Regiment retains its colonel,
Melbourne its Federal representative, and Japan
its honorary consul.
The quaint stupidity- of Victoria’s awful
J.P. is one of the greatest difficulties with which
the police have to contend in their efforts to
suppress cruelty to children. The J.P.* is a
ravening lion when he is dealing with a charge of
stealing some small article of property or when he
is sentencing some aged person, whose crime con-
sists in not having property ; but when the charge
is merely one of inhumanity, he is perfectly tame
and will lunch out of tlie paw. As an instance :
A woman was recently charged with flogging her
ten-year-old daughter in such a shocking manner
that the child was a mass of bruises from head to
foot. The defence consisted principally of the
statement by the accused that she was a Christian
parent, and merely flogged her child in this
manner to save the mite’s “soul from hell.” That
snuffle settled the matter at once ; the J.’sP. not
only discharged her, but expressed their indigna-
tion at the case having been brought up at all.
Defendant wasn’t even asked to produce any evi-
dence that children who weren’t flogged went to
hell. The case suggests the possibility that some
one will yet organise the Christian Push,
which will batter J.'sP. for their spiritual good
when .it -finds them in a dark corner. There
should be a great future before a Christian Push.
Maurilund Ministers fare welled Public
Works Hall-Jones at the Belle Vue Gardens
(Wellington), a few days ago, prior to his
departure on a trip to the wee country. Premier
Seddon, who was to propose Jones’ health, had
given .instructions to the band that, as soon as he
finished, it should strike up “For lie’s a jolly good
fellows” but the instrumentalists were relegated
to another room where they couldn’t hear Seddon,
so the bandmaster made arrangements w ith one
of the'waiters to give a signal at the right moment.
The waiter became flustered with the responsi-
bility. He felt that the fate of empires was
balanced on his head, and, at the instigation of a
lost soul in the reporting line who wanted to get
the job over, he gave the sign the first time Sed-
cloii stopped for breath. So the band blared forth
the Bacchanalian tune, the Premier wildly pro-
testing that he had six columns of remarks to
make yet. The worm with the serviette vanished
from the premises, when he found out the horror
he had done, and took the first train to town with
a price on his head. He is now being pursued by
bloodhounds, but as The went to press
hadn’t been captured.
TYPEWRITERS
'33." , "E‘fign
<§ ’1
.9 5‘: - V ‘..~
. . V.“"§“\\L§‘}A’IT
2 5 in" '4" ,
4 -—,..:-1 Y ‘ ‘ 55...
.- ass-3&1; . -
,I .,"‘.o.": "’"uéi’f’en 3 =5‘!‘ 1
r - _5 .‘T-LL‘J.“ 'Séu,§‘;r.y 3:; b
"r‘. ‘F‘o’ 3: 5'2»: ""Hﬁ w-on’l '4 >5 ,2: =
“9676' .26 1‘11“!" ‘_‘;,L V ‘ « L :.§.
< Ema-v.» -ﬁ.s-1..(~.-.... /-—
‘ ‘l .. ‘ch aﬂgm'bg- n; Iv ‘ _A " ‘ A
_V H ‘ , " .9¢.n_:5,.f-). , j
3%. . ‘ . ..?.,.&H'
95; $527k ‘ "‘l’pj' I n— .
'W5 ‘. 'c-...’V‘:"ﬂ
PM. - ' _».‘—. .
55‘ 31"; I
3 of the World s Best
U7J
New riodel No. 10, adopted by Dcpts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.B. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH,
BRISBANE —Webster & Co. ADELAIDE— N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HkdIey
i
But i on.
FOR MAKING THE DEAF HEAR.
TIAHE Latest Triumph of Science in this'direction is the AKOUPHON E, described in the August, 1902, number of
; Pearson’s Magazine and a recent Scientific American as “the most powerful aid to hearing in the world.” It
is successfully employed in some of the largest Deaf and Dumb Institutions in the United States, and the inventor
—Miller Hutchison—recently received a gold medal from Her Majesty Queen Alexandra in token of her appreciation
of the value of his discovery. Write for further particulars, or call and test the capabilities of this wonderful instru-
ment at the AKOUPHONE DEPOT, Australasia Chambers, Martin Place, Sydney, where,can also be seen the
AKOU-MASSAGE, a remarkable invention for the scientific treatment of Head Noises and
THE CCJRE OIP JO EAFNTES 3.
P & B
“P & B Building Paper
‘ & B ” BUILDING PAPER is widely used in Gfjat Britain
and America, and other countries where the rainfall is large
I and the fear of damp and wet conditions renders necessary
special protection. The chief uses of building paper are to
keep out unnecessary moisture and earth gases, the heat of Summer
and the cold of Winter, wind, dust and vermin, and render what
it protects WEATHER-PROOF, WATER-PROOF and ACID
and ALKALI PROOF.
These desiderata are secured to their fullest
extent by the use of “P&B” Building Paper.
By means of “P & B” BUILDING PAPER, and at a very
small additional outlay, an ordinary weather-board cottage can be
made to possess all the advantages of brick and stone dwellings.
A weather wall that is exposed to the South will, if lined with
“ P & B ” Building Paper, i*§Eaain permanently dry. Under the
severest tests, whether used on roof, walls or flooring
“P & B ” BUILDING PAPER will defy
and positively exclude damp for ever 1
It is therefore easy to see the enormous advantages that accrue
to the use of “P & B” BUILDING PAPER.
Booklets and Samples and further particulars will be posted to
those interested, on application.
The Paraffine Paint Company.
LLI AM
mt
Hf] Pl‘rt STE afﬁx,
iii-Aifgﬂigﬁ‘E-Y.


A chagrined Maoriland woman was lately
police-courted for stealing her own dog. Appears
she recognised tho tyke in the street and collared
it from another female who was majestically
strolling round the Block airing the newest thing
in hats. In court it was shown that the dog had
been presented to the husband of the lady with
the hat by a friend, who had had it presented to
him by a friend, latter, in turn, having received it
from a friend whom it had followed home. It was
apparently just the sort of dog to present to a
friend, and it did credit to any home. The real
owner established her title to the dog, which, she
said, went out one day, presumably to see a friend,
and never returned. The indignant bench landed
the prosecutor in a lot of costs and said the case
never should have been brought to court.
A Victorian jury administered a blow in
the eye to the Law lately and, incidentally, settled
the difference between it and George Hazeldine.
The case, one of larceny of a bottle of brandy, has
been wandering casually round the Vic. Courts
since January 19th, 1903. First, Hazeldine, having
pleaded guilty, was committed for trial because
the J.’sP. couldn’t agree whether to give him two
years or fine him half-a-crown or so. Then he
applied for a mandamus to make them agree, but
dropped it. When his case came up at Horsham
Sessions in November, the Law had forgotten all
about the mandamus having being dropped, so the
unfortunate accused was remanded for another
three months, Judge Johnston making some
insulting remarks about the Law’s proceedings.
When Hazeldine finally faced Judge Molesworth
last week, his lawyer took the point that the trial
was illegal, as accused had already been convicted,
thoughnotsentenced, and though Molesworth over-
ruled the objection, the jury scorned his dictum and
verdicted that “ accused had been previously con-
victed.” He was thereupon discharged, his
Honor expressing his surprise at the verdict. The
Law certainly got itself in a lovely tangle over
one bottle of brandy. There have been three
costly trials, and the accused has pleaded guilty,
and a jury has said he was convicted but has also
declined to convict him, and as he wasn’t sen-
tenced at first there is seemingly no power to
haul him up for sentence now. Also the jury has
practically told his Honor Molesworth that he
doesn’t know as much law as a common farmer,
and the Law that it doesn’t know when a man is
convicted and when he isn’t.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Calling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... . £12,019 18 3
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,040,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,040,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.O.
Hon. F. T. Humphrey, M.L.C.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000,
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
<)8 RX CO SO's
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 12e.. or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 4-7 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S. IP.— Faulding & Co., 1C O’Ccnnell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA.
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.B. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 13th APRIL.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON* via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about 16th MARCH,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
JDalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 1-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Q CEANIC
STE A. MS HIP
A. AND a 7 LINE.
COMPANY.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Ratesj Including’ St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND'BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
$
s>
a\r.s, n w.
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
(IJont deplete o.s|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
rtA CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE' BENNETT. Gknkkal Manager.
'—Til IC—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
flon. J F. Burns, Chairpian ; Hon. C. J. Robsrm
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hiuinn Smith, Esi|., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305-assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses - eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 A 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The Bank of Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director J AMES BURNS, Ks<|.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £.700,000
Capital Paid-up ... , ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 260 TOO ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direotors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Mkkks, M.L.CJ. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Skk, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, VV. N.
M‘Farlanu ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. VV.
Faiiquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYONEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made b.v Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any tound defective are discarded.
beware of imitations.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAIM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL - R ED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
March 21, April 18, May 16.
The Route to St. Louis or to England
via St. Louis.
Excursion Rates to St. Louis and
to all American Points.
Full Particulars Furnished & Itineraries Prepared.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
* LIMITKI). “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,463
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. 1). Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
ABfe»!
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &«•> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS DROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sepi. 28 1896, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
piefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bo
most generally uselul, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Ohlokohynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation."
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to ami from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And OULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingrat Fremantle
toall North Western Porta
5.5. Friday, Mar. 4,
at 5 p.m.
•
5.5. Grantala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, Mar. 12,
at 10 a.m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Cairns
5.5. Mar. s,atNoon
5.5. Warrego, March 12,
■ at Noon.
S.S. Konoowarra, March 19,
at Noon.
Best and Cheapest ltoute to Hold fields.
Saloon Passage Tiokets are Interchangeable after the
of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
_ Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government,, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE.
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
_ . ■- -- lnaia, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
JETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meek
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
In landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
jL_BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. , BY THB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
&
t=3
&
&
r®M§
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 3 Os* (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
m
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
NenraM<> Head aches.fc all Nerve
Bains removed bv BUNTEi* S
NEUVINE. Of all Stores.
i
m
"As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
need it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSTS PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head a. ne,
k>j ayc-psia,Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
OF ALL bIOKUS.


IF WE COULD GAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If we could gain our goal at once
And bid the fight give over,
If we could put our laurels on
And live at ease in clover,
Would Life be better made thereby,
Or Love be found the sweeter,
Would Heaven be nearer half a span,
Or Earthly Joy completer?
If every foe threw down his arms
When we cried out “ Surrender 1 "
If every wish in mortal breast
Were granted by the Sender,
If every fairy form one loved
Were aye disposed to love one,
Would mortal wishes cease to pine
For purple grapes above one?
We’re prone to make an idle moan
About the goods denied us,
We like to rave at times and pose
As if the gods defied us ;
But mortal bliss is mostly made
By battling for a guerdon,
And mortal shoulders mostly built
To fit beneath a burden.
The man who’s made of finer clay
Is little prone to ’plaining ;
His days and nights are all too full
Of strenuous fight and straining ;
And when a man has myriad woes
To wail about and tarry on,
He's seldom time to catch the cry
Of Duty’s pealing clarion.
The World is all awake to note
What virile life is doing ;
She takes but little heed ol them
Whose days are spent in ruing.
She loves the Man, who, when lie’s kissed
Old Earth, but fights the harder,
Who only finds his foeman’s blade
A spur to whet his ardor.
For fears and tears—to noble eyes—
Are only blots to blind them,
And as to Pain and Age s train
We’ll fight them when we find them ;
We’ll worry o’er the failing score
Some weary day hereafter.
But leisure left from work to-day
We’ll give to Love and Laughter 1
With muscle braced and eyes a-sl rain,
We guide our Ship to haven ;
And he who fears to take his turn
Is dubbed a cur and craven ;
For Regal Man will cheerly trust
The Regal Heavens o’er him,
And Regal Manhood loves to breast
The Rugged Sea that bore him 1
4.
P.L.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME UP.-“No better
tonic and _ restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
Although White Knight Fitz Gibbon at
times succeeds in making the Melbourne Metro-
politan Board of Works such a fine white joke, the
institution, assisted by Dr. Gresswell’s Board of
Health, is doing splendid work. A report just issued
by engineer Thvvaites shows that deaths from
typhoid in Melbourne and suburbs have declined
from 403 in 1890 to 64 in 1903. The Melbourne death-
rate from miasmatic diseases (including small-pox,
chicken-pox, measles, scarlet fever, influenza,
whooping-cough, diphtheria, simple continued
fever, and typhoid or enteric fever) has dropped
from 19 58 in 1886-90 to 6.55 per 10,000 persons in
1902. The death-rate from diarrhceal diseases
(including cholera, diarrhoea, and dysentery) lias
dropped from 16’93 in 1886 90 to 3'05 per 10,000
persons in 1902. All round the death-rate has
fallen to a remarkable extent, and Melbourne is
in a fair way to become one of the healthiest cities
of the world.
If the present Pope is obeyed, there will
be no more women singers in R.C. choirs. In
his recently published instructions “to the
world” with respect to church music, the Pope
points out that “singers in church have a real
liturgical office, and as women are incapable of
exercising such office, they cannot be admitted to
form part of the choir or the musical chapel.”
Pope Pius X. explains that “whenever it is
desired to employ the acute voices of sopranos or
contraltos, these parts must be taken by boys,
according to the most ancient usage of the
Church.” The Archbishop of Paris obtained
Papal permission from Leo XIII. years ago to
exclude women from the Parisian choirs. When
Madame Marchesi, some three years back, had
a special service in Paris to celebrate her golden
wedding, several of her famous “prima donna”
pupils, including Melba, wanted to sing. But
the order against female voices was enforced,
much to Melba’s annoyance. Melba could not
understand the exclusion, as she had sung for
a couple of years as soloist in the choir of St.
Francis’, Melbourne. It is argued by those who
think they know that a woman’s soprano voice—
if it is a good one—has too much flavor of the
World, the Flesh and the Devil to make it suitable
for church purposes. “A successful soprano
must have been a successful and an unsuccessful
lover, ’ said a French critic with some truth, for
the essontial element of a great soprano voice
is passion, and it is difficult to imagine passion
without experience. Some sopranos, who had all
the necessary qualifications for greatness, have, at
various times, sung at R.C. services in Australia.
NOISES IN THE HEAD.
It is calculated that oat of a hundred deaf
people eighty-five among them have noises in the
ear. The description of these noises is also very
varied, they are compared to buzzing, hissing,
whistling, the noise of bells, the singing of birds,
rumbling of waggons, and the throbbing of the
pulse. It it not infrequent for the patient to ask
to be freed first of all from these noises, to which
they seem to attach much more importance than
to the deafness itself. The cause of these noises,
and their treatment is the subject of a special
article in the last issue of the “ Review of Diseases
of the Ear, Nose and Throat.” This valuable
medical work is published in London, England,
but a free copy can be obtained by sending name
and address to : “ Review ” o/o Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney. With the “Review” there i 3 also a
report form by means of which anyone can obtain
free advice by post.*
The late Herbert Spencer once defined
Evolution in a way that would have filled John
See’s brother, David, with envy: “ Evolution is
an integration of matter and concomitant dissipa-
tion of motion ; during which the matter passes
from a relatively indefinite, incoherent homo-
geneity to a relatively definite, coherent hetero-
geneity ; and during which the retained motion
undergoes a parallel transformation.”
The following reaches The Bulletin office
in a handwriting which is not reminiscent of that
of Archbishop Smith, though the MS. was at first
ascribed to him, owing to his habit of throwing
off a prayer at frequent and irregular intervals on
incongruous subjects. It is headed :
A PRAYER. FOR THOSE WHO DRIVE IN CABS.
O thou who lookest down upon them that pass in the
street and from thy lofty seat surveyest the just and the
unjust alike, spare, I pray thee, the body that I have
committed to thy care. The way of the sojourner in
this vale of tears is slippery under foot, and, aye, some-
times steep beyond understanding ; therefore guard care-
fully the steps of thy moke, urge him not too fiercely
down the path that spreadeth before thee precipitously ;
yet instil into him with thy whip diligence on the smooth
and level way and industry in surmounting the rising
road, lest the fare goeth beyond the bob. For my sake.
Amen.
“Prooshan” : Country teachers are really
better off than their town brethren. Take an
eighth-class man with good commodious residence
and £3 per week, house rent free, and fresh air
thrown in. He has no pupil teacher trouble, no
overtime. His wood, milk, and vegetables cost
nothing, and any neighbor, if met in neighborly
fashion, is ready to lend him a horse or trap, or
oblige in a general way. He is regarded as a
wonderful individual by his rustic friends —a sort
of mighty fakir, who measures tanks, and esti-
mates road contracts, and knows all about the
war. He is not asked for subscriptions to the
dramatic, chess, ping-pong, polo, or debating
clubs. Nor has he five rival canvassers from five
rival religious concerns dragging at his purse, or
beguiling his wife into promising tucker baskets
for rival bun-chews, picnics, &c. He is free from
scores of worries that prey upon the town
teacher; and sits on his verandah at night and
smokes in peace. And his £3 go further than the
town teacher’s £5. The town teacher, by com-
parison, is a slave.
Mr. A. J. BOWLING, Elvira, Ky., write:
“ My father says that Jayne’s Expectorant saved my
life when I was a baby, and I regard it as THE BEST
REMEDY IN THE WORLD for all diseases of the Throat
and Lungs.”*
Re our colored brother, the Hindu doctor.
A well-to-do farmer living in the Middle North of
S.A. was recently dying of cancer and had been
given up by all the medicos. Still thinking there
was hope while life existed, he sent to Melbourne
for Run Blather, or some such person, whose
fame for curing anything, from sandy blight to
corroded boiler, had travelled to the Wheat State.
Ram Blather condescended to come over for the
tidy fee of £5O, and by means of his famous cure
succeeded in killing the man within a week (of
course, he might have died in the same time with-
out Ram’s aid). Soon after the same Hadji was
telegraphed for to go further north to attend
another farmer with same complaint, fee being
£4O. This farmer died the day after treatment.
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Land Acts than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
There is one man in N.S.W. civil service
who has a large rent-roll, and boasts that he has
just scooped .£30,000 out of a big pastoral-property
deal. Why he continues to red-tape, under the
circumstances, is a dark mystery.
Congested Liver Cured.
Bilb Beans Effective where Hospital Treat-
ment Failed.
“Some seven years ago,” says Mrs. Ellen
Moore, of 12 Bray-street, Erskineville, Sydney,
“I was troubled with very severe pains in the
small of my back, accompanied by constipation, a
poor appetite, and a worn-out feeling, making me
feel very miserable and entirely unfitted for my
household duties, and in time my system became
completely debilitated. For some time I was an
out-patient at the hospital, but I was told that J
could only be patched up, as I had a congested
liver. It was then that I decided to give Bile
Beans a trial, having heard of their great efficacy
for liver disorders. The first few does made a
great improvement in my condition, and continu-
ing the course, the pains quickly left me. I
regained my lost appetite, and was quickly
restored to health and vigor. I will never be
without such a valuable medicine in the house,
and always recommend Bile Beans to llow
sufferers, and will be glad, at any time, to answer
any queries in regard to my statements which
might prove of value to others.’’ Bile Beans will
be found a prompt and permanent cure for bilious-
ness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles,
debility, female weaknesses, nervousness, bad
blood, bad breath, anaemia, insomnia, loss of
appetite, and in fact all ailments that owe their
origin to defective liver action. At this trying
season, no home should be without a box. Bile
Beans are obtainable from all chemists and stores,
price Is. ljd. or 2s. 9d. large box. The large box
is specially recommended for general family use
as being more economical.*
uNriNisnns
business
OFFICE TICKLER
Send for Catalogue To-day.
SYSTEM and METHOD in the Office
Save TIME, LABOR and MONEY
0)2 PMC IO)>OJ>S
JOHN SANDS,
sole agent
for Australia.
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDASEV.
Victorian Branch—
W. Wolley & Son, Agents,
Equitable Bldg. Melbourne.
Queensland Branch—
H. J. Diddams & Co. Agents,
Brisbane.
THE EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
The Acmeof'Realism^
LOOKING FOR THE BAND?'J
J
■
i
H
VS:
X
Send for our Catalogue
YOU ought to have an EDISON PHONOGRAPH in
the home. The Grandest Entertainer and amuse r
on this earth. Anyone can work one without
any trouble. The. cost is but little, but the fun
obtainable immense. ___
We have the
Largest Stock
and Best Selec-
tion of all the
Latest, Most
Improved
Machines.
m ﬁr,
_ ‘.,,_ ‘
Egg, -
. I
\‘
l
\'
.—‘ ‘ (Lug, 77
,q- aka-I .-.—;L:i<‘
, Q'EELI
— ~ 1‘—
’i” ‘5 , ‘1-;‘.—;7 *fLLV-I)‘ '
W‘Q‘
? ::‘--- «CC: Avg...
_ {13- 541;»I-‘-.~-- 2., -
-‘ -—-~V.-"~»A ‘ . ‘
‘ *4"‘C‘-’-“£7¢x£8.§
.==—v’;‘:'T—_—,——_;'2::L’
,L:"v- ——— —<~v .P
gramophones gramophone Records
phonographs $ phonograph Records
graphophanes
and
graphophone
WE CARRY AN ENORMOUS
STOCK OF RECORDS-
Edison, Columbia
Pathe.
Over 10,000
to Select from.
NEW GOLD MOULDED RECORDS-
2s. each; 21s. dozen.
SEND FOR LATEST CATALOGUES.
EDISON
RECORDS
mmsuM
.a£dw
NARK
OSBORN and JERDAN,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, and 99 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
I Q i I:
.-\ '1‘
‘ “ l
' ’3’ ‘ 9
' M"; \
V \ {S
(N I
r\'£:’i§ ~
"‘3’" " ~
A Special Bargain
«
We have just landed
500 PHONOGRAPHS
bought in London at a ridiculously
low price, and are offering them as
a Bargain.
Phonograph
12/6
r» n -.-i e Music. Band Seleciions,
nwCUrUo Sonjfs, Speeches.
2s. each; 21s. dozen.
POSTAGE ON MACHINE AND
RECORDS, 2/6 EXTRA.
Send at once before they
all go.
LOOKING FOR THE BAND


SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Wednesday afternoon cricket match is a
cruel joke. Most of the alleged sports play only “ for the
honor of the office.” The boss is a cricket enthusiast, and
these matches serve to get the name of the firm into
the papers free of charge, and the employees get their
corners knocked off in consequence. Fat drapers and
innocent young clerks with beautiful lily hands swagger
down and take up their positions in front of the sticks.
Then a base ruffian throws a hard ball at them and hits
them where they least expect it. Poor old fellows, who
ought to be busy in the fowl-yard or doing a little quiet
fishing at Tom Ugly’s Point, strain their hearts rushing
round trying to stop fourers. Writer saw a ball hit sky-
ward ; three of them rushed for the catch open-mouthed
and with their hands and heads up. Two of them collided
with an awful yell, which so disconcerted the third fellow
that the ball fell into his mouth and wrecked his false
teeth. Then the ambulance came. Another ancient
draper, weighing about 16st., stopped a ball with the butt
of his ear. His wife begged him to remonstrate ;he did,
but the head of the firm said that was the worst of not
having smart young fellows behind the counter ; so the
old fellow said he really loved cricket, but just made the
protest as a matter of conscience, having promised his
wife he would. Next Wednesday found him facing the
bowler. The ball came like a cannon shot; he made a
wild swipe at it, and it curled off the bat, swish into the
middle of where his waistcoat usually rests, and doubled
him up.
» * • •
The Englishmen opened the fourth test match on
a wicket, which, though a trifle slow, was as true as could
be, but instead of lashing out and making a big score, they
took no risks, and tapped and blocked. Four and a half
hours’ batting produced only 207 runs with seven wickets
down. Cotter failed to “arrive,” and it was plain
that he was not himself despite medical assertions
that he was. Noble’s bowling was high-class; he
finished the day with five wickets for 77. Trumble’s
bowling was also fine; of his 34 overs half were
maidens, and he got one wicket for 41 runs. Saturday
saw an enormous crowd, officially stated at 35,000.
England added 42 to first day’s total, and play was slower
even than Friday’s. It was a bowler’s match, and the
English innings closed for 249. Noble had bagged seven
wickets for the century, Trumble two for 58, Cotter none
for 44, Hopkins one for 22, and M'Leod none for 9.
* * * •
At 1.15 Trumper and Duff started for Australia,
and at the luncheon adjournment Duff had hit up 12 and
Trumper four. Play resumed at 2.20, but a slight
shower suspended play for 12 minutes, and Braund
bowled Trumper off his thigh for seven. Hill joined
Duff, who was 22, but after an over play was again
suspended owing to rain, and when the rain stopped'and
the players did not appear the crowd got irritated, and
dropped empty bottles and melon rind on to the cycle
track. The umpires came back at 4.20, followed by the
players. Duff climbed up to 42, when a fast one from Hirst
took him where he lives and doubled him up. Five
minutes delay getting him straightened out, and then he
made a couple of two’s, and was bowled off his pad. He
had been at the wicket an hour and five minutes, and his
47 included a quartet of fours. M'Alister took the
vacant crease, but he was soon caught by Arnold off
Rhodes for two. The light was wretched, and owing to
the wet grass being slippery the English fielding
was far from good. Hopkins disappeared after
adding nine to the score, and M'Leod and Kelly
saw the day out for 12 and four respectively.
For the Englishmen, Arnold bowled best, taking two
wickets for 22, Braund two for 27, Rhodes one for 24, and
Bosauquet and Hirst none for 5 and 36 respectively. It
was a dreary spectacle. On Monday, the wicket was too
wet for play. Tuesday, the wicket was wet still, and
play was announced to begin at 2.15, and at that hour
the start was shoved further along till 4 p.m. And, as
Tub Bulletin went to press, the Australian innings ended
for 131.
* * * •
If Crockett and Argali are no better authorities
on the game than they are on the weather fit to play it in,
Warner and Noble are darned poor judges of umpires.
To suspend play for 80 minutes for such a trifling mist
was to bring the fourth test match down to the level of a
confidence trick, a clear case of obtaining money under
false'pretences. The umpires never even came out to see
what it was like ; just stayed somewhere on the ground
floor of the members’ stand and looked at the gloomy sky
through some aperture till the stamping of feet above
made life unendurable, when they ventured out to meet
the first rain that had fallen for a good quarter-of-an-hour,
and promptly dived back again. Hoots, howls, stentorian
yells and the tramping of mastodons overhead brought
them out once more, and that time they stayed out, and
after play started it continued through much heavier
rain than had fallen during the 80 minutes’ spell.
* * * *
“0.K.”: The fact that Knight made 70 runs (top
score) in the first innings of the Englishmen doesn't lessen
the absurdity of his cautious play on the Saturday or ab-
solve him from the charge of trifling with his opportuni-
ties on Friday. His score proved him to be in form, and
when a batsman happens to be at his best, his policy is to
hit, not unwisely, but with a reasonable amount of dash.
Knight’s pottering became absolutely ridiculous, as his
chances of a fine score diminished towards vanishing
point. On Saturday morning he resumed his long
innings with 64 to his credit. Three wickets still to fall.
He made a single, and then he lost his partner, Arnold,
the board showing 208 for eight wickets—Knight 65 (not
out). -Finally he carried his bat for 70, the two other
men knocking up 34 whilst the well-set Knight pottered
a paltry five. It was a case of playing to make his
innings last as long as possible, not to make it as fruitful
as possible. Test-match batting on both sides seems to
be considerably deadened by unsuccessful attempts to
prolong the game. One would think that a good many
of the batsmen were getting paid by the hour.
* * * *
Rhodes has a peculiar style of bowling. He
takes four short, quick steps on the edge of his heels,
with his toes stuck up stiffly. His action is reminiscent
of Coleman’s Scarecrow dance, and the Doll’s Minuet
which Dorothy Vane used to do in “ La Poupee,” and on
Saturday the crowd noticed it, and kept time by chant-
ing “ One, two, three, four.” It was funny, but it was
bad form. It disconcerted the bowler, and baulked the
batsman even more. Yet, considering that it had been
sitting on a wet hillside for about two hours, Saturday’s
test-match audience was a wonderfully humorous crowd.
The most unpopular man in Sydney on Saturday was
Test Match umpire Crockett. Rightly or wrongly, some*
where about 30,000 people had got it into their heads that
he was responsible for the suspension of play. The rain
was merely an intermittent drizzle, and the dreadful 80-
minutes’ pause was quite unjustifiable. When it was dry
enough for thousands to sit on the unsheltered hillside, i‘t
was certainly dry enough for healthy men to play cricket,
and even cricketers are under some obligation to the
people who pay to see them smite. The Australians were
batting, and it is understood that they were unwilling to
go to the wickets in a light which was certainly far from
good.
* * * *
_On Friday night and Saturday morning
cricketers were going round begging their friends to loan
them a few adjectives to apply to the Englishmen for
their slow scoring. On Saturday evening after our own
wretched display the subject was dropped by tacit
consent.
* * * *
Trumper really should not have been picked to
play in the last test match ; he was an ill man, and could
not.be expected to do himself justice.
* * * *
_ Said that N.S.W. cricketer Cotter was recently
given the option of leaving his job or cricket, and resolved
to stick to cricket.
* * . .
The cable liar has been getting in good work
over the four constables and forty boys incident at
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday, and the British
papers are aghast. Sporting Life deplores that the
Sydney larrikin doesn’t turn to cock-fighting"; the
Sportsman talks of the canker threatening the best
interests of cricket; and the Standard contri-
butes its quota of inanities. The larrikin of these
parts doesn’t fancy cock - fighting; that sport is
reserved for the London hooligan. The cir-
cumstance of 40 young boys climbing over the
fence and being promptly ejected by four stout
policemen (only one copper laid hands on the boys)
doesn’t compare with the action of the English ciowd
which stopped a football match in England the other day,
and it sinks into insignificance compared to the action of
another English crowd which, two years ago at Birmingham,
compelled the umpires to continue the England-Australia
match to the detriment of the latter. Another case of
the beam and the mote.
* * * •
The threatened strike of Sydney first-grade
umpires is too ridiculous. Warner was perfectly within
his rights in objecting. An umpire may bean incarnation
of the Badminton Magazine, with a combination of
Nimrod and W. G. Grace thrown in, but if he is distaste-
ful to one of the captains that skipper has a perfect right
to object to him. The Australians did the same thing in
England. Noble and the association have both expressed
every confidence in Mr. Giltinan’s ability and impartiality,
and nothing is to be gained by the reiteration of the
fact. Do the Sydney umpires want to force themselves
on any captain ?
• * * *
How Hay got even. Week or so since, S.A.
cricket selectors—Claxton and Hill—without consulting
colleague Giffen, selected 18 to practice for coming
S.A.-England match, but didn’t include Hay, who, getting
nine wickets in one innings, practically won the match
with Lord Howe’s team for the crow-eating State. Satur-
day last, in match Sturt v. North Adelaide, Claxton,
playing for last-named side, was shaping as if likely to
pile up a heap of runs, until one from Hay, pitched well
off the wicket, broke in a foot and clean bowled Claxton,
while he held his bat in the air, thinking the ball was
going to pass. During the rest of the afternoon Hay
looked like the man who drew the winner in Adams’
sweep.
• * * »
“ Copies of the Herald were in great request
as protection against the damp ground,” says S.M.H.’s
representative at last test match. A cloudy Saturday
sells on an average 3000 extra Heralds for sitting-on pur-
poses.
* * * •
“Rata” writes from Palmerston North (Maori-
land) to ask what is the real orthodox pronunciation of
the name of cricketer Bosanquet. He says that the
question is being much debated in Maoriland; that it
has already led to various fights (in one case the com-
batants, standing in the dock with a black eye a-piece and
much other wreckage, asked the magistrate how he
pronounced “ Bosanquet,” and, not knowing, he covered
his confusion by adding ss. to the fine); that property
has been damaged over the question, and old friendships
have been broken up ; also that a dog has been trodden
on, and a horse has run away. The Bulletin presumes
that the name is pronounced the way it doesn’t spell.
Will Mr. 80-sankey clear the matter up ?
* * • *
“Dunce” : When Hutchison, one-time billiard-
marker for champion Roberts, was in M.L. (where he
eventually died) he fell on evil times, and to eke out
things, billiard-marked at Dawson’s Hotel, Reefton. A
cruel snag was he for the globe-trotting tourist to strike.
There landed in one evening a howling London swell,
with eyeglass and outfit complete. “ I—ah—heah you
have a devilish good playah here.” “ Yes, sir ; me, sir.
How many points, sir?” “Oh, I—ah —nevah take
points. I’m a devilish—ah—good playah myself, don’t-
cherknow." “ Yes, sir ; 200 up, sir ; break, sir.” He
broke. Then Hutchison broke—right out, and finished
by potting the red with a bang that made the brass ring.
“ Four bob, sir ; thanks, sir.” “ A-h-h, you do play a
devilish good game, indeed 1 ”
* * * *
That amazing filly, Gladsome, now reckoned
the best mare in Australasia, won the St. Albans Handi-
cap at the late Canterbury (M.L.) J.C. meeting, under
9.13, with ridiculous ease. This was her seventh win this
season, the stakes totalling £2550.
* * * *
A dividend of £3O 18s. was paid in a field of
three at the last Wairoa (M.L.) races. The Mo. who
would offer such odds would be regarded as a freak by his
brethren, and considered not responsible for his actions.
* * * «
Candidness of Geelong Cup winner Millard’s
owner, Mr. “Jimmy” Wilson, is refreshing. Responding
to the toast of his health subsequent to the race, he said :
“I do not follow the turf for sport; I follow it as a busi-
ness, and I try to keep as close to the border line of sport
as I can.”
• * * *
Vol. 17 of J. J. Miller’s “Racing Chronicle ” is
now available. It reports 822 Australian race-meetings
for the half-year ending January 31st, and gives the
names and pedigrees of some 4000 horses which battled
over one sort of course or other during that period. The
Commonwealth’s coat-of-arms ought to be a horse-shoe
rampant, a jockey’s cap, a small bag, and a huge Hebrew
nose on the four quarterings of a shield.
* * • •
Appropriation of Warwick Handicap by Inso-
lence was the biggest surprise known on a Sydney race-
course for years. Handicapped within 71b. of the
minimum, and well-backed in a weak welter field at
Canterbury Park a week before, he was a hopeless
failure. Warwick Handicap is a lm. 3f. affair, and of the
five starters Insolence was the only one absolutely
unthought of. A mile from home he took charge, anil
kept it, beating favorite Speculum by a head after a
desperate struggle. But horse-racing was ever like tl i
They ve got a dreamer, at Carcoar (N.S.W.) in
the person of a local storekeeper, who dreamt on Friday
night last that he received a telegram giving the result
of the Newmarket Handicap as : Mairp 1, Pendant 2,
Playaway 3. He communicated the fact to several
friends hours before the race was run, with the result
that he and another put a sovereign on at “ twenty-
fives.’ Said that the straight tip for Gaulus’ Oup (1897)
came to the Oareoar dreamer in the same manner, but he
is still a hard-working storekeeper, with not the faintest
notion of retiring or taking a trip round the world in
anything like the near future.
* * • *
Starting the hottest favorite on record for the
race Playaway finished no nearer than third in the New-
market, the winner turning-up in 9-year-old Mairp, who
beat Pendant by a neck. Perhaps the heavy going
accounted for the upset of the “ pot,” or maybe the little
mare was not quite the same Playaway that won the
Futurity Stakes. She walked somewhat lamely before
and after the event, but evidently the books got no hint
of a screw being loose. And on such matters Ikey is the
best authority.
* * * *
Mairp ran well at the V.R.C. Autumn meeting
last year. In the Newmarket the aged son of Priam,
getting a bad start, made up a lot of ground, and finished
fifth. Three days later he won the Bourke Handicap
easily with Bst. up, and on this form the gelding would
have been much fancied last Saturday but for his weight
of years. Mairp seemed a bit too old for the job. Given
a. guarantee that this Newmarket would be an exception-
tionally slow race, punters would not have allowed book-
maker Kelly’s venerable battler to go begging at 25 to 1.
* * * *
Gelding Mairp, winner of the Newmarket
Handicap, is owned and trained by a Melbourne book-
maker, and was also bred in that State by C.
Williams by Priam from Happy Bride, and is now close
on ten years old. During the past seven years he has
scooped 20 races, mostly in the north-eastern district, but
all in Victoria. Race was slow, the time, 1.175, being the
slowest since Churchill’s, which it equals, 14 years ago—
presumably on account of the heavy going due to the
recent rain.
* * * •
The run on Sea Kale at the eleventh hour was
justified in a measure by the filly’s respectable perform-
ance. She. started at 6to 1, and was placed fourth. The
three leading favorites for the Newmarket were all
placed, but the outsider was placed in front of them.
Four previous winners back to 1900— Chantress, Sir
Foote, Wakeful and Watch Dog—had been first or second
favorites at the post. Forest (1899) was asoto 1 chance,
Amiable and Maluma in 1898 and 1896 were favorites.
Sandwiched between them was Carlton, at 20 to 1. Of
late years Ikey has rarely rejoiced over the Newmarket,
but his bits of fat are exceedingly fat when he gets them.
* * • •
The flattites can’t forgive Scobie’s stable for the
Derby defeat of Emir and Sweet Nell by F.J.A. On
Saturday, when the unaccountable Emir beat Lord Car-
digan for the Essendon Stakes, there came a roar of
“ Rub him out! ’’ from the crowd on the non-paj'ing side
of the course. The angered, if asked to explain their
grievance against Emir, would have had to admit that it
didn’t amount to much. At Caulfield, a week earlier,
the big colt was backed, at absurdly short odds, to give
261 b. to Playaway and beat Pendant at a difference of
141 b. over a short course—and he couldn’t do it. This
time he was meeting Lord Cardigan, Combat, and Aus-
tralia at w.f.a. over 12 furlongs, and he managed to beat
the Melbourne Cup winner by a head. It was a case of
spasmodic gameness on Emir’s part. Coming into the
straight a length behind Lord Cardigan, he didn’t make
up his ground with one sustained run. He seemed to do
it by fits and starts. The two nags were within bumping
distance of one another, and presumably it was Cardigan
that interfered with Emir, rather than t’other way
round. At any rate, the flag went up without a protest.
• • * »
Isaac, whose other name is Moses, must have
had a happy Newmarket day at Flemington. One
favorite—Scottish King—got home. The five beaten
favorites included a 5 to 4 on chance for the big race, and
three even-money chances.
* * • •
First two furlongs of V.R.C. St. Leger (lfm.),
Saturday, were run in 29sec., next four in 54, following
two in 51$ and 625, and last six in I.lBs. Better time
was made for the Essendon Stakes (lsm.), won by Emir,
same afternoon, in 2.385. First four furlongs were
thrown behind in 565, next four 60$, and last four in 51J,
while concluding six were got over in 1.16. Scottish
King’s time (3.7) for the Leger has only been beaten twice
since the trip was altered to ljm. in 1897, and then by
The Officer and Bobadil. Latest was Scottish King’s
third successive victory.
• • • •
Betting is illegal, and yet a Judge of the
Central Criminal Court excused a prominent Sydney
bookmaker attending as a juror because important busi-
ness demanded his presence elsewhere. The important
business, it was explained, was attending to a big
“book” on the Newmarket. Possibly it was not ex-
plained to ’Sonah what a book is, or what sort of an
animal the Newmarket Handicap was.
• * * •
Suicide of Mr. P. J. O’Mara, at Watson’s Bay
(Sydney), deprives N.S.W. ponydom of its best friend.
Kensington Club will have difficulty in finding the equal
of its dead secretary, who was held in high esteem.
Poor O’Mara suffered from an internal complaint for a
long time.
• • • *
•I At last sculler Towns has responded to
Tressider’s importunities with a promise to sign articles
within a week or so for a match in May. Tressider is as
gross as Beach used to be in his best days, and will
require plenty of training ; but as Towns is so slippery,
he cannot neglect his means of livelihood till the papers
are signed. So if the arrangements are not made
immediately, Tressider will not be able to row under
proper conditions till June or July, which will probably
be utililised by Towns as a means for dodging the
contest.
* * * •
N.S.W. Back and Breast Stroke Championship
(500yds.), for teams of five, was contested for first time
at Mort’s Dock’s Swimming Carnival, Saturday. The
object of adding the event to the championship list is to
encourage methods most serviceable in life saving, and
each competitor had to swim fifty yards on the breast
and another fifty on the back with the arms folded. The
championship went to East Sydney, Flying Squadron
premiership winners, who were in front at isoyds ,and
stayed there, winning by five yards in 8.45 fromßondi.
• • • •
At the final meeting of South Australian
Swimming League in City Baths, Adelaide, Monday
night, local champion Moon won 1000 yards handicap
from scratch—B yards better than O’Mara (50sec.) who
beat Australian champion professional, G. Read (scratch)
by the touch. Read has evidently deteriorated since
forfeiting his amateur status 12 months ago
through lack of opportunities for racing; not once
in the year (until the S.A. League meeting opened)
had he a chance to compete in any event. The
thousand is rarely swum nowadays, but it was once a
championship event. Twenty-two years ago, at Sydney,
Walter Mclndoe, then Australasian premier, defeated
W. F. Corbett for the title by a couple of yards, in 14.34
—l6sec. faster than Moon’s performance on Monday, and
then swinuneis did not have the aid to speed of a kick-
off from the end of the bath, available to Moon and his
fellow-competitors—they were compelled to turn in the
water.
• * * *
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. sends along
its account of the Major Taylor-Ivor Lawson smash,
which places that unfortunate affair in quite another
light. “ The pacers pulled off, leaving Taylor in front. At
the bell both riders were abreast. As they dashed into
the straight Lawson collided with Taylor, and it was a
marvel both riders stood up. Fifty yards further on,
Taylor appeared to run out a bit; at all events there was
a collision, Lawson shooting off at a tangent up the bank-
ing nearly into the fence—quick as lightning he dashed
down the banking, crashing into Tavlor, who was thrown,
machine and all, many feet along the track. Lawson
remained seated and rode out the distance, amid a
perfect torrent of hooting and howling.” Probably the
truth of the matter will never be known. Everyone who
saw it has a different tale to tell. Present tale is quite
different from any other that has reached this office.
* * • *
Must have been a lot of make-believe about
Major Taylor’s recent injuries. The final tussle with
Floyd MacFarland for the International Mile was a very
warm affair. Mac. was completely taken by surprise, and
before he could recover himself the race was lost and
won.
* * * »
“H.” : Major Taylor may be a pointer, but all the
same he is a wonderful cyclist. Saturday saw him arrive
in Adelaide a few hours before the cycling started at the
Oval, and although he was said not to have been on a
bike since the smash-up with Lawson at Melbourne on
the night of the 17th, he sailed in and beat Floyd Mac-
Farland and Don Walker for the International Mile in
good order.
• * * *
Victoria has now got an Automobile Club, and
on a recent Saturday thirty odd cars assembled at Princes
Bridge and streaked away to Aspendale Park, leaving 18
miles of country afflicted with strange stinks. The pro-
cession was a quarter of a mile long, and looked like a
land squadron with motor cyclists scouting in front. The
car containing the refreshments made a splendid run and
arrived well in front of the rest; the club had taken care
that there were no Mt. Kembla characteristics about that
machine. Sammy Gillott was about the biggest mastiff
present, and the very smallest poodle of them was a
suburban town clerk. An automobile club run is a splen-
did thing, perhaps, for the fellows in front, but when the
show gets properly going the variety of smells and the
clouds of dust make it anything but a charming function
for the scratch men. The only thing to equal it is a
combination of a tannery and sulphuretted hydrogen.
• • • •
A quarter-mile running match for £2O was got
off at Timaru (M.L.), lately, between two local sprinters,
one being a policeman. Latter’s feet got in his road, near
the tape, and he fell, fracturing his collarbone. T’other
man sprawled over him, but was picked up, and breasted
the tape. As he had been assisted, however, the judge
declared the race off.
• • • •
McGowan v. Savral, at Queen’s Hall, was quite
an event as boxing matches go in Melbourne these times.
Word went round that the Queensberry Club could be
trusted to fix up an orderly show, and then the prospect
of a bona-fide set-to between Jack Mac. and the colored
gentleman drew a lot of people who rarely patronise the
Noble Art nowadays. There was even a suspicion of
sentimentality in the crowded attendance. McGowan, it
was said, had made up his mind to retire on his good old
laurels if he couldn’t hold his own against young Savral;
therefore a number of Jack’s admirers came along to gaze
upon what was possibly his farewell fight, hoping, all the
same, the white man’s burden of local championship would
not be taken up by his coffee-colored brudder. Clearly
there is not much more supremacy for Jack McGowan.
He beat Savral on points because he was an experienced
artist combating a plugger—as smart as ever with his
straight left in the ordinary way, as tricky as ever in
avoiding punishment and coming to a “clinch.” The
difference between the. champion of yore and the
McGowan of now is noticeable not so much in what he
does as in what he fails to do. A dozen times he had
Savral lunging furiously at space, but he never once
attempted to follow up with his arms the advantage
which his crafty legs had given him. Savral missed
his mark, and there the incident ended. He paid
no penalty for his mistake. The “fight,” from
the seventh round (and there were 20 of them)
resolved itself into a question whether Savral would
knock, the veteran out, or be beaten on points. The
possibility of Mac. knocking his opponent out hardly
suggested itself. Sometimes he chanced to steady the
pertinacious darkie with an honest straight-out punch on
the jaw, but as a rule he was actively employed in boxing
for safety whilst Savral came at him, head bent .and low
left arm bent, forever boxing at the atmosphere as
though bent on doing mischief. It is this boring or roll-
ing action of the arm which handicaps Savral for the
present. He’s a powerful and gritty young pug, but his
vicious blows are not straight to the point. The darkie
will improve, they say. A cynic may be paidoned for
doubting the Nobility of any Art in which such a pro-
fessor is likely to excel.
• • * *
Last week Sydney National Sporting Club
held its record house at the Tim Hegarty-Bob Turner
fight. Last time these ten stoners fought, a twenty'
rounds mill was declared a draw and a previous 11 rounds
bout was won by Turner. This time Hegarty was
favorite although he gave away much weight, scaling only
9.4, while Turner, who looked much more than ten stone,
refused to scale. Exchanges were mostly clean and
quick, although occasionally Hegarty indulged in the
clinging act which seems to be always necessary' to him.
This time Turner was prepared for it, and either bashed
him off or pounded away till Tim was glad to break. For
eight rounds the thing seemed fairly equal, but) in the
ninth Hegarty caught a nasty upper-cut under the chin
followed by an upward jab right on the mark,
which laid him out. This crushing defeat was a
great surprise to Hegarty’s friends who were confident of
victory and had betted accordingly.
• • • *
“Gun”: Ancient M.L. gelding Blazer, who
won at Christchurch meeting t'other day, is a marvel of
toughness. Eight seasons of racing have seen him
start 74 times and win 43 events. Has this a parallel
anywhere?
TRUMPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ ‘ Trumper is an artist. Some day someone will paint
his portrait; it will be hung: in a National Portrait
Gallery ; he will be dressed in white, with his splendid
neck bared to the wind, standing on short green grass
against a blue sky ; he will be waiting for the ball, the
orchestra to strike up.”— Mrs. C. B. Fry in an English
periodical.
Ho Statesmen, Patriots, Bards make way l
Your fame has sunk to zero :
For Victor Trumper is to-day
Our one Australian Hero.
High purpose glitters in his eye.
He scorns the filthy dollar ;
His splendid neck, says Mrs. Fry,
Is innocent of collar.
He stands upon the short green grass,
Superb, and seems to be now
A nobler young Leonidas
At our Thermopylae now.
Is there not, haply, in the land
Some native-born Murillo
To paint, in colors rich and grand,
This Wielder of the Willow ?
Nay, rather let a statue be
Erected his renown to,
That future citizens might see
The gods their sires bowed down to.
Happy the man who while alive
Obtains his meed of glory !
Ilis name for seasons will survive
In fable, song and story.
Evoe Trumper ! As for me
It all ends with the moral
That Fame grows on the Willow Tree
And no more on the Laurel.
C.R.
Tortured by Rheumatism for Seven
Years.
Mbs. Wood, 8 Peabson-steeet, Summer Hill,
Tulls of the Magical Effect of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
People that have been great sufferers from any
complaint, and after trying many doctors and
many remedies without receiving any benefit,
when they do find the remedy that relieves them
of years of agony, are ready to publish abroad the
fact that they have been cured so that others who
suffer as they have, can take advantage of their
experience and receive like benefit. Such a one
is Mrs. Wood, of Summer Hill, whose case can
best be described in her own words:—
“ I am very glad to be able to give this testi-
monial as to the benefit I have derived from Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I suffered for seven
years from rheumatism, tried all sorts of remedies
and consulted doctors, but with no avail. I was
persuaded to try Indian Root Pills, and the effect
was magical; I felt instant relief, and continued
to improve until I was perfectly cured. I am
indeed thankful, for I had given up all hope of
ever being cured. But I am now able to give this
positive statement that Indian Root Pills have
certainly cured me, and I hope and trust that this
testimony may have the effect of inducing people
to try this wonderful medicine, for I am convinced
that they are a perfect preventive against this
terrible trouble. You may use this statement in
any way you think fit.”
Rheumatism is caused by uric acid in the blood.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, driving out uric acid poison and all biliary
poisons. They make the blood rich and red.
They are a positive cure for biliousness, constipa-
tion, and all disorders that arise from a disordered
stomach and torpid liver. Packed in amber
bottles and sold throughout Australasia.*
SSEL
TOOK AL
AND
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


Editor Fitchett in Life makes the same
amazing blunders about Queensland politics that
he was accustomed to perpetrate in the Review of
Reviews. Here is an example : “ The Benevolent
Asylum vote will probably explain the most
puzzling incident in the Queensland election —
the victory of the Labor candidate in S. Bris
bane.” In the first place there was no Federal
electorate of South Brisbane at all—the electorate
containing that municipality was Oxley. Secondly,
Labor did not gain a victory there. Hence the
incident of the Benevolent Asylum vote securing
a victory that didn’t come off in a constituency
that didn’t exist is certainly a “puzzling
incident ” —even in a magazine run by the warlike
Fitchett. Of coure there is a South Brisbane
electorate in Queensland State politics, but then
there is no Benevolent Asylum vote in Queens-
land State politics.
from Melbourne :
The promptness with which the man on the land appeals
to the State or to his fellow-citizens for aid whenever he
is injured by flood or drought leads one to wonder
whether the farmers as a class are a wasteful and im-
provident lot, who simply live from hand to mouth. An
example of this readiness was seen in the case of the so-
called Carrum (Yic.) floods. Oarrum is a low-lying,
enormously rich district, close to Melbourne, where for
years the settlers have been getting large crops and
splendid prices. The recent rains flooded a portion of
the country, and instantly the cry was raised that “ a
large number of families were starving.” Subscription
lists were opened, and special articles were run into the
daily press begging for money to assist “ the poor
settlers.” In addition, the “ poor settlers,” who are anti-
Socialists to a man, are clamoring to the Government to
step in and provide better drainage. They want the tax-
payers’ money spent in large sums to enhance the value
of the properties out of which they have been making
small fortunes for several years. The question naturally
arises : What has become of the money received in the
good years if, When a temporary flooding comes along,
the people are immediately reduced to the verge of
starvation ? Evidently, the Oarrum farmer is a profligate,
or there is a heap of hard lying being done on his behalf.
Hundreds of out-of-work laborers in Victoria are in the
half-starved line, but they don’t go crying for assistance
and getting special pleaders into the press.
“ Amid the wreck of empires and the
crash of worlds a red herring is suddenly drawn
across the track.” —Westralian politician.
As showing how necessary were the strong
measures taken by the Morgan Government (Q.)
in the way of making local bodies face their
responsibilities, the case of Normanton might be
quoted. Normanton has been costing Queens-
land something over £5OOO per annum for the up-
keep of its dredges and the maintenance of its sea-
ways, and the total revenue derived from the port
has only amounted to £5OO per annum. And
Normanton is raging at the proposed removal of
dredges.
London Daily Mail revives about the
silliest lie of the age. It was built to the glory of
the late Antoinette Sterling, and the most worldly
star who eyer advertised herself by having her
jewellery stolen or by eloping with a King was
never advertised by a lie to equal it:
‘‘ But never, perhaps, was the tremendous strength of
her personality demonstrated so vividly as it was some ten
years ago during her Australian tour. One day she was
told that the prisoners at Adelaide wanted to hear her
sing. Without a moment’s hesitation she agreed to go,
and found gathered together in the chapel 400 of the
colony’s worst criminals. Singing a hymn composed by
her eight-year-old daughter, she caught sight of a man
with a noble face, long thick white hair, and fine blue
eyes. He had served twenty-seven years, and was under
sentence of life. “ Open that!" she exclaimed, pointing
to the gateway. Mutely, almost mechanically, a warder
obeyed the command. Then with a gentle hand on his
shoulder she bade the man depart. “ God is not like
man. Jesus said, ‘Go and sin no more.’ ”
Even in the very worst melodrama the man who
pardons criminals off-hand is at the least a
policeman, and has some official status. The idea
of a mere singing woman going round discharging
“lifers” off-hand merely because of their long
hair—most lifers have short hair —is “tew
mutch.” And, by way of a side issue, think of
400 of South Australia’s worst criminals being
gathered in one chapel, when the whole State
couldn’t muster 260 prisoners altogether, even
by including debtors, petty thieves and sundries
Franz Josef Lager
. . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
vd
O
II
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
a
BAaaoo
n
MAKERS OP,
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1003)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT HT nHiim
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
BBAHCHEB IH ALL STATES. 374 F||nderS St . f Mel t>Oll«!©.
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & GO.
34 Queen St.,
el bourne
1000 Agent* In
Australasia.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Win Prizes on the Track.
Win Praises in the Bush.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 357 George St, Sydney
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK?'
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CHILD can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of oraers, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
Bole Agents for
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
188
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY,
lhat is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,"
at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
Ser
TjIBEE BY POST.—A reliable
*• recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereagh'st., Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
5«., P. 0.0., or stamps.
SEOKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffaoh, Germany.
SHARPS HOOTIN(a
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK /
180 PAttES, 100 Illustrations, 1/« nett.
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ever Published,
■ Fyou wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
817 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
WILLIAMS’
I SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
n? 12"!{9 '7' '- 9 ﬂ
w .. we; 4" "Ly f
:w‘ m;
A Soothing
Influence--
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silkxt Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR.
M W! “M
‘_““’ 7‘ [Wm , U
A 3 in]. M . ‘
y“ . .1. ‘1 w?“
‘ (s 39" r J? “122%“; -
Si lTEvery Bar
weighs l‘it
11 one.'t English
Ounces, divided
into Six Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN
SLICES. 232
Clarence St.,
Sydney. Elliott
Bros. Ltd, Bris-
bane,sole,itf'nts
for Queensland.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
Q3UIUZ tfjK
CHAS GILBERT’S
Names of Prize-Winners,
The following are the Names and Addresses of the three country customers
sending the First, Second and Third Largest Orders with Cash, between
December 23rd, 1903, and February 20th, 1904, and are therefore the winners
in the order named
N. BLANK, Esq., Esk;
W. J. GEE, Esq., Chillagoe;
D. K. STIRRAT, Esq., Gayfield, Gladstone.
FIRST PRIZE
SECOND PRIZE
THIRD PRIZE
£4 5 6
£2 7 2
£1 lO O
Amount Spent £& 11 O
Amount Spent J 67 1 6
Amount Spent JB6 O O
Being respectively half, third and fourth of amounts spent— as promised in
advertisement.
Have yon sent for Patterns of New Antnmn Suitings?
If not, write to-day, and compare my values and selection.
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
lALITIE
&
S 3
is
MB
Important
to
Cyclists.
If You want
The Best and most up-to-date tyres on
the market, specify Vulcanised
KDUHIQP T102535}
They are unequalled for
Durability and Comfort.
None genuine without this IEST* Trade Mark
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS., LTD.,
iso CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.)
m


The course of diplomatic negotiations,
before the present war, in time got on the
«P anese nerves Some months ago a number of
officers of the Army and Navy interviewed the
Minister of Foreign Affairs and urged him to a
more resolute stand “for the honor and dignity of
Japan.’ He declined to allow the deputation to
“force his hand.” The deputation then deter-
mined upon a more strenuous protest and unani-
mously committed suicide—3o or 40 of them—to
mark their sense of grievance.
Japan’s poverty, either "in money or in
statesmanship, is illustrated by a recent decision
with regard to the railways. At present they
beiong to the State; but the Government pro-
poses now to issue stock to itself representing the
cost of the lines, and henceforward to issue stock
to the public to provide means to repair those
lines and build new ones. The idea _of making
the lines pay for their ovm repairs, or of taxing
the country to meet the deficit (in which case no
interest would have to be paid on the capital thus
raised), doesn’t seem to have struck Japan.
Surgeon Ryan, of Melbourne, tells a story
of how the Turks and Russians fought at Plevna
in the ’7o’s. “No quarter was given. The Turks
had a long march, and they had nothing to eat.
God knows how far they didn’t walk. After a
fight, a Russian stepped over a wounded Turk
and drove his bayonet into his stomach. ‘ How
do you like that?’ said the Russian. ‘Well,’
said the Turk, ‘ it’s the first thing I’ve had in my
stomach for three days.’ And then he died of
oyer-feeding.” The story is all right. The fact thr.t
the average Turkish private doesn’t understand
Russian and the Russian private Turkish is a
mere detail.
When O’Rafferty kept the Diggers’ Arms
at Mundic there was always a drink for the police-
man when he called. “After hours” the police-
man knew where to look for a drink at the
Diggers’ Arms. That showed that O’Rafferty
had some sense about him, and as he did nothing
“agin the law” beyond selling at all hours and
all day Sunday and having gambling on the pre-
mises, he was let alone. But when O’Rafferty
sold out to O’Reilly and retired comfortably off,
tiie new landlord, though strongly advised by his
predecessor, declined to “do the amiable”
to the police. Perhaps that’s how it was that
there was a raid on the Miners’Arms at midnight,
just as several fellows were playing “ two-up.”
They were not caught in flagrante delicto, but
were obviously not there holding a midnight
prayer-meeting. “ What game were you play-
ing?” asked the constable. “Odd or Even.”
“What’s Odd or Even?” “Well, you see, w T e
bet vvhether the number on the collar of the first
policeman who comes in looking for a drink will
be odd or even. I bet even and won three bob;
your number's even. If policemen wouldn’t come
into the pubs, after hours we couldn’t play this
game.” “ I think yez had better all have a drink
wid me before yez all clear out,” said O’Reilly,
“for there’s no law against givin’ liquor away;
and a drop of something won’t hurt yerself either,
sergeant.” For O’Reilly saw the wisdom of
O’Rafferty.
ONE WORD ONLY.
If you stop and think a minute, you will realise how impossible
it is to depend upon certain words in the English language. There
are some words which have been used so promiscuously that they
have lost all significance. .
Take our English word “GlRL”—it means a female child
anywhere between 3 and 21 years of age; but, nowadays, we call
them all “girls” up to 100. When the baby’s sex is asked, we say “IT
is a girl,” and, when you engage a 65 year old cook, she is still “a
girl*” • . .
Go into a Restaurant and ask for lamb, and you will probably
get a two-year-old sheep—ask for chicken, and you are sure of
getting hen. . . . . .
If you are a smoker, you will have found out by now, that
according to the Tobacconist, everything is “THE BEST,”
“COOLEST SMOKING,” “SWEETEST,” and a few other super-
latives in common use. The fact is, that you cannot, in the
least, depend on adjectives when tobacco is up for discussion ;
but use one word only , # , , ,
HAVELOCK”
and you have solved the problem. You will be handed a Tobacco
that needs no adjectives, no bolstering up, and no other evidence than
your own taste and observation. . . . . ,
EVERYBODY SMOKES “HAVELOCK”
because it just SUITS everybody, and that’s all there is to it.
Plug and Cut.
Aromatic and Dark.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
•Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
Simples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
gurements. Sulpholine developea a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER”
HARRY MORANT : His ’Ventures and Verses. -<_PRICE Is. Id. (Post Free),
SOME BOOK
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
, ”\-
, . ﬁg
“51,! 1}”? ‘* «. "119"“, .‘ ‘
:, li‘v”."\\\vl.‘..
‘7 . " /’ ’-—“~\\ ‘. Uh“
W‘y » ',f__,"|"_>:‘.:-1_‘\-\. \J‘X
, /.C I ,‘I, “33* \x x
H/ (ﬁr/{l} /\ 1\\\\ \ ‘\|\\
IO 6-, ,/\‘1\.‘ \ﬂy‘. I
..‘4/\ \‘ 1‘
w : "tfiijt‘x-W, 3‘ 1.3 "*\
“.Vr/ ‘ \' K J "'1 ‘ j" ‘ \'
Mg ‘\:‘» g’ H \l
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BUBRACIH
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright'future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book or Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 60 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. N ed Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Madk Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Od each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing,'Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Keigiibor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3*l. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. MiNF,Ra‘i}uiDE(simple testsfor minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Gflide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil,
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is.
posted. Sandoav’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Pj*ikst, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s (id. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle: Wiiat to do and How to fro it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfaddkn’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t, be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. PP“ Established M. Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦ -
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
| How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards-, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates). Is. 3d. posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s: Bd. .posted. Wonderful Budgrt Song
Book, over .300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’Court of London Series, 2s. each.posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and'Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
lOOOillus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth hound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. od. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3<L
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney


“Hist”: The late Graham Berry once
said to present writer: “When I first entered
the Victorian Parliament I had nothing at my
back to help me on. I used to say to myself that
if I wetfe like B. 0; Aspinall, the barrister, and
Jack Edwards, the solicitor, equipped with a fine
school education, it would not be long before I
became Premier. What brilliant, dashing fellows
those two were! Yet neither of them did any-
thing in politics j they would not work.”
Mount Morganaire D’Arcy, to an Austra-
lian who lately asked if he never thought of
“coming out” again: “Me! No, thank you.
London is good enough for me.” If London is
good enough for him, of course he won’t want
anything more from Australia—he’ll cut it alto-
gether. That will be another few thousands a
year less sucked out of Australia, anyway. Aus-
tralia will be glad to hear from any other absen-
tees that they have no further use for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
established 1849. For Lite Assurance oo the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold Oity or Suburban
Properties) or en
Freehold and G.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the seourlty of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman; Benjamin Short.
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; P. E. WINCHCOMBI, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Tebce, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
CARLTON BREWERY LIMITED.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
To MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS, 26th FEBRUARY, 1904.
The Directors beg to (übmit the Balance-sheet for the year ended 31st December, 1903.
The profit for the year is .. .. .. .. £37,798 16 8
Deduct—lnterest paid during the year .. .. ~ .. 25,426 17 7
With the sanction of the Company in General Meeting, the Directors purpose declaring a dividend out of the
profits at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum on the capital paid, or deemed to be paid, on each share. The deed of
arrangement with the company’s debenture-holders, as settled by the Supreme Court, permits this to be done. Under
that deed the debenture-holders now annually receive one-half of the profits of the company, as shown in the balance-
sheets in reduction of the capital debt owing to'them by the company. That debt was, in 1903, reduced by a pay-
ment of £4OOO, making a total of £12,000 paid under this head since the formation of the company. During the year
1903 the business of the brewery has been well-maintained. A slight shrinkage has taken place as compared with the
trade of 1902, but this has been much less in proportion than the general curtailment of the sales of beer throughout
the Stale. The cost of production has, however, been much heavier than in previous years ; and as no increased
price was got from customers till the last months of the year, the profits have been correspondingly reduced. During
the year negotiations took place among the breweries, with the view to arrange a uniform price to customers, which
should cover the extra cost of production. These arrangements were satisfactorily completed in November last.
Mr. E. S. Watson, one of your directors, represented the company in these important and delicate negotiations,
Which were eventually brought to a successful conclusion ; and the Board desire to place on record their apprecia-
tion of the tact, ability, and perseverance with which he discharged the duties which, at their request, he assumed.
To carry out the foregoing arrangements it was necessary that certain contracts between the company and two other
Companies—Burton Brewery Limited and Edward Latham and Son—should be revised and altered. In the case of
the Burton Brewery, whose current agreement expired on the 3lst January, 1901, a new agreement was entered into
embodying trie conditions required. With reference to Edward Latham and Son, your Directors were afforded an
opportunity of strengthening the Brewery’s position by acquiring the goodwill, &c., of that firm’s business, which
they did, on conditions considered by them to be fair to both parties.
The Directors trust that satisfactory results of their action will be evident in the next Balance-sheet for the year
1904. E. S. Watson, Esq., one of the directors, retires from office, and offers himself for re-election. By order of
the l ß B°th r February, 1904. T. L. PARKER, Manager.
STATEMENT of the CARLTON BREWERY LIMITED
At 31st December, 1903.
I Thomas Laidman Parker, manager of the Carlton Brewery Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare : That
the liability of the members is limited. That the capital of the company is £258,750, divided into 517,500 shares of
10s. each. That the number of shares issued is 198,871, of which 17,500 shares are issued as paid up to 10s. each, and
181 371 shares are contributing. That calls to the amount of 2s. per share have been made, amounting to £18,137 25.,
under which the sum of £18,115 7s. has been actually and bona-fide received in money. That the assets and liabilities
■of the company on the 31st December, 1903, were as follow
CARLTON BREWERY LlillTßD.
WORKING ACCOUNT.
Twelve Months Ending 31st December, 1903.
Salaries, directors’ and auditors’ fees, office
expenses, rates, taxes, law costs, insur-
ance, depreciation, repairs to properties
and plant, losses on leasehold rents .. £19,494 13 8
Provision for bad and doubtful debts .. 6,200 14 11
Balance 37,798 16 8
£63,494 4 10
Interest .. ~ .. . • •• £26,426 17 7
Income tax, 1902 .. .. •* •• 997 14 8
~ „ 1903(estimated).. »» 360 0 0
'"Balance 1 .. •• «» 11,024 4 6
£37,798 16 8
Profit on beer, grains, yeuk, rent, &c. .. £63,484 410
£63,494 4 10
By balanca down .. M ..£37,798 16 8
{£37,798 16 8
LIABILITIES AND ASBETB
At 31st DECEMBER, 1903.
‘Capital subscribed .. .. £99,435 10 0
Less uncalled, £72,548 Bs.;
less arrears of calls, £2l
15s .. 72,570 3 0
*£26,865 7 0
‘Calls paid in advance .. 872 4 0
* 181,371 shares are contributing, called
up to 2/ per share, on which £18,115
7/ has been paid up in money ; and
17,500 shares are paid up to 10/ per
share .otherwise than in money, £8750.
’Debts due oh'debentures with mortgages
: Debts due on mortgage'
Sundry creditors, bills payable, &c.
'Provision-for lessors’ claims under lease*
SDitto contingent liabilities
Balance from profit and
loss, Ist January, 1903.. £88,408 15 11
Bitt© working account,
Slst December, 1903 •.. 11,024 4 5
£27,737 11 0
563,494 11 8
186,705 19 4
67,582 19 2
5,602 10 1
584 4 10
99,433 0 4
£951,140 16 6
Cash in hand and at bankers ... .. £6,728 18 1
Debts due on mortgage after providing for
bad and doubtful debts 6,622 16 5
Debts due on bills of sale, mortgage of
leases, life policies, &c., after providing
tor bad and doubtful debts .. .. 44,145 3 8
Debts unsecured after providing for bad
and doubtful debts 19,847 7 6
Bills receivable .. .. ! 1,654 19 2
Working plant and rolling-stock at valua-
tion, after deduction for depreciation
(£2868 5/6) 37,591 0 3
Stock-in-trade, at cost 66,661 12 6
Goods, chattels and effects,at valuation.. 3,150 4 4
Goodwill .. .. .. .. .. .. 150,000 0 0
Leasehold property, at cost in books .. 3,626 12 30
Real estate, at cost 33,585 1 10
Real estate, as in books of old company
(Carlton and West End
Breweries Ltd.) .. ..£671,354 3 0
Estimated depreciation .. 355,129 3 0
Balance caused by such depreciation .. 261,301 19 10
£951,140 16 5
That the following were the names, addresses, and oeeupat.ois of the persons who were the directors of the
company at the date of the statement-.-John Fulton, Esq., M.D., Orimea-street, bt. Kdda ;VV. Brookes, Esq.,
‘ Brookwood,” Queen’s : road, Melbourne, Merchant; Frederick Lloyd, Esq., M.D., Franklin-street, Melbourne,
Edward S. Watson, Esq., 12 Waterloo-street, St. Kilda. . , , it _ . T ...
1 Thomas Laidman Parker, of Melbourne, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I am the manager of the com-
pany, and that the foregoing statement is to the best, of my belief and knowledge true in every particular ; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act of Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable foi wilful and corrupt
l>er Declared Melbourne, the 17th day of February, Lloyd, XP.
We hereby certify that we have audited the accounts of Carlton Brewery Limited, for the period from Ist Janu-
ary, 1903, to 31st December, 1903, inclusive, and that the accompanying balance-sheet is, in our opinion, correct.
The stock of materials and rolling stock are taken upon the certificates of the chief brewer
also to report that during such audit wc have not observed or become acquainted with any tneach of the Companies
Acts committed by the company or any director, manager, employee, auditor, or shareholder theieof, and that, so
far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the balance-sheet and accounts have been drawn up in accordance with
the provisions of the Companies Acts, and present a correct view of the state of the company s affairs, and that all
our requisition* in regard to the shareholders’ as well as the private balance-sheet have been duly complied with.
E 5 P. HASTINGS, F.1.A.V., Auditor.
JOHN BISHOP, A.1.A.V.,
f Auditor appointed by
and for the debenture-
V holders.
We John Fulton of St. Hilda, and Frederick Lloyd, of Melbourne, beinpr twoof the directors Cf Carltcn Brewery
Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the above balance-sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of
the state of the company’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne, this 17th February, 1 . JOHN FULTON, Chairman.
Witness—J. G. S. Baker. FREDERICK LLOYD, Director.
Given Away!
VSWA/ v SA^V v
We mate this Special Offer to advertise oor
OSTRICH TIPS.
EXTRA LARGE CHOICE BLACK,
WHITE or CREArt TIPS. . . .
3 for 9/-
POST FREE.
WORTH THEIR
WEIGHT IN
GOLD.
S,
57.)
’B
* n
to?
Ulu.stratel Price List Post Free.
We offer them direct from the Farm to You All
Intermediate Profits are saved. These Feathers cannot
be bought for less than 21/- in any other house.
These Lovely Rich Plumes have been Specially Imported by us, and are the Finest South
African Feathers ever seen in Australia. Thousands have been sold, and we do not know one
having failed to give entire satisfaction. Write To-day. Send Postal Notes. Your money
refunded if you are not satisfied with the feathers.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade
and Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
THE PIANOLA
Can be seen and
heard at the Show-
rooms :
323 George St.,
SYDNEY,
AND
185 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Informal Recitals
Daily.
Call and inspect
this wonderful in-
strument, or write
for our Illustrated
Booklet, mailed free
on application. Ask
for Catalog B, ex-
plaining what can
be done with the
Pianola.
'rmSc#
4
tS)
THE PIANOLA is invaluable to the hostess in the city or the
country home. With its aid you can play on the piano any
kind of music, sacred, classical, dance, operatic, songs, accom-
paniments, etc., and play them well. All records supplied from
our immense circulating Libraries. Nearly ten thousand
(10,000) different records of piano music in stock.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
Sole Agents for
.. Australasia...
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co,
Ltd.
SYDKTE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff s of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEA.T growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application. '
m
.6
lal
3®ni!!ni
Queensland Agents
SWIFT & GRICE
Concerning Elgin Watches^
7—
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, (5000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s Gd, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for parti cu'ars to —
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
BUSHMAN and BUGGANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Post Free.


Gundagai Gold Co. (N.3.W.), a Ballarat flota-
tion of less than a year ago, has been, as Thh Bulletin
predicted at the time, a great disappointment. The
battery having been erected, a week’s run seems to have
disposed of all the available free-gold ore. At share-
holders’ meeting, the other day, the original board of
directors, who were also the promoters, were strongly
condemned. Their troubles 1 Most of them are lised to
that sort of thing.
* • * ~ *
Girilambone Copper Co. (N.S.W.) records
another failure. A leaching process, from which great
things were expected, has been in operation for some
months, and has been effective in the production of pre-
cipitate ; but in the smelting of this product difficulties
have arisen and losses have occurred which make the
process unprofitable. Directors assert that there is no
hope of disposing of the precipitate at a profit, which
doesn’t say much for the enterprise or the reasonableness
of the charts of the various smelting companies.
Queen Bee Co., Cobar, which ownsone of the most
promising shows in Western N.S.W., is pursuing the ortho-
dox N.S.W. policy which invariably leads to failure. “It
has been decided to erect a reverberatory smelting plant,”
and to raise the funds for the purpose a call of jd. per
share has been made. This will hardly produce enough
to cover the cost of a small-sized bee-hive brick-kiln, to
say nothing about an up-to-date reverberatory furnace.
Lessons of the past ought to have taught Cobar men the
utter futility of pottering with a good show in this fashion.
» » * •
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold (N.S.W.) has been
one of the most consistent gold producers in N.S.W.
It is a big little proposition, with a small reef and an
exceptionally, long shoot of pay-ore—between 3000 and
4000 ft. By his will, the late balata-belting Dick gave the
mine-superintendent a three years’ purchase option, at a
price not much above the cost of the new plant. Mr.
Mamvell recently disposed of the mine to an English
syndicate, which has formed it into a co. with a capital
of £l3s,ooo—double the amount of the reported purchase
price. Prospects said to be very good, but the new
plant will have to deal with more ore of past average
quality, and there will have to be an entire absence of the
outrageous, extravagances of English co.’s, if it is to
return fair interest on the capital—fair, that is, regarding
it as a mining risk.
• • • .*
Commonwealth silver and gold mine, near
Wellington, (N.S.W.), has been taken in hand by a
Melbourne syndicate in association with the evergreen
Trewenack. Owners used to ask £50,000 for the show,
but have climbed down considerably. The option-holders
are sanguine that they are going to repeat the Crowl
Creek performance of making the mine pay for itself
during the term of option. The mine has been examined
and rejected oftener, perhaps, than any other in N.S.W.;
everyone who saw it in the past was afraid of the bugbear
of the western districts of N.S.W.—a preponderance of
zinc. But, so the story goes, by a remarkable coinci-
dence no sooner had the present option-holders started
operations than the zinc ore began to disappear!
* • • *
“ Anti-boomster” (Armidale) writes : “A word
of warning re the boom in New Hillgrove Proprietary
shares. Does the public know that Mr. Patterson, the
co’s. engineer, in concluding a very exhaustive report,
stated that, with careful management, he believed the
mine would he payable? Admitting the Baker’s Creek
chute of gold has gone into the Proprietary, still for
many years it has not been of any use to the share-
holders in the parent co., through gradual decrease of
value as depth was reached; and the mere fact of it
crossing the boundary line is not going to make it any
richer. If the public is wise, it will allow the men who
talk so glibly about the fabulous richness of the mine to
make their money by dividend instead of in the usual
way.”
Local shareholders in Hillgrove Proprietary
long since asserted that a well-planned “bear” move-
ment was in operation to squeeze them out. The studied
ignoringofsalient points by “Anti-Boomster” mightjustify
the conclusion that he belongs to the “bear” part}'. It
is quite true that Baker’s Creek Co. has not made much
profit, if any, out of the deep ground, the reason being
that the deepest, southern workings are in the northern
run of stone, which was seldom, if ever, payable from the
surface down. The gold-bearing shoot which made
Baker’s Creek famous for years has pitched to the south,
out of that co.’s ground, into that of the Proprietary Co.
It may not be as rich as it was nearer the surface, but it
is alleged that it is; if so, Proprietary shareholders need
not put their hands into other people’s pockets to get
their money back. *
* * • •
The divs. paid by Victorian companies in 1903
in the official mining districts were Bendigo, £319,370;
Ballarat, £19,000 ; Pitfield and Berringa, £48,650 ; Mary-
borough, £16,750 ; Creswick and Clunes, £27,650 ; Wal-
halla, £28,740 ; Castlemaine and Fryers, £8524 ; St.
Arnaud, £lB,OOO ; Gaffney’s Creek and Wood’s Point,
£18,450. Total, £505,734. Bendigo’s proportion is over
63 per cent., and on present indications it will be
even more in 1904. Ballarat cuts a sorry figure
compared with its ancient rival. Bendigonians, how-
ever, are becoming afflicted with swelled head.
They have golden reasons to be pleased with
their position, but they become ridiculous when
they talk comparisons, as for example : “We cannot
understand why British capitalists favor W.A; and ignore
Bendigo, which has mines that show better records than
any in W.A.” The “Golden Mile” group of mines in
W.A. does not embrace a greater area than the mines from
the Great Northern to the New Moon at Eaglehawk ; yet
this Westralian group has paid more divs. in one year
than the Eaglehawk group has paid in over 40 years.
One mine pays more than the whole of Bendigo, and two
more than the total of Victoria. Bull is not to be cajoled
that way.
• • * •
Shareholders of the Main Leads North (Vic.)
want to know the cause of the high language between
directors Tom Harvey and Hain, at the close of the com-
pany’s half-yearly meeting. Chestnuts pulled out of the
fire clearly nave not been to everyone’s liking. Couple
up the row with M’Crorey’s retirement, and the reason
may be found. M’Crorey and Tom Harvey were brought
up in the same school—North Duke, Duke United, Main
Leads North, Duke and Main Leads Consols. Yet they
have drifted apart, and when Harvey sees Mac. stick his
square chin in the air, well he may growl out “ d—n,” or
even worse. But that’s nothing to what he may say
when Hain comes in view. So it is manifest that a pretty
tough quarrel has been brewing, and that the row about the
“ mine reserve ” is only a safety-cock sort of an explosion.
Chairman Leishman’s friends rather chuckle that, having
fallen into estranged boards on the Prentice and Southern
and the Spring Hill and Central Leads, he should have
Eerforce to take part in the Birthday Tunnel and Main
eads North quarrels. He is big enough to knock the
heads off all the malcontents together. Had he the force
of character to do it, he would have stopped most of the
dirty-linen business.
» * * *
Auditor Morley, who belled the cab about the
Main Leads North mine reserve, is a young fellow, speo-
tacled and clean shaven. He is a self-made barrister, is a
judge of the value of evidence, and so has a knack of
putting facts forcibly, of sifting out the chaff, and of
commanding attention to his conclusions.
* * * •
The joy of Walhalla over the junctioning of the
two sections of Grayson’s Long Tunnel incline shaft
was tinctured with pain. Shares slumped, and Walhalla,
having gone nap on the old mine, did not relish
the fall. What it had bought on, however, was not
the incline shaft but the pitching of the shoot of
stone in the Long Tunnel Extended into the South
ground. If this continues, Dicky Noble’s face may not
wear such a seraphic smile as it has done for years. At
the same time, the continuance of the pitch into the
Tunnel lease may mean the conversion of the incline
shaft into a vertical shaft at a depth of some 3000 ft.
* * * *
Half a mile of sinking within 14 months is the
record of Finlayson’s party of men working in the Long
Tunnel incline shaft. The first section met the second at
about 1250 ft., absolutely true to line. This shows that a
splendid survey was carried out, and the credit belongs
to that decent fellow, A. W. Craven, of the Victorian
Assembly.
• * • •
In driving north on the Australia East lode in
the Associated, Kalgoorlie, the new pay chute is being
followed with good results. The same chute has recently
been located at the BCoffc. level, and, as it has never
been worked in any level, it looks as if a very large
addition to the reserves is practically assured. The exact
position of the Oroya chute in the property may be
known any day.
* * * *
Princess Royal (W.A.) paysadiv. for March;
but investors, before they act on the announcement,
should find out whether the money is coming from profits
or from capital.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies new battery has made a
start. The mine is looking better, though the shortness
of the ore-chutes and the smallness of the reserves should
be kept in mind.
* * • •
Marble Bar, centre of thePilbarra(W.A.) gold-
fields, wants a railway to connect with Port Hedland, 140
miles distant. A survey party is at work, and, as engi-
neering difficulties are not formidable, probably the
incoming Parliament will look with favor on it. The
whole of the Pilbarra district is languishing just now, not
because the gold has petered out, but from costliness of
working. Firewood is hard to get at £3 ss. per cord, and
mining timber is unobtainable except it is dragged from
the coast by teams—another £l7 per ton. The history of
the district is good. Harry Wells discovered gold in Pil-
barra Creek 16 years ago, and a big alluvial rush set in.
One 2970 z. nugget was found, and another of 400 oz.
Later, Clive, finder of the 400 oz. sample, got a piece of
200 oz. and another of 250 z. A promising reef was opened
up at Marble Bar by Francis and Jenkins, who put up a
five-head battery. The crushings averaged 50z., and
eventually they sold out for £20,000, the purchasers in
turn selling to A. E. Morgans for an English company.
The whole country up to Bamboo Creek, 40 miles nor’-
east,_ and down to Nullagine, 90 miles S.E., is gold-
bearing, and a railway would certainly open up a promis-
ing field. At Bamboo Creek the Bulletin mine is being
worked by 12 tributors, who are said to be making £l3
per week each after paying a royalty of 20 per cent.
A 10-head battery on this property is kept going pretty
constantly. Round about Nullagine there are some good
shows. The Little Wonder, owned by four working
miners, has crushed 500 tons, averaging soz. ; the Galtee
More has put through 600 tons for an average of 3ioz.;
and a small parcel from the Castlemaine averaged 21oz.
The owners of the Mundella, a couple of miles further
away, obtained £6OOO worth in 18 months. Nearly all the
mines are locally owned, and the gold remains in the
country. Water is plentiful and living conditions not
unpleasant.
» » • •
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), has
published its first crushing—6o tons for 420 z. 9dwt. The
5 head mill is said to have run five weeks, and, admitting
that it is old, could easily treat 50 tons a week; so that
the tonnage published looks absolutely absurd. There is
business here that badly needs probing. None of
the published assays have run less than 3oz. ; some went
as high as lloz. : yet the battery returns show 14dwt.
only. The only excuse given is that too much mullock
was broken down and put through the mill; but that is
sheer nonsense, as the width of the reef was given as from
2 to 4ft. It is significant that the mill was
run an extra week, and the publishing of the returns was
delayed ; and, during the interval, the price of the scrip
dropped fully Is. It looks as if someone knew that the
crushing was a frost. The whole business at present
smells badly.
* • • •
White Feather Main Reefs, Kanowna (W. A.),
has passed into the control of Bewick, Moreing and Co.,
who, apparently, will shortly boss all the payable mines of
the State. So far the mine has treated 90,000 tons for
79,0000 z., and paid £62,031 in divs. This is not a bad
record for a mine working two very patchy and broken
quartz reefs, and says a good deal for the management of
N. W. Harper, who has controlled the concern from the
start. The mine is opened up to 850 ft., and is equipped
with an old and obsolete 20-head mill, which will probably
be fired out by the new management.
* ; * * *
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, had a severe set-
back in its January return, producing only 7340 z. fine
gold, against 17660 z. bullion in December. 'The decline
is partly accounted for by the mill being shut down for
10 days for an overhaul; but the mine is also suffering
from backward developments on a patchy lode. Most of
the work for a long time past has been done at the
475 ft. and 675 ft. levels, but it is now decided to carry
down the shaft another 200 ft., and open up another
level. A new 12-drill air-compressor is being installed,
and this will greatly expedite developments. The con-
cern in the early days was very badly managed, and the
Krupp ball mills, which now treat 2000 tons monthly,
used to do little mor6 than half that. The concern was
put on its feet financially at the expense of the Oroya and
Brown Hill before their amalgamation, as it crushed for
them at the exorbitant rate of 40s. a ton, more than half
of which was clear profit. Had this not been done the
co. would have had to undergo reconstruction.
*•* * ' *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, is being examined
and reported on by Tom Hewitson, late of Ivanhoe and
Associated. It has been going* more or less continuously
for years, and has so far produced nothing but water.
On several occasions very rich finds have been recorded
including one recently of 290 z. per ton, but these finds
mostly foretold a coming call, and no one now takes the
announcements seriously. Whether Hewitson reports
favorably or the reverse, there can only be one opinion
on the workings, and it is needless to say what that is.
* * » *
Kalgoorlie Amalgamated appears to be already
on the rocks, and is applying for six months’ exemption.
The co. is a re-hash of 11 decayed cats, and was launched
on the market two years ago with a nominal capital of
£400,000 in £1 shares. Of these, 100,000 were held in
reserve, and it was alleged that the co. started with a
cash working capital of £oo,ooo. It is a moral certainty
that, if the alleged working capital ever existed, it has
not been spent in Australia ; as, bar a few thousands
spent on diamond drilling, the co. has practically done
nothing. The Australian shareholders of Block 45, the
most prominent of the 11 concerns amalgamated, have had
a very poor run for their money. Managers. Salmon -
who left a shiftboss-ship on the Lake View Consols last
June to take over the management of the show from
Birkheck, Hoffmann and Jowett, must be feeling rather .
sorry for himself. Running a menagerie of wild cats is
not an ideal job.
* • * *
The only div. so far declared bv Bull-owned
W.A. mines for February is that of the'Great Boulder
Perseverance, which lets £87,500 loose. February is
however, one of the worst months for divs. Last’year
three co.’s declared in February, the Mt. Morgans,
Princess Royal and Lancefield. The two latter are now
practically out of the running, and the first is
erratic. A locally owned show, the Golden
Ridge, has announced its first div. of 3d. on
its 31,200 shares, which means £390, and this will he the
precursor of a lot more, as the mine is well equipped and
is a very promising property. The shares are pretty
strongly held, but a few have changed hands round about
50s. W.F. Main Reefs should declare shortly, but the
change of control may delay the div., as the new manage-
ment may not be satisfied with the present equipment.
A good many mines pay divs. in March, last year’s total
amounting to £160,000, but April is the more favored
month.
• * • •
Rumored that Chillagoe (Q.) furnaces are to be
shut down shortly. The sooner, probably,-the better. It
seems a hopeless proposition, in spite of manager Green-
way’s self-glorifying and optimistic reports. Chillagoe
will be known in Australian mining history as the Great
Northern Disaster. In prospective it was the biggest
show on the continent; in reality, it has had no equal as
a failure. Melbourne brokers and speculators will always >
have a curse for Chillagoe ; it was the North Queensland
copper boom which kept them aloof from the money-
making boom of the West.
* • * »
A review of the old note issues of one N.S.W. ’
bank enables the manager to say, in a congratulatory
tone of voice, that his institution has profited fully
£20,000 in the last quarter of a century by unpresented
notes now reasonably judged to be extinct. If the
Government ran the note issue of Australia the
Treasurer would to-day have that £20,000, and he wants
it just as badly as anybody else.
* * * *
“ Itan ” : It is not generally known that cotton
was grown on the Clarence River (N.S.W.) 40 years ago as
a commercial crop. The drawback was not the want of
cheap labor. In those days only sailing craft traded to
England, and growers were unable to get advances on
their shipments ; consequently the returns were so slow
in arriving that the industry was abandoned.
At Poverty Point.
Clnquevalll at latest date* wa* taking part In a panto
as though he felt none the worse for having been knocked
out by the cannon ball.
Miss Lilian Foulis, the violinist from England, whose
art is said to be as attractive as her appearance, begins
her Australian tour at Sydney Town Hall on March 19th.
Miss Foulis has the advantage of an undoubtedly fine
violin, anyhow. It is a genuine Strad, with a market
value running into four figures.
“Alcinous": Things theatrical have been exciting in
Brisbane of late —one wax-show, one troupe of acrobats,
and one spiritualist comprise the whole list of attractions.
After such immoderate indulgence in the drama a relapse
must follow.
An interesting S.M. Herald advt.
Tl/TRS. WALTER E. BAKER, Teacher of Elocution,
- ULL Dramatic, Art. My method same as my hus-
band’s, leading actor Bland Holt Company.
Alas, Baker’s methods, nowadays, consist mostly in being
a tall, imposing figure with a fine voice and a magnificent
biled shirt 1 There were great possibilities in Baker, but
after being unjustly suspected every night for 20 year*
what can you expect ?
A face that has been missed from Melbourne Block for
months past is that of old Alberto Zelman, whose towzled
appearance always contrasted strangely with the smart-
ness oi other Block habitues. He has been very ill, and
as he is now in the 70’s, there is little chance of a per-
manent recovery. Few people who saw Zelman for the
first time would have imagined that he had more music
to a square inch of his brain than most of the advertising
professionals have in their whole noddles. He is intensely
Italian in his musical tastes, of the Rossini and Donizetti
school, and most of his compositions (chiefly R.O. Church
music) follow on the lines of those masters.
Says a London exchange: “Fifteen elephants that
plunge from a height of 40ft. into a large tank of water form
one of the great attractions in the London Hippodrome.’
Couldn’t somebody produce a Diving Whale ? It would
make a great splash.
The most desolate show on earth, a fasting exhibition,
lately concluded at Wanganui (M.L.), where Felix Tanner
publicly went without vittles for 21 days. This sort of
thing is even sadder than a club-swinging performance,
and it should be suppressed as neither useful nor orna-
mental. It isn’t in the least necessary, in the interests ol
science, for persons to go without food, or to hang them-
selves, or to go to sea in coffin ships, or to sit naked for
seven days on new road-metal.
“To enable Victorian provincials to see the “Country
Girl” at Her Majesty’s, Melb., now in its eighth week, the
railway authorities are running special excursions from
Bendigo and Ballarat: fares, includingadmission to stalls,
11s. 9d. and 9s. 6d. for the former and latter places
respectively. Tickets available for a month, but those so
desiring can return by special train after the perform-
ance.
As a result of the elevation of Jeanne d’ Arc to a saint-
ship, no less than four versions at the Maid of Orleans are
due for the Parisian stage. The divine Sarah will
probably play “ lead ”in one—by Rostand. This version
will be as it should be, doubtless ; but another representa-
tion is to be in opera-bouffe, in which the heroine saint
will do a cake-walk !
The rush to the Swanston-st. (Melb.) Mutoscope
seems to have raised local authority’s darkest suspicions,
with the result that the pictures were suddenly seized
by the police, and the manager called upon to
“ show cause ” why they shouldn’t be confiscated. The
bald-headed paterfamilias, who heard about them but
put off his visit for a day or tw T o, is now hanging round
the scene a prey to the deepest despair.
J. 0. Williamson intends to produce the “ Duchess of
Dantzic” opera (“ Madame Sans-Gene ”) before the end of
the year. This is the imposing show which Courtneidge
produced for George Edwardes at the Lyric Theatre
(London), and which contains so much story and crowded
action that somebody defined it as “a drama interrupted
by musia"
Consul, the deceased human chimpanzee, who smoked,
played billiards, blew his nose,-and said his prayers like
any commonplace mortal, is rumored to have been in-
sured for £20,000. In that case,.the proprietor of Consul
must have paid fully £4OOO a year in' premiums. A chim-
panzee in captivity hath but a little while to live unless
his place of residence is carefully regulated to one tem-
perature. Phthisis lies in wait for the high-class monkey
who knocks around the music-halls, or gets connected
with a circus. Turned loose in a botanic garden, a chim-
panzee might discover for humanity a herbal remedy for
consumption, hut medical science thus far has not given
the ruminative animal a chance.
It costs £5 10s. to got naturalisation papers
in England. The Yiddishers have founded a
loan office to aid the foreign Jew in poor circum-
stances by advancing this sum—-which is repaid,
with heavy interest of course, at the rate of Is.
2d. a week. You do almost everything on the
instalment plan in England now, from buying a
cyclopaedia cheap to becoming a Boy of the Bull-
dog Breed at a great reduction.
That obsequious little person, Mayor
Cohen, of Adelaide, set the peal of bells ringing
at the Town Hall when Governor Le Hunte’s wife
arrived in the city. Adelaide didn’t express any
wild gladness over the proceeding. There are no
expert ringers in the city, and an inexpert mayor,
no matter how abject in his desire to please,
doesn’t necessarily make good music.
Items from the Fortunato : Co.ogee collision
inquiry :
Tuesday 23rd.—Foghorn tried in court. Counsel
argued on same. Tried in Elizabeth-street. More argu-
ments. Pantor/announced bond-fide trial on bay. Steam
launch Eagle chartered. Court adjourned.
Wednesday 24th.—Morning : Court tripped as per
arrangement. Opposing counsel heard various sounds.
Court adjourned.
Afternoon : Court took evidence of witnesses as to
horn-winding. Counsel addressed court on same. De-
cided that foghorn has been duly tried. Court adjourned.
The world must revise its estimate of the
skilfulness of Japanese lying. Latest official
reports from Japan represent the Japs as putting
to flight outside Port Arthur, on February 26th,
one cruiser which they sank more than a week
before, and two other cruisers which they had
previously disabled.
BE A JOURNALIST!
IHE most attractive Profession. None offers
1 such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL. .
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
15 St. Dunstan’s Hill,
London, E.C., England.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 10.
COMPLIMENTARY FAREWELL flATINEE,
Tendered by the Managers, Artists, and Theatrical
Patrons of Sydney to
MR. PETE NU6NES.
A Colossal Programme will be given.
Amusements.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY
OF N.S.W.
grand Commonwealth Shoui.
30th March to 7th APRIL, 1904.
PRIZE SCHEDULES
MAY BE HAD ON APPLICATION.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 1 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
Her majesty’s theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee A Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY, including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNIGHT in
Qreat Russian Play, RESURRECTION
A Powerful and Realistic Drama illustrating the Music,
Customs, Costumes, Habitations and Scenery of
THE LAND OF THE GREAT WHITE CZAR.
43T Box Office at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee ..' .. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
LAST NIGHTS LAST NIGHTS
Of Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON’S
MUSICAL COMEDY C A IU TAV
COMPANY in OAW I VI.
MONDAY, MARCH 7, COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT to
MR. FRED. H. GRAHAM.
Box Plan at Paling’s. tSOT PRICES AS USUAL.
IYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■“ Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SECOND WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
New and Original Melodramatic Romance, by Messrs.
Myles Wallerton and Francis Gilbert,
THE BEST MUST WIN.
Prices—8/-, 2/- and I/-. Box Plain open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM F. HAWTREY AND COMPANY in the
World’s Great Laughing Success,
The Lady of Ostend.
PRICES—6s., 3s., -2s., Is. TEH (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at EIvy’a and Co.
YVONNE LEVERRIER,
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
THIS
Saturday, 5tb. March.
PRICES—5s., 3s., 2s., Is. H. N. SOUTHWELL,
338 George-street.
“the mutoscope.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
•»<* OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. E3T- Admission FREE.,
TIVOLI TH EA T R E, SYDNE Y.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager —Mr. Haiirv Rickards.
Emphatic Succes of MR. JOHNNY JOHNSTON.
A Huge Success, CLARKE and HAMILTON.
Great Success of THE THREE DUMONDS.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNYPOWERS and Miss MAUD FANING.
Mrs. SIMS REEVES, Miss NITA LEETE,
Mr. ERNEST FITTS,' Mr. JAMES HARVEY, Miss
FLORRIE RANGER, THE CLARENCE SISTERS.
Latest Biograph Importation, Canadian Salmon Fishing.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
First Appearance of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Performing DOCS and CATS.
Great Success of FRED. RUSSELL, Ventriloquial
Humorist, CLIFFORD ESKELL, Magician, THE TWO
BELLS, SIX EMPIRE GIRLS, WILL WHITBURN.
THE COLLIERS, MALVENA MOORE, LES WARTON,
IRVING SAYLES. 4®- COLORED BIO PICTURES.
Grand Amateur Cake Walk Competitions. Three Prizes.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
TENTH WEEK of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
, in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
New Songs, New Lances, New Selections.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee.. .. .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. .. 0. Simonsens.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of RIDING TO WIN.
SATURDAY NEXT, FINAL PRODUCTION OF SEASON.
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in the
Great Drury Lane Dramatic Novelty,
THEE FLOOD TIDE,
by Cecil Raleigh.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
6th MARCH, THIS SATURDAY, 5th MARCH,
WILLOUGHBY AND CEACH
present
A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.
. It will just suit you, if you
LIKE THE BRIGHTEST AND BEST.
PRICES—6s., 8s., and la. Plan at Allan’s.
A. COWAN, Manager.
STEYNE COURT, MANLY^
SHOOTING THE CHUTES »» TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juveniles’ Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
New Attractions—BlJOU THEATRE, “BIOTINT,” PERCY & MDLLE. VERTO. Next TOBOGGAN RACE ’(tar
Ladies and Gentlemen in double ears) WEDNESDAY, 21th inst., at 8 p.m. Entrance Fee, Is Enter JUrljN *
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.


reat Medical Experts
Mi?
&
mm
mm
mm
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institute.
SPECIALISTS WHO CURE.
MEN!
If afflicted with a disease which, if
not cured, means death, you
require the aid of a medical expert
who can cure you swiftly. Consult the Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
Avhose names are household words of thirty years’ standing
throughout Australia. They treat diseases others have
aggravated by tampering. A day’s delay may mean
Death. Do not wait. To-morrow you may be too ill to
write or act. You can be cured if curable.
Serious Diseases Afflicting the Male Sox
are Specialities of the Medical Staff of the Institute, of
whom Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is registered by
Australian, English, and American Boards, is Physician-
in-Chief. By their wonderful Home Treatment system,
men can be cured in their homes as if personally examined.
Blood Diseases are treated with singular success. If you
cannot call, write. It will cost nothing. The Spec’alists’
professional opinions are given FREE.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.
Physician-in-Chief.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Each Specialist associated with this great Institute Is a Graduate from famous English and American Colleges, and they are
undar a Bond of £lOOO for the faithfui performance of all Medical contracts undertaken. In order to convenience patients
residing in the Southern and Western States of Australia a Branch of the Institute has been opened in Melbourne,
at Bourke and Elizabeth Sts., opp. G.P.O. AH Correspondence to this Branch is supervised by the Physician-ln-
Chief, who is Registered by Australian, English and American Medical Boards. Advice or Consultation is Free.
Blood Diseases
One of the most serious of diseases is that
of the blood arising from specific causes.
The blood is the life, and if polluted the
whole machinery of the body is assailed.
Victims to blood diseases are in a serious con-
dition. If not attended to at once they
will surely die. No one but skilled scientific
experts should attempt to treat them.
Insidious and subtle, undermining the
health, affecting every vital organ, they kill
quickly.
They are Desperate Diseases
requiring desperate remedies. Their origin
is not obscure to the skilled medical man
who has specially studied them. This is the
class of disease with which the medical staff
of the Institute are familiar. Ninety per
cent, of such diseases are permanently cured
by them. Any sufferer may be convinced of
proof of cure by writing to the Specialists
for Pamphlet of Testimonies of remarkable |
cases cured by them, mailed free. Sufferers
may find there cases similar to their own. j
r?
mU
: <‘rn;
J
mm
m
\
THE MEDICAL INSTITUTE , SYDNEY.
[Strengthless Hen
' Men who are deficient in Vital Power from
| many causes, at thirty are prematurely old,
lacking the power, the energy to be a success
|in life and to enjoy it domestically and
socially. Suoh men are only halfdnen, the
| contempt and pity of their fellows. A man
, should be strong, full of purpose, successful
in strength, no man’s inferior.
1 The Specialists Make Such Men.
1 A man will continue to degenerate if
lacking the essential power of the man. It
is the law of Nature, the survival of the
fittest. Thousands of Weak Men have been
cured at the Institute, have been made
strong and healthy, and are living advertise-
ments to the Specialists’ skill, who may be
consulted Free of Charge, by letter or per-
sonally, by any man who has doubts about
his condition. Such advice ,is invaluable
coming from men whose professional skill as
medical experts is unequalled in Australia.
It is the Most Scientific
Throughout Australasia.
Over £100,009 has been
expended on this Institute.
By reference to any of the leading: banks or commercial houses in Sydney, patients can convince
themselves as to the professional bona-fides of the above Medical Institute. It is scientific in every
detail. Its cost has been enormous. It is known far and wide by reason of the great cures effected by
its Specialists. Its Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest medical minds in the Commonwealth.
A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General
Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Insomnia, Kidney Disorder, Dropsy r or Diabetes,
Spinal Affections, Diseases of the Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have
studied the class of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is the
treatment they will receive, and will be such as no other medical institution in Australia them.
The Specialists of this Great
Medical Institute have
practised in Australia over a
Quarter of a Century.
Free—A Book Worth £lOO.
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect
Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands of weak
men in Australasia during the past five years. It is a beautifully
illustrated, 570-page book, and is full of those
Candid, Plain-Spoken Truths
which have always been the medium of communication between our
patrons and ourselves during the past twenty years. It tells about
the cause and cure of “weakness” in men as men like to read it—plain
and honest, straight from the shoulder. There are other troubles
from which men suffer, such as Rheumatism, Lame Back, Varicocele,
Weak Kidneys, Sciatica, etc. It tells about these also and how
we cure them. To any man who suffers from an early breaking
down of the vital powers it is worth £lOO. “ CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,” 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 Book for Sick Men. It is commended by hundreds
of Australian newspapers. It Costs You Nothing', except the
postage fee of One Shilling in Stamps.
Subjects Treated comprise Insomnia, Epilepsy, Fevers,
Sunstroke, Burns and Scalds, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite,
Drowning and Restoration, Bathing and Exercise, Treatment of
Invalids, Anatomy, Consumption, Rupture, Electricity and Cure
of Kerve Diseases, Diet, etc. A list of 60 valuable prescriptions
are also included, making the book especially valuable to country
residents, where medical men are few. Applicants should send in
at once for copies, as the edition of this work is fast being ordered.
Free for One Shilling:
in Stamps.
Great Journals Praise this Book.
" STAR," Sydney : “ A book for the people."
“ EVENING NfiWS," Sydney : “ A revised and enlarged edition.”
A ? D Country JOURNAL,” Sydney: “The Specialists
find it necessary to supplement new literary staffs.” P
B hou\TS C to{he^ b ffits:”‘‘ Anyone intereStCd in inCUraWe diSeaseS
valu^!^,^ ‘“. OLINIGA L EXPERIENCES 1 contains much
valuable information written ip a popular manner ”
kind b?*An<^v R Y ER ’” Adelait J e '• “There has never been published of its
kind in Australia a more worthy addition to the literature of the colony.”
20 nnn IMER f? URY ’” - ol)ar i : “ Ifc is an elegantlv-bound volume. Over
iU.uoo . . . copies are issued yearly.”
to R V , , Bri^ ne i “ Al ' nost ever y disease which flesh is heir
to Has been treated within the pages of this work.”
us : “ In this book the authors give
us much that is instructive from a physical health view point.”
Maroh S >! V,I ?^,T T,IIVIE ? , ” Perth > in “ Bits about Books," on
General **** \ 1 G .!; INI0AL EXPERIENCES’ on
hard to -I s Bpl . endldl .Y. compiled. It would be
aid to oienate its value, nor do we ever remember
merits'; moreen” • ul :? ditable Production or one that
ments a more appreciative press notice.”
“ OBSERVER,” Auckland: “A highly inter-
,l7', Ifc deals wi th nerve com-
plaints and how to cure them. ’*
. .** MINER,” Kalgoorlie : ‘‘The nostal
facilities of the Institute are unique.” 8
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie : “Striking
C A U o r ri. o l m W s o-called ‘INCUR-
ARIiE diseases are effected daily.”
These are but a few from
hundreds of others, all of
which are voluntary re- j
views of extreme
literary value and
merit.
When under treatment all patients are under the special care of Da. R. WALLACE, M.D., L R.C.P., E., L.F.PS , E., L.M., a distingu s ied
Medical Expert who is registered by the Medical Boards of Australia, England and Amerioa. He holds Nina Diplomas and Certificated
of Qualification and Registration, which may ba seen at the consulting roams. His professional advices are given free to all Inquirers.
&
\* <y,\


Business, Robbery, etc.
‘ Marat ’: A cohentingenter in a damaged
kharki uniform'canvassed my house, the other day, with
toy cannons—empty cartridge-cases mounted on little
wheels. He was selling them at ninepence each or two
a shilling Told me he made nothing out of distributing
the contents, so he was trying to make a few coppers by
selling the shells.
* * * *
Somebody has reckoned up that there is room
for 9,763,500 frozen sheep in the ships fitted with re-
frigerating machinery that are trading to Great Britain.
Four of them—the Dorset, Essex, Somerset, and Suffolk—
can stow away 130,000 each, or as many as the very best
of Australian squattages now carry; in fact, there pro-
bably isn’t now, and hasn’t been for five years, an Austra
lian station which any one of these four could not clear
of stock at one gulp. About a dozen other vessels can
take 100,000 each.
* * • •
At an auction sale of furniture, etc., in a
Moore-street (Fitzroy) lodging-house, t'other day, a man
speculated a small sum in a lot, consisting of the trunks
of departed non-financial lodgers who had left their
chattels as security. On opening them the clothes were
found to be all moth-eaten, and fell to pieces on being
touched, but in a corner of one box was a bundle of 75
one pound notes, dilapidated, mouldy, and nibbled here
and there by mice, but good enough "to trade with. The
hash lady had kept the trunk seven years in her house,
and never went through it before getting the auctioneer
in. What luck !
* * • *
Being in the mining line in Japan is not all a
life of roses. An Englishman resident in Japan, who had
married a lady of the country, was once invited to inves-
tigate a coal mine with a view to purchase. After in-
spection—which was not satisfactory—he made the usual
evasive reply that he must consult his friends, and dis-
missed the whole affair from his mind. Some weeks later
he received a letter from the vendor, asking when he
intended to complete the purchase. He replied that he
had no such intention, and a few days afterwards had a
visit from the owner. The Englishman was most cour-
teously informed that the Japanese expected him to carry
out his bargain He denied having made a bargain.
The Jap regretted that a misunderstanding had
occurred, but the interpreter employed by the honorable
Englishman had stated that the mine would be bought,
and had received his “ tip”—about £5OO, as it happened
—and the most unworthy Jap. was grieved to insist upon
the completion of the deal. The Englishman repeated he
had made no purchase ‘ Then,” responded the mine-
owner, “ I must kill you and commit suicide ;
or will you kill me and you commit suicide ?
You will see me again in a few days ” The
mining man made his way to the police station.
He got little sympathy there, but finally, by an appeal
to the British Consulate, was granted police pro-
tection. For a fortnight, the Englishman changed his
sleeping place every night, and was continually shadowed
by a Japanese poiiceman The tension wore away his
nerves, and when, upon inquiry one day, he found that
the police had lost track of his foe, it was the last straw,
and he packed up and fled. And he doesn’t know yet
whether the Jap was working a giant bluff or was really
in dead earnest.
* * * *
Of all the mechanical vandals who delude
householders out back the travelling jewellery-repairer
takes the most fervent muttered curse As persistent a
he is destructive, he will tackle anything in the jewellery
line, from Mrs. Cockie’s diamond tiara—the family heir
loom — to Mary Jane's last brummagem purchase from
the passing Hindu. Little he knows, and less he cares,
of hard solders, dips, coloring solutions, and scratch
brushes His whole kit consists of a bottle of spirits of
salts, a medicine bottle with a wick through the cork for
a spirit-lamp, and a stick of lead solder.’ All fractures
are served alike—with a daub of solder, and not always
underneath. The itinerant solder-slinger has a most
mystifying way of telling his victims not to handle the
article he has pretty well spoilt for an hour or two —a
caution very necessary for his well-being, for his playful
habit of setting loose gems with a drop of spittle when he
is too lazy to cadge the white of an egg or the cockie’s
gum-pot has become a fine art. He buys old gold
for a fraction of its value when he is in funds. All the
articles he repairs are praised for their designs, and the
high quality of the gold they contain —and the charges
are in due ratio to the praise ; but, alas! when he is
buying old gold it is all nine carat, or even less. When
jewellery jobs are scarce the vandal tackles umbrella-
mending and tinkering pots and pans between his
carouses, and he is not above “ tickling the innards ’• of
the cockie’s erratic timepiece with a drop of sweet oil and
a feather, if the sweet oil is available. The nearest fowl
supplies the feather—as only a tickler plucked from a
live chookey is efficacious (so he tells as a great secret, as
he mauls the prize layer, to Mrs. Cockie’s dismay), and
with a full stomach, a healthy parting swing of the pendu-
lum, and 3s. 6d. he goes on his dusty way rejoicing.
Then the swings of the pendulum of the timepiece—in
which the mainspring is broken (and well he knows it)—
become perceptibly slower as he fades from view. It’s
wonderful what a glib tongue can do Out-back as long as
the cockie’s wife has half-a-crown in her stocking
• • * *
“J. 5”: During my time on the wallaby-track
I picked up a few wrinkles. One was to ride up to a
station at sundown and report a mob of cattle or sheep
coming through. Then I would have tea with the
station-hands, turn my horse out and camp for the night,
and next morning I’d be off before the hands had turned
out to go and pilot through the run the mob that never
came. Another trick was to buy a few bobs’ worth of.
tucker, tobacco, etc., at a station store, and ask the
storekeeper to cash a fiver (bogus). Rather than cash
the note, the storekeepers, as a rule, would say : “ Oh,
it will do when you are round this way again ” ; or, better
still, “ Never mind the money.” On one trip of over
200 miles, I managed thus to get a full supply of all I
required gratis. But to work the trick successfully a
man needs to have a few bob, so that he can accidentally
drop on change if the storekeeper is willing to take the
note.
“ J.A.C." : Dear Bulletin. — l was much
struck by your par (8., 18/2/’O4) re New York
parson’s suggestion that under certain circum-
stances the law should empower medical men to
put to death incurables. I have known many
people, suffering from malignant diseases, to
whom death would have been welcome, but who,
by a merciful (!) law, were nursed and kept alive
in agony as long as possible. I have always
held that a man is master of his own life—to
preserve it or take leave of it, as he thinks fit —
save only in cases where his premature death
would inflict injury on those dependent on him.
To punish attempts at suicide is iniquitous and a
relic of barbarism not far removed from the old
cross-roads burial with a stake driven through
the body. The late Justice Gillies of Maoriland
could never be induced to sentence a would-be
suicide.
Cardinal Moran was born on Sept. 16,
1830. In a belated “ birthday notice,” the yellow-
covered organ of green Catholicism, in its last
issue (Feb. 18), has some curious comments on
“ the Cardinal at seventy-four.” “ His Eminence
does not waste a moment in recreation, and in the
whole course of his long life he has never had a
holiday. His eyesight is perfect, for he never
uses glasses, and can read even the smallest print
with ease.” What is a “holiday” in the ecclesi-
astical sense ? Apart from his visits to Tasmania
and Maoriland, the wearer of the red robe has
tripped to Europe and back five times since his
first pleasant voyage to Australia in 1884. The
Cardinal’s sight, Dill Macky should be glad to
hear, is still goad. But it is not correct to say
that he “never uses glasses.” This fighting
churchman, it is believed, reached the spectacles
stage while he was a professor in Rome. He wore
glasses when he was Bishop of Ossory, and sported
a pair of gold-mounted glasses on his arrival in
Australia.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES-
(VI ORRIS’S^
IMPERIAL."
v«e
chemists & stores. ]
Ilmperial
E\>e * *
©intment
’ Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
.restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-,
Post 2/2 from Proprietary, Melb!
COSTS YOU NOTHING.
Why will you suffer with biliousness, constipa-
tion, sour stomach, when you can be cured of these
ailments by taking Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets? It costs you nothing to try them,
—simply write name and address on a postal card
and post to Chamberlain’s Medicine Co., 04
Elisabeth-street, Sydney, who will post you a free
sample. The pleasant purgative effect experi-
enced by all who use Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets, and the healthy condition of body
and mind which they create, make one feel joy-
ful *
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
m
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyj amas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
FROM OVER THE SEAS.
show here some Illustrations, with prices, of New
Arrivals—all worthy goods of standard quality and
priced as only big selling can allow. Since the Ist of the
month we have opened up many cases of choice goods
in Solid Sliver, Silver-Plate, Purses of English make, ciold
Jewellery of every description, and we will gladly point out
their many excellencies to callers.
8
CORNER , Cf-0
Ko. G 1414.— Embossed and Silver-
plated Hot-water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2 15s.— Special value.
No Gl/57.—Case of 6 Pairs Good Silver-
plated Fruit or Fish Knives and Forks,
No. G297.— Presentation Oak and Nickel Inkstand, 2 Bottle,,
wiito Stationery Drawer, jfii Is.
Write for
our
Catalogue.
The Balance
Pepper,
Silver-plate,
4/6 and 6/6.
No. F2B76.— The Shell Butter Dish
and Knife, First Quality Plate,
13/6.
ppemtmeni^
DAY
FRI
SAT
Sun
No. F6s3l.— Solid Silver Appointment Frame, 17/6.
■
Solid Silver-Mounted Lady’s Hair Brush, Cloth Brush, Powder
Jar, Scent Bottle, Tooth Brush Bottle, Comb, Mirror, File, o
Hail Cleaner, and Scissors, in Leather Case, £6 6s.
-rgjSi
No. Gl427.—Silver-plated G'ass-
lined Butter Dish and Knife, 6/6.
I
-
No. F6094« Cut Glaas and Solid Silver Salts Bottle, 12/6.
No. F47lo.—Child’s Set, in case, Silver-plated. Knife, Fork, and
Spoon, 14/6. New and dainty styles, in solid silver,
35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 42/-, 45/-, 60/-.
A I
M
THE “TRIUMPH” WATCH.
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths, is
rightly named the “Triumph,” inasmuch as,
although sold by us at such a low price, it is a
gigantic “ Triumph ” in quality over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. It has a very
fine-finished, full-jewelled keyless short- winding
movement, and the case is made of a very hard
nickel, beautifully polished, fitted with unbreakable
crystal glass. Our price for this most excellent
timekeeper is 18/6 f and we can recommend it to
those requiring a cheap but reliable Keyless Watch.
In Open Face Solid Hall-Marked Silver Cases, £l/10/-
No. Fl2B6.— Full size Tea Pot, nicely engraved
and Silver-plated, price 18/6.
No. F7963.—Very Handsome Silver-plated Presentation Inkstand, £3 10*.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger*fc Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
9
-V
*
For Infarify;. Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive , end Digestible .
' 1 Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food* everywhere.”
** If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


The Inky Way.
The Australian dailies hadn’t sufficient go in them to
send special correspondents away to the Russo-Jap turn
up, and Donald Macdonald and one or two others feel
very wroth in consequence. One result of the S’African
looting expedition has been to make every man on the
press look forward to war as his only possible means of
emerging from the ruck, but the dailies, bound down by
their cable syndicate, are not prepared to send good men
away from their staffs to supply an occasional column or
two about some fighting that was stale news weeks before.
The two Australians who are doing work up Korea way,
little F. L. Pratt and “ Billy ’’ Donald, were both on the
spot before war became an actuality, the former having
gone there with his own money, on spec., and the latter
having for some time served as sub-editor for a Hong
Kong daily.
* » * •
Harms worth and Pearson, the rival proprietors of the
half-penny London press, have lately combined forces to
exploit the midlands of England. The business of news-
paper publication rapidly trends towards the Trust. In
Australia all the daily papers are combined ; in England
most of them are under the control of one little group.
A possibility of the future is an Empire with all its
public opinion in the hands of one syndicate—chairman
Mr. Diamondstein or Mr. Cohenloup.
» .* * *
A N.S.W. literary man interviewed Bob Howard a few
years back to ask if Bob would give his reminiscences for
a volume entitled “ Criminals I Have Passed Out,” the
two to divide the profits. Howard said he might enter-
tain the notion in about 20 years’ time, when he was
thinking of retiring. Being in the middle of a profes-
sional career it was the wrong time for him to talk
official secrets.
♦ * * *
John Bull, the weekly comic published in London to
prove that it was possible to be even duller than Punch,
has died after 35 issues. Founder and editor, Arthur
W. A’Beckett, therefore fears that “ comic journalism is
played out,” and says, “Nobody seems to care for long
screeds written by gentlemen for educated people, no
matter how cleverly and brightly they may be written.”
Which would seem to indicate that England is beginning
to experience the spread of education.
• • • •
Dailey once said, while holding a brief for the Herald
in a big libel case (Anderson v. Fairfax), that a joke or
anything flippant in the senior morning paper would
cause more surprise and consternation than would the
sudden appearance of a female ballet-dancer at a conclave
of Cardinals. For all that a facetious par about a fire
was smuggled into Granny some thirty years ago.
There was a court martial first thing that morning in the
office, the foundations of which had been shaken. The
sub-editor (Burton), who had allowed the bright par to
slip in, was let off with, a severe censure and a
solemn rebuke. The criminal who had upended the
traditions of the corner of Pitt and Hunter streets was
ignominiously fired out. He was a young reporter. Not
understanding the enormity of his offence, the brilliant
youth made a personal appeal to old Mr, Fairfax. “I
did it,” said the discharged reporter, “ to brighten up the
paper.” Old Mr. Fairfax shook his head more in sorrow
than in anger. “ Young man,” said the chief proprietor,
“your talents will be better employed and more appre-
ciated elsewhere. You do not suit this office. The
Herald, sir, let me tell you, is not Punch.”
The newest thing in the Inky Way of London is The
Director, issued as a weekly supplement to Henry
Hess’s Critic. It is partly on the lines of Tay Pay’s
M.A.P., but the only people Hess deals with are directors
of something or other ; and every reference to a director
is accompanied by a statement of the fate of the co.’s he
has directed. So when Hess mentions, for instance, that
Kintore, ex-Governor of South Australia, is the King’s
Lord-in-Waiting for the week, he also mentions (presum-
ably to put Edward on his guard) that this particular
waiter “ has been a director of 15 co.’s, of which four
issue no report, four have debit balances, four have been
reconstructed, and three have liquidated.”
* • * «
The nowadays-necessary adjunct to a trade, profession,
or dodge, is a newspaper, so constituted, for the purpos s
of preferential transmission through the post, by sundi .v
pars, relating to a horse casting a shoe, a Sunday-school
shivoo, or a marriage between “contracting” parties
whose names nobody recognises. The latest addition to
Melbourne’s journalism is labelled Mind and Body, pub-
lished Ist Feb. It is designated—“ A Monthly Jouri t l
devoted to the Study of Human Nature and the Laws oi
Health,” and emanates from the office of “ the Phreno-
logical and Health Institute of Australasia Incorporated ”
(which is kept alive by the enthusiasm of a moneyed
widow). The new venture is decorated with a quotation
from Pope, and sold for a penny. Its most striking
feature is a column of “ News and Notes,” from which are
culled the following flowers of occult fragrance :—“ Lord
Northcote arrived on Thursday, the 21st ult., and was
duly sworn in as Governor-General of the Common-
wealth.” “It is satisfactory to note that the Railway
Department is successfully coping with the grain traffic
this season.”
* • * •
“Cheetah”: Wanted a clause in the Penal Code
making it criminal for anyone to run a paper or magazine
on borrowing lines. Have just expended a modest sprat
on Life, Fitchett’s new maga., and find it full of stale
Yankee literature that tastes musty and is a mere
phantasmagoria to Australian readers. Of course, no
originality was expected from Fitchett. The “ original ”
parson is not yet born. If Life were half the thickness,
and only half more Australian instead of being left-off
Yankeeism, it might have a chance.
“ 0.K.” : Seems that Rupert Clarke’s
pose as a supporter and champion of Dr. Maloney
in his election fights with M’Eachnrn has been
misconstrued into evidence of the baronet s
personal regard for the little doctor.
Also a very guileless section of the multitude
supposes that his Nibs takes the chair at Maloney s
meetings and ostentatiously contributes cheques
to the subscription list because he loves Labor
Eolitics. I should smile. Rupert Clarke and
[‘Eacharn chanced to quarrel at the Melbourne
Club some few years ago, since when “ Australi; s
only baronet” has shown an enduring animosity,
which was only to be expected of a man with his
forehead.
J. W. Taverner, just appointed Victorian
Agent-General, was at one time a coach-driver in
the Swan Hill district. Some of the box-seat
tricks still cling'to him. In those days the tracks
were bad, and Taverner wanted all the strength
of both hands to keep his four neddies in the rig! t
path. As he swung his team from side to si< e
the right or left shoulder would be humped u| .
To this day Taverner continues to hump up one
or other of his shoulders when in a tight place.
In making his speeches, too, he is constantly
reaching out his hand, clutching at imaginary
reins, and hauling them in. Also, if he has an
itch on the back he does not scratch it in the
usual way. When on the box he learned to scratch
his back by working the shoulders backwards and
forwards so as to rub the flesh against the shirt.
He still sticks to this practice. Taverner is 49
years of age, and is very grey for his years. He
has great, protruding, watery eyes, and sports a
magnificent double chin.
In W.A. census papers the word Presby-
terian was spelt in more than 20 different ways.
One woman gave her age as GOB. Materials of
houses were said to be “wood and white ants, 1 ”
“rags and bags,” “empty beer-bottles,” and
“jam-tins, kerosene tins, and hoop-iron.” Also
one man said he “lived mostly in the open, with
a jim-jam for covering.”
At Goulburn gaol (N.S.W.) an old black
mare has done duty as post-horse for years. She
is stabled in the gaol alongside the workshops,
never being allowed a run in the paddock, and
looks out of her stall at the lines of prisoners that
pass backwards and forwards. Never could find
out what crime the animal had committed to be
thus locked up, but reckon she must have snorted
in the face of a J.P.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loclcyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. every where.
An old offender who was posing as a
“first-timer” in a N. S. Wales first offenders'
gaol had served six months of his sentence, and,
thinking that all danger of being identified as a
hard case had passed, he joined the choir. He
had a passable tenor voice, and a few weeks after
joining he was booked to sing a solo, “O, Salu-
taris.” The moment he started to sing, Warder
Clancy, who was asleep in the corner, woke up,
rubbed his eyes, scratched his head, and stared at
the singer. Immediately after church he landed
him in the “lock-up” cells. “Begob, it’s ‘Spud’
Hayes that I had at Parramatta,” he said ; “ it
must be five years ago, and I’ve had him under my
oye every day and didn’t remember him until he
started to sing. It was only that big top note of
his that gev him away.” The solo singer got
seven days cells from the visiting beak for making
a false declaration, and was then forwarded to
another gaol; his good conduct remission being
reduced from three days a month to one day. A
man’s piety may often get him into trouble.
THE DEAD-ALIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Mr. Guy Boothby has fallen from his high estate, and
now only ranks as a third-rater. It is the same with Mr.
Max Pemberton, who, a year or two ago, was looked upon
asja rising man. Many of them rise quickly, but fall out
a lot faster. . . . Mr. Rudyard Kipling never goes quite
out of fashion.”—J.G., in S.M. Herald.
The dead are dead, their days are sped, and they lie cold
and quiet.
What you may say, or I may say, affects them not at all.
They’ve done with Life, and all its strife, and pain and
foolish riot,
And hear no more the town-clock’s chime or bells to
labor call.
’Tis not for these who lie at ease that I feel solemn pity—
’Tis for the authors dead who think that living still they
are.
Their spectres haunt the libraries—as mummers haunt
the city,
And hang around the theatres where once they used to
star.
These writers, they have had their day, then why will
they endeavor
To make more hay, and yet more hay, at setting of the
sun ?
They seem, like Frederic’s grenadier, to want to,live for
ever
But Immortality’s a prize that very few have won.
They will not sleep, but grimly keep a-making bay by
moonlight:
The crop is sour and scanty, but they reap it, tooth and
nail—
It seems to me we soon shall see trunk-makers think the
boon light
To get their books in bundles at a cheap book-auction
sale.
With eyes aflame they rushed at Fame, and stormed her
temple porches;
With trumpet and with timbrel they went crying-up
their ware ;
They swore that yet the Thames they’d set on fire with
their small torches—
But folk who wish to drown therein find water still to
spare.
The chief serang of all the gang was Mr. Rudyard
Kipling:
He came through all the gates at once, like Yama in the
myth.
He sorely smote old men of note with bullets that were
crippling ;
And Thomas Hardy hid from him, and so did Meredith.
And for a space the British Race looked on him as its
Prophet;
He made its head swell twice the size that it had been
before;
He drove the British Lion hell-for-leather down to
Tophet—
For still the burden of his song was “Gore! Gore!
Gore 1 ”
He minds me of another man who went round with a
Lion,
And played what tricks he chose upon the noble
quadruped ;
He’d put his skull inside its mouth and squibs its ta 1
would tie on—
Till one fine day the wearied beast bit off his sprig!.t y
head.
The scribes, I ween, squeezed out have been as with a
lemon-squeezer,
And they are dry and sapless now—why will they linger
thus?
It seems to me ’twould finer be to meet your end like
Caesar
Than hang around and beg for alms like Belisarius.
V.J.D.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V It so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, hut go on suffering till deatii releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured,
bend atonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farriugdon-street, Loudon, England.
Agents •- (YLLIOTT BIIOS., Sydney. Purchases should
look lor trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright!.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PLANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“Oavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALYE
ToAnthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... MADAME YIALTZEVA
Andante “Favourita” ... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “ Harold ” MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how ? The answer is ready
at once By means Of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
oui nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type,
£4.
\u
1
_L
W
ji
■ _ --
mm
m
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINHOB/EE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed ft tax of One Penny
on every Pive Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each os.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
HOW OPEN
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 50,000 at 5/1.
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 4, 50,000 at 5/1.
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 11, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES bis business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia to the credit ol GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA ore Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewelled Sweep,_etC.
Bor all information regarding Bates, Apply tO til6 Manager, Head Office, DaptO 5
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough,. Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting m allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chionie, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose i 3 generally sufficient,
and ft Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EYERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED B? ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, Emrland, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will ba interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
lupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholtn, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. ’ I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully.
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
" I used your Bronchiti* Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.’’
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M’DONALD, Trinkev, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Eenny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that vour Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. - (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria.”
©
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
- •
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Quten-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
©
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
©
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“ I 1111 ' evy pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” ®
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ®
I am recommending it to everybody.—S.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am ast' nisucd at my present freedom, as a direct result of iiiv brief trial.—JOHN c’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, viu ..iukl', N.S.W.”
” Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of ,><>ur Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. IIoOD
Biooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very had Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
look made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—lf ENItY WUIILOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
©
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria."
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Sciintifio Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitii
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Col 1 ins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easeJ
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send u 3 38
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day thathe had given it to a chill
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quits
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit tne to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitia
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QtJARRILL,
"Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of yo .t
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesa.l
Druggists, Sydney, N.S. W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office j No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Sni3.il Size. 2s 6dl Larfre. 4s 6d. Sold bv Cliemists and TVTedieine Vendors Forwarded bu Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locallu.


Parted.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the gateway sadly watching, I can plainly see
her still,
And again I hear her whisper as her blue eyes
. softly fill ;
I can feel her trembling hand
(For our futures twain were planned)
As I clasped it ere I journeyed out beyond the
dreaming hill.
I can catch the fleeting glimpses of a figure
through the trees,
And I see a tiny ’kerchief that was fluttered in the
breeze,
As I gazed in sadness back
On that lonely bridle track,
With her love and faith behind me, and before—
Life’s mysteries.
I can see the shades of evening round the moun-
tain bases creep,
And the stars in twinkling millions through the
eucalypti peep,
' And a maiden in the gloom
Of her ivy-mantled room
Gazes sadly to the eastward, o’er the ranges still
and steep.
Ah ! she’s standing at the gateway—l in fancy
see her still ;
Or she’s watching, yea, and waiting by her
creepered window-sill
For her roving “ boy ” who went,
In his bitter discontent,
By the bridle track out world ward far beyond the
dreaming hill.
T e Bush is wide—and narrow ! and is filled with
aching woes,
And is careless for its bravest, as my bearded
bushman knows;
And one’s chafing spirits say :
“ There is hope away, AWAY !
W tore the rovers -went before you, and where
weaker mortals rose ! ”
What if Linda’s folk derided me in fortune foul
or fond ?
For they never dreamed as I did of the great
world out beyond !
If they branded me, perchance
In full truth or ignorance,
A lover wild, unworthy, or a hopeless vagabond ?
Ay, wh it matter? But I see her in my fevered
fancy still,
And I know she’s fondly waiting in that far-off
home until
Her old lover will come back
By that starlit bridle track,
That long ago had ta’en him out beyond the
dreaming hill.
N.B.W.
GILROONEY.
Bushman, Junior.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
- About the first thing that impresses itself upon
the stranger when he makes a cisual call at a far-
b.ick bush home is the animal-like habits of the
I younger children. They cling to the skirts of the
rough-shod, sunburnt woman, stealing timid
glances from behind her, and nudging and whis-
pering to one another between whiles. The
bigger ones are inside, peeping through the
cracks, or round the door-post; and, looking
luund suddenly, the stranger might notice a
smudgy face pop down behind a bush some 20
yards away, and another withdraw hurriedly
behind the trunk of a tree. These are a couple
who had been too far away when the alarm was
given that “somebody was coming,” and hadn’t
time to come in. They are often scattered about
the bush, along the creeks and waterholes, and
particularly in scrubs, ever hunting like abori-
gines ; but when the mother bangs a tin dish with
a stick, or coo-ees for dinner, or the moment the
alarm of “somebody’s coming” is raised, they
rush for the house as fowls run in for protection
when menaced by hawks. This class is almost
as wild as kangaroos ; but others treat strangers
and everything else with a stolid indifference.
Their clothing is of the scantiest, mostly orna-
mented with a host of patches, and ragged at that.
“Anything does for the bush,” the mother tells
you. Hats which have no longer any definite
division between crown and brim are worn till
the head wears right through, and what remains
drops round the neck ; they are then patched with
calico, bagging, or wallaby skin, and made “as
good a 3 new.” Clothes last a long time in the
bush. And boots? Look at the hard, blackened,
prehensile-toed feet, scored with hundreds of lines
and cracks that only the scrubbing-brush can
clean, and you will know they are strangers to
boots. Indeed, some of them are 12 or 14 years
•'old before their feet are encased in their first
leather coverings. You will notice one with a
roll of dirty rag .round his toe, tied on with a
piece of twine or a wisp of kurrajong bark;
another has a thorn in his foot, and limps along
on his heel; while a third has a daub of tar on Lis
instep where there is a cracked sore. The soles
of their feet are seldom pierced or bruised ; they
can race unflinchingly over rocks, and even walk
over a bed of “ beady-eyes.” The sun never
affects them, even though they are running about
bareheaded in the heat of a midsummer’s day ; it
only browns them. When naked, these children
present a comical appearance, their bodies being
white, while their legs, arms, necks, and faces are
severely tanned.
Their bodies are often stunted for want of
Proper and sufficient nourishment. At meal-
times you will see the mother give them a slice of
bread and dripping, or bread and beef, and send
them outside ; and they sit on the ground against
the wall, or on a log, and eat it, and sometimes
they eat it while running about. There is plenty
of milk and butter at some places, but milk and
butter are not as plentiful in the bush as is generally
supposed. They are minus quantities even at
Pi any Western hotels ; and jams, condiments, and
the common preserves of the town pantry are un-
heard-of luxuries. Fruit they get occasionally in
" the scrubs; and, like the wild birds, they have a
fine discriminating sense for what is edible and
what is poisonous. They hunt for carnies and
birds’ eggs; and they root turtle-eggs out of the
sand and roast them in hot ashes. They climb to
enormous heights after young birds and ’possums,
and are skilled in all the native methods of catch-
ing fish. They “bogey” at all hours of the day ;
the dwellers along the rivers are almost amphi-
bious.
Winter is the hardest time for these little folk.
At night they gather round the big fireplace,
squatting in the ashes, and squabbling for choice
places, while keeping a begrudging eye on the
scanty wood pile. Their own little arms have to
carry the sticks during the day ; at best they
have a horse and slide to draw it, or a box-cart
drawn by a couple of goats. They huddle toge-
ther for warmth in a stinted bed, and are up as
soon as the fire is lit to gather around it again.
Hard-worked, horny-handed little mites they
are, most of them, whose knowledge is of cattle
and horses, of reptiles, beetles, birds, and
animals ; and their home and playground the
trackless bush. In their tender youth they talk
of thirst and drought, of flies, duststorms, and
other curses of the interior. They can ride almost
as soon as they can walk. You will see a little
mite throw the bridle-rein over the neck of a big
horse, and lead him thus to a log or stump, and
there put on the bridle and mount ; and presently
you will see him cantering bareback across the
hills. I noticed a little fellow one day trying to
mount a rogue. Time after time he brought him
side-on to a log, and each time as he prepared to
cross his back the old horse sidled away so that he
stood at right-angles to the log. At last the boy
led him into a fork where he couldn’t sidle away,
and triumphantly mounted.
It is surprising how soon these children learn
the bush, what clever little heads they have for
working out the problems of their timbered
world. I have met them, boys and girls, riding
along mountain spurs, miles away from home,
looking for cattle. And if you ask them at any
time in what direction home lies, no matter how
they have turned and twisted during the day, they
will at once point to it like a compass. Fences do
not stop them from going as straight as the crow
flies either ; they strap down the wires, with a
stick across for the horse to see, and lead or ride
him over. Rail fences give them a little trouble ;
but when a loose top-rail is found, they jump
their cuddies over the bottom one. They can
describe a beast minutely, even to a single white
spot at the tip of its tail, or a tiny black streak on
its offside horn. They can recognise a beast or a
horse at sight, though they may not have seen it
for a couple of years or more; and they have a
wonderful memory for brands and earmarks.
Though they may be otherwise illiterate, they
will squat on the road, and, with a stick, fault-
lessly portray the brands and earmarks of every
station and selection for miles around them.
I was one day travelling towards Bourke with a
mob of Queensland cattle, when a boy rode up
and asked me where they were from. I named
a station south of the border. He grinned.
“ Yer can’t stuff me with that,” he said.
“Them’s Queensland brands.”
“ How do you know a Queensland brand from
a N.S. W. brand ? ” I asked him.
“Why,” he said, “a Queensland brand has
letters an’ a number ; N.S.W. brands ain't got no
number.”
Another day I was trying to catch up to a man
who was riding a day in front of me, and asked a
boy at a wayside hut if he had seen him pass.
He didn’t remember him according to my de-
scription ; but he had seen a person go by,
wearing a straw hat, and riding a brown horse
branded H.P., with a star on its forehead, off
fetlock white, and carrying its tail a little aside as
though it had been broken; and it had cast its near
fore-shoe. This was correct in every particular ;
yet that boy had never seen the horse before in his
life, and had just leaned lazily on a rail as it was
ridden past him.
In regard to ordinary school tasks they are
poor scholars, principally through lack of
opportunity. As to religion—they seldom have
any. They may tell you they are Catholics,
Protestants, or Scotchbyterians, according to the
teachings of their parents, without knowing the
rudimentary principles of their faith, or what
differentiates one sect from another. Many are
grown-up and married before they are christened.
A parson who had been missionising in the West
of Queensland related that he visited a secluded
hut, one day, after an accidental meeting with the
owner of a neighboring cattle-station, and, on
informing the woman of his purpose, was left
standing outside for nearly half-an-hour while they
discussed the problem inside. Then a youth,
about 16, came out and reported progress:
“Mother says I can hold th’ moke for yer while
yer christen father, an’ then he’ll hold him while
yer christen me.” As he took the bridle from the
parson a couple of hens started fighting behind
the horse, and the animal nearly jumped on him.
“ Whey, yer church-bred, blanky mule, where yer
jumpin’ ter ! ” he cried. Then he turned to the
horrified parson. “ Better hit out an’ fix th’ ole
feller up, mister—this wobbly-eyed cow’s got the
fidgets.”
On the alluvial goldfields some of the best finds
are made by hawk-eyed children. About Mt.
Browne, after every shower of rain, they search
the hills and flats, following every little water-
race for specks, and drop on many a bright grain
that the old miners would pass over unnoticed. I
saw an eight-year-old girl in Tibooburra gather
lOdwts. in two mornings among some old work-
ings. The children are very keen on specking in
that neighborhood.
The bush dweller who does not go in for farming
seizes the earliest opportunity of getting his boys
into billets on stations. Some of them are engaged
very young, mostly for running up horses, bring-
ing in the cows, going for the mail, and helping
about the house ; and in shearing-sheds for pick-
ing up, &c. One old squatter I knew, who was
anything but fond of boys and only engaged them
for cheapness, would never place two within
speaking distance of each other. “One boy is a
boy,” he used to say, “two boys is only half a
boy, and three boys is no d d boy at all.”
Bushman Junior is nearly always shy and re-
tiring ; he hasn’t the low cunning and wickedness
of the street Arab ; but he is at times an aggres-
sive little beggar. On one occasion, while fishing
in a quiet nook, my attention was drawn to two
miniature gladiators below me, who were hurling
defiance at one another across the water. It com-
menced : “ Hulloa, Bullock!” Then the other:
“ Who are you callin’ Bullock ? I’ll punch yer in
th’bloomin’jaw ! ” “Yer not fit! Could wollop
a dozen like you ’fore brekfus.” “Ugh! You
come over ’ere—l’ll soon let yer see ! ” “ Ya-a-s,
yer’d like ter get me in th’ water, wouldn’t yer ?
so yer could pelt sticks at me. Yah!” “Yah-h-h!”
After that they became too personal for publi-
cation.
Perhaps the most remarkable thing about bush
children is that they are very rarely bitten by
snakes. They roam the day long about creeks
and billabongs with bare feet and bare legs, play-
ing in scrubs, wading through long grass and
ferns, turning over bark and logs, thrusting their
hands into hollows and burrows, and almost
invariably come off unscathed. When I was going
to school on the Richmond River, walking five or
six miles through the bush night and morning, we
used to think it fun, when we found a snake, to
kill it by jumping on it. If it was a green or whip
snake, one of us would pick it up quickly by the
tail, and keeping it swinging round, chase the
other children with it, finally cradking its
head off with a sudden jerk. It is only in districts
where snakes are rare that they are dreaded by
children ; where they are plentiful they are
generally treated with contempt—except at
night. The average bush youngster has a horror
of darkness, and talks in awe-struck wlrispers of
hairy men, ghosts and bunyips. This fear is
inculcated from babyhood. The mo' her can’t
always be watching in a playground that is bound-
less, and she knows the horrors that wait the
bushed youngster. So she tells them there is a
bunyip in the lagoon, and gigantic cels in the
creek ; and beyond that hill there, and in yonder
scrub, there is a “bogey-man.” Those fairy tales
keep the children within bounds —until, they are
old enough to know better. Then they can take
care of themselves.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
nrwwfcianati
There is nothing like Sunlight Soap lor Household lltMiillit
When you have to use hard water it is not an easy matter to wash
household utensils. To do good washing you should have good soap
and soft water (rain water). If you use hard water you must have
good soap, and the best soap you can get is Sunlight Soap because it
softens the hard water and makes a copious creamy lather. Use Sun-
light Soap for all household purposes and the results will surprise you.
Sunlight Soap washes the clothes white without injuring the hands.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, SYDNEY. joj
TORTURE
No torture can be compared to the long drawn out suffering caused by continued illness. It would
be difficult, for instance, to imagine any torture which we would not sooner undergo than to sutler day
and night the excruciating pain of Rheumatism for 24 years, as experienced by Mrs. Elizabeth
Bosher, of 77 Henderson Road, Alexandria, N.S.W., and narrated by her m the following setter,
dated 14th February, 1903. .. -
“ Previous to leaving England, about 40 years ago, I was a great sufferer from Rheumatism,
which continued to trouble me for about 24 years after my arrival in Australia. I consulted several
doctors, but they all failed to do me any good. I also tried various advertised remedies witU tne
same unsatisfactory result, arid despaired of ever getting relief from the pam. At length 1 11 1
Warner’s Safe Cure—for what reason I cannot tell you, because I did not expect to get any more
benefit from it than from the many other medicines I had taken. I was, however, very pleased o
notice a decided change for the better after a short course of Warner’s Safe Cure. Ihe pains slowly
but surely left me, and at last: I became quite free from them. This happened 16 years ago, and 1 can
honestly say that I have not suffered in the slightest degree from Rheumatism since that time, sodliat
I have to thank Warner’s Safe Cure for perfectly and permanently curing me. 1 may say that, my
case is very well known in Alexandria, as I have for 40 years resided within half-a-mile of my present
address.”
There is, however, no necessity for anyone t > suffer now, like Mrs. Bosher did. Rheumatism is
one of a family of disorders, caused by the retention in the system of urinary poisons owing o
defective action of the kidneys.
Rheumatism
Gout
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
are all of this family, and are most painful complaints, but each speedily yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure,
Another family of disorders oomprises
Indigestion Sick Headache Jaundice
Biliousness Ansem'a and Debility Neuralgia
KIDNEYS AND THE LIVER.
The work apportioned by Nature to the kidneys and liver is that of dealing with, converting,
extracting, and removing waste matter produced in the body by wear and tear of the tissues. It con-
sequently follows that when the kidneys and liver are perfectly performing their task, none
disorders mentioned can trouble us, as the causative poisons are absent.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as ar
Safe Cure. At the outset of the, investigation, it was realised that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs eJg
intimately associated in removing the waste products of the body. M arner s Safe Cure possess
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and lner, rtv g
them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, ot a 11 y
and biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity anyone to su er
Rheumatism, Gout, Bacßache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, •
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid ,
provided Warner’s Safe Cure,is taken as directed. Even Bright’s Disease yields to trea m i y
Warner’s Safe Cure.
first
A Simple Test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the
thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning, ft it is t len
cloudy, shows a brick-dust like sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatuial cqlour,
the kidneys are unhealthy, and no time must be lost in taking Warner s Safe Cure, or Brigh s
Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful manifestation of their will
result
[22


Simple Sam.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sam Fallow was a farming man
Of substance and sobriety,
Who lived near Coonabarabran
In comfort and propriety.
For twenty years from morn till night
He’d worked with willing ch •eriness ;
For twenty years from dark till light
He'd rested from his weariness.
His intellect was calm and free
From falsehood or duplicity ;
And what his neighbors told him he
Believed with sweet simplicity.
But though his mental calibre
Was babylike and innocent,
His physical proportions were
Both mighty and magnificent.
His mind was like the virgin soil,
Of great potentiality ;
His thews and sinews, tough with toil,
The cultured actuality.
And Sam came down to Sydney town,
To spend his Christinas holiday ;
And there he met with William Brown,
And with him spent a jolly day.
Now, William Brown was bad and bold,
While Sam was all simplicity,
And all the tales that William told
Sam swallowed with felicity.
When introduced to William’s friend,
And William’s friend predicted him
Long life and money without end,
Sam never contradicted him.
When they performed some little trick,
And challenged Sam to do it, he
At once confessed his head was thick
And void of ingenuity.
Then William Brown grew sad and sighed,
And murmured quite dejectedly :
“ My rich old Uncle James has died
In Fiji, unexpectedly.”
As beat of drums and trumpet tones
Arouse a camp from sleepiness,
So these few words through Samuel’s bones
Produced a kind of creepiness.
Some message from the distant past
At Sam’s dull brain seemed hammering,
He thought a moment, then at last
He recognised its clamoring.
“ Why now I know,” at length he cried—
“ And I was near deluded too—
The chap, when poor old grand-dad died,
His latest words alluded to.
“ Before he breathed his last, says he,
‘Remember, though I’m leaving you,
That coves with uncles in Fiji
Are frauds who are deceiving you.
“ * When Noah on his ancient deck
Met such a one who sounded him,
He caught the beggar by the neck
And chucked him out and drownded him.
“ ‘ I’m peggin’ out without a doubt,
But if you meet ’em score with 'em ;
Just turn the wasters inside out,
And wipe the bloomin' floor with ’em.’
“And then poor grand-dad died ; and so
His dying words affected me,
I’ve got to do, before I go,
As poor grand-dad directed me.”
Sam caught a spieler in each hand,
In vain was all their battling ;
For miles around, I understand,
Folks heard their bones a-rattling.
He swung those spielers round and round,
Was deaf to all their squealing, too ;
And Sam not only swept the ground,
He wiped the walls and ceiling too.
And when he dropped them on the floor,
Mere remnants of humanity,
The room was filled with hair and gore,
With garments and profanity.
Now, when the festive times come round,
The time for Jafs and Jugginses,
Two battered spielers still are found
In search of Mugs and Mugginses.
But if perchance they meet a man
Of simple amiability,
And he says “ Coonabarabran, ”
They vanish with agility.
N. S.W.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
Progress Night at Worrio.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A winter evening at Worrio Plain, with a moon
nearly at the full shining at intervals through its
cloak of clouds on a dilapidated little shanty with
a shingle roof, that stands lonely on the bare
plain. Here the local cookies assemble once a
month as a Progress Association, for the purpose
of begging or bullying from the “Guv’ment”
improvements for the district through our un-
fortunate local member.
A bitterly cold wind sweeps down from snow-
clad Ben Lomond, and, speeding along the plain,
spends its fury on the little building. It is nearly
eight o’clock—the meeting hour—and the members
struggle up in twos and threes, all carrying
lanterns. We lean against the lee-side of the
shanty, dignified by the name of hall, and discuss
the evergreen topic of scrub-felling till the chair-
man says we may as well go inside and start the
meeting.
Entering the hall after a preliminary struggle
with the door, which nearly always sticks fast, the
president marches up to his seat on the little
platform at the end, whilst I, in my capacity as
secretary, seat myself at the table, and produce
the minutes. These read, the chairman asks that
they be adopted. An excited Italian rises and
objects to them; they may be correct, but he
thinks they are not, and he proposes that 1 resign
and that he be given the position. Indignant
shouts from the other members, and the bland
opinion of the chairman that he is not sufficiently
acquainted with the English language, cow him
ln mi sdellce -
I he minutes adopted, I read the correspondence
—mostly from the Works Department, declining
to give us anything we ask for, from a railway to
the coast to a culvert over Boggy Creek ; with an
odd letter from the Lands Department objecting
to throwing open any more land for selection, as
we are not making use of what we have. Amidst
an ominous silence the correspondence is adopted,
and the chairman, with a weary air, asks for any
comments on the same.
At once the assembly becomes electrified, and
the storm outside seems stillness in comparison,
In vain the chairman vociferates “Order !” ; in
vain I rise from my seat (an empty kerosene tin)
and beat it violently with a loose leg of the presi-
dent s chair. The meeting will only subside by
6X wn Sti ?u , , ~ ~ ~
Wben tbe storm abates, hen come the motions.
Jnoi. l V moV T\ by L r - d ' lea J Wl S V e f°J’ r n
a nose like a galali. It is to the effect that all
the previous requests be repeated, and is
duly earned Ihe next is moved by a new-comer
“ ; Vrl < ne > Wesleyan, who has been panting to go
on the land all his life, and has now got there per
medium of a homestead selection. He moves that
all the money voted for the current year be spent
Tl (hIS h °! dll ! g hesdu « we ® t )’ a » that
ml ' n r t( L be T, ol J? ldered j
s«PPorted by the Italian and a local
preacher, whose pHces he near Ins They consider
Vh V a very sensible one and hope the other
end will see it in the same light.
VriV/? 8 °K e r an and vo , cif T a V S
Hm iaaf onH ’ fU nime f leads
the east end is uuth difficulty separated from the
Italian and the president and myseif foohshly
Wesleyan from some east-enders, who
T 1« Ec Jm to the creek. .
r f‘ ot u" iscleclaredlost and a fresh one is
-TJiV tV ?e effecthl.at Worrio be, made the
I edera l Capital This is carried unanimously, as
also is one that the Minister for Works be enticed
tie first wet weather The spot where he
is to be bogged is selected and the local bullockies
promise to do their best for him The general
i pression is that if he is bogged sufficiently a
arge road-vote will natural y follow. A motion
that a police-station be established m the district
is savagdy negatived (the law does not run m
Worrio), whilst one that a pub is necessary to the
general welfare is adopted with acclamation save
by the Italian and the local preacher, the latter
considering that a chapel with a collection-box
would be much better. It is then resolved that if
the road super, does not spend more money on the
Worrio the . Minister for Works be
r nf e( iVr dlSlrlla if \ nStanty ‘ • •
I ne Italian, who has been simmering m silence
for some time, now rises and proposes a vote of
want of confidence in the president, of whom he
thinks highly, but who, he is sure, is quite
unfit for the office. “An’, genelman, iv youbress
me, I’ll stan’ for de of-fis, an’ do my best-a for you
as chairmon of ze commit-ee.” He is seconded by
the local preacher, who is after my job himself.
The motion is put, and he gets three votes. Here
a fierce dog-fight starts beneath our feet (the hall
is built on blocks). A rush is made outside to
witness the fray. The owner of the winner offers
to fight anyone in the crowd.
This item over, we troop back and resume our
seats.
A sleepy-looking cedar-getter rises in the back
of the hall and drones, out that he has a grievance
against the Forestry Department. After half-an-
hour’s cross-questioning from his excited audience
we boil his rambling statements down to this : He
had found a monster cedar somewhere in the scrub
and had felled it. Apparently he had then con-
fided its whereabouts to a few other cedar-getters
and on going to saw it up, after the two months’’
rest he felt himself entitled to for felling it, found
it had been cut up by someone else, to save him
the trouble. He then, it appeared, had gone
straight to the Forestry Branch in Sydney about
it, and the Branch would give him no considera-
tion. “ I used ter go every day fer er month t’
see abaout it, an’ after I’d bin abaout er hour ex-
plainin’ to ’em, they’d kid they wuz busy, ’n’ask
me t’ call another day. I got our member on to ’em
but ’e said ’e couldn’t do nothin’ with ’em. So I
came ’ome ’n’ I want the seckitary ter write ter
the Guv’nor abaout it, ’n’ have them forest blokes
sacked.”
I promise to look into the matter.
A little Welshman rises at this point to call
attention to the shameful manner in which the
Worrio selectors are being treated, himself in
particular. “ I think, gentlemen,’’ he whines in
a high-pitched treble, “ that our places have too
much value put on them, an’ really think we must
do something about it. The inspector’s always
doggin’ us up for our improvements. I think
Guv’inent ought to give us the land for nothing.
An’ I think,” he concludes, with a squeal like an
irritated guinea-pig, “that if they won’t givens
better'terms, we ought to get up a riot about it.
That’d show them we meant something.” He
smiles vacuously round and subsides, mopping his
forehead.
The local preacher then rises, and demands
that telephonic communication be established
between our P.O. and the neighboring town of
Babbleton (20 miles). I produce a return
showing that it would cost £5OO to put it up,
that the interest would be £25 yearly, which
must be found by the district, and that our
P.O.’s revenue for the year was £lO. He
smilingly suggests that a few local men of stand-
ing, such as myself, should guarantee the amount.
A chilling silence follows.
An east-ender has a resolution moved and
seconded that “ In view of our magnificent tim-
ber resources, Guv’ment be urged to construct a
railway from here to the sea.” This is carried.
A west-ender then moves “That, in view of the
worthless nature of the timber on Worrio, and the
richness of the soil, Guv’ment be asked to resume
all the forest reserves, and throw them open for
selection.” This is also carried. The president
points out that the motions are a little incon-
sistent, and may give our member some trouble
when he puts them before Guv’ment. But the
movers are obdurate. “ Wot’s ’e get ’is six quid a
week for? ” they say, passionately ; so both reso-
lutions go in.
The president now remarks that it is getting
late, and we had better conclude the meeting
As we stream out of the little hall, I hear the
local preacher confiding to the Italian that what
is wanted to help the district is good outspoken
men, no matter where they come from, in place of
the puppets now in office. To this the Italian
assents cordially, and makes no demur when the
preacher observes that he will borrow a couple of
plough-horses for a day or two.
FALDER.
“MAN WORKS FROM RISE TO SET OF SUN
“but WOMAN’S WORK is NEVER DONE.”
When a woman’s back aches
from morning to night-when
she feels worn out after every
bit of work she has to do —when
she has headaches, dizzy spells—
when she cannot stoop without
torture—when she has any or
all of these ailments, it is a sure
sign the kidneys are not doing
their duty.
Uric acid and other poisons
that ought to be filtered out of
the blood are being left in, and
are carrying disease into every
part of the system.
Doan’s
Backache
Kidney
Pills
act only on the kidneys and
bladder—help them to filter the
blood—to take out the uric acid
and impurities that cause the
aching back ; cure dropsy, heart
trouble, headaches, nervousness,
sleeplessness, &c.
Read the wonderful cure of
advanced kidney disease given
jn the next column.
JSI
\
n \
a
\
A
m
V
m
..m
Ma
" Every Picture tells a Story/ 1
A NEIGHBOR’S CASE.
Three Years Cured.
Mrs. Edwin Tomlyn, 143 George-street, Erskineville, this City, says:—
“Three years ago I told you how remarkably Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
had benefited me in a case of Kidney complaint. I would like to inform you
that I have been right ever since. I had been bad for years before I got
Doan’s Pills. At first, I did not know what was wrong with me. I was always
feeling cast down and debilitated, and my secretions were thick and of changing
colour. I took all kinds of remedies, and was none the better for having used
them. My limbs ached a good deal, and I was always so worn down
with weariness that I could scarcely keep house, and often I had to keep the
children at home from school to help me. At last I went to a doctor, who
told me I was in an unnatural condition, and said that I would have to go
under an operation. I would not do this, however, so I started using patent
medicines again. I bought one thing after another, but had no success. I
used to think it hard that these medicines would do other people good and
yet act no better than water in my case. One day I read about Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and I resolved that I would give this remedy a trial. 1
noticed an improvement after a few doses. Soon after, the secretions commenced
to clear, and I lost that weary feeling, and I began to do my housework, and
then I felt so well that I gave up using the pills. When I made the statement
which you published, I still had a doubt about the permanency of the cure,
but, as time went on, that left me, and now I know my cure was permanent;
I shall be glad to see anybody who wishes to investigate my case. In fact, I
have derived more benefits from the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills than
I have stated here. I could not speak well enough of this remedy.”
Get what you ask for. Get Doan’s.
Don’t accept something “ Just as
good.” All Chemists sell DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
and will give you what you call for.
Some may endeavor to substitute
an article they make more profit on.
Insist on getting the genuine, and
save money and misery. Price 2/9
per box (six boxes 15/3), or will be
posted on receipt of price by Eoster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE
DOAN’S.


The cable reports the death of old Lord Ahng-
ton, “ a well-known sportsman and a steward of the
Jockey OLnb.” His defunct lordship had a shady side to
his sporting character, concerning which the cable says
nothing, and the English obituary notices will probably
be likewise silent. Among ig-noble frequenters of the
turf it was a common saying, some 25 years ago, that the
money which hord Alington lost to bookmakers at racing
was bound to be recovered at the card-table from his
younger brother aristocrats. Alington in his middle age
became an accomplished performer with the broads. A
certain professional card-fakir, bf humble extraction,
used to tell the story of how two palpable “ swells ” came
to him as pupils, paying handsomely for private instruc-
tion in all the tricks of his trade. When they had
learned enough to “ take down a jay,” as the professor
expressed it, they gave him a parting fee, for which he
vowed eternal secrecy, and that was the last he ever saw
of them in the little crib where they had practised toge-
ther. A year or two later he learned their identity.
Standing outside the Pavilion Music Hall one night, his
attention was called by a pal to Lord Alington and Sir
Frederick So-and-So, who had just alighted from a cab.
The pal knew their names well enough. “Strike me
pink!” said the professor—“ them’s the two blokes that
come to me for lessons.” Subsequently the professor,
being down on his luck, put himself in the way of his
ex-pupils, booing to get a sign of recognition, but those
distinguished sportsmen were not taking any blackmail
acquaintanceships. They stared blankly through their
monocles and passed on. “Strike me pink! I always
told ’em they was real artists ! ” said the professor.
* * * *
Recent Tapanui (M.L.) meet shows the differ-
ence between the tote neat and the same thing diluted
with bookmaker. Last year Tapanui took it neat and
£1865 went through the machine ; this year with both
tote and bookmaker on the track only £697 was toted,
and the • bookmakers’“fees totalled only £43. Odds on
there’ll be no bookmakers at Tapanui’* next meeting.
* * * •
At a recent N.S.W. country meet one race saw
three starters owned by two local publicans. All were
stiff. Each horse waited for the other to make the
running, and the race developed into a jog-trot canter.
Eventually the horse with the toughest mouth got a bit
°f a lead, bufi his rider put the gee-gee inside a track
P°st, and for this was disqualified. The rider of the
horse that finished first rode over to the refreshment
booth, dismounted, and had a drink before weighing in ;
he, too, was disqualified. The third horse was then
weighed in, and found to be 81b. short of weight. No
Horses and riders disqualified for three months.
Owners let off with a caution.
* » * *
. “0.C.C.”: Have been intending to send this
information for weeks past, but Jap crisis and other
things overlaid it. Re “ ancient ” practice of cricket um-
pires always carrying a bat—alluded to by several Bul-
letin correspondents lately. This was not due to um-
pire s desire to “have a hand” in between, as has been
R originated long and long ago, in the days before
spliced bats were made, and before the merits of com-
pressed willow wood were known —in the days of ash and
even oak bats. Those solid, heavy old “ plunkers ” often
went to smash, because bowling then was simply swift
underhand—the “ grubbers ” of our infancy, in fact,
h a deal more devil in them. The ball of the 1830’s and
w s was a heavier affair than the neat sAoz. globe of to-
uay, and it travelled rapidly along the ground. Often
a n f st;ion " man belted down to stop a fast grubber on
or sodden wicket, he missed, and the bat would go
t the neck, and then the umpire came to the rescue.
J-ne practice lasted long after its real purpose had de-
parted—just like Freetrade and other anachronisms. I
remember placing as a “ nipper ” with three or four
wcient ash Uobbetts (left over from IS4O, I should say),
leh my father had saved from his own boyhood’s days.
si °.? e me a " these veterans came to grief. I dare say
. , J bats still exist. They had long handles, round
oulders, round bottoms ; weight, 6 to Slbs.
* * *
” : Heavy-weight lifting certainly
wrect a l wa ys depend on size or strength. An old
7n v* °' a man, once a resident of Tumberumba, used, at
on t ars °* a^e > to lift with one hand a list, or 16st man
strn a har as 'I he were a mouse. JHave often seen
I men-attempt in vain to bend the old chap’s arm.
lifr „ ew a *J?ther small man, a German seaman, who could
n °. rc hnary blacksmith’s anvil off the block and back
asain with one hand.
* « * *
of k- L- Smith suggests that the absurdity
a pr * ze of a few sovs. to the third horse in petty
of Ph- C a PS B h°'ffd be abolished altogether. The little bit
moile y might very well go to swell the small
ditim, nt t' lven the runner-up. Under present con-
seconH V i ery * ew owner ® instruct the jockey to try for
o! thorns 56 w hen there is no chance of winning. None
or ; I,e a Be|, ious go for third money Something
r othc ' r finishes third by accident.
&rhtf^? urne some pugs, who have been
nanot t on ger than any others in the world as far as this
r per knows. Negro Starlight dates back 25 years, and
15 have passed since J. M'Gowan fought his first big
fight, which was a gory thing of 72 founds, with bare fists,
against T. Duggan. Duggan, also, is still in the business
of striking his fellow creatures,
* * * •
“G-lenoin”: Now that M'Oall is practically
finished as a boxer, Australia is worse off for heavy-
weight fighters than at any time since pugilism took its
plaee here among- recognised sports. M‘Call was a real
champion, and any Jack of science on his part was made
up for by his great pluck and stamina. Now that he is
out of it, it is hard to pick a man deserving the title of
champion of Australia—a title held by such giants as
Jackson, Slavic, Goddard, and others. Creedon and
Doherty talk fight spasmodically, but they can
fairly be written down as has-beens. Peter Felix
I won’t have at any price. Jack Thomson is
a good man, but is too light. Ted Arthurs, the
Wyalong bruiser, is mentioned by some, and he
created a good impression when he re-entered the
ring, in opposition to the elder Thomson, some weeks
back. Previous to this he had not fought since August,
1900 when he and M'Call met at the Ultimo Metropolitan
Club before a.£7 or £8 house. They put up a great and
even go for four rounds, and then Arthurs gave in, pro-
bably reckoning the house wasn’t worth while continuing
for • he was by no means beaten, and had, if anything,
the’better of matters. But before this fight he could
only cut even with Ike Stewart, and Ike cannot be con-
sidered in the championship class. Should he return to
Australia Arthur Cripps would probably prove himself
best among- our big men, yet if his recent go with Wil-
liams in S’Africa was on the square, he would be cold
meat for any of the prominent American light heavies.
Tired All the Time
A Terrible Feeling of Exhaustion. Unfit for Business. Debilitating
Effects of Hot Seasons. All Easily Rsaaved.
s®^
•i
Mrs. C. McDonald, of Northoote,
Victoria, Australia, sends as her
photograph and says:
“I was a great sufferer some
of the most terrible forms of .ndiges-
tion. I was all tired out from morn-
ing until night;. My languor made me
unfit for work or business of any
kind, and I was about ready to give up
discouraged. My liver was all out of
order, and this made me suffer from
constipation and biliousness. Two
remedies completely cured me. I took
Ayer’s Pills to act on my liver and
keep my bowels in good condition,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify my
blood, strengthen my nerves, and put
my digestive organs in. a healthy
state.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is of great lielp to almost every one in this debilitating
climate. It prevents exhaustion, keeps the nervous system in good order,
and takes away all that tired feeling. Don’t wait until you are down sick.
It’s much wiser and easier to prevent sickness. When the stomach fails,
■ickncss comes very easy. Profit by Mrs. McDonald’s experience and put your
i igestive organs in a healthy state.
We must caution you against imitation Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get
' l Ayer’s.” There’s no risk to run with this old, reliable medicine.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Oldest, Surest, Strongest, and Best Sarsaparilla
Ayers Pills act on the liver and keep the bowels in good condition.
Prepared by BE. J. C. AYEB. & CO.. Lowell. Mass.. TT. S. A.
CHRONIC CONSTIPATION CURED.
Ered Gillett, Esq., Tutor, Walgett, N.S.W.,
writes: — t4 Eor years I had been a sufferer from
chronic constipation, due to my profession of
Tutor being a very sedentary occupation. The
ordinary aperient medicines I was using only
made matters’worse. I sent for a free sample of
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets, and
the results were so satisfactory that I have since
used half a dozen bottles. The Tablets have
certainly done me a great deal of good, for when
I first began to use them I had to take four
tablets twice a week to produce the desired effect.
Have been gradually decreasing the dose, until
now two tablets a month keeps the bowels in good
order. I recommend Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets to all who suffer as I did.”
NOTE Anyone suffering from chronic con-
stipation, biliousness, sour stomach, etc., can have
a free sample of Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets sent to them by sending name and address
on a post card to Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.*
HAVE YOU TRIED
GOLDEN FRUTEX
-FOB-
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION,
BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE,
INSOMNIA. Etc.?
NATURES QVm REMEDY
ft TASTELESS s FAIItESS APERIENT,
Fresh B fll T
HERBS
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS
It is a SURE REMEDY, and NEVER FAILS.
SWEET TABLETS made from Fruit Extracts and
Herbs, and contains no mineral poison.
It is SAFE. It is WHOLESOME. It is HARMLESS,
and is THOROUGHLY RECOMMENDED by the
MEDICAL PROFESSION.
GOLDEN FRUTEX may be TAKEN BY ALL, from
the youngest to the oldest.
NO TROUBLE TO TAKE. TABLETS SIMPLY
EATEN.
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents
VICTORIA— Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.;
Felton, Grimwadb Co.
N.S. WALES— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
& AUSTRALIA— Faulding & Co., 54 King William St.,
Adelaide.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
IliOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,_ hlush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotcheson lji-
stuibed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, See. IHb f iKbl PUm
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every offerer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be *
G-UIIO'A A BOX.” m.
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few dose 3 will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System : restoring the lqng-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite,
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame,
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees 0
Nervous and Dobiliiated is that Beenhatn’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Mediei
he ivorld. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLANB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
o
&
m
NEW No. 6 RIFLE
1903 PIOPEL.
Improved throughout, and equipped with a peep sight, accurately
rifled, and elegantly finished.
THE BEST VALUE OFFERED IN RIFLES. , „ . ,
22 calibre, 3J pounds; length of barrel, 20 inches
Specify U.M.C. AMMUNITION.
ENO’S
‘FRUIT
INVALUABLE IN ALL
FUNCTIONAL
DERANGEMENTS
OF THE LIVER.
SOLD BY CHBMISTS, Ac.. BVBRYWHBRB.
SALT.’
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Post Free.
l Drab-LS miLhJ
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THb BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A CARD.
u
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P.,E., L.E.C.5.,E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all D‘®®**«* £
The only Medical y be consulted personally
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, M Pm ate ehronic Diseases of Men and Women,
SitiStoat “ IMimSirt. AbsoLfe'and'ltapid Cures.
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elm ley House, 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when vmtthg


FRUIT
JAR
RINGS
Best Quality.
All Fresh Stock.
Will not perish.
“MASON?" .. ,. 6d. 61m JAM c‘rmll
Extra thick" ... 6d don; » 5| 0d gm
Y‘LIGB'ENXNG " .. .. ,Sd don. 89 9:! gross
Extra thick- .. 6d dos. r 59 Ed gross
“ 181800” .. - 6d dog. 43- 0d was!
Exm‘ thick... .. 7d don. 63 0d gins!
”CHICAGO" .. .» 6d (103. 4: 6d groan
Extra thick” .. 7d doz. 6: (id groan
“GILORIST” .. - 6d doz. 5s 0d gross
Extra {Nuk— .. Sd dos. 7: 66 grou
PERDRIAU & CO.,
ONLY ONE ADDRESS—
Rubber
Merchants,
270 George Street, Sydney.
LADIES*
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. im.
r HE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
* Transformations j'ou ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists en application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE is. Id. Post Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTH INGTON.
TRADE MARK*
Boiler Feed Pump.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co. 9 Ltd, *««i newa*
Worthington Pump Company! Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co-
Enquiries Invited for „<,«•
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Every
Length
and Size
Stocked.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
PERTH, COOLGARDIE
AND REPRESENTING IN AUSTRALIA
TANGYES, LIMITED.
ROPE ;
A i
5:31:33 ?~_‘ 7» >774, \. % :2;
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Stur levant Ore Roils and Crusher's,
, A is
‘ ', .nﬁ'l' - , .
2' . . - 7- h '7
- —- ,- . _ ‘
5:: - 4‘ .’. , 1 '
‘ ’ ‘ ._ ,. 7-2: L E 1» JEWELL— T-f—rwzu 1
' 1 WW '1 ’ h i; .1.“ 7
< 7 ; :to‘ﬁW—b”:fi
More vises. The Fitters’ Vise.
The “UTOPIA” Vise holds work of any siiape, at any angle. It has every advantage that oeald he gained from
a dozen Yises in as many different positions. It swings
round and over at the will of the operator, and the
work swings with it. There are two forms of the
“ Utopia. ”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18|in., opens 14in.) and the other for
Fitters. All the leading shops are being equipped
with “ Utopia” Yises. One shop alone is using 20
of the Joiners’ Yises. Both can be seen in operation at
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
THE ADDRESS OF
@313“ \g
' : {WM W —
a? “mm .4“, {wag/‘2
-avWW-
:• ...
m
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
Manufacturers an*] Importers of
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines
and Boiler#, Engineers’ Tools
and Supplies, uto** aw*
.'
\,
Y ‘\\
, ”.5515
"4;: " -r,._u{u 9|
,_ I.==3ra.r’6"
' r? ~ 1-1:“."2
.' ._ 12:5 '3‘," ‘11 ‘
.4, .. -|_.—_r
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st„ sybney
HAVE ,N STOCK AWP T ?. A^ l r E - Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc*
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always awallniile*
(5'73. . I" " .JTLI- ."
g ._ 12:33?!"
':Jg
■SEAL
Size, 6£* x SJ W x 5“
We are Direct Importers
and Have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all *«*••
far all
purp«M«)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. 1. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd
97 CXiikFl£!]NrC£l STRBIBT, SYOKTEY.
g“.
34.1“?" T H _~'
y .I|~;m;.«w ‘ | H; ‘L '
“j,
: a9:}_ c: :
‘_
. 'er ll‘ — ( 3
ggggawli 1' H1791.»
lifigf’q’i W I ﬂit-513i“
ﬁ;"'.._r JM‘!’
FILTERS
.... ON ....
Scientific Principles
Passed all
Bacteriological Tests
Dr. NELLY, L.R.C.P. & S., Edin.;
Mons. A. de BAVAY, Mel!j.;
Mr. CILRUTH, Govt. Bacteriologist,
N.Z. ; aid others.
A FILTER WITHOUT SUCH A
CERTIFICATE IS NOT A
REAL FILTER.
351'
gynuwumummumwmumﬁmm;mm;
—L V“ 2:1 ‘F
:3," WP \ ‘ ' "‘f‘ ,7‘7‘7.‘
i: ‘2‘1[1“‘,l¢‘£1‘ ; W WWII, ‘
i: 11““), I; I /!1(; (If! .
i: “W“ ,x.» "W
a: ,Hl‘ . .J-' ”3’ V "
2, W, ,2 :2: 91/; W M
? Wfﬁ nu“ " 3‘ (ME:
,3 \ ‘iy‘fé‘ ‘1M‘»,ﬁ’,l€’eﬁ ;.
2,2,, 3“,}, ,1 :nmuw r,”""a/~;1,g
3% “I,“ 5%?
1'72 ~ ,iﬂkgi" %
Iii: “3'1, Mr-pi‘ “- ,
'I‘Léfjﬁlin“1 EARL?“ "r? 6' I
‘anww ,
j“ABBOTT”
Pressure,
Non-Pressure,
Water Bag,
Tank, and
Large Service
FILTERS
All Authorities condemn old style
so-called filters.
IMF-THEY ARE DANGEROUS.
I
‘uéﬂumun
, -.-‘~=
&
,. _ “,7
39.2%?
g
. i E.__
¥ #3:
,_ E‘—
‘ b
N
5'
x “'1 1'
i \_ “
I, ,I l
a "
GERM
PROOF
The Cheapest and
Host Satisfactory
Filter in the Market.
Consult the “Abbott”
Filter Co. on all matters
of Filtration on a large
or small scale.
ADVICE GRATIS.
The “Ahhott” Filter Co.,°^ 6 486 Collins St., or N. Guthridge, Ltd., 71 Clarence St., Sydney
pi®!
IaISS
